

SEASON. 1884.
ion nunuu sms,
'he largest drapery establishment
AND THE
Assortment of G-oods
?
IN THE
NTHONY
HORDERN AND SONS,
emporium, haymarket, only,
%
PEOVI
o
IZE3S-
\
v
Showing a Most Magnificent STOCK of GOODS in every one of 5 our thirty-six comprising all the
LATEST NOVELTIES and the MOST APPROVED EASITIONS from London and Pans, in
Presses, Silks, French and English liiillineFy, Paractinies and Sunshades, Slaves, Ribbons, Laces,
Nefts, Weils, and the innumerable accessories to fashionabie attire.
Assortment of English-made EURNITURE, Electro-plated Goods, Carpets, Bedsteads and Bedding, Chinaware and
y-n P,™ rvw nnolifir
rw Glassware, not equalled in Sydney for Price or Quality.
CASES are filled with the choicest products of the leading manufacturing centres, and are alone worth a visit.
j OUR OEIXaIT iUDBKESS—
HORDERN AND SONS,
Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES


of
J
nr*
T., SYBMKIT.
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMER GOODS.
- ■ ___ t„ c? ?
JOHN HUNTER has much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manP "
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The# 1
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for. first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of » sS “
and those who lavour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
iISBS, BRIGHT a CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And »t MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
Antony gtbbs, sons & co., Liverpool and Bristol.
ANTONY GIBBS Sc SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
TTNUKS INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
•J. <X. C osfllng and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
■un-rml Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement _
Mpishali, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Thrfeshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &e. ,
Croesley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engine*.
Bow, M‘Laphian and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, Ac., &c.
Thos, Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and.Sons—Yellow .Sheathing Metal.
Feriyrbrsedd State Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Feis and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell ftnd Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, fee.
De Wendcl aryl Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Stool fencing Wire, &c. „ , , ~
Th«B. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co„j Edinburgh—Ale,
limn ton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
JMlbog Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauterne*
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
Nbw South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jlndera Mill Co.
Viotouia.-t. James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
-W. C. ~ ■ * ~ “ ’
South Australia.-
Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advance*.
MEINRATH AND GO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATK
*
0
The patron® of. the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it lias been noted,
Copies a: ad Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken,
Opa Is, Atitolype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same s’ saff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
Are employe i, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken daring the past four years, carefully
preserved, ,Xroßi which* copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
L* a W Wt T. BENNETT, Manager.
p. r. liArh:^
IMPORTER OF WINES & BPIIU 1 "
Begs to announce to hia town and country friends, that he has just coroP loto^
extensive additions to his |
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Depart 1 ?/
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and
selected by the proprietor during hia recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confide” •
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him. pe”
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
G ilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Hennessy’s v.O. ((very ©ld)bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .. ~ ~ ..6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. ..6 6
Henneasy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Lal>el (*) .. .. .. ..50
Flasks 38 3d and 3 6
Half-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 68 and 6 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .. ..6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** .. ..6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Marteli’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Flasks 3s 6d and 2 3
BOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
QuaUty—Good
Better
StUi Better
Quaflty—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2,
No. 3, t« tt
> No. 4, tt ft
Flasks
6s and
3s and
Is 9d and
2 0
2 6
3 0
5 0
4 6
4 0
3 0
2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PAIiB.
Very Finest •• ~4 0
Red Heart 4 5
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart •• ..5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2»6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Ettamogah, red ..
„ Muscat
„ ReisUng
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
»*
quarts
**
ft
tt
.. pints
2 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
1 6
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey's ..
Celebrated Four Diamond . ■ ••
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old/
No. ***** grape
No.**** „
No. *** „
No. **
No. * -
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey's "I,)
Very Finest Amontillado (very
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry •"
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperi fll q
BRITISH WIN® 3, ,
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine "*
Orange Wine *"
IRISH WHISKY-
Jameson’s *** ...
Old Dublin Whiskv (***) bottled
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L .
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky .
Jameson’s... ,
Dunvillo’a
Kinalian’s Draught, per Imperia 1 u
Jameson’s „ ~ 38°
Flasks
SCOTCH
Walker’s 7-year old, ia bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland..
Kilmarnock " a*
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial 0 gg "
Flasks "*
GIN. /
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva--- g[t e, J
Celebr&ted Key Brand, very
bottle containing more thaw
Flasks Key Gin
*4O
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality*^ 9,l k
allowed for. 83?“ Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and denvo
T V tkn /-»i+-rr nr OriTT PftllTlt.rV Bfafinn TiVon nf flVlQrirn ttoß k
liiowea lor. frw UJ. iuco uuu mi lA j au.lv y
Ration or any -wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. 0 J
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On receipt of ’ <>sJ
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bot Hes, securely packed in a case nIl Pyip
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPER* X« gfD ,
a Quarts PALE BRANDT, 6 «ua«e WEST WOTA RUM. 1 Quart SUPER* 0
* The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are ail guaranteed of the bes* %a^ 0
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, P lca^
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post OSice.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & j
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sy^


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 41.—New Series
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1884.
Price—6d.
“A Still, Strong Man.”
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23,1884.
If, as is not at all unlikely, the press cable-
gram which stated, with reference to the
Governorship of Victoria, that “it is con-
sidered unlikely that any of the present
colonial Governors will be removed to Vic-
toria, as it is desired to send out a strong
new man specially fitted for the position,”
was inspired by the authorities of the
Colonial Office, we will admit that
that Office is, for once in a way, and to
a certain extent, in harmony with Australian
sentiment —to the extent, that is to say, of a
mutuality of opinion as to the value of the
present colonial Governors. A strong new
man is, without the shadow of a doubt, very
badly needed in Victoria. Neither in New
South Wales would one come much amiss.
But what about the ambiguous expression,
“specially fitted for the position?” We are
inclined to think that the term “ position,”—
as it is used in the cablegram, means not the
position of Governor of Victoria, but the
Australian political position—the position
created by the seven resolutions of the
Intercolonial Convention. It may, we feel
satisfied, be taken for granted that it is for
the latter position that the Colonial Office is
so anxious the strong now man should be
specially fitted. But, then, another cable-
gram says that the Earl of Mobley, an
official understrapper of the “ Lord Fawn ”
type, was offered the appointment, and that
he refused it. That the offer of succeeding
the Marquis of Nobmanby in the Governor-
ship of Victoria was made to such a man as
Lord MoRLEY r , is a circumstance calculated
to make one discount pretty largely the
value of the adjective “strong” in the above
connection. Yet, taking the two points to-
gether—the desire of the Colonial Office to
send out to Victoria a strong new man
specially fitted for the position, and the
offer of the place to a mere uose-of-
wax like Lord Morley— it becomes al-
most impossible to avoid the convrction that
Lord Kimberley means to try to fan the
fervour of the pro-federationists of Victoria
by means of an instrument directly reflect-
ing the pro-federation views of the Colonial
Office. Since there will soon be a vacancy i n
the Governorship of New South Wales—and*
inasmuch as it is a moral certainty that
Lord Kimberley, in taking steps to fill it,
will pursue the same line of policy he is fol-
lowing with respect to the succession to
Lord Normanby— it seems to us that now is
the right time for a consideration of the
gubernatorial question.
■ • •
With Secretaries of State for the Colonies,
whether they be Whig or Tory, as with
Secretaries of State for Foreign Affairs,
patronage has almost invariably meant
more or less of jobbery. Jobbery, indeed, is
so constant a factor in the manipulation of
Colonial Office patronage that it may be said
to be the principle on which it is conducted ;
and with a Whig of the Kimberley, as with
a Tory of the Beaconsfield type, the feel-
ing would naturally be u perissent les colo-
nies plutot qu'un principe ’’—especially such
a principle! What are the colonies, their
interests or their desires, when set in the
scale against the fact that there is a broken-
down ambassador to be provided with some-
thing tantamount to a sinecure, or the pro-
mise of a snug colonial appointment to be
kept to some indigent peer, or promotion to
be given to some fellow whose people’s
parliamentary influence needs coddling?
Natal set her sister colonics a good example
the other day whdn she firmly declined to
tie the victim of the contemplated Sendall
job. Ska distinctly refused to take
an unknown man from the Cinnamon
Islands—and the Colonial Office had to
give way. Any similar attempt on
the part of “Rogers” should be met
by the colony on whom it is tried in a simi-
lar resolute way. The people of the “con-
stitutional ” colonies have to find the money
for the exceedingly liberal salaries which
are paid to their respective Governors. Can
it be said, then, that they are putting for-
ward too presumptuous a claim when they
ask leave to have a little say with reference
to those gubernatorial appointments that
directly affect them? It is not as though
the Governors of such colonies as New South
Wales and Victoria were really Governors
in the sense of being rulers, as are the Gover-
nors of Crown colonies. In a Crown colony,
THE HON. J. R. DICKSON, COLONIAL TREASURER OF QUEENSLAND.
the people not being free in a constitutional
sense, humble submission to authority be-
comes on their part the most prudent policy.
But in a colony like New South Wales, it is
only reasonable, because in harmony with
her democratic environment, that she should
claim a voice in the selection of her Gover-
nors. At the very least, she should have a
veto on the Crown’s nomination. Since the
introduction of Responsible Government
into Australia, of very, very few of the
Governors, if of any, can it be truthfully
said that they were the right men in the
right place. Many of them simply regarded
their appointments as the means of recruit-
ing a dilapidated estate—some through lack
of self-control became furious partisans, the
cause of trouble—others, through self-indul-
gence, set, as coarse voluptuaries, a noto-
riously evil example-most of them put a
—certainly not more than one—wrong
interpretation upon the word “ so-
ciety,” limiting it to the Government House
set—one scarcely, of them can be named as
having been a typical Governor.
* * *
Under Responsible Government the people
of New South Wales do not require a ruler,
nor yet an official link between Downing
and Macquarie streets, sinco they maintain
an Agent-General of their own in London*
What they do want to find in their Governor
is a genuine chief. They should, therefore,
insist on the Crown’s nomination falling on
a really distinguished man (not an unknown
fellow from the Cinnamon Islands), an aotive
man (capable of taking the chair at public
meetings, and equal to the exertion of
making progresses through the country)*
a hospitable entertainer, keeping well on
the safe side of extravagance, yet keenly
sensitive that “a great house reflects dis-
credit upon the master if there be solitude
in it.” No patron of clique or set, he should
be accessible to all. He should certainly not
be an immoral man. And, would it be too
much to demand that he should possess some
little knowledge of constitutional govern-
ment—some little measure of tact, and some
slight acquaintance withjthe affairs and past
history of the colony to which he is to be
sent, in order that his public utterances
may have some weight, and that his expres-
sions of approval or disapproval with regard
to public affair s be not rendered ridiculous
through lack of adequate knowledge? Such
quaMU<-> • •••» ns we have just hinted at
-H >■*. l • -vcutials. If, besides, the
vj t vv* A e amiable hobbies,
as a love for any special branch of
science, or a taste for music or painting, or
or even a mild craze for any kind of sport,
it would beall the better.
• * *
The main point is t o get a man —a man bear-
ing without offence the grand old name of
gentleman, able as chief of the community to
wield a wholesome social influence, mainly by
the tactful recognition of worth in every
class, by the firm putting down of any-
thing in every class approaching to iire-
sumptuous and purse-proud snobbishness,
and by the graceful exercise of a liberal
hospitality. In a word, the sort of man in
the gubernatorial line that the colony of
Victoria now needs—and that this colony
will soon need —is one almost the exact
converse of most of the Governors we have
had hitherto—one, the precise social anti-
thesis of a Loftus or a Nobmanby. If the
Governorships of these colonies are not to be
bestowed on first-class men in the prime of
tlieir powers, it would bp far better that the
office should be abolished altogether. Thero
can be no manner of use or profit in paying
a big income to a lay figure ticketed “the
representative of the Sovereign.” It is just
possible that had the frogs in the apologue
been permitted a voice in the selection of a
King, they would have hit on a happy
medium betwixt King Log and King Stork.
They had, we arc told, no voioe in the
matter. Honce, their troubles. That the
people of New South Wales have no voice in
the selection of their Governors is their own
fault. The resolute assertion of their right
to have a voice would win it. If, therefore,
their King Loo should be succeeded by a
King Stork, or by yet another of the house
of Log, they will have no one to blame but
themselves.
Egypt.
The “ Whither hast thou led me, Euypt?”
of the defeated Antony might be echoed by-
Mr. Gladstone. He had no more idea of
establishing a protectorate over that country
than the early traders to the East Indies had
of founding an Empire on the Ganges. But
his hand is being forced. The difficulty of
getting into Egypt was nothing in compari-
son with that of getting out. The character
of the troops we overcame at Tel-el-Kebir
can now be judged in the light of their sub-
sequent performances. It was after our
victory over this “rabblement of donkey-
boys ” that the real difficulty of the situation
presented itself. And the difficulty is this:
How to preserve a right-of-way to our
Eastern possessions without increasing our
responsibilities and our weakness by the
addition of another province to the Empire.
All lower Egypt—the Egypt of the Phaboahs
and the Ptolemys— is at present as much in
English hands as the native provinces of
India. But Mr. Gladstone and his sup-
porters are pledged to relinquish it, while,
owing to recent events, public opinion
sharply says “You must not.” Leading
journals of all political shades are strongly
counselling the Ministry to forsake the
transparent sham of “ temporary occu-
pation,” and boldly annex the Nile valley
or assume a protectorate over it. Thus we
see that, with nations as with individuals, a
a false start can seldom be remedied. The
false start in the present case was the un-
called-for interference with Arabi— just as
stupid and unprincipled as George Third’s
interference with France, or Napoleon
Third’s with Mexico. The route to India
could have been preserved without occu-
pying Cairo or putting a squadron in the
field. And the Premier now finds himself
unable to retreat without leaving anarchy
behind —unable to advance without once
again proving to the world that England’s
most solemn pledges are on a par with the
bulletins of Fodche or the promises
of BARfUtRE. It will be remembered


The Rates of Sttbscriftion to The Bulletin
arc—For one year, *i24s.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows : —On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
“ THE BULLETIN" APPEARS THIS WEEK
PRINTED ON WHITE PAPER. THE FACT
IS, THAT THE CIRCULATION OF THE
NEW SERIES HAS SO OUTSTRIPPED EX-
PECTATION, THAT THE CONTRACT
QUANTITY OF PAPER HAS BEEN OVER-
PASSED. AS NO OTHER AUSTRALIAN
JOURNAL IMPORTS PAPER OF SUCH
QUALITY AS “ THE BULLETIN," WE
ARE OBLIGED, FORA FEW ISSUES. TO
USE THE BEST WE CAN GET. LARGE
SHIPMENTS ARE. HOWEVER, ALMOST
DUE. AND IN A FEW WEEKS WE SHALL
RESUME OUR WONTED COMPLEXION.
The late Edward Raper, 8.A.., of the
fc ydney University.
Tf typhoid would only confine itself to the foul
localities where it is born and bred, there might be
some reason in it. But it does not. It strikes out
blindly right and left, and often finds a home in
places whose surroundings hold out to it no in-
vitation to come or stay. Ed u ard Raper, 8.A., of
the Sydney University- win se portrait we give in
this issuo-is one of its latest v ictims. He passed
away on Saturday last, at his father's residence at
Windsor, in the 26th year of his age, and in the
heyday of his manhood. “Ted" Itaper, a general
favourite amongst his footballing and cricket-
ing comrades, had mapped out the law as
a profession, was captain of the University
footballers—the crack team of the colony
fl'd held a place in the first eleven of the
Carlingford Cricket Club. He captained the New
South Wales football team that made a tour of
New Zealand some fifteen months ago, and last
season he made one of the New South Welshmen
v ■
i
• :
who journeyed to Queensland to do battle in that
colony. On Sunday last, his funeral took place,
and amongst those who saw the late captain of
the University Football Club to his last rest
were his particular “chum,” Mr. J. A. Brodie,
Messrs. W. F. Burkitt, H. F. Roberts, C. L. Tange,
J. O. Thomas, W. S. H. Cockburn, L. a . Baker, W.
Robberds, J. F. Macmanemy, W. Edmunds, LL.B.,
H. Taylor, M.L.A., T. M. Williamson, Dr. Rowling,
T. M. Davies (New Zealand), J. Dunsmure. W.
Cope, C. B. Deloitte, M. Howard, G. W. Graham,
Z. C. Barry, and many others. Mr. Raper was of
very powerful build, and it really seems remark-
able, considering the number of weeds amongst
our sporting amateurs, that the fell destroyer
should have made choice, within a comparatively
short period, of four men of such splendid
physique as the late Messrs. Kelly, Fairfax, Lord
and Raper, who all died in the prime of their man-
hood. In conclusion, we may safely state that
those who Knew “Ted” Raper best deplore him
most.
Coughs and Colds
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
IST PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Deputment,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea~
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of suoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thu most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRAND Y,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET!
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
08, TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SHO?
EVERY^
SWAfI
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstoi?’s New Jtfork
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND IMPOTENT
HEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Ramedy Co.,
73 ELIZABETH ST., 37D1TZY.
MR. WM. RUSSELL,
Surgical and Mechanical Dentist,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Malformations and accidental deformities of the
jaws, teeth, or palate, treated. Kinar-st. entrance.
All w*»rk firuaranteed.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
1.63 ROYAXi AROAQE PITT STREET.
how indignantly English newspapers re-
pudiat'd the insinuations of Continental
journals when the latter hinted that British
interference was merely theinodern reading
of the man, the deer, and the horse, where
the man bnnished the deer but stuck to the
horse. “Once let these Islanders get their
feet fairly planted in Cairo,” said those
foreign scribblers, who knew nothing of
British fair-play, “and pressing reasons will
constantly turn up to keep them there.”
Strange, what stupid mistakes Continentals
make when they attempt to judge Johnny
et son lie!
And now let us glance at the probable re-
sult of this latest addition, should it come
to pass. Jingoes will view it as an aocession
of glory and strength—Radicals as one of
weakness and shame. Certain it is that it
will offer another vulnerable point in an
Empire possessing weak points on every
continent and in every ocean. In the event
of agreat war, the constitutionally-governed
groups of Canada. Australasia, and South
Africa would count for nothing. A few
vessels of war might be sent them to lend a
hand in discomfiting hostile cruisers, but on
themselves alone would fall the burden of
defence by land. For this they are, or ought
to be, quite equal—except in the case of
Canada, and she would be able to hold her
own against ail powers but one. Against
that one, the whole strength of the British
Empire could avail her nothing. Again, even
if tb° Suez Canal were blocked and the com-
mand of the Mediterranean in an enemy's
hands, India could be defended. But what
about Egypt? Where could the troops be
found to defend it against the swarms of
trained men that could be poured into it by
a Mediterranean power having even tem-
porary naval superiority in that sea ? True,
England once before succeeded in ousting
the Frenchmen from the neighbourhood of
the Pyramids, but that was at a time when
she had all Europe for allies. Is she in the
same position now ? Is it not notorious that,
in a war with France, there is not a single
European power on which she could count
for assistance? Those who now counsel the
absorption of Egypt, as the only way out of a
difficulty resulting from a gross blunder,
would do well to look these things straight
in the face before committing their country
to a greater blunder still.
* * *
When the poet sang, “ 1 could not love
thee, dear, so well, loved I not honour
more,” he exact ly expressed the fe ding with
which we regard the proceedings of our
mother country in relation to Egypt. We
rage at them because they are unworthy of
out- grand country. The worst enemies of
England at this epoch are those infatuated
apologists who will have it that any pro-
ceeding which may be undertaken in the
name of the British nation must, be right,
because it is so undertaken. While we,
shocked and almost despairing, raise a voice
of remonstrance and horror, there are others
who clap their hands and would egg on Im-
perial statesmen to any enormity—stolidly
shutting their eyes to the circumstance that
the crimes, even of nations, inevitably bring
their punishment’. While we, loving old
England in her nobler aspects, are indignant
and alarmed at her aberrations, it is the
loud-voiced Jingo crowd who discover
rather to their bewilderment, that they
have for comrade in their business of urg-
ing on the Empire to deeper ignominies—
falsely called glories—and more intricate in
volvements, her old enemy Russia. Russia
claps Great Britain on the back, and cheers
her to push on to deeper entanglements
in Africa. Aud, when England is regarded
as sufficiently far iu the tangle, Russia
annexes Merv. A few years ago such
a stefi by Russia would have been treated as
a casus belli. Now—alas!—now, Russia
reckons she is safe. England is at daggers-
drawn with Mahomedanism in Africa, and
Mabomedanism in India quivers with indig-
nation What chance now of meeting
Russia with “our Native Indian Forces,”
that reed of straw upon which our states-
men have chosen of late years to rest.
Russia, as two-faced as the eagles on her
’scutcheon, can approach Hindostan, if not
in the guise of the Saviour of Islam, at
least as the deadly foe of Islam’s worst
enemy.
The Hon. J. ft. Dickson.
n’He Treasurer of Queensland In Mr. Griffith’s
Administration, whose lineaments are pourtrayed
on our front page, is an old resident of Brisbane
and a politician of some years experience. Whm
Kir T. MTlwraith appealed to the country. Mr
Dickson was in England, but was elected to a seat
in the Assembly without any difficulty. The
defeat of the MTI wraith Government, and Mr.
Griffith’s formation of a Cabinet were all accom-
plished while Mr. Dickson still remained an
absentee. Rut he was, nevertheless, included
by the new Premier in his Cabinet. This
circumstance might' seem to indicate that Mr.
Dickson is a Heaven-born financier. But the fact
is otherwise. He has been a faithful and promi-
nent member of the party he now assists to lead,
and had been Treasurer in Mr. Griffiths'previous
Administration, in which position he did not dis-
play any shining abilities. Mr. Dickson is an easy-
going, good-natured man; an auctioneer by occu-
pation, and a ready although not particularly effec-
tive speaker. Reis notedratherfortheßobins-like
grandiloquence of h:s phraseology than for the
force of his reasoning. But his natural good
humour and unfailing placidity of temper have
won for him hosts of friends, not only among his
own party, hut even from the ranks of his politi-
cal opponents. While Mr. Dickson is Treasurer of
Queensland nothing in the way of striking or sen-
sational financial schemes may be expected to stir
our neighbours. Safe, methodical, and clerk-like
budgets are all that need be looked for. Every-
body will be comfortable and undisturbed, and
not the least placid and content will be Mr, Dick-
son himself.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Contrasted Telegrams.
Daily Telegraph,
Feb. 19.
THE EGYPTIAN
ARMY AND THE
OUDAN.
(Our Special Message.)
London, February 17.
Cairo is in a condition of
intense excitement. It
is plain that the sympa-
thies of at least a section
of the Egyptian troops
are with the Mahdi, and
that no reliance could
be placed upon them in
the field. Yesterday, a
deputation of influential
Egyptian officers waited
upon the Khedive, and
protested against any
portion of the Egyptian
army being called upon
to relieve the be-
sieged ga rison, or to
serve otherwise in
the Soudan. They
also demanded that the
Khedive should Imme-
diately dismiss all the
British officers who aro
now attached to the
Egyptian army. It is
reported that when Sir
Evelyn Wood, Comman-
der-in-Chief of the Brit-
ishjforcesin Egypt, was
informed of the mission
of the deputation, he
ordered that all the offi-
cers constituting it be
arrested as rebels. The
carrying out of this
order is said to have
occasioned considerable
feeling amongst both
the troops and the popu-
lace.
London, February 18,
—The disaffection in the
Egyptian army is so
widespread, it is now
considered probable
that the Khedive, acting
under British influence,
will disband the entire
army. In that event,
the Khedive’s personal
position will depend
upon British protection.
The present complica-
tion is regarded as very
serious.
S.M. Herald, Feb. 19.
THE INSURRECTION
IN THE SOUDAN.
[By Cablo.]
(From our Own Corres-
pondent.)
Some mutinous Egyp-
tian soldiery, claiming
to represent the whole
of the army, have pro-
tested against being
despatched on service in
the Soudan, and have
petitioned the Khodive
to dismiss the British
officers commanding the
Egyptian forces.
Wk have frequently had occasion to comment on
the flagrantly partial and .lingo tone imparted by
the representative in London of the 'LM. Herald
to the precis of events cabled to that journal, and
here wo have an example which illustrates the
whole matter. The Herald’s correspondent
could not, apparently, control his Jingoism sufliei-
ently to telegraph facta as they occurred, but
must distort them to fit as nearly as possible
with his own whims. There is, in fact, more
of the correspondent’s own rancorous opi-
nions than of news in the Herald’s cable-
grams. The meaning it conveys, or is meant
to convey, is clearly that only inconsiderable
soldiers with very doubtful pretensions ’ o speak
for their comrades are concerned in the affair.
Moreover, the correspondent stigmatizes them as
mutinous, although all he admits that they have
done it to protest and to petition. Mutinous
against, whom ? Not against England, because the
farce of Egypt being independent and subject only
to the Khedive is still maintained. Not mutinous
against the Khedive, because to protest and
petition is not to mutiny.
The Whitehall Review in “An Analysis of
Greatness,” after quoting Lockhart’s words, “ To
have done things worthy to be written was in his
(Walter Scott’s) eyes a dignity to which no man
made any approach who had only written things
worthy to be read,” goes on to say, “ here we
appear to have something definite on the subject
of greatness. The soldier, the statesman, the in-
ventor are a higher order of beings than the his-
torian or the poet.” Lockhart’s remark was a
true one. What the W hitehall Review seeks to
build on it is (so far, at least, as the soldier is con-
cerned) utterly incongruous with its central idea.
In nine hundred and ninety-nine cases out of a
thousand, the things done by a soldier are no more
worthy to be written (except as ephemeral
news) than are the things done by the hang-
man. There is as much fallacy as truth
in the saying that the men who make his-
tory are greater than those who write it.
Napoleon made a good deal of history. So did
his infamous nephew (if ihe fellow were his
nephew). Yet, can the so-called “ Great ” Napo-
leon, or the “Little” one, either, be named in
the same breath, so far as the quality of true
greatness be concerned, along with the Lanfreys
or the Hugos who have pricked the bladder of
their pretensions and shown the essential worth-
lessness of such tumidities.
Those who have boldly ventured to explore
Unsounded seas and lands unknown before:
Repelled the pestilence, restrained the storm,
And given new beauty to the human form—
■ Wakened the voice of reason, and unfurled
The page of truthful knowledge to the world—
These are the nobly great.
+
It is the peculiarity of your Englishman that, if
any established fact accords with what he deems
to be the interests of his tight little island, neither
racks nor tke thumbscrew nor all the reasoning
in the world will avail to convince him that it is
not the best possible arrangement for the whole
world round. He holds it without a shadow of
affectation as a proposition so perfectly axiomatic
in its nature that it needs no demonstration be-
yond its simple statement. Thus do the English,
perforce of this unreasoning habit of mind, bind
upon their backs very many and heavy burdens.
They adopt as a political axiom some ridiculous
belief—as. for example, that the prosperity of
British India depends upon the opium traffic with J
China, or that the preservation of the social
equilibrium depends upon the maintenance of the
Game Laws—and wage wars and spend vast sums of
money in futile endeavours to educe stability out
of a quicksand, denouncing as a manifest recreant
to British respectability any Englishman who pre-
sumes to suspect the utility and morality of these
proceedings. As a nation, Englishmen aro not
merely unaware that there aro two sides to every
question, but resent as a personal insult any
attempt to inform their ignorance. Their attitude
(whether counselled by Whigs or Tories) to all
the successive leaders of the Irish peoplv—their
action as regards Egypt—the gross inconsistency
and immorality of their “ opium ’’ relations with
China—are striking illustrations of their national
weakness. There maybe some excuse for the bla-
tant Sapsea who in England pig-headedly abides
by his singular insular conviotions, but there can
be no shadow of excuse for those who out here
essay to circulate such “ fads ” second-hand: since
the more in this freer and less precedent-tram-
melled sphere we Australians eschew Podsnappery,
and make for wholesome dignified electric cosmo-
politanism, the better and brighter hope for the
future of this continent.
George Barnes was a strong, able-bodied man
when he left off fencing on the Mitchell River (Q.)
and started for Junctown. Three weeks after-
wards he fell dead in a public-house bar there.
During the three weeks he had consumed but a
few ounces of food, and would have gone under
long before but for the tough fibre Nature had
bestowed on him. Assuming, just for the sake of
argument, that there is a future life of rewards
and punishments, for which charge would you
sooner toe the celestial line —that of braining a
man with a blow of a bludgeon from behind and
robbing the body, or that of supplying him with
poison and seeing the shadow of death creeping
over him from day to day, until you claimed his
cheque, and he a hole by the road-side ? We know
which offence we would prefer to be tried for—
and it wouldn’t be the publican’s.


Four boys—the eldest of whom was only
15 years of age—started from Blackfriars on Box-
ing- Day in an open boat, bound for Australia.
Their sole provisions and outfit for the voyage
consisted of a bag of weavily biscuits, candles,
matches, a revolver, powder and bullets (in case
they fell in with pirates), a song book, and a few
copies of that idiotic trash called the Boys’
World. They got as far as Greenwich, where
they met with difficulties, and were carefully
hauled up by the slack of their pants by the police
galley, alter which they were drafted home to be
well spanked
Mr. G. R. Maclean, J.P., would seem, ac-
cording to Mrs. Ferguson, to have all the feelings
of delicate gallantry, if not the means of giving
them full play. If we are to credit that lady, Mr.
G. R. Maclean, J.P., was living at two public-houses
where she was staying, and did not go through the
form of either anteing-up on her account or his
own. James Oliver, who keeps a pub., said
“Maclean had not paid him, and he represented
that he was a large squatter up country, and also
a J.P. He owed witness for six weeks’ rent. Mrs.
Ferguson had gone to reside at witness’s house,
and said his wife was the only friend she had left
in the world; but, notwithstanding she looked to
witness for protection, she assaulted him.” ! ! In
reference to G. R. Maclean being a squatter, D. M.
M’Lean thus writes to Mrs. Ferguson: “There is
no such station here as Red Rook. Mr. G. R.
Maclean, I believe, has 10,000 acres auction leases
on the mountain about here, which I hear he calls
Red Rook—a very appropriate name for the coun-
try. As to the stock—unless he means kangaroos
and wallabies —I don’t know of any stock. T
am sorry to hear you have lost money by him. I
am, dear madam, yours truly, D. M. M’Lhan.”
All this bewi’ders us a bit, but nothing would ever
make us beli we anything affecting either Mr.
Maclean’s gallantry or his honour. Wehave known
hi U a long time, and if we are not mistaken, first
learned out of a little Bible, purchased of him, the
interesting story of Joseph and his brethren. At
that time, Mr. Mac. was a shining temperance
light, and from this fact we are sure there must
be some mistake about his ever having resided in
a pub. Mrs. Ferguson (whose eloquence we greatly
admire) states that she is engaged to be married
to the worthy magistrate; and, this being the case,
we have only to offer both lady and gentleman our
heartfelt congratulations. It was rumoured some
time ago that Mr. Maclean was to be made a P.M.
somewhere. What more fitting time could be
chosen for the worthy gentleman’s elevation than
the present one? The Government will, doubt-
less, act upon our little hint.
Drowsiness, biliousness, pains and aches,
and ague, Hop Bitters always cures.
If your stomach craves for a pleasant
bitter to sharpen the keen edge of appetite, ask
your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, the
great nerve tonic. Take no substitute. Whole-
sale at Blliott’B &pd Prosser's.*
Christchurch Society is defunct. Almost
simultaneously deceased with Sydney Punch. By
the way, the saddest thing about the demise of
Punch was that it had been dead about three
weeks before any one discovered the circumstance.
At the Dover Quarter Sessions (Rug.),
lately, the important question as to whether a
prisoner defended by counsel should be allowed
to make a statement, was decided by the Recorder
in the affirmative. The accused thereupon gave
his own version, and was—acquitted.
The London Times recently announced
that the Archbishop of Canterbury had preached
at Westerham on Genesis xxvi. 8, whereas he had
taken Genesis xxvi. 18 as his text. Could the mis-
take have been “ done on purpose ?” The verse
on which his Grace did not preach, reads thusly:—
“ And it came to paes when he had been there a
long time that Abimelecb, King of the Philistines,
looked out at a window, and saw, and behold Isaac
was sporting with Kebekah his wife.”
The Melbourne press is complaining of
Judge M’Farland, seemingly because his manners
have not that repose which stamps the character
of a Vere de Vere. In the Nathan case, last week,
he misbehaved himself badly, He coughed and
indulged in hoarse noises when the prosecuting
counsel tried to be eloquent, and he laughed and
indecorously sniggered when stress was laid upon
the enormitv of the prisoner’s offence. He no!
alone tho' , ihat the conviction should b
quashed, t ■ indicated that all who had a hand
in it were Hma>. This conduct was painful and in
very bad form, and a Vero de Vere would certainl v
not be guilty of it. But, then, there is a grea
difference between one of the Vere de Veres an .
one of the Veer de Veers. Ha!
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” r
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspeps.
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydne
General Agents,
Political
Points
Anent the recent motion in the House of
Commons, that the junior member for Northamp-
ton should be excluded from the House and pre-
cincts, Mr. Bradlaugh, the cablegram informs us,
“ voted in his own favour.” What a singular
man !
Mr. Luseombe purposes opposing Mr. Reid
for East Sydney on the “ ad valorem duties ”
ticket.
Now, if your ad valorem “ fad ”
Were plac’d on humans, too, sir,
Ho w much, dear Luseombe, would you add
Unto the revenue, sir V
Captain Armstrong’s potition to the
Legislative Assembly makes out a very strong
base why a substantial sum should be voted him as
compensation for his wrongful dismissal from the
JiUblle service and its serious consequences. In
ustice to an ill-used man, this case should not be
treated by hon. members as a party question,
simply because Sir John Robertson entertains the
foolish idea that Bowie Wilson was infallible.
It is laid down distinctly in the “ Queen’s
Regulations and Admiralty Instructions ” that “an
officer who receives a commission as Secretary to
a Flag Officer must be on the list of Secretaries or
Paymasters.” The name of the individual whom
that parsimonious fiddler, the Commander of the
Channel Fleet, has secured as his secretary is not
on the said list; but, then, Admiralty Instruction
is invariably waived to humour Royal caprice—
Britannia loyally ruling the waives to suit her
ooatly pets.
Parliament, v 14th February-—“ Mr. Tric-
kett: It’s a lie. Mr. M’Elhone: The hon. member
is a liar for saying so.” If we had “ payment of
Members,” as the Democratic Alliance insists
there wouldn’t be half the fun in Parliament there
is now. Many persons in comparatively poor cir-
cumstances would probably be returned, and, as
they would try to earn their money by honestly
attending to business, there would seldom be any
spirit in the debates. No; let us be represented by
men with a stake in the country—men not afraid
to —* —• [There; start something else.—En. B.]
The Lord Chief Justice of England recently
proposed to his judicial brethren that in order to
Work up arrears they should sit either half an hour
earlier in the morning or half an hour later in the
afternoon. To a mau they refused. In comment-
ing upon this, Vanity Fair mournfully remarks:
“Trades unionism is extending even to the Judges.”
But that is libelling trades-unionism. A truer cri-
ticism-considering the big pay, long vacations,
and general good times which the Judges enjoy—
would “Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked.”
Judges, like Charles Lamb, make their coming late
in the morning a reason for leaving off work early
in the afternoon. And the worst of it is that a few
years of these easy times so affects a Judge—spe-
cially if he be an Australian Judge-that a twenty-
four months’ leave of absence on full pay is the
only thing that will puli him through.
Vanity Fair, evidently appreciating the
idea, reports that “ an officer in the Soudan force,
who has had good experience in Africa during the
Zulu campaign with native troops, expresses the
conviction that if he had two thousand Zulus at
his back he would polish off the Mahdi.” The idea
is, in reality, a monstrous one. Who but the rner-
cenariestof Dalgettys would calmly entertain it?
To round up a lot of Zulus tc be slaughtered, or
to slaughter, in a quarrel which is neither their’s
nor England’s. Having arranged for the security
of the Suez Canal, England should leave Tewlik
and the Mahdi to see it out, unless, indeed, a suffi-
ciently strong corps of “bondholders” (whose
the quarrel virtually is) could be got together o
polish off the “false” prophet. If they re-won
the Soudan, all the better for their chance of divi-
dends ; if the Soudan vultures and jackals won
them, all the better for civilization.
After Skobeloff’s death, memoranda for a
plan of Russian attack on British India were found
among his papers. Some of these have been pub-
lished in the I storitscheoski Vestrik, amongst
them this: —“ The campaign, in my opinion, ought
to fall into two periods—first, that of swift action
and diplomatic negotiations with Afghanistan, the
latter to be supported by pushing forward our
active corps towards Cabul. The second period,
after the occupation of Cabul, would be one of
waiting, when we should have to enter tnt.o rela-
tions with all the disaffected elements in India and
convert them to our purposes. The main cause of
the failure of the rebellion of 1857 was the fact
that the insurgents were not properly organised
and led. Finally, it would be our chief duty to
organise masses of Asiatic cavalry, aDd hurling
them on India as our vanguard, under the banner
* Blood and Rapine,’ thus bring back the times
of Tamerlane.”
The Highland Land Law Reform Associa-
tion having urged the Glendale crofters to
“organise,” those hardy Scotchmen complied
with the request in December last. At the meet-
ing—which was a most enthusiastic one—the fol-
lowing healthy sentiments were applauded to the
echo:—“The landlords were very anxious to
transport the Highland people across the sea, but
the people were beginning to think they had an
equal right to work for their bread at home. If
the country is not large enough to accommodate
the crofters and game preservers, then let the
game preservers and their game receive notice to
quit. As peaceful, loyal citizens, Highland crofters
were surely of more importance than grouse or
sheep; and“ it is for them and their friends to
answer the old question, ‘ls not a man better
than a sheeD ?’ in such a way that Her Majesty’s
Government may be induced to give their com-
plaints early attention.”
Thus a lying contributor to Vanity Fair :
—“ I wish someone in the House of Commons had
been acquainted with Australian affairs when Mr.
Healy a*ked his question about the presence of
convicts in the New South Wales Legislature. He
could have truthfully stated that the only indi-
viduals having the convict taint actually in any
Australian Legislature at the time, were pro-
nounced and enthusiastic partisans of the Messrs.
Redmond, and that, speaking generally, the indi-
viduals of that class in these colonies were and
are of the pronounced among the small section of
disloyalists which these gentlemen have managed
to separate from the respectable majority of
English, Scotch, and Irish-born colonists.” Now,
the truthful statement is that the only individual
in any Australian Legislature having, so far as is
known, actually the convict taint is an ultra-loyal
Queensland senator and Mayor ; while, as for those
of the wea'thy lower orders in Australia, whose
immediate forbears were convicts, they are almost
to a man the most intensely pronounced Jingos in
the continent.
Thus Carnarvon’s Earl, in a namby-pamby
paper on Australian Federation:—“ I cannot,how-
ever, conclude without the expression of a most
earnest hope that the Home Government may
know how to inspire the conviction that Austral a
and the Australian people are regarded by us here
in England as integral parts of this Empire—flesh
of our ttesh and bone of our bone—as fully as if
we were dealing with Yorkshire or Hampshire
instead of the Antipodes.” Though these be fine
words, they won't butter nary a parsnip. In the
first place, England, though she wished it ever so
much, could not deal with the Australian peoples
as she deals with Yorkshire or Hampshire. In the
second, the Australian peoples wouldn’t tolerate
being so treated. The bond of sentiment may
keep Australia linked to the British Empire for
some while yet to come; but, as sure as God made
little apples, any attempt of a British Home Secre-
tary to come “Yorkshire or Hampshire” over
Australian tax-payers would result in a prompt
severance of the “painter.” Carnarvon doesn’t
quite realise that Australia (with her markets
and exports) is far more necessary to the Empire
than the Empire is to Australia.
Thomas V. O’Connell attended the meeting
of the Democratic Alliance, held near the statue
of Albert the Good, deceased. The programme
of that gigantic league commended itself to Mr.
O'Connell’s judgment, and he, “ with the future
of my adopted country at heart, attended.” As
the great orators, Brown, O’Sullivan, &c., swayed
the vast concourse by the force of their oratory
and brandished the scalps of Stuart, assisted immi-
grants, and Lindley Murray, Thomas felt moved
to answer the stirring challenge for opposition,
and clambered up on the plank to fulminate.
But this did not suit the Browns and the O’Sulli-
vans, and with the words; which would have saved
the State, still trembling on his tongue, Tom was
“scrulfed,” by the liberators, and handed over to
the hirelings of an effete administration. Where-
upon ho complains to the papers. Innocent
Tom ! How much do you think we have got in
for subscriptions? Why, it only just runs grub
all round yet. Give us time, and you can be “in
it.” But don’t spoil our “pore man” lay at the
start. He only wants to bo “ worked,” and he’s a
rum 'un to pay. Let us alone, Tom, till we’ve got
an office and things. Then we’ll give you a show.
The Rev. A. B. Morris (Pres.), of Edin-
burgh, thus “ slated ” Lord Randolph Churchill in
a sermon, commenting upon the cocky little
Jingo’s recent political addresses to the burghers
of Auld Reekie:—“There are countries in which
the moral sense of the people has become obtuse,
but Scotland is not one of those. We like to have
our public men criticised, but we will not have
them slandered, and we will not give to brazen-
faced falsehoods the honour which Ave and our
forefathers have ever rendered to simple truth.
We have had a man who claims the title of lord
outraging the moral sense of the public.
Ye see yon birkie, ca’d a lord,
Wha struts and stares, and a’ that;
Though thousands Avorship at his word,
He’s but a coof for a’ that.
Let him go home, and, if he cannot learn good
manners, let him at least learn to respect moral
principle.” Considering that Randolph declared
at Edinburgh for local government for Ireland,
and if not for Egypt for the Egyptians, at least for
TeAvflk and Co. being sent to the right about, we
feel inclined to sympathise with him, and to hope
that he may retort upon A. B. Morris by asking
that holy man how it is if the moral sense of the
people of Scotland has not become obtuse that
Caledonia bangs the universe for illegitimate
births ?
This “Democratic Alliance” movement
Avill have to be Avatched very closely by some of
our city and suburban members, or it may sweep
them into political oblivion. The agitation has
has undoubtedly taken hold of the working
c’asses of Sydney, and the committee of the Asso-
ciation are said to be enrolling members by the
hundred. They reckon they will haA T e 2000 Avithin
the ranks of tne Alliance by the end of the present
month, and there is reason to believe that such
will be the case. The promoters appear to be men
of energy and activity, and are certainly keeping
their ball a-rolling. The soul of the enterprise is
Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, Avho appears to be a born-
agitator, and evidently means to be a legislator.
He is very astute, and is possessed of considerable
information, besides being a forcible and eloquent
speaker. Mr. Harry BroAvn, the Temperance
advocate, supplies a good deal of the energy and
talking power of the Alliance, and is well sup-
ported by Messrs. Flower and Miller, two excellent
platform speakers, Avho appear to be recent
arrivals in the colony. Tne constitution was
drawn up by the fertile O’Sullivan, Avho is now
endeavouring to enrol a number of young orators
to officiate atter the fashion of the Sacred Band of
Thebans. The alliance talks of stumping every
centre of population in the colony; and if they do,
we shall see some curious trimming on the part of
the members who represent the localities invaded.
A. M. Broadley (the barrister who defended
Arabi) in his “Turkish intrigues in Egypt” (a
paper contributed to the December number of the
Fortnightly) tells us some strange stories cor-
roborative ol the pretty general impression that
at the present time Turkish corruption is greater,
the confusion of Turkish administration more
complete, and the venality of Turkish officials
more unblushing than ever. He says:—“lt is
interesting to know that the Sultan employs three
thousand spies in Constantinople alone, and the
secret police service costs him £lB,OOO a month,
and that no kind of business, however simple, can
be transacted without recourse to a well-organized
and thoroughly recognised system of bakhshish.
While I was in the Turkish capital people were
congratulating themselves that some firman con-
nected with a tobacco monopoly had at last been
issued at the moderate cost of £3OOO. The Sultan
insists on every State paper passing through his
hands. During the acute stage of some recent
political crisis, an ambassador found him before a
table piled up with documents, and busily engaged
in reading them. It transpired that his Majesty
was correcting the rules and regulations for the
cafe-chantants in some obscure town on the banks
of the Bosphorus.” Here is Broadley’s sketch of
the miscreant TewiikYoung, inexperienced,
an honest lover of intrigue for its own sake, and
wholly wanting in any stability of character.” In
his “How we defended Arabi,” Mr. Broadley pro-
Eoses the restoration of his client to the position
e occupied before Tel-el-Kebir as the only final
solution of the Egyptian conundrum.
A year or two ago the Hope of the Empire
paid a visit to Portugal, where he was received
with the most splendid and lavish hospitality.
Quite recently the Hope of Portugal (Carlos, Duke
of Braganza) paid a visit to England, where, albeit
the Sovereign is allowed some half a million ster-
ling per annum and the use of several palaces in
order that he or she may play the host with regal
magnificence, he was permitted tc “ camp ” at an
inn. There is just one line of excuse the Queen
can take in this matter. She may have been
anxious to save Braganza’s pocket, as the “ vails ”
which royal visitors to Buckingham Palace or
Windsor Castle are expected to give are quite
“prodigious.” The Lord Steward keeps a regular
tariff of what is expected, the amount varying
according to the rank of the guest, and this is
formally presented to the principal personage in
attendance on him. When the Emperor Nicholas
passed Ascot week at Windsor Castle, in 1844, he
left £3OOO for the servants, and gave twelve gold
and diamond snuff-boxes to the lords and gentle-
men of the household. In 1855 the Emperor Napo-
leon gave £l5OO to the Windsor servants, and last
year the King of the Netherlands expended nearly
£lOOO in the same way. Writing of “vails,” re-
minds us of a story told of Curran. Leaving a
ducal pa’ace where he had dined, he gave the
groom of the chambers a bright new farthing
wrapped in paper. When, a minute later, the
pampered menial whispered “ I think, Mr. Curran,
you have made a slight mistake,” “ Oh dear, no,”
replied the impecunious wit, “ I never give less.”
It is somewhat amusing to note that,
while soi-disant Liberal Australian statesmen
profess to believe that Australian Confederation
means the crowning of the edifice of Imperial
Federation, English Radicals, far keener sighted,
see as the logical result of the proposal, an autono-
mous Australian Republic— and for the very rea son
that the proposals of the “ Convention ” point to a
future Australian Republic, are perfectly willing
that the British Parliament should endorse the
“ seven resolutions.” “ These resolutions (says an
English Radical journal) are simply the prelimina-
ries of au ultimate declaration of Australian In-
dependence, for whnh the Federal Council at
their yearly sessions will .prepare the way. An
Australian Dominion will be first formed, with the
declaration of the ‘ Monroe Doctrine;’ and out of
it a Southern Republican Confederation will most
certainly grow apace. . . . An Australian Con-
federation is a fact with which the Mother Country
has to deal, and with which it behoves her to treat
in a conciliatory Spirit. . . . We are to draw
the chestnuts out of the lire for our kinsmen at
the Antipodes. We are to secure a territorial
monopoly for the Australian Dominion before it
breaks off from us. ... In short, we are to
settle the Australian Republic in life, and to wish
it God-speed as soon as it is fairly on its feet.”
This is certainly a way of looking at the proceed-
ings of the Convention which will not at all com-
mend itself to the ultra-loyal gentlemen who (with
C.M.G.-ships in their minds’ eyes) either took part
in or advocated them.
“ I only pray,” said Treasurer D:bbs, on
Friday night, “I may be preserved from the exer-
cise of that physical strength with which nature
has endowed me, and which, if it once gets control
over me, will bring about a very unhappy state of
things for someone.”
“ The prayer of Ajax was for light—
Through all that dark and desperate fight,
The blackness of that noonday night,
He asked but the return of sight,
To see his foeman’s face.”
The prayer of Dibbs is for control
Over himself, lest he should roll
In an impetuous wrath of soul,
Into some slanderer (to his dole),
And smash the scoundrel’s mug.
Labouchere, at the close of ’B3, published
in his Truth, as a Christmas message of peace aud
goodwill to many millions of suffering and toiling
human beings, the Radical Programme, of which
the following resume contains the substance:—
Electoral Reform ; The counties to have a similar
franchise to that of the boroughs; the franchise of
Ireland to be assimilated to that of Great Britain;
limiting all to one vote, and that vote involving
residence. These as instalments of manhood suf-
frage, equal electoral districts and payment of
members. The Throne: No particular objection
to an hereditary figure-head; but not prepared to
spend more than £50,000 a year on it. The House of
Lords: To be abolished. Ireland: To be her own
mistress in everything which locally regards her.
County Government: In every county there must
be an Assembly elected by all persons residing
within its limits, and who hare a vote for the elec-
tion of members to the Imperial Parliament. This
Assembly would have power to legislate upon
everything that exclusively regards the locality
which it represents. In each town a Municipality,
elected in like manner, will deal with all town
matters; and in each village a village Assembly
will deal with all village matters. The unpaid
Magistracy will be relieved of their functions.
Land: To accept existing facts, but to remedy the
resulting evils by putting an end to the artificial
price of land which is due to the social and poli-
tical influence of landlords. To reduce landlords
to the position of ground landlords. Occupiers of
agricultural land to have fixity of tenure at a fair
ground rent. Either they or the State to benefit
by the unearned increment. No entail nor settle-
ment of estate?. Land-owners who do not culti-
vate or cause to be cultivated any portion of their
estates to lose their lights to such portion. In
cities the burden of taxation to be mainly on
those who own property which they do not occupy.
No large areas of the metropolis to be owned by
individuals, who benefit by unearned increment,
who decline to sell, who inherit houses built by
other men on their property, and who raise their
rents whenever their land becomes of more value
owing either to increase in population or to im-
provements having been made at the cost of
tenants. Established Church: To bo disestablished
and disendowed. All living incumbents to be
permitted to retain their incumbencies during
their life time. The income derived from the dis-
endowment of the Church to be devoted to edu-
cational purposes. Education: All to be recognised
as having a right to be educated at the cost of the
State—hence, free, primary, secondary and tech-
nical schools. Taxation: Indirect taxes to be
abolished. Taxation to commence where the
requirements to live in docent comfort end. The
cost of Government to be mainly met by a pro-
gressive income-tax and a progressivejilegacy-
duty.
■ • *
How will this affect the new Land Act?
The Cootamundra Heraud says: “In the House
of Commons, on Friday night, Mr. Farnell moved
a vote of ccnsui e on the Irish Executive for its
conduct of the affairs in Ireland,”
* *
In the seven years prior to 1847, no less
than 13,362 children died in Manchester alone, from
excessive work either of themselves or their
mothers, the regulation hours for English working
boys and girls being 03, while those of negro ser-
vants were 45 Truth says that there are reports
that the Irish farmers are getting impatient of the
dictation of the League. It is no secret that many
of them subscribed to the testimonial under the
strongest pressure; and if a leader arose capable
of confronting Mr. Parnell with a policy of reform
and local self-government, he would probably
meet with great success among the farmers j
Mexico acknowledges an English indebtedness of
£16,000,000.
" THE POOR PLAIER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of tha
Theatrical Profession .l
The Bourke people wanted amusement—
something to divert their attention from tbecark-
ing care resulting from had rum and high tem-
perature—and M‘Lean and Co. started to supply
it. They have returned with a string of com-
plaints. We intend to state one only, as it is a head
and shoulders over the others. They got to Bourke,
hut not in time. This they attribute to Cohb and
Co , and talk about seeing what the law has to say
in the matter. Voila tout. .. Emily Soldene (who, by
way, is not quite so young just now as she was
some 157 years ago) has recently made her very
last “ final appearance ” on the stage, and exhibited
her rather mature charms for the last time in her
old role of Drogan in “Genevieve de Brabant.”
Emily was backed up, amongst others, by her
daughter and a couple of granddaughters. Truly,
they are a merry family. The date of Em.’s next
final appearance is not yet decided on, but it will
probably take place about 1999 Gordon Gooch,
the singer, has bought a house at St. Kilda. New
Zealand has set him up well A gorgeous bill has
reached us from the Vivians, who are picking up
crumbs in Penrith, Lithgow, Blayney, Cowra, &c.
R. J. Croft and Harry Cowan support them, the
former as “Australia’s Premier Ventriloquist,”
the latter in a variety of ways-chiefly in the
burnt-cork line. Whether Harry is in any way
related to Johnny Cowan by blood or marriage, we
cannot say, but if he is half as good as the latter
the Vivians should hire a doctor to travel with
them to attend to those of the audience carried
out with stitches in the side or “ chucked ” out
for being too boisterously happy You’re in for
it now ; so hold on to the edges of your chairs and
gasp. Well, then, let’s see. What’s of paramount
importance ? Of course I The season of Mr.
Prank Towers at the Newcastle Vic., during some
portion of which season Messrs. Miller and Larry
Poley appeared, “ having we quote their truth-
ful ad.—“been specially engaged, prior to their
departure for America to light the great J. L.
Sullivan, Champion of the World.” The New-
castle Fletcher considers that there was a good
house to view “ Mr. Towers’ adaptation of B. L.
Farjeon’s Australian story, ‘ Grief ’ (sic) being
played” (sic). Mr. B L. Parjeon never wrote a
story called “ Grief,” to our knowledge, either
Australian or otherwise ; but he might, to the
knowledge of the coalbore Hamby. In con-
nection with Mr. Prank Towers’s performances, it
will be interesting to learn that Miss Myra Kemble
forms one of the company—the leading lady. It
would be still more interesting and pleasing to us
to learn that she continued for a long time to play
the leading lady.
• • •
Miss Connie Reeves, daughter of the great
Sims Reeves, has taken to the dramatic stage
George Rignold’s father died at Birmingham, aged
80 Auguste Offenbach, only son of the great
composer, died in December—Mrs. Langtry has
abandoned her proposed Australian trip The
hair on the head of Col. Bateman, erst lessee of
the Lyceum Theatre, London, would stand up.
One night in the Theatro, some one behind tapped
him on the shoulder : “ Oblige me, sir by taking
off your hat.” Off went old Bateman’s hat, and
up went the hair like a Jack-in-the-box. Another
tap on the shoulder, “ Thank you, sir. But, please,
as a personal favour, put your hat on again.”
Minnie Palmer, the New Yorker’s song-and-danco
idol, still holds the Londoners by the wool, and
the pinch-browed idiots flock to her show like
blow-flies round an open jam-pot. The only way
Mary Anderson can possibly hold her own, there-
fore, is to sidle up to Hamlet as sho plays Ophelia,
and warble, “Oh dance me on your knee, my
little dar-r-ling,” or encase her shapely locomo-
tive apparatus in a pair of barber’s-polo stockings
and introduce a Lancashire clog-dance into the
potion scene of Juliet Levy David Cerf, better
known as Father David, recently died in Paris.
For forty years he was chief of the claque, tho
band of persons paid to applaud actors. Claqueurs
are either commissars who commit the pieces to
memory and are noisy in pointing out their merits;
rieurs, who laugh at the puns and jokes ; plcureurs ,
who weep at the moving parts ; bisseurs, who cry
(bis.), “ encore,” &c. Santon, in 1820, was the first to
organise the Parisian claque In time the
“ Mashers ” may think it necessary to change their
mode of sho wing their admiration for the ladies
of the front row. Not long ago, in America, Miss
Louise Kellogg was presented with a large dish,
of corned beef hash prepared in the highest stylo
of the domestic art According to a New York;
paper, Miss Lilian Russell is to receive one
thousand guineas a week at the Savoy Theatre
Mr. Boucicault’s youngest daughter, Nina, made
her first appearance on the stage last month at tho
Opera House, Louisville, as Moya in “ The Shaugh-
raun.” Miss Boucicault, who has studied under
her father, is described as bright and pretty, full
of life and energy, with a fresn, clear voice and a
good delivery We chronicled some time ago tho
death of Dutton Cook, author of “ Leo,” &c., dra-
matic critic of The Would, and one of the most
prolific writers of the age. He was well paid,
earned lots of money, yet died penniless ; and
Gladstone has granted Mrs. Cook £2OO out of the
Royal Bounty fund. It seems that literature
doesn’t pay, after all. Thank Heaven we belong
to a “ Burial Club,”and the measles are prevalent!
lt is stated and denied that Mary Anderson is
engaged to be married to the Duke of Portland.
We may mention that Mary’s pa, who is running
the show, hails from Connecticut I But, of course,
he, 'like Mr. Vincent Crummies, “can’t imagine
how these things get in the papers.” And, after
being seen “constantly in public together,” Lord
Garmoyle and Miss Fortescue are not to be mar-
ried at all; but Miss Camille Dubois, the lady who
was formerly wedded to an “honourable” and
deserted him for the military, has struck another
patch in the person of an oftieerTn tho Guards.
And still more rumours—all lies, probably—of
matrimony. Mr. Abbey, the New York impres-
sario, who has lately became a widower, has offered
his hand to Nilsson. Christine, in all probability,
tendered him her foot in reply.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
For several years past the ptieasant shoot-
ing at Osborne was reserved for the late John
Brown, nobody else being ever permitted to fire a
gun on that strictly preserved o«tate. Who is to
succeed the attache ! personal servant in the en-
joy ment of that privilege was an unsettled ques-
tion at the close of ’.98.
Some time ago the Tcmoba Star reported
the shearing of 210 sheep in a day by one Michael
Healy as an extraordinary feat. That record has
been surpassed by the pe-formance of David
Bower, junr., of Balclutha (N Z.), who recently
shore 214 sheep in a day working, nine hours, at
Pilians Station in tho Clulha district.
Alfred is nothing if not offensively
Jeames-like. He says of the error in which the
S.M. Herald tumbled, when it described the
late librarian O’Brien as “Edward O'Brien, a
labourer,” ” such a mistake is shockingly insulting
to tho friends of the deceased.” Alfred, you
s ie, measured O’Brien's friend’s by his own bushel,
quite forgetting that they were gentlemen.
Jean Richepin. who so recently acquired
an unpleasant notoriety by participating in the
Bernhardt-Colombier row. and subsequently de-
clining to ■Accept, Jehan Soudan's challenge, first
attracted the notice of the Parisian world by bis
‘ La Chanson des Gueux ” (ragamuffins), a scro-
fulous work, the utter otfensiveness of which led
to his temporary imprisonment- He afterwards
republished the book will) asterisks in the place
of the objectionable narsag-s. Another of his
works is ”Les Morts Bizarres,” one of the most
ghastly collections of storks ever written.
Badinguet is dead—the real Badiuguet
pure. Who. d* you ask, was Badinguet? Well,
he was the maso.. in whose blouse, breeches, and
cap Louis Napoleon escaped from Ham, tempo
Louis Philippe. After tho coup-d'etat, the Em-
peror gave tne mason an annuity of 1200 francs.
The third Nap.—a cur who tried to ape a lion—had
many another nickname beside that of “Badin-
guet,” which was, perhaps, the least ignominious
of those that stuck to him: certainly it had no
Much sting in it as “ Man of December,” “ Man of
Sedan,” or that realistic phrase of Hugo’s “Napo-
leon the Little.”
The two Rosses are remarkable men Mr.
Horatio Ross is 88 years old, and celebrated his
golden weddiDg on the Ness, Scotland, last new
year. He is tho oldest deerstalker in Scotland,
and one of the greatest shooters the world has
in-oduced He has shot on the moors of Scot-
land nearly every season for 70 years: in 1868 was
ciptain of the Scotch eight at Wimbledon ritio
matches; has a record of his own feats in shooting
and endurance almost incredible; and he shoots
straight still. The second Ross is Mr. Charles
Ross, who has only a few weeks resigned the posi-
tion of chief of the Parliamentary reporting staff
of the London Times. He is 84 years old, and has
sat in the reporting gallery of the House of Com-
mons nearly 60 years.
Mahmoud Pacha Tahir was, till the middle
of December, Governor of Suakim. In 1873, X&hir
was tried for misappropriation of public money
and stores while in command at Damietta. Stone
Pacha, an American officer, presided at the court-
martial, and Tahir v.as convicted on all the
charges, and sentenced to public degradation and
banishment to the Soudan. No sooner, however,
bad the Khedive Ismail quitted Egypt, than
Tewflk reoalled Tahir and restored his military
rank. So worthless was his character, that Arabi
again dismissed him from tho army. After Tel-el-
Kebir, Tewflk made him successively a General,
a Pacha, and Governor of Suakim. Tahir wantonly
abandoned outlying garrisons to inevitable mas-
sacre, and for sonic time fed the rebels on Govern-
ment corn! “ Dcfensoribus istis how can Lgypt.
hrape to get out of her troubles, unless, indeed,
old Nile should some day luckily come down in
extra flood, and put the whole land under some
fathoms of water for a week or two ?
It has been discovered that the Baron
Tennyson TVEyneourt is descended from sixteen
English kings, ten French kings, three Spanish
kings, the Emperor Frederick Darbarossa, a dozen
or two Scotch kings ; John of Gaunt, the Duke of
Somerset, Lord Hastings, the first Earl of Derby ;
an original Knight of the Garter, and Marmion.
This may be very satisf. ctory for the Jeameses
who care to look into pedigrees. Pour les autre*,
let them console themselves with the philosophy
contained in the Scottish epitaph
“ Johnnie Carnegie lais h%er,
Descsndit of Adam and Eve ;
Gif ouy con gang hieher
Iso willing give him leve.”
And also with the knowledge that all this magnifi-
cence of genealogy came into the Jfennyson family
by the marriage of a femiuine descendant of the
uiouarchs, &c., above mentioned, to tho grand-
father of the poet, said grandfather being a—
it must out—a druggist in a small way.
“And in this new land, as in all new lands,
tsanu azur goes for a good deal, notwithstanding
all that may be asserted to the contrary by those
whose blood is not blue.” This is what th*’
Herald’s Melbourne correspondent says regard-
ing Ivo Bligh and his marriage. He married a Miss
Morphy—we have seen it spelt differently. There
was a good deal of “blue blood” about on the
occasion. We know most of them or their pro-
genitors. Tho latter were decent men enough—a
little crude perhaps in their notions of syntax, and
a trifle loose in their views (at least, in the early
day§) of the necessity for clean linen. They
washed, too, did the “old men”—every fortnight
or so iu summer, and in winter as often as the fit
took them—once, or twice, perhaps, during the
season. Oh, yes ; and we know the correspondent,
too, and the amount of sany azur he has coursing
through his valves. We saw some of it once. Of
course, there was a lady in tho case, and a husband
and a lov-yer. There was also a shut fist and a
damaged nose. It is only those wtio have not
“blue blood ” that affect to despise it. We have
it ourselves : so bqve all those who attended Ivo’s
marriage; so has the Herald correspondent.
Vive le sany azur!
The police authorities in Victoria have a
happy knack of doing tlio wrong thing at the
wrong time. After tho Kelly slaughter in the
Wombat Ranges, Sergeant Pow tress was appointed
to take charge of the Mansfield station, vice Ser-
geant Kennedy, shot. The former officer having
had a city experience extending over a quarter of
a century, was well up to the exigencies of metro-
politan duty; but when to expect him to cope with
the difficulties attendant on tho pursuit of crimi-
nals through almost inaccessible raDges. be was to
invite a most expressed and complete failure About
a year ago, Detective Mackay was raised to tbe rank
of sub-inspector, and was entrusted with tho re-
sponsibility of the Sand ridge and Williamstown
districts, in which position he did good service,
especially in connection with the Irish in-
formers on board the steamer Pathan, when
some difficulties arose between the ship’s officers
and the police. The Chief Commissioner of uolice
has, however, thought fit to remove sub-inspector
Mackay from the society of sailors and Jumpers,
and sent him off to Shepparfcon to keep his eagle
eye on the wheat growers aud whisky retailers of
the lower Goulburn Y r alley. Mackay will be like
a fish out, of water in his new sphere, but tbe deci-
sion of the Commissioner will not be out ot keep-
ing with the traditions of the Victorian police
force.
Died lately, tho Hon. Vesey Parnell, Lord
Congleton, born in 1805. Fifty yoars ago, in 1833,
three young Englishmen took a small contract on
hand to convert the many million, souls of the
Asiatic Continent to tho Christian religion, begin-
ning at Bagdad. One or these young men was
Francis Newman, brother to the Cardinal of that
name; another was Vesey Pa-neU; ana the name
of the third we have forgotten. After labouring
in the Asiatic vineyard for some years, these good
missionaries took stock, and found the only result
of their labours—their sole conver t —was a young
and beautiful Armenian widow. H aving rqsolved
to throw up the contract and return to England,
they were met with the difficulty t hat it was im-
possible to leave tho widow behind, her apostacy
having estranged her from her friends, who would
probably make a martyr of her \vpen her pro-
ectors were gone. Under these circumstances,
hey decided to tako her with them, and they also
agreed that it was the duty of one of them to
marry her. Tho question whose wifo she should
be in England they settled by casting lots. The
lot fell on Vesey Parnell, who accordingly took
her to his bosom, and brought her home as his law-
ful married wife. Five years afterwards she be-
cime Lady Congleton. and as such lived happily
and beloved by all who knew her till her death,
which took place in 18ti5.
Two years ago Sir Samuel Baker warned
England that if she meddled with Egypt she would
afterwards have to reckon with the Soudan. Sir
Samuel it was who, with his plucky wife, started,
m 1861, to explore the source of the Nile, an
expedition in which they passed through many
lovel and perilous adventures. After going as
far as Lake Albert Nyanza, he returned home,
but, in 1869, led an Egyptian force into Central
Africa for the purpose of suppressing the slave
trade. Having annexed that country to Egypt by
order of the Khedive Ismail, and partially sup-
pressed the slave trade, he returned home once
more, leaving Colonel Gordon to finish the work
DISASTROUS EFFECTS OF THE DROUGHT.
HONEST TRADESMAN (to Sturdy Yeoman): “I say, you know, I never paid you so
much for a load of sand before.”
STURDY YEOMAN : “Right you are; but you see we have had such a sewere drouth
all over the country that it has made sand mighty skeerce!”
HONEST T.: Well, if we don’t have rain precious soon, my customers will have to
take their sugar without sand, that’s all!”
ho had begun. Sir Samuel is the author of three
works comprising most interesting narratives of
his travels—“ Albert Nyanza,” “Nile Tributaries
of Abyssinia,” and “ Ismail.”
Mr. J. J. O’Kelly, wlio has been lecturing
in Newcastle, Eng., on the Irish crisis and its in-
fluence on the future of English democracy, is
one of the most adventurous members of the
House of Commons. It used to be said that Poles
were to be found on every barricade in Europe.
Mr. O’Kelly, it may aim st be said, has been found
on nearly every battlefield in the world. Cer-
tainly he has participated in more adventures out-
side his own country ttian probably one-half t.be
members of the House of Commons put together.
Soon after he had finished his education at the
Sorbonne, in Paris, he joined the French army,
and took an active part in the war which followed
tha Prussian invasion. That war over, he adopted
the occupation of journalist, becoming in 1870 one
of the principal wi iters on the New York
Herald. The hon. gentleman was afterwards a
newspaper correspondent at the scene of the
struggle in South America. While following the
same avocation in Cuba, where he probably gave
some assistance to the insurgents, he was taken
prisoner by the Spanish troops. Ordered to be
shot as a prisoner of war, ho was actually brought
forth for execution, but somehow or other es-
caped the dread nenalty. During the Carlist in-
surrection in Spain, Mr. Kelly served as a volun-
teer, though on which side we are not quite clear.
One of the results of his experiences iD Cuba is a
work entitled “Tho Mambi Land, a History <)t
Personal Adventure with President in
the Cuban Insurrection.”
t
It is said that Lord Carington is ahad to
marry Nelly Bromley, the actress. LordC., as every
body knows—even Andy Lynch, and heisnearly
everybody—is a big banker. A son 6f ,ene of his
partners was aide-de-camp to the Marquis of Nor-
manby, in Queensland. He rejoiced in the noble
name of Smith, aud was renowned for bis peculiar
sherry—a wine which, as Gilbert has it, at once con-
vinces man that be is mort'.’l. The firm is Car-
ington, Smith, Payne, and Smiths, and the bank is
next to the Mansion House. Aide-de-camp Smith
married a daughter of the Deputy Registrar-
General of Queensland, Blakeney. Blakenv’s dad
was District Court Judge Blakeney, a rare old
Irish barrister. We remember how he became a
Judge, We happened to be in the gallery of toe
old House of Assembly—inco pulkd down—in
Brisbane, and somebody, we think it was John
Douglas, was rallying Blakeney, then an M.L.A ,
respecting his reported intention of slipping up the
Opposition, of which he wan active member, and
accepting a District Court Judgeship from Mr.
Herbert, then Premier, now principal Under-C’o-
cietary at the Colonial Office. Blakeney got up to
reply, and, with rather hysterical jocularity,
laughe J at the idea, and finished off by vowing
there wasn’t a shadow of foundation for the
rumour, and that he'd die or something before he
so deserted his party or oetrayed bis principles.
We remember that the House was very mere-
about it, and there was a lot of giggling and inter-
jecting. A rough, grim looking working man,
scroudgiog up beside us in the crowd, said bitterly
that the members were " like a lot of children. 1 '
A few days la'-er, Blakcney's appointment was
gazetted, and he resigned his seat; and, wnile he
lived, it would have been grossest contempt of
Court to truly state the history of his appoint-
ment.
It was a curious romantic life, that of
Omar Kingsley, who died n*H long since. He was
here, in Australia, you recollect, a few years ago.
He rode in tho circus as a woman when ho was
young, and made a strikingly pretty one. Of
course, this fact was the cause of numberless
adventures, and one of them nearly cost the hand-
some “ King of the Arena ” his life. One day the
circus visited a small Mexican seaport to:/n. It
performed at a disadva itage, because tho per-
formers snoke little Spanish, and the spectators
knew no Euglish; so the clown's jokes lostagood
deal of point. But a circus is a circusai) the world
over: the horsemanship was splendid, and every
Mexican soul in tho tent could understand that.
The star of theltroupe was Omar Kingsley, then
in his prime of manhood—with a superb physique,
steeled muscles, trained skill, and all tbe
force and power of perfect grace. One
knows what thvt can b* to a female eye,
when silk is on the faultless limbs, and the
strains of music, the glitter of lights and
and spangles, and a pet, fieiy, glossy-skinned
horse, all help the illusion. And, at that time, dis-
solute ways had not begun to leave traces on
Kingsley’s! ce with all its womanly beauty. Two
nights alter, one of Iho most aristocratic belles ot
the Mexicm town walked on the sea-wall at mid-
night She was high-bred, daughter of a Spanish
patrician, aod rich ; yet she had sent for Omar
Kingsley, the circuß-rider, She Joved him with
girlish passion. As Kingsley sauntered up, smoking
a cigar, a man sprang upon him from the shade of
the wall, and n glittering dagger would have ended
all his performances only for the cat-like quick-
ness he had acquired in tho ring. The man’s aim
was baulked, and in a moment he was disarmed.
He was the uncle of the love-sick girl, who looked
on amazed as he gasped furiously. “ I swear you
shall not escape m« now. You kept me from the
girl t loved ten years ago-her f would have died
for in Havana—you must answer for it now 1 You
are Ella Zoyara’s brother I ” Omar KiDgsley’s
only reply was a contemptuous laugh. The
Mexican was about to spring again, when
Kingsley broke in "Wait! what a fool you are—
Ella Zoyara’s brother! I was—l am—Ella Zoyara
herself f” “ What do you mean ? ” “ Why. really,
I thoughtall Christendom knew about that business
now. I rode in petticoats hr Ella Zoyara when l
was a boy, and nobody knew it—made a beautiful
woman, till I grew too big. I remember you in
Cuba. You were spoony, but ” The Mexican
suddenly turned round just in time to catch his
neice. She had fainted. But her love-sickness
was cured. Her girlish delusion of tho gallant
high-souled cavalier she had seen in the ring melted
at the same moment as her uncle’s long-cherished
dream of vengeance. For ten years he nad been in
love with a symmetrical—young man.
At last the story of “Chinese Gordon” has
been given to the world, and as told by A. E. Hake
it should silence those who assert that the age of
chivalry is past, and that modern civilization and
modern arms have cut short the career of the
knight-errant it was in the Crimea that «ordon
first showed the stuff of which he was made. He
was then quite voung, but not too young to prove
himself a clever strategist in the limited sphere to
which he was eonflned by the inelastic regulations
of a service governed by led-tape and tradition.
Yet, like his father before him, he proved that to
command rather than to obey was his metier. One
of the dominant traits in bis character is an aver-
sion to be lionised. This was well shown by his
unrelenting resolve not to allow himself to be
feted and congratulated on his return to London
after the suppression of the Taeping rebellion
Yet it was to him that this suppression was wholly’
due. His family was strongly against his asjump'.
tion of the rank of Mandarin and taking command
of the Chinese forces; but, having made up hL
mind that “anyone who contributed to putting
down this rebellion fulfilled a humane task," no
friendly persuasion availed in diverting him from
his purpose. It is by his doings in China that he is
best known. What those actions were—what cool,
ness, patience, readiness of resource, and bravely
were required to lead to success can be estimated
by those only who know the difficulty of manu.
factoring a fighting force out of the material
placed at Gordon's disposal by the Chinese lot.
perial Government. When his arduous work wag
done, and done thoroughly, he considered that
“ the sooner he dropped into oblivion the better."
But even rougher work than that performed in
China had to be done in Upper Egypt, and he was
chosen for the task. Hero he was known among
the turbulent tjibes as “the Little Khedive"
Subsequently, he was appointed Governor-General
of the Soudan, and led “his magnificent campaign
against the slave trade unaided and alone.” For
three years he bore up against the treachery,
vacillation, lazi ess, and inefficiency of subordU
nates, ai.d the meanness of acorrupt Government.
But the forces arrayed against him were too
strong. They were the growth of centuries, and
would not be eradicated. Then he throw up his
appointmef.t, and returned te England. But he
remained there a few weeks only, and then started
for the country where the deeds of him and of his
“ever-viotorious” army wore still fresh in the
public mind. Arrived in China, he issued bis cele-
brated manifesto, laying down a complete scheme
of oifence and defence for that country. South
Africa effered a now sphere. There he nearly lost
his life while endeavouring to administer Basuto-
land. At present, with over half a ton of gold in
his baggage, ho is forcing his way, unarmed and
unattended, towards Khartoum, through a coun-
try swarming with fanatics. This last exploit
appears the most adventurous, not to say Quixotic,
of all. Bay by day wo in Australia scan the
meagre telegrams, fearing lest the nows of Gor-
don’s death or capture should meet our eyes.
Should he bo successful, and once more return to
civilization, he will stand alone as the true type of
the modern knight-errant.
Johnny M‘lntyre, M.L.A. for Maldon
(Vic), is on his travels. He was making so much
money out of the Maldon mines th’t he thought it
greedy to stick to it all, and so started for England
a couple of months ago to show British capitalists
what they were losing by putting their money in
shaky Hussian or Egyptian loans while the “po-
tentiality of wealth beyond the dreams of avarice ”
could be had by just scratching and burrowing
among the hills of Maldon. This was always
John’s weakness—he never could keep a good
thing to himself. Always wanted his neighbours
to have their share of it. Like the crow in the
fable that found a bit of cheese, and instead of
keeping it dark, became so demonstratively rowdy
that the other crows gathered round and deprived
him of mostof his find—Johnny no sooner drops on
a "nugget” and learns where a lot more are
hidden, than he good-naturedly invites every one
to share his luck. It is a little odd that so many ot
those who, in Sandhurst, tried for a slice of that
luck, failed somehow to obtain it—that they are
minding railway crossings or running small green-
grocery establishmenis, while he is interviewing
Arabi Pasha, or, at the Royal Colonial Institute,
cauterising the Gladstone Ministry for making no
allusion to Australian federation in the speech
from the throne. But some men have a talent
that way. Whenever the mining manager comes
quite unexpectedly (booh!) on rich gold, they will
bo found with cartloads of scrip; but when the
stuff is all panned out and monthly calls fill-
ing the auction rooms with second-hand furni-
ture and broken-winded pianos, the “talent”
will be found as innocent of shares as an Orange
lodge of holy water. Well, “ Mac..” as we said, is
on his travels and writes to the Maldon paper of
his doings in Ceylon (the “ Beautiful Isle of the
Sea ’ he calls it), visiting Buddhist temples with
Moncure Conway, or giving useful hints on
Egyptian affairs to Arabi. Arabi impressed him
favourably, as there “was nothing bloodthirsty ’>
about his face or manner. But what impressed
him most was some native Christian children re-
turning from Sunday school. “To my mind their
modest and bashful appearance when they saw us
was gieatly to their advantage when contrasted
with the rude, uncouth, and boisterous manners
of their Buddhist neighbours who as yet know
nothing of a Christian Sunday sehool.” Conway,
on the other hand, thought the little heathen
niggers were a good deal happier and cDjoyed life
ever so much better than the converts. The re-
membrance of Johnny’s Sunday school days, when
be could say the shorter catechism backwards and
run off the seven deadly sins or the genealogy of
David like slipping off a log, came up before him
and he wept—but whether for the happy days of
boyhood, or because he didn’t make as good a
bargain as he might have done with Old Lazarus
over those two claims put upon the Sandhurst
market some years ago, we are left in doubt.
Altogether, we rise from the perusal of “Our
Member Abroad,” with the conviction that a great
spiritual gulf yawns between the “Mac” who
started that Bendigo tramway years ago and the
person who drank coffee with Arabi Pasha, told
the British Government of their laches, and was
captivated with the modesty and bashfulness of
Cingalese Sunday school brats.
“ What may happen to a parson in Aus-
tralia,” is aptly illustrated in the chequered career
of the Rev. Archibald Turnbull. He was educated
for the Church, and started in that line under the
auspices of Bishop Moorhouse, in one of the
suburbs of Melbourne, but not proving to be a
howling success as a journeyman soul saver, he
undertook to talk the retail merchants of Coliing-
wood into adopting the tenets of the Early Closing
Association. His eloquence having had little or
no effect on the money-grubbing soft-goods re-
tailers of that democratic suburb—to use the
warehouse slang—“he got the swop,” and then
turned his attention to literature. He contributed
a number of prurient articles on the back-slums
of Melbourne, to thatsweet organ of bigotry and in-
tolerance—the Victorian Banner, but the income
derived from that source being rather limited, he
reverted to the Church, and Bishon Moorhouse,
having an idea that the rev. gentleman was
eminently fitted for spreading the Gospel
amongst the honest farmers of the Goul-
burn Valley, appointed him to the cure of
souls at Mooroopna, that paradise of “ whate and
whisky.” Even tbere he was not a thrilling success
at manufacturing saints, though he’d plenty of raw
material to work upon, and again he tackled press
work as a means of supplementing his exchequer-
The Mooroopna Thunderer corrusoated with
brilliant emanations from his facile pen; but
his ill-luck stuck to him, and he failed to tap the
pockets of the noble agriculturists with his “cul-
chawed” articles on the prevention of rust in
wheat, and the eradication of the Phylloxera
Vastatrix. He shook a big load of the Mooroopna
mud from the soles of his boots, as a witness
against their rejection of the Gospel, returned to
Melbourne, and joined the rialvation Harmy.
where, it was rumoured, he became enamoured of
a strapping “Hallelujah lass.” His delicate
attentions to this gifted young lady were
brought under the notice of the Salvation
Harmy General, or Major, or sometoing:
a court martial was held, and a verdict of not
guilty, with a recommendation not to do it again,
was found for the Harmy chaplain. Then he
sought fresh fields, and was next heard of in
Adelaide, S.A., much to the disgust of a number of
confiding creditors in Victoria. He promptly
joined the Harmy. and was soon gazetted as the
Hallelujah chaplain, but things did not continue
to run smoothly, a split-up occurred in the ranks,
and, after some skirmishing with his enemies, be
started a little hel-at least, a little army—of his
own, bearing the alliterative appellation of the
“ Christian Crusaders,” in opposition to the regular
Harmy. His following agreed to pay him £o per
week, with a commission on the sale of Crusaders’
hymn-books and the Battle Cry; but it appears
they neglected to ante-up on the salary, and the
“horganof the party” proving a frost, the rev.
gentleman—we bog his pardon, he renounced the
title of Rev., and wished to be oalled “ plain Mr. r.
—was foroed to esek the protection of the Insol'


Hop Bitters gives good digestion, active
liver, good circulation and buoyant spirits. Head
larger.
Tue Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They arc the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why? Because
they arc true to colour every time, andean always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale v 'by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
rmirt. Now, here is a chance for those Chris-
tian brethren who have two coats to give to him
' il hath none. The Hallelujah chaplain has
worked hard in the service of the Loard, and,
without raising the question as to whether the
labourer has‘.been worthy of his hire, it is dis-
liowinKly apparent that he is a decidedly ruined
community. The deacons will now take up a
collection.
Mrs. Langtry has been a great success at
NeW York in Sardou’s play, “ Peril.” This title,
w 0 strongly suspect, is only another name for
Friends.” At any rate, the plot is familiar. An
unsuspicious husband takes a handsome friend
into bis house, who repays him by sparking his
wife The friend (a part taken by Charles Cogh-
ian> meets lhe handsome wife (Mrs. Langtry) in a
nhamber by night, and his love is just getting
ardent, when the husband appears on the scene.
Tf’s a disagreeable habit husbands have, in life as
well as in plays. The lover hides outside on the
balcony, when, to the wife’s dismay, her husband
o-nes to open the windows for some cool air. She
faints away. This is where Mrs. Langtry made her
e-reat success. She did more than she intended.
As the unsuspicious husband moved across to
nuen the windows, the handsome Mrs. Langtry,
who was in the middle oT the stage, raised her arms,
uttered a shriek, and threw herself backward with
her head towards the audience, on a sofa. The sofa
had springs. Mis. LaDgtry fell upon them witli'in-
teDse fervour. She is not a feather-weight. As she
struck the «ofa on her downward career, the
springs recoiled, and shot her up into the air again.
She turned completely over and dropped with an
awful thump flat on her back on the floor. Jt was
the signal lor an outburst of terrific applause.
People stamped, and shouted, and yelled, in their
admiration of the Graeco-Roman and thoroughly
reckless manoeuvre of Mrs. Langtry. Meanwhile,
that famous woman lay flat on her back, lhe
curtain was rapidly lowered. The applause went
on and the curtain was raised again. Mrs. Lang-
trv. quite pale, trembling and panting, was led to
the footlights. A smile of triumph played about
her lips, however, as she bowed her acknowledg-
ments. She knew that she had made a greater hit
on her back than ever she did on her feet. The
handsprings of the clown—the most daring efforts
of Lillian Russell in her dancing line—were in-
significant to it; and it is rumoured the manage-
ment offered Mrs. Langtry a iabulous sum to
repeat the sofa manoeuvre every night; but the
great beauty blushed, and declined the oiler.
Godfrey Morgan was as well-known among
the old Victorian diggers as our own M'Elbone is
to the electors of the Upper Hunter. When we
first knew Godfrey, he was running a sheet called
the Landsborottgh Times. It was many years
ago—long before the silver threads appeared
amongst our lovely auburn hair, or our classic
brow assumed the corrugated surface it now pre-
sents. The Times was not a brilliant sheet. Its
warmest admirers seldoe referred to it as such.
In fact, one of the old mullock-punchers, a regular
subscriber, was heard to remark casually to his
mate one day that the only good article b e had ever
noticed in the “rag,” as he slightingly called it, was
a hunk of cornel beef: he had been in the vicinity
of the local butcher’s shop As we previously ob-
served, the Times was not a brilliant production.
It could hardly be expected to beother than it was.
The literary, mechanical, and publishing staff con-
sisted of Godfrey. the “missus,” and a small boy.
Ungenerous persons hinted that the scathing
“leaders” which appeared weekly were emanations
from the brain of the aforesaid youth, whilst others
credited these sublime flights oi genius to the pen
of the local pieman. Anyhow, it recked not to him,
as Godfrey Morgan thirsted not for fame, neither
did he yearn for distinction. If not absolutely
happy, n 6 always seemed fairly contented, bemg*
blest with a temper placid as that of an oyster,
and a healthy, if not abnormal, appetite. In fact,
the latter was his strong suit. Under ordinary
circumstances he would bring tears to the eyes of
the proprietress of a hash-house by the wholesale
manner in which ho could dispose - of the edibles
set before him ; but should his storage capacity
be questioned, he would rise to the occasion, and
put away provender in such quantities that the
local storekeepers used to raise their prices in anti-
cipation of an early famine. Next time we met
Godfrey he had changed his location from the
almost deserted goldfield of Landsborough to the
rising township of Donald, whither he had shifted
his printing plant, and where he issued a weekly
publication just teeming with agricultural intelli-
gence suited to the requirements of the tree-
selectors. Fortune evidently had given her wheel
a turn in his favour ; his paper was stuffed with
with live advts., and tbe imprint on the varied
posters, with which the neighbourhood was hilled,
bore unmistakable testimony to the activity ot the
jobbing department. Nevertheless, Godfrey was
not puffed up with pride, nor had his prosperity
in any way adversely affected his digestive organs.
Happening to go into Lee’s general store one
evening, he noticed a basket containing some
three dozen eggs on the counter. “Nice lot
of eggs,” said the journalist. “Certainly, re-
joined the storeman. “ I’ve seen tbe time,” sighed
Godfrey, “that I wouldn’t turn my back on that
number of eggs —that’s when I’ve been pretty
peckish.” In a bantering tone the storeman inti-
maied his doubts of the latter statement, and
offered to bet half-a-crown, the loser to pay for
the eggs, that Godfrey could not eat the contents
of the basket, uncooked. The wager was promptly
taken, Morgan settled down to his work, and as he
proceeded, the betting seemed altogether in his
favour. He made good time for two dozen and a
half, and even then showed no signs of falling > ff,
until he struck some over-ripe fruit towards the
finish of the contract. Then he weakened. He
tried to dodge the unsavoury egg, hut the store-
man was inexorable and held to the terms of the
wager, the consequence being that Godfrey lost.
Later on, he sauntered into a pub., looking “far,
far from gay,” where he met a friend who in-
quired the cause of the unusual sadness. “I’ve
had a stroke of bad luck,” was the response, “ and
just lost half-a-crown ; and I wouldn’t care so
much about that either, only that I lost close on
three dozen eggs into the bargain, owing to the
blasted obstinacy of Lee’s storeman, who would
insist on my eating the full three dozen, although
I offered to swallow another dozen extra if he
would let me ‘pass’ on the thirty-fourth.” And
after drowning his sorrows in a flowing pint, he
returned to the editorial sanctum to grind out an
article on the scientific treatment of eggs for the
prevention of premature decay.
* * *
Mr. R. B. Fletcher, legal mining manager,
Sandhurst, cleared, leaving deficiency of over
£lOOO in his accounts Henry Dumas, clerk in
Melbourne Education Department, remanded on
charge of annexing a cheque.
Tom Pearce, the Loch Ard hero, is third
mate in one of the finest vessels in the Angl
Indian ser vice. Miss Carmichael is with her rela-
tives in Ireland. .. Last year, H.R.11. the Duke of
Edinburgh gave five brace nf pheasants to the
Charing Cross Hospital. We’re game to bet that
they had been given to him. and t >at tlmy were
too high to 5e11... W. H. Mallock is a native Of
Devonshire. His mother is Froudc’s eldest sister.
At Oxford, he won “the Newdegate ” (1871). His
“ New Republic ” was written while he was at the
University, where, however, he was by no means
a corspicuons figure... .Charles Ross, for half a
century chief of the Times Parliamentary staff, is
about to retire. F. Leycester, the writer of the
Times Parliamentary summary, succeeds him....
Ouida, the noveli e t, now denies the statement that
she has “turned religious,” and threatens pro-
ceedings against, anyone repeating the slander....
Mr. Thomas Chenerr, M.A., editor of the London
Times, is dead, aged 57. Mr. Cheneyy succeeded
Mr. Delane as editor in 1877.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bishop Barry’s library lost in the Simla.
A number of admirers intend to replace it. With
a “ Simla” library, we suppose?
Here’s a wrinkle for onr readers who are
periodically rounded up to sit on a “crowner's
quest.” At an inquest recently held at Sale, a
juryman refused to kiss the Rible on the ground
i hat ho did not believe in it. The coroner, Mr.
Howitt, at once discharged him. If this is not
encouraging inlidelity, what is V Jury then receivo
no fees for inquests.
The Rev. Mr. Shutth.worth has been pro-
moted out of his minor canonrv of St. Paul’s, to a
vulgar city rectorship. A man who holds his
views about the poor is not considered good
enough for a cathedral. A Cathedral is a high-
toned »nd exclusive House of God—where God, in
fact receives his fashionable visitors and has them
waited on by His “uppah servants” only.
The’Rev. J. L. Reutoul’s dispute with his
flock, as to the balance of " screw ” due to him,
lias been satisfactorily settled. In a word, the
rev. gentleman is to be granted a lump sum of
£lOO as a “ free-will offering,” and desired to sav
no more about it. SeeiDg that the “free-will
MORE DISASTROUS EEFECTS OF THE DROUGHT.
ART PATRON: “What! A guinea for this? Why, you only charged me thirty bob
for that [?] large oil-paiuling there that covers half the wall!”
ARTIST: “Exactly so! That little bit in your hand there is a water-colour. They
come high, now, on account of the drought.”
offering 1 ” ia only some twelve or fifteen pounds
in excess of 1 tie shepherd s claim, the flock are to
be complimented upon the compromise.
The Rev. Andrew Hardie is sick of the
voluntary system of religious instruction in the
State schools about Melbourne. Some enthusiasts
have heen st.ru mniiDg on this system for some
time back. But, as the Uev. Hardie says, those
only come voluntarily who don't require to come.
That’s just it. Youngsters tullup to the chin with
religion trot outformore, while those that haven’t
a snack won’t budge. Now, how will we compel
them, and still keep the system voluntary ? Now,
how will we make the circle square ?
Fergy says the reverend Bloomfield
Worked up there with so much zest,
That that parson’s now enjoying
What they call “ a well-earned rest.”
Mr. Stiles, his locum tenens.
Very strict: the girls this riles;
No bazaars, the maids all find, they
Can’t get over rugged Stiles.
Barrister Purves, in defeu ding a Melbourne
sweep-promoter last week, observed that there
was a religious sect in the country that received
money for prizes in the next world. That is quite
true, and Mr. Purves might have talked of re-
ligious sects in general. But he added that no one
thinks of prosecuting them, and gave as a reason
that their prizes were intangible. He was, how-
ever, discriminating between sweep-prizes and
church-prizes, and that is just where we fail to
fellow him. We think the complaint which the
public make is that the sweep-prizes arc intangible,
orthodoxly so.
Fancy! “At the Presbyterian Synod, held
a few day r s ago in Dunedin, Mr. K. B. Cargill sug-
gested that celibacy should be imposed on the
clergy till the age of 30 or 35.” Negatived, of
course. The reason’s plain—
Why, if they’d neither wife nor chick,
The curates young would never tire,
Got up in garments span and spick,
Of teaching anthems to tho choir;
But what scares a religious feller
Is—pattens and an umbereller.
Granting the truth of the following ex-
tract, from the Index, Martin Luther was a
greater reformer than history gives him credit
for. Thus Martin, in re “The Secret of England’s
Greatness “The story of Jonah is more in-
credible than any poet’s fable. If it were not in
the Bible I should laugh at it. He was three days
in the belly of a great fish I Why, the tish would
have digested him in three hours', and converted
him into its own flesh and blood. The miracle of
the Bed Sea was nothing to this. The sequel, too,
is so foolish when he is released he begins to rave
and expostulate, and make himself miserable
about a gourd. It is a great mystery."
The Freethought organ of New Zealand,
the Dunedin Echo, is dead-it will no more rever-
berate throug 1 this bigoted world. Furthermore,
the late proprietor and publisher, Mr. Braithwaite,
has informed us all that he “ has left the Free-
thinkers to escape a tyranny worse than that of
the churches.” Mr. B. was not, it appears, per-
mitted to advance his own particular theories in
the “ leaders,” but, out of deference to the
“Atheistic element,” was "constrained to sink
what he conceived to be his best thoughts.” This
is sad. To be a Freethinker without being free to
express your thoughts, is hard enough; but when
those thoughts are your “best thoughts,” the case
is’doubly distr.'ssing. But we hope Mr. Braithwaite
may yet publish these thoughts, in pamphlet form
—we shouldn’t like them to die with him.
In distributing prizes, the other day,
Bishop Moorhouse asked, anent religious teach-
ing, what was to become of the country if ihe
children were to he allowed to grow up without
“ motives or hopes ?” The inquiry shoots Niagara
in a lot of ways, but it is only necessary now to
refer to the collocation of the last words. Instead
of motives or hopes, it ought surely be hopes or
moth es. The motives are born of the hopes, not
the hopes of the motives. For instance, let a boy
hope that lie will become a clergyman, and will he
not acquire the motives? Will not spiritual
cleanliness and saintly smugness creep all through
his plastic being ? It is only a matter of words, of
course, but then words are made to mean so
much when they are used in religious contro-
versy ! In fact, now-ndais, it is all words.
At the Wesleyan Conference recently held
in Melbourne, during the discussion anent the Bible
in State schools, Mr. Beaver. M.L.C., stated that it
would be impossible for the teachers to impart
Christian instruction in the Public schools, since
lie knew of many who had no belief whatever in
Christian doctrine. This statement drew forth
from several holy men the bigot shriek: “Tboy
have no right in the schools, then.” Of course it is
useless to ask such narrow-minded idints what
connection can exist betwixt arithmetic and
scriptural termeneutics, or why a clever Brahmin
should not be able to teach analysis as well as a
stupid Wesleyan, yet we should like these holy
men to tell us whether if they were drowning in
deep water they would decline help save it was
extended to them by individuals possessing Sunday
school certificates of their faith in Christian
doctrine!
The Rev. J. Hay, of the Presbyterian
Church of Victoria, possesses a bold and reckless
spirit worthy of a livelier cause, and the other day,
when presiding as Moderator at ameeting’of the
saints, he came out in considerable force. Re-
gardless of the sighs and groans of his brethren,
he engaged in a solemn controversy “with his
hands in his pockets,” and asserted his oflicial posi-
tion by “sitting’ on the table.” Although the
assumption of this elevated position was naturally
distressing to his brother divines, they strove to
bear with him. until, alas! he commenced to
“ dangle his legs.” This was too much. An
agonised Presbyter begged that the reverend
Moderator would “sit on a chair,” as a Christian
should, and the volatile man granted this
pitiful request, and did sit on aehair —“sideways.”
Evidently this Mr. Hay cares not a straw for the
proprieties.
The last session of the Melbourne Presby-
tery gave one of the brethren an opportunity for
delivering himself of what to us appears a very
original opinion. The Rev. Mr. Hardie was bewail-
ing a lack of enthusiasm, nay, more, “ an apparent
indifference.” on the part of the Presbyterians in
regard to Sunday-school work. After asking
“ Why should they be less zealous than others ?
(to which we can merely murmur “ Give it up!”)
he gave as his reason for takiug such an unfavour-
able view of this Sunday-school question that only
80 out of 809 teachers had responded to an invitation
to sup with him on a recent occasion. With a truly
pathetic shake of the head, ho remarked that this
was “ not very encouraging.” Now, considering
the well-known devotion of Sunday-school teachers
to anything in the shape of refreshment, we cer-
tainly agree with the rev. gentleman, and think
that it was not very encouraging—to him .
At a Dunedin Presbyterian church lately,
a very long hymn was given out to be sung, which
the precentor proceeded to spin out most intoler-
ably, to a slow drawling tune, which soon set the
congregation yawning, as if they had not been to
bed for a week. When the hymu was about half
sung, the Minister directed the conductor of har-
mony to skip the rest, and go on to the last verse,
which contained the line, “ For oh, eternity’s too
short to utter all Thy praise.” If this so-called
praise gets to be such a nuisance to people not per-
sonally interested, what must it not be to the Being
it is intended to please ! Altogether the reverse
of pleasing, we should say. It would, wehumbly
think, please the Creator infinitely more if the
crowds of well-fed and well-dressed peoole, who
meet every Sunday to sing His praise in a similar
way, would go into the dens and hovels of the
great cities instead, among the millions their greed
has impoverished, and rescue them from famine,
disease, u.nd the terrihle conditions of life under
which they are compelled at present to exist.
Mr. David Blair, ot Melbourne, who kindly
undertook to defend Christianity against the at-
tacks of Mr Thomas Walker, was, we are glad to
find, thoroughly well pleased with the style iD
which he acquitted himself. Very seldom, indeed,
does even a Christian gentleman conclude a selt-
imposed »ask with the same amount of satisfac-
tion as did David. Writing to the D.T., he proudly
asserts: “I have held many public discussions on
contested themes, in the course of my life (we can
quite believe it), and I never sustained a more im-
portant one, or ono more creditable to all con-
cerned, than was the three nights’ debate with Mr.
Thomas Walker. I am proud of it.” So are we;
everyone, in fact, is proud of it— especially David's
half. And we are thoroughly at one, too, with
Christianity's champion when he says: “Let me
add. whilst I am about if, that I have seen nothing
in print respecting the discussion, and have not
heard a spoken criticism on it of n kind ariverse 10
my own share iu it, that was not beneath my dis-
dain.” Here, again, we can only murmur “ ditto
to David, and record our opinion that anybody nr
anything “adverse” to such a man must be “be-
neath disdain.”
We see that M. Henri Meilhac, the French
dramatist, and so long the collaborateur of Halevy,
is now receiving in France some 50,000 tranes a
month royalties on bis plays This makes one long
to be a dramatist. The only thing that seems to
pay better is to be a parson. The Itov. Dr. Begg,
of Edinburgh (no relation, mind you. of our little
’postle of Chaimer’s Church), who died recently,
cut up for £15,369; so, if wo are to believe what
they say about the rich man, the camel, and the
needle’s eye, the late rev. gentleman will stand
rather a poor show for a trump and halo. All the
parsons, somehow, seem to hold it. Look at Fetor,
for instance, who tells you, in his immortal * Tele-
phone Echoes," that he occupied the two best
rooms at the Bomn hotel, and declined to give
them up to Judge Paul ; and the late Bishop
Tyrrell, whose property went into six figures; and
the late Dr. M’Qibbon. Although none of those
gentlemen can or could preach beef into the poor,
they all contrived to preach money into their
purses. “He who gives to the poor lends to the
Lord,” is a well-known biblical axiom ; and it
causes us to vaguely wonder how the accounts of
these good people stand where the moon is. We
should like, by the way, to hear every parson s
opinion re the camel proverb, in turn, and, after
the sermon, take a glance at the speaker's bank-
book. It would be, if not amusing, at least in-
structive; and, above all, it would be moral.
A few days ago, a Cabbage Garden Salva-
tion Harmy captain proudly boasted that one of
his “’verts” had carefully restored 2s. which he
had clutched from a friend in the sinful days
when he used to literally go about doing good by
stealth. The Rev. Father Moore, of Ballarat, has
just gone one better still, by handing over a “ con-
science money ” cheque for £1 6s. to Mr. Thomas
Bailey of the “Corner.” The name of the con-
science-pricked party does not transpire, and this
leads up to a very curious problem. Supposing
Mr. Bailey refused to accept the money, and
desired to prosecute the unknown, could Father
Moore be compelled to divulge his seeret under
penalty oi being considered an accomplice to the
theft. Amongst the many incidents connected
with the confessioiml, we remember this. A cer-
tain West of Ireland priest—oall him Father Tom
—had a brother of whom ho was passionately fond,
ana his brother was found one morning brutally
murdered. No trace of the culprit could be
found. Years rolled on, and the matter was well
nigh forgotten, when, one night as Father Tom
sat hearing the confession of a neighbouring
farmer, he was almost paralysed on hearing the
man confess to having committed that very mur-
der. But the seal of the confessional was on the
priest’s lips, and not a sign betrayed his terrihlo
secret. A few months after, however, Father Tom
and the murderer happened to tind Ihemselvqg,
accidentally riding along the same road, and as
they passed a certain hedge the priest’s companion
pointed to It, and said “That’s the spot where I
shot your brother James.” That night the in-
cautious murderer was lodged in gaol, and lie was
atterwards hanged on the strength of liis own
statement. He nad told his secret outside of the
confessional, and tlieu the priest revenged him-
self lor his brother’s murder.
Mr. Spriggs Smith, an advanced Blue
Ribbon man, was curate to Vicar Guest, of Christ
Church, Burton-on-Trent, the town of Bass and
Allsop, and a score of other ingenious concocters
of “ale ale double X ale.” Spriggs Smith, who
derived no enjoyment from beer, and conse-
quently grudged it to others, denounced pale ale
as well from the platform as in a little book ana-
thematising the eyes of the fellow who tries to in-
duce a poor man to drink beer. The Vicnr conse-
ouently gave the curate the sack. The holy
Record took the curate’s part, but gave the Vicar
room for an explanation of his conduct. Mr.
Guest’s explanation is delicious. He says he was
partly influenced by the fact that parochial
charities were likely to suffer through the natural
resentment of the brewers, and partly because
offence had been given to the most earnfst
Christian members of his congregation by Spriggs
Smith’s exaggeration and misrepresentation.
Guest, had he lived at Ephesus in the first century,
would undoubtedly have sided with the silver-
smiths. when their craft was in danger of being
st t at nought by popular acceptance of Paul-
ine superstitipn. We wonder how Vicar Guest
would have ficted had he been Bishop of Win-
chester in past days, when that prelate derived
large emoluments from his office of brothel
supervisor 1 Would he have connived at forni-
cation beaause his episcopal emoluments wore in-
creased thereby ; kept “ mum ” on tho subject,
lest those emoluments should suffer through the
natural resentment of the demi-mondaines gnd
their admirers; or have spoken out his convictions
straight, irrespective of any question about
emoluments? Sptiggs Smith the curate, may be
Eossibly a weak brother, wo are inclined to tbink
e is. ' But ho possesses, at all events, the rudi-
ments of a conscience. Guest, the Vfcar, who has
not even the rudiments of one. makes shift with a
well-developed stomach, and a marsupial arrange-
ment of breeches pocket; and, probably (as many
another Vicar does), makes a very snug shift of it.
Providence invariably fits the animal for its
environment.
* * *
An order for a large number of copies of
Judge Higinbotham’s late lecture on Science and
Religion has been received from England. ..It,
takes TOO tons of gold a year to support the Church
of England 1 Monsignor Lynch dead. Said to
have left a large estate. But that’s of course—
Bishop Barry embarked for Australia. Requests
that his arrival be without ceremony. A blow for
the slobberers’ brigade this.... Next3lst December
will be the 600th anniversary of the death of
Wycliffe; and it is going to be a big celebration.
...A celebrated London physician, who had a
first-class connexion, used to give advice and
medicine gratuitously to poor people early in the
morning, before his fashionable patients came.
“ I have no time to go to church, and it is my way
of praying,” ho simply said.


PE H A
HOUSE.
O
Lessee
Sub-lessee find Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
First production in Australia of Sardou’s
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora, _
MAJERONI
MAJERONI
MAJERONI
MAJERONI
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st.
Prices :-Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 2s.
Tickets at Kobertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
mHI'.ATRE ROYAL—Under the Management of
JL Messrs. WiimiAMSON, Garner, & Musorovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in
STRUCK OIL and the CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
me. mm wee,
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT,
pr For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
Thanks to Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mus-
grove, for offer at early date, but unable to accept
in consequence of present arrangements with
gignor Majeroni.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th February, 1884.
TENDERS FOR NEW CLOSETS.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of New
Closets, at the Cleveland-street, Public
School. , , _
Plans and Specification may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Closets,
Cleveland-street, Pnblic School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, the 10th March, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th February, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WEATHERSHED.
TENDERS arc invited for the erection of a
Weathershed at the Leichhardt Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may he seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Weathershed,
Leichhardt Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, 10th March, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
General Post Office,
Sydney, Bth February, 1884.
IT is hereby notified that, on and alter this date,
the following reduced rates will be levied on
correspondence posted in this colony for trans-
mission to the United Kingdom by steamers of the
Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Com-
pany, under contract with the Government of
Victoria :
Letters, 6d. per oz.
Packets, Id. per oz.
Newspapers, Id. each.
On correspondence for other countries sent
through the United Kingdom by the above
steamers, the rates will be the same as chargeable
by the steamers of the Orient Company, particu-
lars of which are given in the “ Postal Guide.”
W. J. TRICKETT.
B
URDEKIN FOR
EAST
SYDNEY.
BURDEKIN FOR EAST SYDNEY.
BURDEICIN FOR EAST SYDNEY.
It has been determined by all classes of the com-
munity to bring BURDEKIN out for East Sydney
in opposition to REID and the Government Taxa-
tion proposals. All citizens desirous of assisting
in this matter are requested to sign the requisition
at once.
Requisitions will be deposited for signature in
all parts of the electorate and at the following
places
John Noake, tobacconist, George-street, near
Hunter-street.
John Noake, tobacconist, George-street, near
Market-street. „
Long and Roarty, hairdressers, George-street, near
Market-street. „ A . .
John Green, Sir Hercules Robinson Hotel, Oxford-
street.
John Frost, Rose and Crown Hotel, William and
Crown streets.
Joel Cohen, William and Bourke streets.
W. Cochran, hatter, Market-street.
J. Phillips, tobacconist. Market-street.
M. Goulston, clothier, &c., Market-street.
Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.
James Pringle, 118 Elizabeth-street.
Sutcliffe and Co., 118 Elizabeth-street.
W. Smedley, Riley and Liverpool streets.
F. Sigmont, Park and Pitt streets.
OULBURN LAND ART UNION.
Gr
DATE
OF DRAWING POSITIVELY FIXED
MARCH.
Rapidly filling up.
Send at once if you wish tickets. Expected to
close in a few days.
16 Prizes in all.
Ist prize—Hardwicke Estate, value £3OOO
2nd prize—Farm, near Gunnning, value £5OOO
3rd prize—St. Kilda House, value £2OOO
4th prize—House, in Goulburn, value £BOO
sth prize—Allotment in Goulburn, value £4OO
11 prizes represented by Land, ranging in value
from £l5O to £25.
15,000 shares of £1 each. Add stamps.
Apply to FINLAY & CO., Goulburn, Agents for
JOHN SANDS, of Burryong,
Sole Proprietor.
COMMITTEE :
J. T. Gannon, Esq., M.L.A.
John Badgery, Esq., J.P. Sutton Forest
A. M. Betts, Esq., solicitor, Goulburn
R C Cooper, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George
John Davidson, Esq., solicitor, Goulburn
S. Emanuel, Esq. J.P., Goulburn
S. Meyer, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
□Tli.e IRelia/tole IBuLgrgries I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among 1 the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
CRAMPTON
AND!
BRUGE.
tfSt&ku
fflfEaiSi!
WI3I
ni i'
’ ~ yfci : ; gJiyjpifP £9jfs|
281
GEORGE ST.,
opposite:
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
a« no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
Has beer? further Improved and Lightened in weight.
The SPECIAL CLUB has always stood at the
head of the trade, and as now improved
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been offered.
Our SEMI-RACERS arc strong
enough for Road Riding,
OUR BICYCLES
The Special Club
Tbe Australia® Club
Universal do.
Xbe Boys’ Own
•#*
V
S''
The
C key les more
The Imperial Club
The Humber Pattern
&e. t Sko,
OUR TRIPLES
FOR 1884 combine all
the improvements that were
suggested by the experience of
1883, and as each style of Machine
has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our TRIGYCLES will be even more
popular in 1884 than they were during 1883.
and Imperial Club Tricycles.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Department of Public 1 Works,
Sydney, ]Bth February, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can he
received a t
this office.
Erection of Dwarf Wall and I
Iron Railing-, Court Ho use, Al- |
bury
Erection of Court-house and I
Lock-up at Cudal
Slating Roof of Main Building, I
Benevolent Asylum Liverpool I
Erection of Court-house, Glad- I
stone I
Erection of Retaining Wall,
Fence, &c., Pilot Dagnell’s
house, Pilot Station, New-
castle
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino
Conveyance ofCoals for Dredges
and Tugs, Shoalhaven River
Caretaker’s Cottage, Bare Island
Fortifications
Erection of Gallery, Courthouse,
Forbes
Tank, Fencing, &c. Public Build-
ings, Wilcannia
Erection of Refreshment-rooms
at Werris Creek Railway
Station
Erection of Station Buildings
at Ben Lomond and Glencoe,
Great Northern Railway.
Erection of Cottage for Points-
man at Lithgow, Zigzag.
Supply of 2,000,000 Permanent
Way Spikes.
Contracts 10and 11 N, road Manly
to Pittwater
Cartage of Railway Stores, &c.
Tuesday,
26th February,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of an Iron Screw
Tug Steamer
Manufacture and Erection of 7
Cast Iron Water Tanks for
Railway Water Supply pur-
poses
Erection of Police Buildings,
Cowra
Erection of Wharf, Palmer’s Is-
land, Clarence River
Paving Post and Telegraph
Office and Court-house. Forbes
Contract 31m. road Graf-
ton to the Fernmount and
Armidal© Road
Additions, &c.. Barracks, Middle
Head.
Bridge over Dingo Creek at Jet-
sell’s Crossing, road Wingham
to Wherool Flat.
Contract 31m, road Fernmount
to the Grafton and Armidale
Road
Tuesday,
4th March,
at II o’clock
Construction of Tank and Bath I
of Bathurst G. W. Railway I
Fencing, &c., Police Station,
Albury.
Additions, Alterations, &c„
Police Station, Molong.
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Ar-
midale.
Road Coonabarahran to Mere- I
goen, contract 1m
Laying on Water and Gas, and I
Repairs, to Protestant Orphan I
School, Parramatta
Repairs, Additions, &c, Court-
house, Camden
Tuesday,
11th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Completion of Works, Trial
Bay Prison
Construction of two Ferry
Steamers
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Additions to Quarters, Fairway
Leading Light, Newcastle
Engine House, &c., Goulburn
Water Supply
Engine, House, &c., Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Tuesday,
18th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Ladies’ Refreshment
Room, «fec.. Botanic Gardens
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Offices, Paddington
Additions to Courthouse, Mer-
rivva
'Tuesday,
15t,h April,
at 11 o'clock.
Lease of Refreshment-room at
Werris Creek Railway Station
Tuesday,
29th Aprjj,
at U o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o'clock.
F. A. WRTGHT.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. Gd.
Maid, Wife, and Mother*
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, ’n
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To he had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0.. Sydney.


Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
My experience is certainly very favourable
to Bristol’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. Thev
have cured an old sore on my right leg, which had
delied all other treatment —John Sanderson,
Hobart Town, Tasmania.
Ayer’s Haiji Vigor is safe, agreeable, and
benefical. It is the most elegant, and its effects
are very lasting, making it the most economical
of toilet preparations. By its use ladies can keep
their hair abundant and natural in colour, lustre,
and texture.
fis. Od.
7s. Cd. ss. Od. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, -47-4 fciaorsrc-
strect, opposite the Central Entrance to the
has solved-the Problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQCISirE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles or dainty design and enduring' beauty,
which will give delight at the llrst glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
ol the alchemists laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade bv
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and interior designs are manufac-
tured ol it. Ihe discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BUOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS RUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
a „ metal.
are mounted with the NEW
IJIAMONDS, another masterpiece of tho chemists
ol the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness. ’
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with caver
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. Tho most
gracelul Parnian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT—EXA CTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
a B ,l t L Ont T?- f l? 110 countr y. write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, heeauso wo know that no
“?l e Y er 3^ e< \ v , le '''od ollr woods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty-and’such
goodaTl I tnoffi a(1 amonfir acqu aintances, do us
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. cacli.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Oil. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand A lbert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch. Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies; Suite-Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Aesthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
1 lmekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10t.hs of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and lull
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At «5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion fromthe above which customers mav
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughoi
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe— if the articles do n
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them
once and send them back. If this is done with
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first pc
after receipt, and the articles are not injured i
will return the money, deducting only the tri
expended on postage. You can keep any o
article and return the rest, and we will return t
money for the articles not kept. Every wat
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by
written warrantry for two years. Remittances
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company
474 Genrge-st., Sydney, op. Marke
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THEATRE ROTAii— “ Struck Oil ” t>. 8.
Opera House—“ Fedora ” ib.
Chiarini’s Royal Italian Circus ib.
Pretty Gitana tell us, tell us,
When shall we hear you again ?
Don’t do as Langtry, sell us, sell us,
Keep us not sighing in vain.
Signor Billgreeno, hear us, hear us,
(How the girls worship you still 1)
Come back once more to cheer us, cheer us,
With that F sharp of yours, Bill.
Turner, robusto tenore, oie
(Brisbane’s not Sydney, you know,)
Shall we no more hear your dob, ray— dob, ray.
Bay—me—fah—soh—lah—te— dob?
* * *
The week was a benefit one with the
Turners, prior to their departure l'or Brisbane,
and the public rolled up in battalions to give them
a decent send-off. Miss Montague chose “ Faust ”
for her little “ ben.” and the house was packed
like a hash-house slavey’s “ programme ” „at a
picnic, or a police court when evidence of a
naughty complexion is expected. We were glad
to see it, as Annis is a painstaking and agreeable
artiste always pleasing, and sometimes more.
She is plump, too, is Miss Annis; and in order to
avoid any unpleasantness, has to be careful of the
“ supe ” who is commissioned to stand behind her
and bear her from the scenes of her sorrows or
her crimes. The world is full of sad things—of
farewells for the dying, and mournings for the
dead—of treachery and wrong, bad debts, bad
smells, and bogus pills—of poverty, crime, and
inferior drink. But the saddest of all is to see an
under-sized, knock-kneed, spindle-shanked, flat-
footed, imperfectly-nourished “ supe,” dressed as
a crusader or mediaeval baron, struggling under
200tt>. of female adipose tissue and the coarse sar-
casm of an unsympatliising pit. This is a sight
not only to make the recording angel blubber, but
to start the whole communion ol saints on the
“weep.” m
It was as Don Caasar that Charles took his
benefit. You have all seen him in it, and
know what he can do, and what he can't. At
least, you think you do but, if you didn’t
see him as the impecunious Grandee on Wednes-
day week last, you know nothing of the perfection
to which “ gag ’ can be brought in capable hands—
nothing of the discoveries which can be made in
that attractive department by a person devoted to
his profession. “ Don’t laugh or you might bust I”
he observed to the Captain of the Guard with fine
irony, when the latter put on a far-away smile on
observing the boy with the beer trying to dodge
the scene-shifter and the ladies of the chorus. At
this interpolation in the libretto, Verdi, who was
at the back of the stage maturing his sinister de-
signs on the Queen (Queens of Spain are peculi-
arly open to such designs', became strangely
affected, and was not fit for much except to
cachinnate through a horse - collar for some
minutes. Oh, and it looked funny to see the
pretty Gitana Montague fooling about with a pack
of cards on her tambourine, and asking the Signor
to try his luck. Why, Maritaua, dear, you might
travel from this to Khartoum—you might search
all the camps of Colorado, and all the whisky
shops of ’Frisco—without finding a person who
has less to learn about anything from piquet to
beggar-m y-ncighbour.
* * *
It was the “Bohemian Girl” Verdi chose
for appropriating his share of the plunder. Some
public recognition should be awarded the man
who could say anything original about this work.
Of course it tests one’s power of credulity to
believe that the rather ill-developed child at the
start has grown into the buxom Arline towards
the finish, while the gipsies, soldiers, and hangers-
on remain much the same. But, so long as the
orchestra is fairly attentive, and the singers pleas-
ing, such slight anachronisms are but little heeded.
It is in characters like the Count that the Signor’s
striking physique appears to best advantage. But
he.' ulso is falling into the actor’s failing—flesh. If
we had a consumptive patient, instead ‘d filling
him with cod-liver oil and ferri cit et quince, we
would make him go on the stage and guarantee
that in twelve months he could appear at a bal
masque as John Lucas without any paddinx. What
is the cause—late suppers, late rising, or that nice
feeling of contentment and prosperity arising
from the pleasant places in which their lines are
cast V Well, Arline was carried away as a child
by the ragged vagabond who would pause and
think before shouldering her as a woman. The
usual complications follow, and, towards the end,
the customary happiness is evolved.
• • •
So you are gone, pleasant people, and, as
we see you leave, we kiss our hands and say bon
voyage.
* * * *
Maggie Moore, Maggie Moore,
How folks’ fancies you allure!
How you slily, sliiy coil
Bound our feelings in “ Struck Oil!”
Grow old, never! You grow newer,
Maggie Moore, Maggie Moore.
• • *
Of course, we have been again to see the
Williamsons ; and, of course, everyone else has
about done the same thing. They can’t help it,
for, taking Maggie all round—and that just now
takes a considerable grasp—she is just more be-
wildering than ever. An*l there’s John Stofel,
green-coated, with a pipe as long as a broom-
handle ever between his teeth, plodding along
iu the true Dutchman style, We don’t believe a
train-motor steaming up at his rear would knock
the phlegmatic element out of John.
You’re a wonder, Johnny Stofel!
Praise, you’re bound to win it;
Be it merry, be it woeful,
Your part you fit in it.
Never of you could we grow “ full,”
No, not for a minute.
You will charm, “ hub.” of our Maggie,
Till we die out, old and scraggy.
* *
Having thus duly beslavered John and
Lizzie, Deacon Skinner comes in for his turn.
Sefton, as the Deacon, is good, very good. The
trouble is that ho is a bright luminary coming after
a brighter—a jet of gas after a blinding stream of
electric light. But, then, someone must be best;
and if Sefton does not take the cake entirely, he is
so acceptable that we’d never refuse to take a
drink with him, even if he asked us twenty times
a day. But he hasn t started yet.
To put it tersely, Mr. Sefton,
As a Deacon, is a deft ’un:
Sefton must, as Deacon Skinner,
Of “jam” be a rightful winner.
* * *
As the Lawyer, Mr. Rainfordis thoroughly
wily, though not quite so aggressive as some of
our legal M.P.’s. dll the minor parts are fairly
tilled, and the machinery of “Struck Oil,” as a
whole, is so well oiled that it runs as frictionless
as a lie does on the conscience of a C.M.G. With
which little spurt we will tear ourselves away
from Maggie for the present.
* * *- *
Loris and Vladimir are Russian Counts,
and Fedoraa Russian princess. There are probably
more princesses in Muscovy than colonels in Ame-
rica. They possess some of the colonels’ chars c-
teristics. too—most of them are up to their ears
in politics. Whenever England’s intentions re-
garding Egypt, or Bismarck’s concerning the
Baltic provinces, are desired by the Czar’s advisers,
a “ princess ” has to be off for London or Berlin to
get at the root of the matter. We mention this
fact in order that any Riverina storekeepers or
Barcoo squatters who happen to visit Europe
mav avoid the salons of these Delilahs, or, if they
visit them, be very guarded in their allusions to
the state of parties on the back blocks, or the
introduction of revolutionary measures for scalp-
ing rabbits on the Darling. Some years ago in
Paris, while talking to a savant in the Salle <i
manger of the Princess Poliatowski, we happened
to mention the “ ornithorhynchns paradoxus.”
Prom that moment till we went abroad a schooner
at Cherbourg, to work our passage back to
“Jackass Plat,” we were surrounded with Russian
spies, and our doings daily reported to tkG chief
of the St. Petersburg secret police.
* * *
Oh, we could tell you a lot about the little
games of the Peters, Pauls, Alexander, Catherines,
and Dolgoroukis of Holy .Russia; but, you see, the
remembrances of our own Georges, Williams,
Carolines, and—[Stop there, the ground is a little
unsafe]—keeps us lrom heaving the lirst brick.
Well, tnis Fedora was a princess, and dearly loved
Vladimir. They were betrothed; and one night
as she was in his apartment turning over his
things, and wondering why he kept such bad
hours, a drosky drove to the door, and Vladimir
was taken out of it, dying, with a revolver bullet
concealed somewhere in his person. He died, and
Fedora devoted herself to the discovery of his
assassin. A number of circumstances pointed to
Loris as the party “ wanted.” He lied from St.
Petersburg, and went to Paris. Fedora followed,
and—they lell in love.
« * •
His affection was the real article—hers was
shoddy, a mere pretence to get from his own lips
a coniession of his crime. LI ya toujours un qui
baise et une quidonne la moue. “In all case.? of violent
attachment there is but one that loves—the other
merely tolerates affection.” If young people only
remembered this, why—it is doubtful whether life
would be as pleasant as it is. The jolliest thing in
the world is to live in a fool s paradise. To be
cheated is ever so much nicer than to cheat— so
long as you don’t know you’re being got at. So
she invites him to a nocturnal tite-d-Ute in her own
rooms, and stowed away' about the premises are
Russian police agents, ready to brain him on coming
out—should he be bumptious,—or to gag him and
“ chuck ” him into the hold of the Princess’s yacht
should he determine to give no "lip ” and go along
dacetltly. The yacht was then to drop down the
Seine and run him aboard a Russian frigate in the
offiug, where he would be properly taken care of
and protected from impertinent questions till his
arrival in St. Petersburg, when he would have a
fair trial. As he was accused of .Nihilism among
other things, and as Vladimir, the man he killed,
was the son of the St. Petersburg Chief of Police,
Loris could, of course, depend upon getting fair
play when he reached home.
• # *
He visited Fedora, aud acknowledged that
he killed her fiance. Rut he gave his reasons. As
a rule, it is a foolish thing to give reasons, it you
are a married man, and your iirst-boru asks you
for a “ reason,” it is always safest to hit him fair in
the mouth, aud say "that s why.” it prevents a
heap of future trouble. Depend upon it, that
lad, when he turns out after midnight to let you
in, and oDserves your damaged hat and ihegrip
you take of the bannisters going up-stairs, will
slink away quietly to bed, merely remarking to
himself, "Dad’s not well to-night—wonder what
he’s been eating?” Rut Loris's reasons went
straight to the spot. He had made a clan-
destine marriage with a young Warsaw girl
who visited his mother. She was what is known
in some circles as a “nut,” aud, by the merest
chance, he discovered that she was carrying on
more than a flirtation with Vladimir Fedora s
betrothed. He saw her in his arms; heard them
howl with laughter while ridiculing the husband’s
inspired “ greenness.” Then he came along, took
his wife by the hair, and landed her on a mound ol
snow outside to cool herself. Vladimir was ready
with a pistol, and sent a bullet through his arm;
L'.ris was ready with another, blazed away, and
sent Vladimir to—blazes.
* * *
The wife died, universitlly regretted by
those acquainted with her loveable qualities and
frnod nature. Fedora listened to this-saw the
otters written by Vladimir to Mrs. Loris, tore
them into the smallest fragments she could man-
age without a ehaff-cutter, danced upon them
with an emphasis not unlike that of a tar going
through the sailor's hornpipe on being paid off
after a three years’ cruise, swore eternal fealty to
Loris, and, knowing the unceremonious inauueis
of Russian police agents, prevailed upon him to
stop ail night. He is reluctant—her good name is
at stake. Rut what’s the use of being- a princess if
you can’t do as you like and leave “ good names ”
and all that rubbish for the lower orders? He
stops. In this, we think he is to blame. Under
similar circumstances, we would climb down the
spout, or, at least, get up the chimney till the
affair blew over. It ispossib'e the bobbies outside
might remove the chimney or come in and put a
lire in t ie grate; but we would chance that for a
barmaid, let alone a princess
* * *
He is saved, and things are beginning to
look up whea he hears that, on the information of
some Russian lady in Paris, his brother is seized
and drowned in a dungeon like a rat in a hole,
while his mother has died of grief. This complicates
matters. Of course, you guess the lady is Fedora,
and you are right. She had given the intor-
mation before learning Loris's story. This should
be a warning never to prophesy, lay an informa-
tion, or even commit a common assault, till you
are certain. We got into trouble ourselves once
by dusting the “flure” withtho wrong man; and,
on another occasion, we occupied a corner bed for
three weeks in the Melbourne Hospital through
being mistaken for Davie Blair alter the publica-
tion of his article on Home Rule. We didn’t mind
the beating so much—it was our vanity that was
knocked endways by the mistake. So Loris,
naturally enough, swears to discover this woman
and give her a lift like he did his first wife.
Fedora pleads for her, but, seeing her lover
determined to have the strange lady’s scalp, con-
fesses all, drinks enough poisoa to disagree with a
megatherium, and dies to slow music.
* # *
And now for some real criiioism. Unlike
“Jealousy,” where so many of the scenes
“dragged” through the poverty of the dialogue,
and the perilous closeness with which the line
separating the tragic from the absurd was oc-
casionally approached, “Fedora” fascinates from
the rise to the fall of the curtain. The situations
are powerful; the dialogue felicitous. Acting,
such as that of Signora Majeroni, has not been
seen in Sydney since the departure of Ristori.
This i 3 a bold statement, but—if by acting, as b v
oratory, is meant the power of engaging the sym-
pathies of large assemblies, of swaying them this
way and that, by a word, a look, ora gesture—we
must let it stand. Not since we heard Ristori hold
a vast audience spell-bound by pleading for
her son’s life, in a language strange to 119 per cent,
of those present, have we seen such a representa-
tion. The accessories were good—the dresses and
surroundings enough to rivet the attention of
those interested in these matters. But such things
were forgotten in following the love and hate, the
fierce passion of Fedora, as she listens to her
lover’s confession—her revulsion of feeling as she
learns the cause. At this particular part her
acting was superb.
* * *
And she was ably supported—not only by
her husband, but by all tbi subordinate charac-
ters, particularly Do Seriex (Glover). As Loris,
Signor Majeroni gained the attention of the house
and hell it. Sometimes, those who heard him long
ago when he accompanied (his relative, we be-
lieve) Ristori, felt that his voice was not so
sonorous, so far-reaching as of old, but with his
acting no fault could be found. His recital to
Fedora of the circumstances under which Vladimir-
met his death was painful in its intensity. More
so was his anger as she pleaded for the woinun
whose machinations had resulted in the death of
his mother and brother.
* * *
Mr. Glover always comes out well. Of
course, the advantages of person and voice he
possesses are a good deal in his favour. But, even
if he had a pronounced stutter and a physique like
a Japanese tumbler, would not be other than
an acceptable actor. The Misses Novaro and
Mainwaring fill their parts creditably. Both are in
the front rank of the Parisian heau mnnde. The
former, Jike many titled ladies of unlimited means
and disordered digestion, thinks life scarcely worth
the living. She nas tried everything for the re-
moval of ennui, from whale-fishing to fox-hunting
with a dash of ostrich-riding. At last she made a
pilgrimage to Rome and went into a nunnery.
Possibly the confessor wasn’t so young as he might
have been, so she very soon got out into the world
again, a deal harder to please than ever. We don’t
wonder at this. We were once in a nunnery our-
selves, but didn’t remain long. The back wall was
low and the apples tempting, so we ventured in
that way only to be ignominiously fired out in
front five minutes afterwards. But we saw enough
en route to know that, unless under very excep-
tional circumstances which we have not time to
refer to more particularly, establishments of this
kind are no places for ladies given to—well, a lot
of things that you can guess for yourselves.
** * *
When any fellow lays the jam on to us
extra thick, we always feel as if there was some-
body hanging around for a drink, or the loan of a
half-crown. And, as we never drink nor borrow
half-crowns, we don’t gush. When we waltzed
into Chiarini’s Circus last week, adorned with our
usual killing smile, we sat down with what Poe
calls “the resolute endeavour” to knock some-
body sky-high, and went out at the linish with a
whole bullock team of jam at the end of our
cheerful pencil. One of Chiarini’s biggest hits is
that he has knocked Solomon’s wisdom clean out
in one round, inasmuch as he brings out some-
thing new under the sun, or rather the gas, every
evening. He seems to have been keeping a circus
stud of “humans” and brutes since the wind-up
of the Flood, and carried out to perfection the
“survival of the fittest.” In the menagerie, you
can revel in the study of anything, from a bob-
tailed kitten to an African Hon or a huge elephant.
The Faust|family—they are ten—amaze and charm
you by their feats. The Misses stoodley and
Poneute <to such daring and graceful acts on
horseback that wo have come to the conclusion
they were born in the saddle. La Petite Zephyr
soars about in mid-air as though she were a
a balloon in'tead of ordinary flesh. The Walhalla
Brothers and French and Angelo give the lie to
anatomy entirely. They are evidently formed out
of gutta-percha, or a C.M.G.'s conscience, they are
so pliable. The Hurricane Hurdle business by C.
Stoodley just blows one into bewilderment, while
the way Messrs. Acadie and Johnseu handle those
electric-eyed and teoth-gnashing lions and tigers
makes us feel like we do when our mother-in-law
gravely opens the door for us at 4 a m., after hav-
ing “ made a night of it.”
** * *
We learn that Jim Allison, besides engag-
ing several stars (with whoso august names wo
were not previously familiar), has contracted with
“ the Madison-square Company in its entirety ” for
a tour in Australia. We believe this implicitly,
because, next to the Lyceum and Drury Lane
companies, that of Madison-square is the most
expensive (bar opera) in the world. It is not long
ago since Bayless informed us, through the
medium of some truthful Californian paper, that
he had come to an arrangement with Emerson,
and when Garner went home he was to contract
for a “succession of stare,” and the result has
chiefly been two transpontine comedians, and the
author of that noble drama “Sithors to Grind,”
which was demonstratively damned at tire London
Globe. Here’s a little Valentine lor James, any-
how:—
To the Great Impress-(1iow many s’s ?)-ario.
Enough of this! if you would reach
Your Adelrdean goal whole,
Bui. bay at once you’ve only copp’d
The actors of the Coal Hole;*
Those grim wall-polishers, who’ve filled
In their lives, every part,
The sight of whom, when cheese Is on,
Just breaks the landlord’s heart.
Nous avons vecu, and we know
Scores of these birds by sight;
They’ll strut in “Richard” and “the Dane,”
A week for “ thirty white.”
Six bob, too, for a matinie,
Is one of their delights;
You find the basket- hilted sword,
And they’ll find their own tights.
The Surrey stage, it knows them well,
The “ Vic.,” you’ll find them there;
They’re popular, too, at the “ Brit.,”
And also Greenwich Fair!
Be honest, James, and just explain
How many of these seedy ’uus
You’ve hired to star, on rainbow bills,
As “ England’s Great Tragedians.”
* A Loadon house of call for “ Cahotins
** * *
Christchurch Society says, in a par. chro-
nicling Daniel’s departure:— “Herr Bandmann
anticipates appearing in Christchurch in about
eighteen months. Times have been very pros-
perous with him since last in this city.” There is
a deep and sanguinary satire in this, if the writer
only knew it. By the way, talking of the greatest
actor in the world, it is stated that when last he
played “Hamlet” in Virginia City he had an un-
precedented reception. The audience threw the
hall at him. Most of the building was atterwards
picked up in the neighbourhood of Daniel's hotel.
** * *
The London public, resenting the jocular
allusions to Scriptural quotations with which
“Musette” abounds, gave Lotta, on her first ap-
pearance in it, a cold reception. Thereupon her
agent, Harry Jackson, foolishly advertised his
belief that she was the victim of an “ organised
opposition,” Harry was never very wise, though
on occasion he can be rather funny. When we
first knew him, he was running a tavern in Auck-
land (N.Z.) with indifferent success. That was
after he had made a little coin at Ballarat. The
next time we came across him ho was playing
with the late Richard Young at the old Brisbane
Theatre—poor houses, faded stock scenery, indif-
ferent low comedy, the ghost unable to walk, and
so on. For a fellow of his small c.ilibre to chal-
lenge London’s theatre-going public is the height
of stupidity.
** * #
We suppose the story of Bernhardt whip-
ping Mdiie. Colombier is ell bosh; and also, in the
same affair, of M. Richepin, the novelist, and ami
de la maison of Sara’s, refusing a challenge from
Jehan Soudan, another journalist, both of whom
are said to have been present during the f racas.
“ Our troubles,” anyhow 1 Sara gays : “ She
(Colombier) called me Sarah Barnum. lam not
Jumbo. Then 1 gave her the lash. She weighs
J* i pounds—l weigh 75 pounds; but she ran beiore
mi. this vile, ungrateful woman, this woman
whom L have befriended, this Colombier, who was
nothing till she met Sara. I have done with her
I did not chastise her for advertising purposes.”
We are beginniug to think, on the whole, that
Damala is weU out of it. When they separated,
we only heard Bernhardt’s side of the story, Now
we are beginning to think that Damala only had a
poor time of it when he was with the great
actress. Always had to go out with the jug him-
self; and had to regularly answer the door when
the book-instalment man came round; and stop in
Saturday nights to get, by a deep-laid conspiracy,
the clean clorhes from the long-suffering laundress.
We envied Damala once, but we don’t—stay!—yes,
we envy him still.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Victorian “Church Mission to the
Aborigines” is, sad to say, in a very sickly condi"
tion, the treasurer having made the painful an-
nouncement that he has “some difficulty in paying
the salaries punctually.” This is the more regret-
able because the missionary at Lake Condah
station is engaged in running up a nice new church
for the blacks, so he does hope that “ all those in-
terested in mission work may come forward and
supply money liberally.” True, the missionary is
aware that there are certain godless people about
who will ask “ to what purpose will a church be for
the aborigines, if it is admitted on all hands that
they are dying out fast?” But he has a most
satisfactory answer to this query, for says he,
“ even should they disappear, ere long, from the
face of the earth, the church will then still be a
monument erected by God's people, testifying
that they have net been onlookers, with idle hands
and unsympathetic hearts, while the vices of the
white man, coupled with their own ignorant ways,
served to ruin the natives, body and soul.” There
is a deal of force about this appeal. Having sup-
plied the natives with vices which “ served to ruin
them, body and soul,” it is only fit and proper that
we should erect a monument, to prove that we’ve
not been “unsympathetic onlookers,” meanwhile
that they were “ dying out fast.”
The Native.
The nasty black native is dying out fast,
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho!
(The day for such people is certainly passed,)
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho!
Then do let us hasten this church to erect,
To prove that we held in a proper respect
The soul which our vices successfully wrecked—
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho!
So, when the last darkie has bade us good-night,
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho!
This church may appear as a monument bright,
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho!
That though we did teach him to drink, smoke, and
swear,
We also (God bless us) took jolly good care
That he shouldn’t be damned for the want of a
prayer.
Heigh-ho, heigh-ho I
It was very rough on Tom every way, and
he is sick of Melbourne. Tom Lolly went into
Albert Knucky, and said, “ I want to buy some
things.” “What sort of things do you want to
buy?” asked Albert. “Well, I’m nowise pur-
tickler,” said Tom; “ but s’pose I might as well go
in for a bedstead or something.” And Tom took
£2 out of his pocket, and, handing the money to
Albert, lifted up on his back an iron bedstead, a
pair of palliasses, a mattress, three pillows, and a
lot of sundries, and started for his quiet home.
His dad was there. “Good boy,” said the dad;
“good boy; them things’ll come in handy. Just
put ’em down.” And then the dad went out, and,
slipping down to a house not far off, said, “ Sarah,
Sarah, we can do it now. The bedstead and all is
right. Come on to the parson!” In the meantime,
Tom, after admiring his purchase for a while,
slipped up the street, and said, “ ’Annah, ’Annah,
it’s all right now. Fix the day!” And she fixed
the day some months ahead. Now, the old dad
was the quicker man, and before the sun set he
and Sarah came in smiling, and sat down over all
the things Tom had purchased. Tom was think-
ing how he could work through the difficulty,
when the old man died. He was a very quick,
energetic old man. Then Tom said to his
stepmother, “Gimme them things.” Then, she
said “ I’m dad’s relic. Them’s my perkisites.”
And Tom went to Hannah, and said, “ ’Annah, ho tv
am Itodo it ? The bedstead, and the pillows, and
the things is useful to us, but she won’t give em.”
And ’Annah said, “Don’t mind, Tom, about the
bedstead. It wasn’t much good at first, and is
sure to be all broken down now. But if she won’t
give the pillows, choke her I” And Tom went
back to choke the relic, but the relic choked Tom.
And then he said “ I’ll take the law on you.” And
she said “ Amen !” And Tom sent her a summons
for £1 17s. (id., the value of the three pillows, and
£1 more for their detention. And the lawyer told
him he would get it every penny. And Tom said
to ’Annah, “ That’ll be £2 17s. 6d. I’ll get from the
relic for the pillows. More’n the whole lot stood
me first. Amn’t I smart?” and Hannah said
“ Yes.” But when His Honor heard the whole
case, and totted things up, and saw how Tom was
wanting to make a rise out of the relic, he said,
“ Go way, Tom, go way ; I won’t allow you a red
cent agin the relic !” And then Tom paid the
lawyers, and hadn’t a penny left. And he went to
Hannah, and said “ I haven’t a red cent. We can’t
marry now till winter.” And Hannah said “All
right.” And next day she married the baker.
Now, wasn’t all that rough upon Tom ? And
because he wasn’t a quicker man than his dad.
Moral: Keep your eye on your dad !
• • •
OUR PRIVILEGE.
Out first ball, Not in form: that
Did you “ tumble ? ” Is the ticket!
Out first ball, “ Great uncertain-
Bowled by Trumble. Ty of cricket! ”
But of this as- This is a free
Sured you rest, Country, true I—
Murdock played his Yet we’ll only
Very best. Mutter—Booh I
Germany is oredited with having 2040 field
pieces, France 2106, Russia 2208, whilst England
can only muster 342. These returns were compiled
before the State of Riverina had taken stock of
their artillery in view of contingencies. Since,
however, the news of the late meetings in Scott’s
Hotel, in Wilcannia, and Bourke, has been tele-
graphed to England, we are informed that the
Woolwich Arsenal is displaying unwonted acti-
vity. Also the cobwebs have been cleared out of
the office revolver of the G hazier to make room
for the grape and canister with which it is now
loaded to the muzzle. Representations have been
made to the courts of Mount Gambier and Tenter-
field, with a view to united action; but we learn,
just as we go to press, that the revolution has
met with a decided check, owing to the strained
relations between Walgett and Bega, consequent
on the discourtesy of the latter principality in not
according an invitation to the plenipotentiary of
the former to attend the corrobboree now being
held there under the auspices of King Sam, of
Croajingalong. At latest dates, there were
rumours of a general rising in the Billabong—
seven shearers having executed a flank movement
on the ration sugar on the estate of the great
pastoral lord, Sad. After [a desperate
resistance on the part of the station cook, who
was compelled to retreat and entrench himself in
a 90ft. well, the insurgents carried the position.
They are now in full wallaby for the run of Lochy
M’Vean on the Murrumbidgee, and are marching
by easy sundowns on the commissariat of that
patriot. They travel as a decidedly irregular
cavalry, depending for remounts on the pounds
en route. As we write, all is darkness ahead. We
await the development of events with forebodings
too deep for words. That the struggle will be
long we have little doubt. May we hope it will be
equally broad ?
• • a
A learned discussion is going on in the
Lancet as to the best position in sleep. This is
important. A man who died m Magdeburg at the
age of 109, attributed his great age to sleeping
north and south—a remarkable achievement, see-
ing that for the last sixty-nine years he had lain
where he fell paralysed, and the house had been
shifted around east and west unknown to him.
But no hard-and-fast rule can be laid down. In
the lock-up you have no pillow, and your tactics
are consequently different from those of the
Prince of Wales, who has no knowledge of the
vast ingenuity we of the lower orders develop in
accommodating the tenderest ear and the shoulder
and hip bone to the cement mattress. But, granted
a man has a pillow, we have seen men of consider-
able literary distinction elect to use it as a support
for bluehered feet, while the head has been com-
fortably wedged into a bell-topper hat, or sagging
over the side of the bed. So far from this being
felt uncomfortable, we have seen such gentlemen
sing in that position half the night through, and
rise in the morning and sally forth for a peep at
the morning paper with the gayest of footsteps.
In the Domain, again, a considerable license should
be permitted for health. The gentleman wa refer
to, there reverses his tactics-selects a grassy spot
where children and nurse-girls congregate, and
props himself up against a tree, and undresses for
a change. But for downright refreshing slumber
—sleep that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care—
commend us to a good dinner, a soft-cushioned
pew, no collection, a sermon on the restoration of
the Jews, and let our weary head rest devoutly on
the front of the pew till the “Amen.” A glance
at tho front pews of our Sydney churches shows
that unerring instinct counts for more than
scientific rules and many Lancets in this import-
ant matter.
* * *
This is from the Coally Fletcher :
“Not Lost.
Not lost, but gone before,
To dwell with saints on high,
To sing sweet songs with angels,
And soar beyond the sky,”
You’ve seen the moon, you mourning bard,
Inform us, then, now try,
If that orb poets sing about
Is much “ beyond the sky ?”
We know you will an answer croon—
You’ve evidently seen the moon.
* * *
A gentleman writing to the Bendigo
Advertiser expounds his invaiuable views upon
the New Guinea question, and suggests that if a
few agricultural tools, such as the hoe, spade, and
axe, were sent as presents to the natives, together
with a few goats, or other animals adapted to their
requirements, it would tend to establish and
cement the good feeling commenced by Captain
Armit, before any visitors of a different character
could do away with it. A very excellent sugges-
tion that is. We always considered there was a
certain something about an axo which appealed to
the best impulses of a native’s heart, and it cer-
tainly is a pity that the adventurous Captain
wasn't in a position to leave a few such tokens of
his regard behind him. There was poor George
Ernest Morrison, now; he, as we are all so pain-
fully aware, was speared in the leg by these unin-
structed natives; but how different, how very
different, might have been his reception, provided
Armit had had the forethought to soften their
natures by arming them with axes! Then, doubt-
less, the poor guileless creatures would have
fallen upon the neck of George Ernest—with an
axe, and utilised their spades in digging him a
hero’s grave. This Bendigo gentleman proves
himself a far-seeing correspondent, too, when he
remarks that the presentation of these “agricul-
tural tools” would “cement the good feeling
commenced by Captain Armit, before any visitors
of a different character could do away with it.’>
So it would: it would cement such a feeling in the
natives that no future visitor could possibly do
away with it-it would do away with the visitor,
and by their acts he would know them.
In former, times men thought it best
To seek to soothe the savage breast
With sugar-plums and tracts;
But now the savage heart is made
Quite happy by a hoe and spado,
And softened by an axe.
• • •
Sir C. Dilke told the Glasgow men they
were shrewd, practical, business men, &c., and
added “The one Briton among European
foreigners, the one white man among black, or
red, or yellow men in any rarely-trodden portion
of the globe hails almost invariably from the
Clyde.” Having just been defrauded of thirteen
shillings by a Glasgow man, we admit his shrewd-
ness, only we call it by a different name; and are
just in proper fettle to sum up the citizen of Glas-
gow with historic impartiality. Late accounts say
he is becoming bandy-legged through drinking
water that has no lime in it. May our Glasgow
man’s legs continue to bend till his feet are under
his arm-pits, and until ho has to work his way to a
mortar heap on his elbows. We believe it was
Glasgow men that sold Jcotland to England, and
that at Culloden and Bannockburn they received
the fright that has scattered them over the
“ rarely-trodden portions of the globe.” Further
we are convinced that they are uglier, sourer-
tempered, more miserly, more extravagant, more
cautious, more headstrong, more scrupulously dis-
honest and unjust than the citizens of any other
nation. They are cowardly, hypocritical, and
totally unfit to live in a civilised community; and
these sentiments we shall maintain with M'Elhonian
pertinacity until we get those thirteen shillings
back. In that event, we may possibly see some-
thing like justification for Sir C. Dilke's praises,
and, perhaps, admit a slight bias on our part. But
at present we decline to read over or modify what
we have written. Thirteen shillings is thirteen
shillings, although Glasgy fall.
• *
Hurray. Says a cable:—“The Channel
fleet has been ordered to proceed to Malta. It is
probable that the Duke of Edinburgh will be em-
ployed on active service in Egypt.”
At Last!
Hurray! hurroar! and one cheer more,
La famille royale to the fore!
What joy will reign, now it is said,
On service active’s that “great head! ”
Let Wales, now, leader of bon-ton
Be quick and gird Ms hanger on;
Let Leo, to avert the storm,
Get fastened in his uniform;
His bath chair mount, oh, we beseech,
And lead the cripples to the breach!
Let Teck his sword, in keen condition,
Place at the “ country’s disposition
To long that blade was left to rust;
Then we’ll victorious be, or bust.
• • *
We are indebted to a classically-minled
correspondent for the following conundrum
“ Who is the Young Lady in Bangeree Just Re-
turned from School who is selling Brumigem (sic)
jewelery (sic) to the Blacks oh My ?” We really
don’t know; but probably our correspondent has
gathered the young lady’s name by this time. He
ought to pick up things pretty quickly. We are
sure his ears are long enough. What do the
blacks want with “jewelery,” anyhow? Miss
Moucher related that her fashionable clients when
they wanted rouge would ask for gloves; can,
then, “ Brumigem jewelery ” be another name for
rum ? We expect, somehow, that we are indebted
for this item to the fact of the young lady afore-
said having smiied on the other butcher.
A TALE OF EASTERN ASIA.
The Colonel had a little cat,
Whoso fleas would bite, you know,
And every where the Colonel went
That cat was sure to go.
The Colonel and the Aide-de-Camp
Joined in “the mess,” they say,
And the Aide protected puss from wrong,
When the Colonel went away.
The Aide, one Sunday, woke at noon,
Gaping to be amused;
Thought he'd feed pussy with a spoon,
But pussy had vamoosed!
Both loud and fierce he rang the bell,
And for the sergeant sent—
Saul “I’ll make this a little—well 1
11 I find that cat has went.”
The sergeant coughed, and touched his hat,
And then away he walked;
He sought all over for that cat,
But still his search was baulked.
The Adie-de-Camp scowled fiercely round—
“ Just close the barracks now,
Let none go till that cat is found,
There’ll be a crimson row!”
“ To M—d—le H d a message bear,
I’ll let them know who’s best;
If that jammed cat’s been taken there
Place all hands in arrest! ”
“ Stay, better send an orderly
The gory thief to nab,
And if he brings him back to me,
Why, jam! I’ll pay the cab 1 ”
Then to the sentry did he go:
“ If that jammed cat is lost,
By Gog, the reason I shall know,
She must have passed your post.”
The sentry swore—he dared not smile—
He hadn’t seen the pet;
“ But if she does come by, sir, I’U
Coniine her, you can bet.”
But now, at last, the trouble came,
The men began to growl—
“ Kept in on Sunday ? What a shame!
By such a stupid owl! ”
The sergeant soothed them: “ Boys, be still,
I must be quite impartial,
For, if you break arrest, you will
Be tried by a court martial.”
And so they would, only that he
“Spoke pretty” to the Aide;
A soldier dares not, now, you see,
To call a spade a spade.
For, when recovering from a—snoose,
The aide-de-camp we should as
Soon think of trusting as—excuse
Our simile—as Judas.
But, just as all things threatened to
End up, we know not how,
That cat again walked into view,
And calmly said “mi-aou!”
The soldiers—though not heard, of course —
All very freely swore
The trouble that cat caused was worse
Than the Mutiny at the Nore.
This Aide-de-Camp a soldier is
Who can’t pass an exam.;
His chief exploit is drinking fizz,
“Haw! BaiJove! Weallyl Dam!”
And while about such paltry things
He raises great commotion,
To great folks’ coat-tails how he clings,
And dangles for promotion!
’Tis in Kamschatka now, he reigns,
In primest fed condition;
And still —Lord help us—still retains
Her Majesty’s commission!
THE MASHER.
Little masher nightly went
To the show, on mashing bent;
Bouquets sent, and things galore;
Squared the ancient on the door!
Same seats, nights, had that youth gay;
Always sat out a'l the play.
Management he liquoured up,
Ballerines he asked to sup ;
Three long months he thus careered,
Then one day he disappeared!
Manager in office sat,
Enter cove with awful hat,
Dirty collar, worst of suits,
Shocking necktie, broken boots;
Conversation short and terse,
Jingle from a well-filled purse.
“ D n you! stand where you are told,
Near that man in black and gold!
One, two, three, the other foot—
Oh, you scarecrow—you galoot! ”
Youth, a super on the stage;
Fifteen bob his weekly wage;
All the day, this little man
Ever is beneath a ban;
All the night, you bet your tanner,
That poor lad’s beneath a banner.


ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives reliet;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold's’
and get it; spurious imitations arc sometimes
ottered.
•• A severe sentence of twelve months hard
labour was passed upon a woman at South Mel-
bourne, this morning', who was brought before the
Mayor, charged with being an idle and disorderly
person, having no lawful means of support. It
transpired that the woman, who was arrested last
evening, had only been discharged from gaol yes-
terday morning, after serving a sentence of six
months for the same offence, and how anyone, let
alone a gaol bird, could fix up ‘ lawful means of
support ’ in the space of a few hours, is a question
which remains to be solved by the worthy justices
of South Melbourne.”— (Melbourne paper.)
Justices’ Justice.
Weary and worn, “ Usual old tale—
Woman forlorn, Frowsy female,
Finger of scorn Just out of gaol;
Pointed at her; Better lie there
Dazed and distraught, Another long year,
Brought to the court, No business here,
• No moans of support,” That’s very clear—
Trilling matter. Let her die there ”
At one time it was
found necessary to insti-
tute a “bankers’ ward"
in the Victorian State
prison, owing to the
number of well-con-
nected bank officials who
annually drifted thither-
wards. And now it would
appear that a “ parsons’ ”
division will be unavoid-
able—that is if the gaol
authorities consider it
advisable to keep the
pious followers of the
Loard apart from the
contamination (?) of the
other herds of prisoners.
A short time ago, a
“reverend” party named
Graves was sent up for a
lengthened period from
the City Court for frivol-
ous conduct at the Collins
street Coffee Palace,
where he would persist
in exhibiting “(he human
form divine” in pun's
naturalibus to virtuous
maidens across the way,
and other giddy games of
a similar nature, Another
of those black-coated and
solemn - visaged gentle-
men was recently pro-
vided with Government
quarters for dabbling in
good-for - nothing
cheques ; and again only
last week, an enterprising
youth, named Charles
Lucas—no relation to our
own C.M.G. —edicts the
Kev. Arthur Nicholson,
lay-reader, appointed by
the Anglican Bishop of
Melbourne to supply the
means of grace to the
South Gippslanders, was
drafted off for nine
mouths to enjoy the
select company of his
brethren in the Loard.
The Reverend Nicholson
hau ms ueaa-quarters in
the ungodly village ot
Dronin, and was reckoned
to be a smart hand at
yanking the woodsplit-
ters and sawyers of that
section outof the jaws of
Satan. But, occasionally,
he yearned for the fri-
volities of the big city,
where he could study life
in different phases: and
it was noted with plea-
sure by his friends that
he devoted a good deal
of his time to preaching
the glad tidings amongst
Sam. Nathan’s clients.
But it required ready
cash to run anything of a
successful mission in the
eastern end of the city,
and as the munificent
salary he received from
the Church could not
cover (he expenses, the
Reverend Nicholson an-
nexed his fellow-lodger s
duds and shooting irons
at the Coffee Palace, and
sold them at a iiberal dis-
count on cost price to
the Hebrew traders of
Stephen-street. With
the proceeds he went on
a “ howling tear,” but his
wild career was brought
to an abrupt termination
by Sergeant O’Meara, and
Mr. Call, P.M., put him
out of harm’s way for
nine months. And now,
when the manager of the Coffee Palace spots an
amateur cleric seeking where to lay his head, he
takes in his shingle and pleads no accommodation,
Thus it is that the misdeeds of the weaker bre-
thren make it hard for the stronger vessels.
• «* ■*
The question now agitating art circles is
what is to take the place of the Po3t-office carv-
ings when the front of that building once more as-
sumes the plain, straightforward openness of John
Davies. The attempt to immortalise the current
arts and sciences by means of the mud-pie style of
ornamentation having failed, suppose we try
science? The footprint of a moa, 19 xB, has just
been discovered on a block of sandstoue in
Poverty Bay (N.Z.), and the slab has been placed in
the Museum. We ought to have it. It strikes us
there is an opportunity of. [outdoing Professor
• Huxley’s three-toed horse, and handing down to
future geologists a problem which must possess
profound iuterest to the Lyells of (say) the year
3884. Hut New Zealaud Iwill not part with her
footprint, and we are compelled to present pos-
terity with an equal conundrum. We cannot get
the moa’s 19 x 8 footprint, but we have the next
best thing—we can get a pure outline of a News
man’s foot in the Pitt-street mud, and by taking a
careful cast of this, and transferring it to the
cleared spaces, prove to the scientists of the
future that the moa was at least contemporaneous
with the publication of the News ; and this will be
more stoutly maintained when a copy of that
chronicle is dug. out from under the foundations,
and found to correspond in intellectual vigour
with the majestic outline of this footprint left on
on the sandstone of time.
• * •
The committee of the Melbourne Benevo-
lent Asylum dearly love their jest. The antedilu-
vian inmates, it would seem, have been quarrel-
ling with their “ vittles;” not on the score of
uantity, but on the more delicate matter of
quality. The soup, in short, was characterised by
the painful clearness which denotes a lack of
Revolting.
ALECK THE PROMPIER (to Mr. G-. Dibbs, who is about to “go on” in his groat character of
the Demon of Taxation): “I’m afraid the House will give you ' the goose,' George, if you
don’t tone down that awful make-up.”
sustaining power; and, at last, wearied of gazing
down into its all too crystal depths, the “ old ’uns ”
presented a humble petition praying that the
soup might be “improved.” Then did the com-
mittee let loose their little joke by “resolving”
that if their petitioners were “ not satisfied with
t heir quarters, they had better make arrange-
ments for going elsewhere.” What an intensely
funny reply .to this epicurean petition! and how
the poor old lodgers of the very Benevolent Asylum
must have roared in unrestrained merriment over
the notion of going elsewhere! From a droll com-
mittee like this, it is perfectly absurd for them,
though, to complain that they don’t get “good
things.” By the way, one gentleman has sug-
gested that card-playing shall be permitted in the
Asylum, but, as the question is not to be settled
for another month yet, we anticipate a regular
side-splitting decision from these jocular gentle-
men. They’ll probably object t" the “ Benevo-
lents” playing cards on, the ground that, as none
of them have sixpence in the world, they might
get “ gambling for heavy stakes.”
We cull the following sample of humorous j
(!) verso by “ Pyn ” from the Shroud:—
“ The Mudgee champion turned on him,
With feelings void of ruth,
And called him ‘ a sanguinary [l!]
Perverter of the truth; ’
Whereon the Morpeth hero plugged
Him straight upon the eye,
And then a furious tight ensued,
And all went merrily.” [!!]
’Tis plain, with you, poor “ Pyn ” the times; I
Are sadly out of joint;
Just fancy, what a spectacle,
A “ Pyn ” without a point!
Though bad this is, there’s worse to come,
Oh, far worse, be it said—
You’re not alone a pointless “ Pyn,”
But one without a head.
« i •
There is no truth whatever in the report
that the members of the Gundagai Jockey Club
have petitioned little Bailey to allow them the use
of h’S hat to hold their next annual races on; but
there is a heap of truth in the following tale of the
same cady. It appears the “ Temora Terror ” and
“ Guntiagai Gobbler ” once prided himself in beii g
the proud possessor of a nice little orchard, but
his soul was turned inside out almost by the de-
predations of all the young hoodlums within a
radius of seven miles. So the man of letters bought
an old horse-pistol, and swore he’d ventilate the
first bandit he caught about his premises. One
morning, during the watcr-meion season, four
young desperados were crawlinsr through the
fence just as little Bailey, arrayed in all the pomp
and circumstance of his new head-gear, sauntered
along to see how the “punkuns” were looking.
Catching sight of their mutual enemy, the crime-
stained quartette swarmed up on the fence and
screamed: “It won't do, Bailey. No use in yer
tryin’t’ hide under that there hat We can gee ycr
leys slickin' out beneath it.” And as i hat was all
they could Bee, or wanted to see, they left ab-
ruptly.
Iu a bush pub. Stranger: “ Who’s that
man over there?” Barman: “ What, the one iu
the torn shirt?” Stran.: “No, the ” Bar.:
“Not him in the busted moles?” Stran.: “Not
him. I mean that bedraggled old sot, with one
boot, no coat, a black eye, and a gashed finger,
who has gone to sleep with his head on the table
in a pool of beer, and —” Bar.: “ Hush ! That’s
our new magistrate, just appointed, and, if he
heard you, he’d have us up for keeping a disorderly
house.” Stran.: “Thunder! Then, who’s that
ruffian with the bandog, d jaw playing euchre with
the station-master?” Bar.: “Him? Oh, he's the
Clerk of Petty Seshuns, he is. You’ll see the
trooper, bimeby. He’s took a bottle of rum, and
gone to sleep in the stable Oh, and hore's the
doctor. Wlutt.' can’t see him? Ob, that’s’cause
he’s asleep at the bottom of the turnip-cart. He'll
wake up as soon as wc pump on him. He's wanted
for the parson's son, inside, who's got a bad attack
of the snakes.”
There was a copy of
verses in a recent num-
ber of this clerical organ,
called, “The Catlees Fu-
ture.” The man, who
wrote this, is far, far
away, and sings ’midst
the odour of eucalyptus,
with his back to a cedar
tree. That’s why he
doesn’t seem to realise
that it is in the immediate
future where the cat
will have a show. Men
who commit crimes of"
the magnitude of that
of the young rullian who
received five years the
other day, will, it is pos-
sible, be benefitted by the
dread clause in the Crimi-
nal Consolidation Act ;
but then they might not.
It seems to us that the
more the Hogging goes
on, the more numerous
the cases of assualt ap-
pear to become. We can-
not account for this, any
more than George 111.
could for how the apple
got into the dumpling.
But the fact remains.
Assaults on women and
children, have resolved
themselves into an epi-
demic. It is probable
that, instead of Hogging
acting as a deterrent, it
will, us in the case of
Magner, brutalise and so
urge to crime. The cause
of this is, to a large ex-
tent, the ghastly kind of
hero-worship that at-
taches itself to the
prisoner, after the cat-
ordeal, amongst his de-
graded companions.
Hero-worship—of what-
ever kind—always has a
bad effect. We remember
once—before our editing
days—making a water-
wheel out of thecuckoo-
clock, and getting badly
tanned for it when
school came out. But
our popularity from that
date amongst our fellow-
scholars was assured ;
and we trace a wild and
filibustering career of
orchard-shaking from
that time. We wish, now
that we had never been
famous. And we never
wished it more, in our
lives, than last night.
When we were fetching
up the last bottle of ”34’:
from the cellar, the
highly respectable (im-
ported) domestic servant
was gazing with a glazed
eye at the partial ruins of
the baby, and a person
who had just called round
respecting our American
orgaig foamed upon the
family door-step.
* *
When the late Pro-
fessor Holloway lay on
his death-bed, he began
to revolve his chances in
a future state. Holloway
was a Cornishman, and
the first man from that
country ever known to
possess wealth, so his cal-
culations were a bit con-
fused from want of pre-
cedent. Just before the
end, however, he ordered
a dozen boxes of his ointment, and some lint, to
be placed in the coffin. His last words were “ in-
fallible remedy for scalds and burns.”
* * *
Quoth the travelling correspondent of the
Shroud “ Warden boasts of several stores and
pubs., and, wonderful to say, a school building,
and a very popular teacher.”
The time to read such silly bosh
The public can afford ill;
E’en that subscriber woh’t digest
This tWardcll about Warde Tl.


St. Valentine's Day was a lucky oue for
the Randwick children. Mr. Thomas, of the
Asylum, arranged a picnic for all his little charges.
Some good Samaritans always help every year
and this time just £lOO was donated by outside
friends, to buy some 500 children's smiles’. About
8 o’clock, they all went down in special trams and
steamer to Coowder Ray, where they frolicked
and fed to their infinite delight till Jate in the
afternoon. About 300 adults were also present
and at 1 pm. the committee and friends sat to lunch’
and a few speeches were given. There was a little
dancing during the afternoon to the German
Rand ; and the children themselves were uproari-
ously musical on the return journey. Mr. Thomas
, and the institution officers managed so well that
; not a single mishap occurred. It was notorious a
few years ago that the Randwick children used to
[bolt, every chance they got. Now, they never bolt
anything but “tucker.”
Thousands of both sexes who would shudder
at the thought of tasting the adulterated liquors
in common use, take Wolfe s rcßNAPPsmedicin-
ally as a remedy for debility, indigestion, and like
ailments.
BRIEF MENTION.
Sharks are almost as numerous this Sum-
mer in our harbour as they are on laud.
Pantry burglars scouring the suburbs.
They have stolon everything- ordinarily to be
found in a pantry—except a policeman.
“Post no advertisements” is the legend
writ on St. Mary's walls. The clargy are evidently
growing aesthetic. Less culehaw'd minds would
simply say “ Stick no Bills.”
A country paper says that an oyster will
live for 26 years in the sea. We have had a lot to
do with oysters in our time, but we never found
one to be thus communica'ive. Just our luck!
According to David the psalm-singer, “the
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.”
And, according to David the orator, the fear of
Wisdom is that 16-inch boot o’ th’ braw Buchanan.
The average time Government workmen
take to lay one bt ink is twentv ruinutes. Tt takes
an ordinary labourer 7min. %sec. to spit on his
hands. When he wants ,to roil up his sleevei. be
takes a holiday. - .
The Hindoos believe that to sleep with the
head to the north will cause one’s uays to be
shortened, to the south will bring longevity. We
may add that to slet>i> with one’s bead in tr.e gutter
generally brings one to the lock-up.
The Gundagat Batuev says that “ it looks
bad to see a country local preacher entering- a
Sydney brothel in company with a ‘fallen
woman.’” Not a bit of it. Religious fraud and
social evil have ever been inseparable “ pals.”
The furniture of the new First Avenue
Hotel in London is to cost £70,000. Now, this is
about four times as much money as all the furni-
ture of all the Sydney hotels would fetch, oven
though Pastor Allen threw his clothes-horse in.
A CAT ITEM.
They copp'd it twixt the shoulder-blades,
The like scarce e’er was seen ;
A Dean the cries of Pearce did make,
And Pearcing were the yells of Dean.
Stranger to Rustic: “El Mahdi is doing a
sti-oke, isn’t he?" Rua “ Did he get more than
£4 a ton, then, for it?” And then lie walked into
the butcher’s to tell him all about El Mahdi’s
transaction while the corned beef was being
weighed.
In the News, Alfred alludes to the “spark-
ling notes of Gipsy.” The question now arises—
what are “sparkling notes?” Is this one? “I
am much obliged to B.K.F. (Murrurundl) for her
recipe for hair oil.” If this be a sparkle, we’ve
mislaid ours.
A larrikin stole a bottle of wine from a
Surry Hills publican the other day, but was de-
tected and caught. He now sits down on an air-
cushion, and says with a groan that he fully recog-
nises the significance of the familiar ciy at ban
quets cf “no heel-taps.”
At the Melbourne Police Court, Sergeant
O’Mara reported with professional pride that
there were now no bad charac-ters on the South
side of Little Collins-street. We should like to
cross-examine that Sergeant regarding- the state
of morals on the North side.
Here’s another case for tho Mudgee long-
’un. To ask the Minister for Justice what is the
name of the Sydney J.P. who toed the scratch at
the Water Police Court on Thursday last, to ex-
plain why he refused to pay for a certain bottle of
porter. Mr. Marsh ought to know, as he dismissed
the case.
Post-office earrings are to be cut out.
Farewell, chaste carvings, long we gazed
On you with silent awe there,
And wondered what poor nigger “ blazed ”
The heathen shapes we saw there:
With a weird harmony your lines were laden.
That made us howl and think of—Douglas Sladen.
W. H. L. Bailey, in the G undag a i Herald,
addressed a letter to the editor (himself), and com-
menced:—“ Will you allow me space in your valu-
able paper?” Wehaven't seen the letter ourselves,
but we understand that beneath the signature is
the following “We entirely agree with the
clear, lucid, and forcible remarks of our corre-
spondent.—Ei>. G. H.”
A daily illustrated paper is to be started
in London, called News and Views. This should
be a big undertaking. We remember when Alfred
used to come out as an illustrated paper, but it
didn’t last. The artist died somewhat suddenly—
it is rumoured of an overdose of road-metal. We
believe, however, he died of astonishment at the
sight of something to e»t.
A Brisbane telegram says that .the other
day a snake was found coiled up inside the Parlia-
ment buildings. Well, there’s nothiug particu-
larly strange about that. Why, it’s quite a common
thing for snakes—whip-snakes, sometimes, to say
nothing of vipers—to make a coil in the New
South Wales Parliament buildings—such a coil,
too, as even the adder of the Treasury isn’t deaf
to.
A happy Benedict in the Northern Terri-
tory is just now a subject for general compassion.
He went into a “pub.,” the other day, for his
usual “long sleever,” when his gentle partner,
who is no doubt a “Hallelujah Lass,” followed
and went for him. Her method of boxing con-
sisted in almost entirely tearing oil her husband’s
clothes. He, being spotted by a policemv.n, was
immediately arrested and locked up on a charge
of indecency.
The secret’s out at last. Senior-Constable
Vane, of the Waterloo “loorce,” has just deposed
that on the Christmas night that Margaret Owens
brutally outraged and then murdered, in the
nublic street almost, he was “going about seeing
if liquor was being *old at the public-houses.”
’Twould be in vain, however, to expect anything
better, when our police protectors are ordered out
to act as pot-house pimps. What’s a woman's life
to a £3 conviction ?
As an instance of the extreme heat lately
experienced up Bourko way, it is related that " a
man was carrying a bucket of water, when a hawk
llew down, snt on the edge of tlio bucket, amt
started drinking.” And. just to snow the ingrati-
tude of the hawk species, we may also mention
that when this particular bird was done, he flew
up on a neighbouring tree and cursed that water-
carrier back to the t7th generation because the
water wasn’t iced and Altered.
It affords us much pleasure to stale that
our etforts in the f'Stdon line have given consider-
able satisfaction to our readers. This being the
ease, we have much pleasure in extent'ing our
exertions in this direction. On reading a home
paper, we find that the costume of O’Donnell, on
his last appearance in public, consisted of “a red
checked shirt, blue sergeL_suit. and spring- side
boots. He wore his shirl-collar unbuttoned.”
Hang it! let’s have a little of everything.
In a country paper, a lady advertised that
her husband was “three times the man” after
taking a bottle of Globthorpe’s Nerve Expander.
A few days later, she, on overhauling his pockets,
found a letter from Katie and another from Ruth,
both having reference to select picnics of two at
moonset. The lady was highly L-dtgnant at first,
but when he explained that he was tnree times
buf. we can’t round it, somehow. |To the printer:
Hide some of this par. behind a patent medicine
block.—AUTnou.l
We are glad to note that Mr. Kingsbury,
who recently gave evidence implicating the boys
Barker, Lahiff, «c, has a conscience. “Ho
couldn’t bear,’-’ he said, “to see others go un-
punished whp, \yere equally guilty with himself.”
We are unable to state ut, present whether Mr.
Kingsbury has benefited the community or not
by letting the cat out of the uag. When, however,
Mr. J. Cecil Reid lets Ids eat out of the bag, the
result will no doubt be markedly beneficial to
gpciety in general,
The good mother was instructing her little
son in Scripture history, by means ot the map of
Palestine and such recollections of Balaam and
Joshua as suggested themselves. By and bye, they
got to the storm on the Sea of Galilee, and, when
the scholar heard about the raging tempest, he
eaid “Is it a very big sea, mother?’ “Not very
big, dar'ing.” “As big as the lied Sea, mother?"
“ Not so big as that, love.” “As big as the sea in
Moore Park?” “About that, dear.” Then the
child heaved a deep sigh, and, curling himself up
in a fold of his mother’s ear, sobbed himself to
slumber.
Died, at his residence, Zululand, South
Afric i, of heart disease, accelerated by bungling
British statesmanship, the Hon. Mr. Cetewayo.
res reefed by all who didn’t know him, and fortiiied
by the rites of his church and a square bottle hold-
ing about a quart. Strike the dulcet gridiron, Alf.,
as we twitter—
Dearest Cetty, how we miss thee,
Miss thee, yes, no tongue can tell;
But Satan claimed you for his own—
Dearest Cetty’s gone to well, R. I.P.
The 12-year-old Captain of the Salvation
Harmy (Porter) has broken out in a distressing
manner into verse. Sings she :
“ The Salvation Army is a comfort to the town ;
The Salvation Army is going down, down,
And down we mean to’go,
To rout the devil and every foe ;
And ttien we’ll hear the Master say,
* Well done, well done ’
verso which leads us to the conclusion that there
i 3 a considerable amount of Boar’s-head about
that Porter.
“The representatives of the Church Mis-
sionary Society at Ningpo have decided to exclude
all small-footed girls from the benefits of Christian
education.” We have hacked this bodily from a
journal which “hardly ever.” We attended a
meeting of the Evangelical Alliance last winter,
and were much impressed by the beetle-crushing
power of the ladies. The shoes of all of them were
excellently adapted for coal-scuttles. It was stated
that oue lady had left her goloshes down stairs,
and when she sent for them the attendant could
only bring up one at a time. Another Cinderella
in leather-tipped lastiogs warmed (it being cold
and wet) her feet at the tire, and ere live minutes
elapsed everybody but her feet was perishing with
cold. Another day an olliecr of the society went
into Wynyard-square and hailed a cab. “'l’here’s
not room for’all of you, mum,” said the driver,
declining ; “ y®u’d better take a ’bus, mum—a
hempty ’bus.”
GENERAL MILLOT.
General Millot, whoso portrait appears on
this page, is now en route for Tonquin with con-
siderable reinforcements for the French army
engaged there. He will, on hie- arrival, relieve
Admiral Courbet, and assume supreme command
of the French forces. General Millot, though a
comparatively young man, is no carpet-knight.
His arrival at Hanoi has been announced, so that
we should shortly be hearing of his deeds in tho
field,
Wars and rumours of wars are still the
order of the day. Brndder Beg is on the war-path
now, and, after devoting hall' a column of the
Morning Muffin-wrapper to the squelching of
our sanitary authorities, Wazir curls up his back
and indignantly yells; “Is the water we are drink-
ing in any way p< lluted—and sometimes so pol-
luted that it requires to be boiled before using ?
Wbar's de boss dat suspects our cow-vards ? Tole
me dat, now,” and much more to the same effect.
As the doctor solicits our opinion, we candidly
tell him wo think the water should be boiled. But
we alwaj s put the whusky into the glass first, and
drop the lemons in afterwards.
The Melbourne Herald has been inviting
its readers to forward definitions of “ What is
Love.” The Herald charges nothing for insert-
tug these “ definitions,” and it has received many
—all of them original, and many very beautiful.
Among the most beautiful, is a “definition” in
verse, running as follows :
“ Love is something more pure and fair,
Than the summer sky or the summer air.
Oh, a brighter spot than th>s our earth,
Was tho beautiful place where it had its birth.”
Struck by the notion of Love’s being “more fair
than the air,” we have just proposed to our aunt.
In Paris, it is stated that ladies are slaves
to their barbers. So we are in Sydney. Even tho
fiercest man will permit himself to be cruelly
rasped with a cast-iron razor by a miscreant who
is loaded up to the neck with rum, cheese, hash,
and ODions. No one ever seems to kill a barber,
either. We neyer saw a barber’s funeral, or
heard of a barber being dead. And w© never saw
an old barber. We suppose when a barber begins
to acquire (apt quotation) “silver threads amongst
the gold,” tho other barbers poison him with
scalp-wash, and then boil him down for hair-oil.
This is a subject which will bear much discussing,
We invite our constituents to discuss it, and go on
discussing it—at so much an inch,
The editor of the Walleraavang Waddy
was pacing up and down the pantry that did duty
for an office, when the proprietor looked in and said,
‘•‘Come on, now, hurry up; that council report’s
got tq go in, and you haven’t been round to the
lock-up yet. What are you looking so wild about ?
Don’t pay fifteen bob a week and keep you here for
nothing, you can bet your life.” “ Look at that,
cried the editor hoarady, a* he passed a telegram
over and put on his coat and hat and shouldered
his swag: ‘‘The editor of the Times is dead.
“ Well, what’s that got to do with you ?' Do
with me 1” roared the literary man; "everything.
Take your old rag to the devil, and get somebody
else to eat your dog’s hash. That billet is vacant,
and I’m going to have a shy for it.”
This is from the sweet old Newcastle
Hanby
“ xyt'ANTED, a Man who understands horses,
VV to milk, &c. Apply James Fletcher.”
We’ve often heard of asses’ milk ;
Have seen it sold at lairs ;
But really never heard before
They drank the milk of mares.
Though Roseby’s invite, when he’d gone,
Was, certain people say,
A rather funny specimen
Of our Mayor’s funny Whey.
[There’ll be a row if this sort of thing ocourds
again.—Ed. B.
Mr. Binns, the new English hangman, is
said to drink so heavily that he is suspected of
once having represented a N.S.W. constituency.
It is rumoured that, prior to allowing the convicts
an eight-foot drop, he allows himself an eight-
inch one. Hanging has many opponents (many,
we suppose, having strong private reasons for ob-
iecting to it!), and it. is suggested by some that, in
lieu of the barbarous ceremony of the rope, the
Jast sentence of the law should be carried out by
Binns whispering in the convict’s ear. Binns, it
seems, is very unpopular with the London mob—
as unpopular as if ho had been a despotic poten-
tate. Indeed, on his fingering O’Donnell’s rope, it
was a case of Hemp-a-roar! [Thank Heaven, our
boots are newly half-soled and heeled!—Ed. 8.l
Byron wrote —
“ What men call gallantry and gods adult’ry
Is much more common where the climate’s
sultry.”
Perhaps existing climatic influences may account
for the facts in the following modest little par.,
which we clip from the Wellington Gazette:—
“A female from this district lately went to the
Benevolent Asylum, Sydney, to be relieved of a
little matter of indiscretion, when to her surprise
she was greeted by five other residents from the
neighbourhood of Wellington, and one from the
neighbourhood of Ironbarks. About fifteen others
hailed from Dubbo, some of them running a
second heat.”
A party calling himself “Peppercorn” has
been writing a lot of bosh about Chiniquy and the
Rev. Mr. Taylor in the Carcoar Mary. He say s :
—“Admirers of these religions swindlers will, no
doubt, be surprised to hear that a terrible row
took place latterly in a shanty in ’Frisco, kept by
the Apostle Taylor, assisted by Chiniquy as bar-
man. Poker swindling led to a free fight with
knives, revolvers, and clubs, and when the row
was over the place looked like a slaughterhouse
after a good day’s killing. Chiniquy, the Looard's
anointed, was serving in the bar at the time, and
received a few bullets into his vitals.” “ Pepper-
corn ” lies very badly : so badly, indeed, that we
are surprised to note that he could never have
been conversant with the Protestant Standard,
which, this week, honoutably accounts for both
rev. gentlemen, who are still tilting at the Devil-
one in England and one in Canada. “ Pepper-
corn’s” statement, anyhow, is absurd upon the
face of it. Fanoy divines of the sensation- monger
order going into such a speculation as a rum shop
—at least, openly. Ridiculous !
George Ballingall Stewart, of N.Z., has
lately tried to make a pedestal of Mount Cook,
hut, being only a wingless biped, he couldn’t
manage to soar sufficiently high for the purpose.
The Rev. Green, it will be remembered, did better.
He rose like a bird and got fairly astride the top-
most ridge, and left his pocket-handkerchief there
for the next man who came to wipe his nose with.
Now, if Green had left a full flask of rum or
whisky there, we would back a Timaru editor we
know to reach the summit quicker than any other
man alive. George Ballingall proposes, on his
next attempt, to fly a kite or send a rocket over
the roof with a rope attached, and then pull him-
self up hand over hand. Well, we have no objec-
tions; but a much better plan, it strikes us, would
he to take a keg of whisky and a supply of writing
materials to the hut at the foot of the mountain,
and stay there a week, until the whisky was all
discounted, and then return to civilization and
penny papers with a full, true, and particular de-
scription of his successful ascent, written on one
side of the paper only, for which any newspaper
proprietor would be glad to pay at the rate of a
penny a line and ask no questions. This is bow we
intend to climb Mount Cook, and, if we could only
meet a capitalist with sufficient brass or copper to
pay a cabin passage to N.Z, we would start at
once, and put old Mount Cook through and he done
with it.
How to have a week’s spree. “Say, Bill,
is there any of these one-storey games in the
paper ?” “a bunch this morning, Jack. We’ll go
a bit off. We’ll put in a tender for old Tootle’s.
Wants a one-storey. No deposit needed.” “What
I figure ’ll we give ?” “ Let’s see. Materials pro-
vided. Could be done for £lOO. We’Jl tender for
£3O. That’s bound to be the lowest.” Mr. Tootle
opens tenders, and muses. “ Yes, this is £150; thip,
£100; here’s one at £80; but here’s Jack Thompson
and Bill Johnson for £3O. The divil! how can
they do it for that? But it’s not my business: it’s
their own look-out. I’ll accept the tender for £3O. ’
Jack and Bill go down to the public-house nearest
the projected building. “Luck has turned.
We’ve got old Tootle's contract.” Publican, hand-
ing the bottle, “Ha, glad to hear it.” And Jack
and Bill sit down and enjoy themselves all the
forenoon. And then go up and look at the site,
and come back and enjoy themselves all the after-
noon. And the next day and ;the next day are
the same. And, on the strength of “ the contract,”
their wives get the grocer and baker and butcher
to stretch a bit. And a week is put in. Then Mr.
Tootle says: “See here, boys, what are you up
to?” and a few words are exchanged, and Jack
and Bill “chuck the b thing up.” There is no
use going to law with Jack and Rill, or their wives
either, and fresh tenders are called, and Jack and
Bill shift to another quarter to play the same
game. It takes a long time to work them out,
and there are ever so many Jacks and Bills about
at- the present time, both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and deposits are going altogether out of
fashion.
Something like 2000 years ago one Juvenal,
having probably had a tiff with his best girl, sang—
“ Revenge we find
The abject pleasure of an abject mind,
And hence so dear to poor weak womankind.”
And this reminds us of a case in point. In one of
our Government departments here there is a cer-
tain Jack-’c-office who is said to be severely rough
on on© of his junior clerks; and, in a certain
fashionable city hotel, there happens to be an at-
tractive Hebe who i 3 equally sweet on this same
young quill-driver. Not long ago, our high-up
official rolled into the 6d. bar presided over by
Hebe, and it was at once evident from the wild
sparkle in his eye, and the chips of biscuit and
cheese in his whiskers, that ho had been where the
corn was waving gaily. Instantly the thought
Hashed across the barmaid’s mind that now was
the time to revenge her lover’s slights and inju-
ries. So she smiled, and stabbed as she smiled, or,
in other words, she mixed her customer’s drinks
so skilfully that, in a few minutes’ time, he was as
drunk as the proverbial sow of the Royal Psalmist.
Then, with the help of a friend, one side of the
distinguished official’s flowing beard and whiskers
was clipped completely off, and his nose tastefully
ornamented with red ink and burnt cork, after
which a cab was called at 11.30 p.m., and the driver
told to “take this gentleman out to his residence
at the Bandwick Asylum, and his wife would pay
the fare.” What subsequently passed between the
Civil servant and the cabby will for ever remain a
mystery, but when the distinguished gentleman
who resides in the suburb furthest from Kand-
wick. turned up a few days after his face looked
like a bill-posters’ Avail after a heavy thunder-
storm had played on it.
Consistency.
David Buchanan on the Mudgee hustings: “lam
as poor as Lazarus” (and the hat went round to
the’orny’anded). D.B. in the House: “I have in
10 years made a fortune at the Bar, which yields
me an income of £5OO a year.”
When David on the hustings stood,
He roared “ I’d fain be your man;
I’m of no plutocratic brood;
I’m just au honest poor man!
Within this skull dwells potent sense,
To give it you I’m willing;
But, hang it I You must stand th’ expense,
I’ve not a blooming shilling! ”
But when, a full-blown M.L.A.,
He stands among the senate,
He roars “ My business just does pay,
And, hecli! I'll make >e ken it!
I’m not, like numbskull Wisdom, there,
Aye briefless to be found, sirs;
My legal hoard is worth - don’t glare—
Ber year five hundred pound, sirs!
Thus David shows to Mudgee folks
The dodge of raising lucre;
But some declare his canny hoax
Next poll will give him “ euchre! ”
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the I'rimary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Pavre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “ The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the iirst screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work-
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen I I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth gi-ade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, • On the con-
trary, i persist in wearie g it just at* it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ AtParis.lset
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is ol the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Loch-, I showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘take it down’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. 1, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which 1 noted: Hanging, daily
variation, lHi seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thusob-
served it, 1 hand’ d the watch "to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word tor word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not And one such watch among 50,0000 f our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, 1 repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
LA round of applause followed t.h* speaker as he


Biz.
The Clive Estate.
A Golden Opportunity for securing a Building.
Garden, or Orchard Site, immediately opposite
and overlooking the Railway Station, for 45
shillings. Payable, ss. deposit; balance, 2s. 6d.
a month. Allotments, 25ft. x 125 ft.
The Clive Estate is situated in the busy and
prosperous township of Riverstone, being only
20 odd miles from Sydney. This locality is favour-
ably known as a health-giving and invigorating
district, its salubrious atmosphere being univer-
sally recognised, rendering the settlement the
most desirable in the colony; possessing the ad-
vantages of direct city communication, a thriving
and increasing trade, with the luxury of retire-
ment of country life. The railway accommodation
is excellent, there being, as accompanying time-
table shows, four passenger trains a day, with
extra accommodation on Wednesday and Satur-
day, besides numerous goods-trains daily, and
Biz.
additional trains will be run as occasion requires.
This estate is. without exception, the finest, in the
market. The land holds an elevated position, and
is beautifully watered by an extensive creek
(guarded by high banks covered with nutrious
verdure) containing an inexhaustible quantity of
water, and in the driest season the supply of the
lympid element is prolific, as clear as the crystal
spring of an enchanted glen, and shedding a balmy
influence on the district. There is neither rock
nor gully to be found throughout the entire pro-
perty; and the remarkable growth and production
of this and the surrounding farms, vineyards, and
orangeries satisfactorily prove theunmistakeable
fertility of the soil. This estate is no waste bush
land, but a cultivated farm with productive loam
soil, in which nutritious pasturage, and, in fact,
all vegetation, abounds in luxuriant profusion.
Two residences erected are at present occupied,
and can be either leased by the purchaser of the
lots to the present tenants or reserved for occu-
pation, as desired—in which event the rent will go
to the purchaser. The railway station is within a
few yards, and the road leading therefrom into the
property is well metalled, and a substantial bridge
crosses the creek from which a Government road
leads through a public reserve directly into the
main road of the estate, 100 feet wide, and laid
out on the latest scientific principles for the
enhancement of the property, rendering it a
model township, which must rapidly rise in archi-
tectural beauty and intrinsic value. The sur-
roundings of the property materially assist the
favourable aspect, being bounded on the West by
the property of Mr. W. Stevenson; on the East
by the township, hotel stores, and railway
station; on the North by extensive Grown reserves,
with old-established vineyards adjoining; and on
the South by pasture land, with works in the rear
belonging to Mr. Richards. Vast strides have been
made in the improvement of this district within
the past twelve months. Business and populua-
tion have increased, a Public School built, and a
great number of new buildings have been erected,
and numerous residences and stores are rising on
every side. To show the bona fldes of the fore-
going inadequate description of the many advan-
tages possessed by this property, intending pur-
chasers are particularly urged to personally
inspect the land, and to buyers of five lots and
upwards the return railway fare will be re-funded.
In conclusion, it would be urged that this is not
a speculation, but will prove to investors a provi-
sion for the present and future—a home now, and
a valuable legacy worth leaving to the wife or
children. Until recently, none but the affluent
were able to become freeholders of their native
land, such luxury being alone for the wealthy
classes, but under the present Administration, in
this glorious land of N.S.W., deservedly known as
the Garden of the World, there is no excuse f .t
the poorest man paying extravagant rentals, for
he is enabled to become the owner of the land he
cultivates and the homestead that shelters him.
Od. a week for 90 weeks secures a piece of land that
will enable you to become the owner of a valuable
site for business purposes or villa residence, for
garden produce, or poultry raising, and will within
the next few years become valuable beyond the
most sanguine anticipations. This is an invest-
ment without risk. The first step towards pros-
perity and wealth. This property is particularly
recommended to young married couples, either
for farming purposes, a site for a homestead, or
an investment for their children. For further
particulars, apply to Boyd and Kino, Auctioneers
and Land Agents, 98 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RAILWAY TIME TABLE.
* Wednesday only.
Messrs, Fitzgerald and Collins’ Carriage
Works.
The carriage works of tills welbknown Ann are
situate in Castlereagh-street, between the Gaiety
Theatre and St. George's Church, and form one
of the best-stocked and most compact establish-
ments of the kind in Sydney. And there is
probably no carriage factory in the Australian
colonies which enjoys a better reputation for
soundness and elegance of work; and, un-
doubtedly—as is known to the whole trade of
Biz.
Sydney—no two men have laboured harder or
more conscientiously to win and retain public
support than Messrs. Fitzgerald and Collins. For
a good number of years they have stuck closely
to work, and the hundreds of vehicles of every
description turned out In that period are still
running in good condition to speak of substantial
workmanship and soundness of material. The
linn has had the patronage of the best men in
Sydney—retaining it to this day—and the venicies,
comprising buggies of all kinds, carriages, socia-
bles, landaus, &c., which have been manufactured
to their order have won the firm every praise and
innumerable prizes. The factory at the present
time has a splendid array of material lor further
work, including one of the finest stocks of well-
seasoned hickory and ash and other woods, speci-
ally imported by the firm. The vehicles include
several first-class stylish buggies, landaus,
broughams, &c., with trade carts in course of con-
struction. Well, Messrs. Fitzgerald and Coll ns
have won every success financially, and, being
desirous of retiring after years of close attention
to business, now announce the sale of the whole
stock, good-will, lease, &c, of their well-known
establishment; and certainly a person with some
capital and energy on the look-out for a first-class
start in this prosperous community, could find no
more suitable opportunity for investment if he
waited for years. •ho works have a first-class
reputation and a splendid connection, and they are
now in first-rate order, with one of the best, stocks
in the colony. Messrs. Fitzgerald and Collins are
prepared to deal liberally with pridcipals, so that
in this important respect as well, the investing
public have every inducement offered them.
This announcement ought to be good news for
some country folk on the look-out to invest.
Byrnes’ Wood and Coal Depots.
Vehy few businesses of this description in Sydney
have prospered to the extent that can be recorded
of Mr. B. Byrnes’, Circular Quay, Sydney, and
Darlmg Harbour. For some years, comparatively
small premises were all that were required, the
site being that on which the colossal stores of
Harrison, Jones, and Devlin now stand. Then
much more extensive yards were required, and at
the rear of the old site capital space was secured,
with three street frontages. Here the coal re-
ceived per colliers from Newcastle is stored, and
yet room sufficient remains for the movement of
twenty-two carts employed in the work of de-
livery. The yards are fur dshed with every
facility for loading, weighing, &c„ this work being
carried out with despatch. Mr Byrnes has also
extensive yards at Darling Harbour and Woolloo-
mooloo; and here, while large quantities of coal
arc storod, it forms the principal depot for wood
for the business. The wood is consigned direct to
the yards, all lengths and sizes, and is then oper-
ated upon by the circular saws, driven by power-
ful machinery, as is the caso at the Circular Quay.
Four colliers are regularly employed delivering
c ml from the Newcastle mines, and upwards of
5000 tons per month are put through trie yards in
contract, or smaller supplies. It may hero be men-
tioned that each dray is furnished with a patent
weighing machine, passed by the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, so that every householder
may test for himself the correctness to an ounce
of the amount of coal delivered to him.
A peep into Fairyland would be an ap-
propriate introduction to a description of the
fairylike fancy goods establishment of Mr. I. G.
Harborow. It is centrally situated, being No. 470
George-street, exactly opposite the Markets, and
consequently can bo reached from any portion of
the city or suburbs by tram or ’bus at very little
expense. The fittings are simply superb, and, for
beauty and richness, cannot be excelled by any
place in Sydney. The ahelvings, counters, &0., are
black, and enriched with broad gold mouldings
and bands, the show-cases to match, and filled with
laces, silk stockings, parasols, gloves, See, in
every variety of colour, the whole combining to
form a picture, beautiful to a lady’s eye and
correspondingly sorrowful to a gentleman’s
pocket. It would be almost impossible to
enumerate the various articles kept in stock by
Mr, Harborow, but a few lines may be quoted to
give our readers an idea: Kid gloves from :2s. fid.
to 10s. ('<d., comprising all the most fashionable
colours, and from two buttons to the handsome
“ Languette,” reaching to the shoulder, ladies’
hosiery in silk, merino, and cashmere: ladies'
fichus, laces, sunshades, in all colours; and a mag-
nificent. display of fancy goods of all varieties.
To ladies, this establishment presents great at-
tractions—every fancy requisite can bo here ob-
tained. Mr. Harborow deserves congratulations
for his taste in the selection of bis stock and the
lilting up of his “Boudoir” establishment. *
e&'z.r*
jm
S.-X
\
9L&I
»
Mi
#
S
IS
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY’S OEFICES, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
The New Zealand Insurance Company.
There is no financial institution in the go-ahead
colony of New Zealand ot which its people might
feel more justly proud than that of the New Zea-
land Insurance Company. This Company has a
relatively high oosition with the Australian Mutual
Provident, and its career of success would form
an interesting subject of study for the financier.
Its solid basis and management are proved by the
fact that though its business is spread over the
whole of Australasia, yet in India, China and Japan,
America, and in Europe, its extensions and de-
velopments have been sources of greatly increased
profits. At the last meeting a dividend of 15 per
cent, was again declared. The net profits were
£77,058 Bs. sd. Of this sum £15,000 was carried to
an Investment Fluctuation Account, and £30,000
to the Reserve Fund. Instead of setting aside an-
nually a sum to provide for liabilities on current
policies, as is the custom of some companies, the
directors in May, 1870, devoted £10,(100 to the pro-
motion of a Re-insurance Fund, which now stands
at £lOl,OOO, making with the Reserve Fund a total
i f £300,000. These results are astounding.
The great profits of the Company have been
in.os., i from time to time in Government
and other securities the return from these
investments standing at £5l 324, the extraordinary
fact appears that this sum alone will furnish in
interest a dividend of 25 per cent, on the paid-up
capital, not counting at all the annual profits
arising from tho general business. At the last
meeting, the shareholders asked for a larger divi-
dend than 15 per cent, owing to the great r serves
and surpluses; but the Directory proposals were
adopted, and the reserves were increased as stated.
Very hearty votes of thanks were accorded the
Directors, General Manager, and officers. The
head Sydney office, which is the property of the
Company, is situate at 81 Putt-street, and the busi-
ness in the colony is under the management of
Mr. S. Hogue Smith. Following is the latest o.ffieial
statement of the Company’s business : Capital of
the Company, £1.000,090, m £lO shares—£3 per share
called up. Liabiliiiesof ihuCon pany(Nov 30,18«3>.
£04,715 14s. 3d. Theassei • <'U the same date weie:
investments (including £10,500 in United States
bonds), £462,199 10s.; bills recoverable, batik cash,
and agency balance, £39,961125. lOd,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The police of Melbourne lately prosecuted
a Madame Loney, alias Therese, for vagrancy, but
struck the home trail when they found she had
£3OOO in the bank, and lived with her husband—
More indecent assaulters cat-echised One of the
Adelaide banks offers interest on current ac-
counts Two card-sharpers, Sandy M'Alister and
Thomas Wilson, arrested at Newcastle Stranger
assaulted, and robbed of £3O, and gold watch, at
Lime-street Wharf Charles Rice, of Prahran
(Vic.), sentenced to 15 years for manslaughter of
his wife Another attempt to wreck a train at
Essendon (Vic.)....Hon. A. Gordon takes Hon. G.
Thornton’s place on the Aboriginies Protection
Board Rev. Leon On Tong goes to China to
Wesleyanise his countrymen Fifty applications
were made for the secretaryship of the Melbourne
Harbour Trust. First ballot cut them down to
seven, second ballot to three; third gave nine
votes to Mouritz, old treasurer of the Trust, and
nine to Haydon, secretary to the Chamber
of Commerce. Chairman’s casting vote for
Mouritz The Board peremptorily orders
the militia to keep their rifles clean. This
soldiering will come to mean work if some-
body doesn’t interfere The will of Jardine
Smith, journalist, proved. Personalty, £976
The “representative” of the Melbourne paper B
has unearthed another swindle. A youth was sell-
ing lollies, stating that you had a good chance of a
sixpence in each packet. “Our representative”
found the chance was a poor one. S’death! The
Press stamped him out Victorian Engineers’
Exhibition open seven weeks. Aggregate attend-
ance, 30,000.... The profits of the War Cry pay
all expenses—of officers. It’s the Lord’s doing—
-1500 miles of railway open in Victoria, with 1050
trains a day We have it now. The rule of the
Melbourne Hospital is to give typhoid-fever
patients as much alcohol as they will take. That
accounts for the abnormal rush of typhoid patients
in the last report... Minister of Lands (Vic.) is
pressing farmers for rent. Farrhers talk of bad
harvest, and so forth. Victoria is coming on—
Country papers throughout Victoria are to be
supplied, when Parliament is in session, with bills
as introduced. Now for it, country editor!
Train passed over a child at Goulburn without
injuring it Fahey and Hourigan committed in
the Waterloo outrage case Six-weeks-old in fant
found at Redfern station, in ladies’ waiting-room-
Owner wanted Young married woman on
Nepean took strychnine. Stomach pump success-
fully to the rescue Four persons burnt to death
at Deniliquin. N.S.W. becoming a real Terra-del-
Fuego 70 oz. of gold from 201 b. of quartz at
Ophir. Ophir for a share! A youth, eighteen,
confessed in Narrabri Hospital that he had been
opium-eating since he was six. Dose, 252 grains
per week An indignant mother thrashed the
seducer of her daugher in Ballarat. Sad case
Seam of coal, twenty feet wide, discovered in
Northern Territory. Locale a secret ... Dr. Hanson
sues Bega Standard and Candelo Union for
libel. Golden pills for the lawyers Mr. A. Mor-
ton, Curator’s assistant at Sydney Museum, elected
Curator at Hobart. ...Scab broken out in sheep at
Carcoar Dr. Badham seriously ill. Mr. John
Williams, Crown Solicitor, ditto—A Mr. Davoren
found dead in R.C. schoolroom, Newcastle. John
Taylor, of same place, found dead on beach. Fell
from the cliffs Ex-Alderman Barrell refused to
drink the toast of “ The Press” at Mayoral election.
The Barrell, no doubt, was full. The Press was
full of him long ago Boyleu, labourer, stabbed
Rev. E. J. Sturdee, St. Andrew’s Cathedral curate,
in the thigh. Drink.... Remains of Sal way found
at Bermagui in company with a bottle of strych-
nine Big Salvation Army row at Bathurst
Eight inches of rain in twenty-four hours at
Cooktown, and still falling Larrikin Brown to
receive premier taste of “cat,” at Bathurst—
Edwards, engineer, cut the throats of wife and
four children. D. T.’s A new trial has been
granted in the recent Horwitz v. Horwitz
divorce case. All the fun over again —
Police-court elite. Father, convicted burglar,
charged with assault by daughter, brothel pro-
prietress; witness, charged with vagrancy, with
her “hub” in gaol Bourke railway agitation
again.... Ship Alexander Duthie supposed lost,
bound Sydney to London—Cases of indecency
daily on the increase at the courts. That “ cat ”
seems to scratch the wrong way... .Lady fainted
at Bridge-street tram terminus ; exhausted ; no
water; insufficient sitting accommodation... .C. D.
Alexander, at Kew, Victoria, fired a house he was
painting, and then fired a bullet into his mouth.
Sir Charles Sladen in a critical state.... Major
Sutherland, of the Harmy, fined £1 in Wallsend
for throttling “a man of 5in.”.... Harriet Cleaver
struck dead by lightning near Mudgee.
m 0 •
In a newly formed church among the
Zulus one of the rules is that no member shall
drink “ white man’s grog.” They would have
been wise to prohibit also imbibing the average
sample of “white man's religion.”....Rev. Dr.
Wilson, of Ontario, Canada, has been cashiered for
attending meetings of the Salvation Army....
Massacre of Christians in Tonquin.... Jersey, with
area seven miles each way, supports 12,000 cows.
Puts N.S.W. pastures in the shade A Sheffield
resident recently picked up a genuine Turner for
five shillings at a dealer’s shop. Ruskin pro-
nounces it one of the great master’s early works..
There are at the present time 84,931 paupers in
Jjondon... .Prince of Montenegro interdicts use of
“luxurious wearing apparel’’—cravats, gloves,
walking-sticks, parasols, and umbrellas. Very
hard this on the “mashers.”....Barnum’s white
elephant, price £40.000, poisoned at Singapore. A
genuine “white elephant” to Barnum English
Admiralty probably accept Service’s pop-guns..
Cairo in mutiny London has 62 miles of “ pub.”
frontages. She is also well up in “starvation”
frontages... Egyptian Army to be disbanded. ..
Lord Randolph Churchill elected “ boss ” of the
Conservative electioneering organization. North-
cote out of it More annexing. Russia takes
Merv this time Vice-Admiral the Honor-
able Henry Carr-Clyn, C. 8., is dead Quaran-
tine at Brindisi to be discontinued Ist March....
England strengthening Indo-Afghan frontier....
General Millot arrived at Hanoi with 3000 troops.
G eneral Gordon arrived at Khartoum; declared
British Government announces El Mahdi as Sultan
of Kordofan, and promised to remit one-half taxa-
tion, and exterminate slave-traffic... .Tokar garri-
son pressed by Arabs; town completelv sur-
rounded.... Attempt to “dynamite” the King of
Italy, at Cornetto Place, unsuccessful.
Our portrait of the Hon. J. R. Dickson, in
the first page of this issue, is from a speaking
likeness by Messrs. Lomer and Co., the leading
Brisbane photographers.
At the Newcastle pigeon match, on Friday
last, Redgrove, Clements, Chalker, Beil, and
Harding killed all their birds, and divided the
first, second, and third prizes, amounting to £5O.
On dtt , Larry Foley’s young smasher Seale
has met with an extremely willing customer, and
a match has been made for an old-fashioned mill
to come off in about six weeks’ time. Seale is a
one-handed bruiser, and it is said his right mauley
is even more dangerous than Buchanan’s “fut.”
His opponent, however, is a two-handed terror,
and generally knocks chips off anything that either
of his bunch of fives happens to land upon. Aright
lively time is expected, and we will not be at all
surprised to find the finish declared a tie.
Many Victorian railway employees will
weep, wail, and gnash their teeth over the arrival
of Mr. Speight, the newly-appointed Chairman of
the Victorian Railway Commission. He may
“want to know, you know,” about things in a
manner which will be highly disapproved of by
some of the Melbourne people. At the goods-
sheds of the Hobson’s Bay station, for instance,
there are seven “ permanent officials ’’ employed
in the nice sleepy occupation of “overseeing”
some twenty-eight labourers—one officer to every
four “ privates.” Not that the twenty-eight men
are always at work at one time—oh, dear no!
Sometimes all seven officers are in command of
one little squad of four, for the vigilance of the
overseer’s never sleeps. Yet it may be that in the
fulness of time Mr. Speight will insist upon en-
larging the field of their labours, and find them an
extra man apiece to oversee. The bare anticipa-
tion of such a strain upon their mental powers is
distressing.
There was a banquet at Newcastle, and
bright the lamps shone on a number of wide-
awake leading citizens assembled to welcome the
coming, while “toeing” the parting guest. The
former was the Mayor elect, the latter, what a
friend of ours would call the Mayor dowager. In
fact, it was the Mayor’s inaugural blow-out. “The
Queen,” “The new Mayor,” “The Parliament,”
“The newly-elected Aldermen and Municipal In-
stitutions’’—bracketed with the names of the old
aldermen—were given in quick succession punc-
tuated by the cheers of the revellers, and-all but
the first—eked out by the suggestive associations
contained in “He’s a jolly good fellow” by the
local band. Then Dr. Alderman Morgan arose,
and, as well as his feelings would permit, gave
“ Prosperity to the port of Newcastle.” Again
the meeting was enthusiastic, and again the slide-
trombone led off with “For he’s a jolly good
fellow,” to the intense delight of the more mer-
curial of the party. “ Gentlemen,” said the Mayor
elect, rising to his feet when the fiend that ill-used
the piccolo had finished his shake on top A,
“ Gentlemen, this reminds me of the Biblical
panorama accompanied by a drunken pianist em-
ployed to play appropriate airs when the sacred
persons went through their well-authenticated
performances. All went well till Paul appeared
walking on the water.” Here he was interrupted
by shrieks of laughter, and “you don’t go to
church” from Alderman Creer. “It’s Peter I
mean,” said the newly-appointed one, with a
majestic wave of his hand, but-no more speeches
were made, as the impossibility of getting a hear-
ing was too obvious to be mistaken.
Some people are never satisfied. Here,
now, is the Rev. Arthur Nicholson, sentenced to
nine months for “shaking” the boarders’ coats
and pants at the Victorian Coffee Palace. Mr.
Nicholson had come up to Melbourne from Gipps-
land for a little holy recreation, and was well
stocked with Berlin-wool slippers, and Oriental
smoking-caps. He likewise had, wc are informed,
a document in tbe shape of a round robin from the
leading citizens of Drouin, testifying to his piety
and his high moral character. It seems, indeed,
that he was so much petted that Gippsland may be
said to have been the Drouin of him. Once arrived
in Melbourne, the Rev. Arthur lost his head, and
the boarders lost their clothes. This event occur-
ring simultaneously with the incarceration of tho
Rev. Alfred Graves renders the circumstance still
more painful to us. We don’t know how it is that
so many clergymen come to grief in the colonies
where they are so well paid, treated, and fed. In
England the position of some of the parsons is the
reverse of enviable, owing to the “stylo” they
are supposed to keep up. The late Archbishop of
Canterbury said that unless a Bishop had a private
fortune of over £5OOO a year he would bo “a
needy man.” How far this is true we cannot say;
but it is certainly a fact that no bishop to our
knowledge has ever impoverished himself by what
he has given away in charity! There is in London
a “ Clerical Fund and Clergy Relief Society,” the
secretary of which-to the infinite disgust of the
“fat” divines—made some very startling revela-
tions concerning the sufferings of the poorer sec-
tion of the clergy, none of whom would seem to
receive any help whatever from their richer
“brethren in Christ”; many being in a positive
condition of starvation, while the Ecclesiastical
Commission is known to have expended nearly
£150,000 upon the embellishment of Bishop’s palaces.
One poor devil of a curate writes, “I am surrounded
bylrich persons who look upon poverty as a crime.
I have six children, and I know a poor
clergyman’s child in the neighbourhood who
actually died from want of necessary food." An-
other writes: “I have struggled on till I can
struggle no longer, through deep poverty and in-
ability to obtain the necessaries of life. I have
been wearing a coat in rags, and for weeks to-
gether we have not been able to get a dinner from
Sunday to Sunday. These are plain facts, and
render some help necessary to save us from abso-
lute starvation.” Says another poor parson, on
receiving a bundle of second-hand clothes :
“The shawl will be a great prize to my dear wife,
and the coat and vests and stockings a rich prize
to me.” There is a ghastly piece of satire hanging
to this. On being spoken to about the condition
of some of his starving clergy, a well-known
wealthy Bishop is reported to have said: “All the
facts are true, but they have not been, perhaps, so
frugal as they might have been. I fear, too, they
are rather too extensive 1 tter writers, and I have
reproved them for it ” And one bad a wife and 17
children to keep on £lOO a year I We wonder how
much round that holy man's halo will measure,
and how long his trump will be! By these little
extracts it will be seen how much better off are all
the clergy out here; yet it is a case with a great
many of them, that they no sooner get well loaded
up with beef than they fall in with the old gentle-
man below, and then either steal shoes and trou-
sers or pay their addresses to the ninepenny-
worth of female help imported from the Randwick
Asylum. And this kin iof thing is disconcerting
to the true believer.
“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Mosee,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.


The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Beach’s hair may be described as decidedly
sandy. But there is nothing remarkable in this.
Who ever saw a Beach that wasn’t sandy ?
The Britannia and Waverley C.C. met at
Waverley Park on Saturday last, and the contest
resulted in a win for the former by 4 runs. Scores:
Britannia, 61; Waverley, ST.
At the bicycle races at Dunedin (N.Z.), on
26th January. F. A. Cutten won the mile in 3min.
17 l-fisec.: and F. A. Cutten carried off the ten-
miles championship in 38min. 3sec.
p Leander Stevenson, the sculler about
whom the ’Frisco people have been making such a
fuss, was defeated by T. Flynn on December lb, in
a two and three-quarter miles’ race.
|l 'Paddy Ryan, who was to box John L.
Sullivan at 'Frisco, has backed out, on the ground
that his mamma is in a bad state of health ; but
the general feeling seems to be that Patrick has
“ funked ” on it.
“ Professor” Young Dutchy gave an exhi-
bition at, Platt’s Hall, San Francisco, Cal., Dec. 5,
but it was so poorly attended that the beneficiary
was left £4O in debt. Charley Norton Is talked of
as a more than “likely customer” for Dutchy.
At Murrurundi, on Anniversary Day, P.
Burke, of the local cricket team, in a match
against Singleton, clean bowled nine wickets ior
one run, and carried his bat right through the
inning for 53 runs. We ought to hear more of Mr.
Burke.
Sullivan has been
having some more
slaughter in America. On
Boxing Day, at an after-
noon performance, he
set-to with Steve Taylor,
and in the first portion
of the encounter he hit
Taylor a right-handed
blow on the jaw, which
pained him severely.
Each time after that,
Taylor says, a blow on
the face hurt him as if he
had been cut w ith a knife,
and he was obliged to
terminate the bout be-
fore it was half over.
The doctor who attended
Taylor said the left jaw
has received a bad frac-
ture. At Leadville, Sulli-
van and Pete M’Coy got
into a wrangle. Sullivan
made a motion to strike
M’Coy, when the middle-
weight picked up a choir
and broke it over the
champion’s head. M’Coy
then retired as last as
ever his legs could carry
him to the' other side ot
the room. Sullivan fol-
lowed a few paces, and
then, seizirg a lighted
lamp, hurled it at M’Coy.
The light was extin-
guished in transit, and
the lamp did not hit
M’Coy, so no damage was
done. It caused a big
scattering in the crowd,
however. The two pugi-
lists wore preparing mr
a genuine set-to, when
a policeman stepped up
to Sulliivan, who was
advancing, and demand-
ed quiet. Sullivan
looked defiantly at the
officer, and told him to
go away or he would lay'
him out.. “If you 'ome
near me,” replied the
gentleman in b uc, “ I
will put ft bullet through
you,” at the same time
drawing his revolver.
Sullivan didn’t advance
another step, but, on the
contrary, soon quieted
down By the way, we
do not recollect an in-
stance where a tip top
English pugilist turned
out a bully. It is related
ol’ Tom Cribb, that, when
struck on one occasion
by a man whom he could
have eaten, he summoned
the fellow for assault,
and when asked by the
magistrate if he was not
big and strong enough to
take careof hiras6lf,Cribb
replied he had appealed to
one much stronger, in
preference to making a
blackguard of hirase'f
with every vagabond
who chose to assault him
in the street. What a
contrast to Sullivan, a
bully who requires a pis-
tol to quieten nim. That
is one good point about,
a revolver, it brings a
plucky nine-stone man
on an equality with even
gloggor Sullivan.
A writer in Truth states that although
Lord Falmouth intends reducing his racing opera-
tions, he has no intention of withdrawing from the
sport which has been the principal business and
pleasure of his life for more than twenty years.
Courtney recently said that Hanlan has
not got nearly so much wealth as people suppose;
that ho is infatuated with gambling, he having
lost £BOO in a single sitting. Courtney says that be
has saved every dollar ho has made, but that he is
not yet wealthy.
At Melbourne, a sculling match for a £lO
trophy was rowed on Saturday last, between T.
Woods, of the Footscray Club, and F. Beale, of the
Yarra Varra Club. The course was about two and
three-quarter miles, and Woods won, after a good
contest, by a length.
On Saturday last, the IG-footers, Onida
and Victor, raced for £2O over the Shark Island
course. The Onida was handled by Ellis, and the
Victor by Fletcher. The Onida had a lead of some
three lengths off Shark Island, at which point the
Victor ran clean under, and left Ellis to finish by
himself.
The seven-mile walking event between the
youngsters Franks and Murphy came off at Botany
on Saturday evening last. Murphy picked up
nearly all the start he had conceded his opponent,
before six miles had been covered, but was unable
to pass Franks, who won by a couple of yards, in
58 min 55 sec.
James Finney has signed his willingness to
accept Beckwith’s challenge to swim one mile in
open water, for £5OO or £lOOO a side, in May next.
He offers the Londoner £lO to swim at Holling-
worth Lake, or would meet him halt way between
home and home. Beckwith, however, declines to
gwim out of London waters.
Muldoon, the wrestler, is getting up a six-
ays' walk in ’Frisco, which he claims may be con-
red an International affair, as Americans, EDg-
fish, Pcoteh, Germans. French, nrul Africans are
going to compete, and applications have been re-
ceived from Chinamen, but it has not been decided
whether they will be allowed to start.
At Paris, a young cavalry officer, the
Baron de Magnout. offered to race on foot, to
Versailles, M. de Villersfon his velocipede. The
stakes were £4OO, and the velocipeffist was freely
backed at stol in hundreds. They started from
the Triumphal Arch, and the pedestrian beat his
adversary by four and a half minutes.
Charley Mitchell recently challenged W.
Goode to box either for points or endurance, and
received reply from Goode that, while he at
present is only open to box any lad in the world
under twenty years old, any style, for any part of
£2OO a side, he fancies he will be "able to show
Mitchell a short-cut to a back seat in less than a
year.”
In England, Lieut. J. Dunn, Tasmanian
born, last season scored over a century in the
cricket field on five different occasions May 30,
Bth Regiment v. Queen’s College. 199 : July 2. Bth
Kegiment v. 25th K.O’B's. 141 ; July 10, Bth Regi-
ment v. 10th Regiment. 125 ; August 2, Cork City
v. Irish College. Ross, 124 ; Sept. 14, Btb Regiment
v. Lord Bandow’s eleven, 110.
The third annual Open Ten Miles Race,
promoted by the Birchtield Harriers (Eng.), was
decided at the Aston Lower Ground, Birmingham,
last season, and resulted in an easy victory
for W. G. George, Moseley H., who defeated W.
Snook, Moseley H., by 1250 yards, ins3min. 15sec.
T. Thornton, Birchfleld H., was third, six yards
behind Snook, whose time was 57min. 7sec
At the annual races of the Eton College,
Mr. Gordon Wilson, of Hughenden, won three
events, which are now for the first time in the
record of the college sports, won in one year by
the same competitor. The prizes are three hand-
some silver cups, and a large silver challenge cup
Desperate Recklessness.
JACK (to Sarah): “I don’t care a snap of the fingers for your opinion.”
for the year. The races won were the 100-yards’
race, the hurdle race, and the quarter-mile. It is
no small achievement for a young Australian to
perform this feat, in competition with nearly a
thousand of the flower of English youth and
vigour.
Any English sportsman visiting Australia
cannot fail to he struck by the reckless way in
which our jockeys are charged with ‘‘ suspicious
riding,” as compared with their confreres in the
old country. In England, jockeys are, compara-
tively speaking, very rarely brought before the
stewards of a meeting on such a charge, but when
they are, the charge is usually sustained. Over
here, on the contrary, -‘suspicious riding ” seems
to be hazarded as accounting for any -‘favourite s
defeat, and when the accusation is deliberately
made, seldom borne out by evidence.
Muoh consternation was caused in the
domestio circle of that prince of cricket-ground
manufacturers, “ Old Ned,” when, one evening
during the late Australian Eleven match, the
latest offshoot of the family was reported missing
from the tea roll-call. All hands were immediately
on the qui vive, and after a diligent search, one of
Ned’s living images was seen emerging from the
pavilion with the stray in tow. On interviewing
the youngster, he confessed that having been
overcome with the heat, and wishing to remain
undisturbed for a while, he had crawled into one
of Bonnor’s boots and taken a gentle nap.
On Dec. 29 some more tiials of speed were
had on the ice at Cortlandt Lake, Westchester
County, in which G.D. Phillips, N.Y.A.C., S.D. See,
N.Y. City, and S. J. Montgomery, Elite Skating
Circle, skated for records, against time. A course ot
440 yards 1 foot in length was laid out on the ice, the
surface of which was not very favourable for
speedy work. Phillips made a quarter mile in 47
sec. the time was fatten at intermediate woints as
follows : 220 yards 22 3-8 sec., 300 yards 31 2-5 sec.
Both records are the fastest in America. See
skated 75 yards in 8 3-5 sec , which is technically
1 lie best on record, although Phil)ipB last season
skated 87 yards 6 inches in the same time. Mont-
gomery skated 440 yards in 56 3-5 sec., passing the
300-y ard mark in 36 3-5 sec. All the trials were
made from a standing start.
The dashing: Yankee sculler, Hosmer, will
devote the whole Winter to pedestrianism, resting
during March and April. He does not believe, as
many of his friends do, that his abilities as an oars-
man will bo diminished by his track-work, but
that he will be more powerful that ever on the
water at the opening of the season. Meagher offers
Hosmer 220 < ards start in a len-mile race, for £2OO
aside. R. E Pollock, of Salem, challenged Hosmer
for a iifty-mile race, for from £6O to £lOO a side,
and then refused to make a match for over £6O.
Hosmer thinks £BO little enough for a race at this
distance. Several other matches are being talked
of.
English athletics, during the past year,
have not been altogether uneventful and devoid
ot sensationalism. W. G. Georgo has lowered the
10 miles record. J. M. Cowie and P. T. Ritchie
have sustained the reputation of the sprinters, the
latter in particular being credited with such times
as were previously unheard of in amateur circles.
Tom Rav beat, his own records by clearing lift.
4J4in. with a pole, and Pat Davin again came to the
fore with a line wide jump of 23ft. 2in. The
matches between George ana Snook, and Cowie
and Ritchie, caused more »xcitement than any
other athletic events since the visit of Myers and
Merrill to England.
For the handicap race in connection with
the Prince Alfred Yacht Club for Vioe-oommodore
Underwood’s prize of £lO and sundry “ fawneys
for the crew, second prize of £lO and third prize of
£5 added by the club, the following boats started:
—Waitangi, 22 tons, scratch; Sirocco. 10tons,3 min.;
Australian, 7 tons, 20min.: lone, 6 tons, 24min.;
Doris, stons, 28min.; and after an interesting con-
test, the race resulted as follows: —Waitangi, 1;
Sirocco, 2; Australian, 3 The yachts finished at
the following 1 times Wa'.tangi, 4h. 42m. ns.;
Sirocco, 4h. 46m. 135.; Australian, sh. 6 m. Is.;
lone, sh. 17m 505.; Doris, time not taken. The
Sao and Guinevere came into collision before the
start, when the Sao had her bowsprit broken short
otr.
The Burwood Bicyole Club held their
general meeting on 12th February, when the fol-
lowing office-bearers were elected Patron, Mr.
W. H. Pigott, M.L.A.; president, Mr. James
Martin; vice-presidents, Messrs. W. Deane, S. H.
Lambton, and F. E. Rogers; captain, C. M. Deane,
sub-captain, R. S. Lambton; treasurer. F. E. Bay-
lis; secretary, H. H. Lambton; committee, H. M.
Shelley, S. S. M Pain, \V. Penfold, W. S. Deane;
bugler, H. M. Shelley; vice-bugler, S. 8. M. Pain.
Tbeclub at present numbers 17 members, and 10
out of this lot hold office. It seems hard lines for
the remaining seven to be left out in the cold, but
the difficulty could easily be got over by the ap-
poiutmeut of three snb-buglers, three sub-vice-
buglers, and the odd man could be chucked into
the committee. We merely offer this as a sugges-
tion.
Says a ’Frisco paper:—'‘The city of Mel-
bourne and the city of San Francisco are about
equal in size, and the count of years in the matter
of age is about the same; but, in appreciation or
patronage of sport, what a contrast they present.
On November 3rd last the race for the Melbourne
Cup was run on the Flemington course, for which
twenty-nine horses started, and was won by Mr. J.
White’s Martini-Henry. The distance is two miles,
and the time, 3.3634. the best on record for the |
Melbourne Cup, beating Darriwell's time of 3.60?4,
made in 1879. The attendance on this occasion is
estimated at 123,000, about one-cighth of the popu-
lation of Victoria. During October, our racing i
Association held its Fall meeting, at which the
finest stock in California competed, and attracted
less than 1000 persons. Comparisons are odious. ‘
Hooray for our Cabbage Garden I
Peter Adair, who accompanied Jim Mace
on bis aeeond visit to America, has a challenge in
the Sporting Life of London, Eng., to contest
against any man in the world the best of the fol-
lowing games for as much as £2ooa side : Running,
walking, rowing and swimming (any reasonable
distance), jumping, boxing, cards, billiards, bowls,
skittles, dominoes, draughts, shooting, weight-
lifting, throwing the cricket-ball, putting the
stone, wrestling, rope-climbing and quoits. “Ever-
green Bob ” or the Glebe Rowing Club is about
the only man we know of in Australia, lit to take
up this challenge. Provided half an hour’s talk,
for the first event, was added to the programme,
we wouldn’t mind putting our little pot on the
issue ourselves. If the Evergreen bad luck
enough to get first say, he would, for a certainty,
talk Adair to death in half the time.
For true humour, commend us to the little
essay in the Federal Australian on “Our
Jockeys.” Says the F.A.:—“ In Victoria alone any
steady, honest, and clever light-weight can earn
from two to five hundred a year, whilst those who
attain to a leading position in the profession may
receive an amount equal to the salary of a Cabinet
Minister, and, then, in these days of railways, the
other colonies are also open to them. Yet few
parents care to allow their children to adopt the
profession, whilst every chance to obtain miser-
ably paid clerical employment is eagerly sought.
The question naturally arises as to why this is the
case.” That’s quite true, and a very waggish
question it is when it does arise. We put it, the
other day, to an anxious father. We said: “Now,
you’ve eight sons; they are strictly steady, un-
usually honest, and confoundedly clever; further-
more, they are six-footers, and turn the scale at
fourteen stone, and yet you are putting them to a
miserable clerical employment. Does it never
occur to you, my dear sir, to make light-weight
jockeys of your well-grown offsprings ?” Some-
how, he wasn’t in a joking humour that morning,
and he ran after us with an axe.
For the Junior Cup>
on Saturday last, the
Osbornes defeated the
Rugbys by 98 runs. The
next match will be be-
tween the Croydons and
the Waver leys, the win-
ners of which are to play
the Osbornes.
A purring match
between two brutes
named Sweeny and Hop-
kins came off at Pitts-
burg, U.S., on December
25. The fight was with
the regulation Lauca-
shire clogs. The men
came out of their corners
at three o’clock and,
touching toes, went at
it. Hopkins led off by
clipping his antagonist
just below the left knee.
Sweeny responded by
touching him daintily
three times on the right
calf, the third clip cut-
ting one of the small
veins and bringing blood.
There was some dancing
as a result, and then Hop-
kins began pushing
Sweeny and kicked him
viciously on the inside of
theleitleg, which made
the Hiberninn wince. He
recovered himself, how-
ever, and let drive at his
antagonist, cutting an
ugly gash with his tip
just above the light
ankle, which knocked
him off his footing. The
men went to their cor-
ners and had their shanks
sponged off. Time was
called, and they again
came to the front and
glared at one another
savagely. Sweeny opened
the fight by kicking at
random. Hopkins jump-
ing from side to side and
watching for an opening,
it finally came, and he
clipped Sweeny twice on
the left calf, cutting two
long, jagged gashes. This
excited Sweeny’s ire, and
lie lost his coolness and
kicked right and left, but
only succeeded in touch-
ing his opponent once
above the ankle, and
merely abrased the skin.
Hopkins then kicked him
near the right knee, and
knocked him clear off his
feet. They were again
taken to their corners
and sponged off. Both
were very much ex-
hausted, and Sweeny was
bleeding freely from
wounds. The third was
opened by Hopkins again
forcing the fighting.
Sweeny made a heavy
kick at him, and planted
the only good clip he
gave during the fight on
Hopkins’ left leg, bring-
ing the blood. The latter,
however, responded
promptly, and delivered
three lightning-like clips
on Sweeny’s right leg,
cutting open one of the
larger veins in two
places, the blood spurting
over the floor. Sweeny
went down to the floor
in a fainting condition,
and gave up the fight.
The Pall Mall Gaze/ite on football:—
♦‘The heavy list of casualties reported from the
two Universities last Saturday, will revive the
Erotest against the dangerous character of foot-
all. And yet, in spite of all protests, the game
increases in popularity, notably at the two Uni-
versities and around London. A hundred and
twenty matches are now played in the suburbs
where thirty or forty were played fifteen years
ago, and in the North the system of county
matches makes rapid strides. Is the game more
dangerous than it was ? Most of the accidents
occur under the Rugby Uoion rules, and the
players vaunt the change from the old twenty to
the fifteen game. The improvement makes the
game faster, but it brings with it far more falls
and collisions than the old shoving contest. To
have abolished the ‘ maul in goal ’ is, at any rate,
a good thing; but football is more dange.ous than
the hunting-field. No one is wise who pursues it
beyond the age when boys fall lightly.”
The race for Mr. Geddes’ ten-guinea prize,
in connection with the Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club, ended in a most unsatisfactory manner. We
do not think a handicapper should take into con-
sideration any statement of a boat-owner as to
what sail his boat is going to carry, as is stated was
done by the owner of the Regina; but, if he does
think he is justified in doing so, we are certainly
of opinion that if the boat carry more sail than
the owner intimated, such boat should be dis-
qualified. Notwithstanding the almost ridiculous
handicap allotted the Regina on 19th January, the
St. Crispin beat her; but, owing to some confusion
on the part of the time-keeper, it was decided a
dead-heat, and the boats ordered to sail
again on the 2nd February, when the starter
sent the Regina away by b erself, some five minutes
ahead of the St. Crispin, although the latter was in
sight and making the best time she could for the
starting point Weie it the rule to start these
races up to time, the owner of the St. Crispin
would have no reason to complain, but it is noto-
rious the s A.S.C. races are never sent away to


John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 26 O’Connell-
strekt, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stotiu*
“A CHECK TO DRUNKENNEBS,”
That Cui’se of Nations, which desolates our
homes, tills our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “No family should
be without it. We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, GiDger Ale, Tonic. Lithia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
"J ieurna^Bn }- Friedrichsballer bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
61 liojiike-street, Redfern.
feu
rSFORD^
HO
mm
A
hosph£§
acid
■•.V'iiT
UltH/111l
s§jj£?3
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENBED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
.MPAIHED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
BT" No Danger can Attend its Us*.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. T find it use
ful and benelicial in nervous dyspepsia, nervoui
depression following overwork and anxiety, as wel
os the gastric derangements. Where there ii
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
J A Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate,
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
1 give it in dyspepsia and in all cases whore there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. Witu
my patients it has agreod wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for severa
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
lrom indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound."
Can lie borne by the moat Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it Is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it, with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for tho sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,g-ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delioious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It euros
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cbolera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REABGNB WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-eeleoted and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are ail of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the beat No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under speoia I
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ar* th*
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTARD SQUARE, SIDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM & CO.,
Mi* Ateati
time, eyen the W-ft. skiff race, sailed on the same
day, being’ sent off Tmin. ssec. behind the adver-
tised time. The general opinion amongst boating
men is that decided advantage was given trv
Regina all through the affair, and that Mr. M’Mur-
trie has been v@ry hardly treated by the handl-
cipper, and more particularly by the starter, in
the Anal event.
When the canvas dingies first oame into
vogue in the harbour, the majority of them were
turned out by youngsters, and the frame as a rule
consisted of a few laths and barrel-hoops i but they
have gradually improve,!, till now a great number
of them are planked up almost as close as an
ordinary dingy, the only difference being the
canvas skin. The only good we can see in encour-
aging boats of this class is that it gives youngsters
wno are unable to afford a more expensive boat
the chance of turning out a racing Craft. We now
hear that Donnelly and Sullivan have received an
order for a 14-ft. canvas dingy', which shows that
it is about time the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club
and the regatta committees stepped in and pro-
tected that section of owners, who started the
canvas dingy races—say, by debarring any dingy
turned out by a crack builder from competing in
their races. It seems a pity these popular contests
should be spoiled by a tiyer coming on the scene
able to run over all boats of her class, and the man
who can give Donnelly an order for a canvasser
can no doubt afford to go in for a better style of
boat. / .
On Dec. 14, at North Shields (Eng.), died
Edward Winship, aged fifty one years, of a general
break-up of the system. The deceased was per-
haps the best known of all the single oarsmen that
have ever appeared in the north of England. He
came out at an early age, when the Tyne rowing
had far from attained the fame it afterwards
earned, and he took part in local contests.
He was a member of the Elswick crew, and it was
while he was one of the famous combination, that
he and his co-partners entered the lists with the
Londoners at the Thames Regatta, and he had the
satisfaction of winning for the Tyne the Four-
oared Championship. This victory was followed
by one of equal importance, namely, the success
of Winship and his partner, Tom Bruce, also a
Tyneside man, in the Champion Pairs. He be-
longed to the four-oared crew of the celebrated
Harry Clasper, and afterwards formed one of the
well-known Clasper and Chambers combination.
His victories with the four-oared.crew were many,
and always added lustre to the fame of his native
river, but it was as partner with the ever-to-be-
remembered Robert Chambers that Winship was
best known. The two, indeed, were the recog-
nised champion-pair of their day, and their per-
formances in pair-oared races were invariably at-
tended with success.
How have the mighty fallen! Faney a
comparatively few years back the champion
pugilibt of England accepting the kind offer of a
Yankee to knock him out in lour Queensberrys.
and as if this was not sufficient humiliation for the
roaring lion, George Bubear, of London (Eng.),
the acknowledged champion sculler of his coun-
try, is now given a start of ten seconds by Wallace
Ross, a man who has yet to demonstrate that he is
even the second-best sculler in America, and who
can doubtless be accommodated with all the
matches on level terms he may want to row after
the season of 1884 opens on home wafers. And not
°n*y “Id the Englishman accept the allowance
offered, but he could not be induced to make the
match until Ross’ representative agreed that he
should be started that much in advance of the
American, instead of the allowance being deducted
u of the race, as the latter hai intended
should be the case at the time of making the
propos'tion. A nice acknowledgment of inferiority
for the champion of a country that produced
such oarsmen as Bob Chambers, Harry Kelly, Joe
Sadler and James Rentorth to make; and,how
mortifying must be the speotaole to Englishmen
who were wont to take pride in the prowess of the
real champions who flourished before the advent
upon the scene of the all-conquering Sullivan and
Hanlan, and who would have scorned to belittle
themselves by accepting odds from anyone !
The Frisco Newsletter's comments on
the recent wrestling match between Muldoon aDd
Bauer, w° ul d have done very Well for the recent
Miller-Victor affair. It says:-" The exhibition
was, on the whole, a good one-both men under-
stood the tricks of the game thoroughly, and they
went through all the locks, grips, holds, hugs,
turns, curves, .bridges, feints, etc., with see-saw
teguiarity—Muldoon down. Bauer behind him,
then Bauer on the tarpaulin, and Muldoon tugging
at his arm, neck, or waist, and so on for an hour,
when a breathing space was called. That over,
the work became more rapid, the men no longer
watched each other for live minutes at a stretch
°n the floor, each in turn appeared to lead, and
atter twenty minutes of quick and really brilliant
changes, Muldoon turned Bauer on his head, and
the latter fell on his shoulders and was instantly
pinned to the floor amidst enthusiastic shouts.
The accustomed interval followed. When the
men appeared again, the same spirited work was
done, Bauer appearing cautious and a trifle weary
of the contest. Muldoon soon had him with an
arm-lock, turned him on his hack and forced his
shoulders squarely to the canvass,” And, further
on, Bauer has not improved as a wrestler since
he gave his sham exhibitions with Miller in this
city, several years ago. . . . One feature of
these exhibitions is satisfactory, Muldoon never
gets left. Ho always manages to be on the right
side financially. He has, so far, been able to die*
tete to Dinnie, Bibbie, Hughes, Whistler, and
Bauer the terms upon wnich he would allow them
a share of the gate money. Now, if he wib only
manage Miller, in the same fashion, he can at once
retire lrom the tarpaulin platform and go to Con-
gress, which is evidently his manifest destiny.”
The Beaeh-Trickett races are beginning to
grow farcical and a shade monotonous; but we
suppose it is no use our suggesting to the manage-
ment a canine encounter, a purring match, or a
Urasco-Roman exhibition during the intermission,
Just by way of variety. Rvery allowance must be
made for Ned when the deadly vendetta that has
lor generations existed between the houses of
Laycock and Trickett is taken into consideration;
but we don t think even this will justify his tack-
J ng on to his name the title of “Champion of
Australia ’ in the challenge to Beach, as we were
under the impression that Laycock is champion
until he resigns or refuses to row in support of it.
In connection with the recent Pearce-Clifford race,
Laycock was a firm supporter of the former, aud
Trickett as a matter of course took up the latter
During the struggle for the mastery, Trickett
u . p a Prominent position on the Leveret, and
Sharkey’ did ditto on the Admiral. We were
standing alongside, or rather underneath. Trickett,
and the yelling he did to his man is ringing in our
f*™ yet. irst, in a bullying basso profundo,
Clifford, you blanked idiot, pull your right;”
and then he would change to a supplicating fal-
setto, Oh, Tom, like a good fellow, do listen to
me; and so on till the collapse of Pearce. To
wards the finish of the contest, we looked round
to see how Laycock, who had been perched high
up on the Admiral all alone in his glory, was tak-
ing his gruel; but the Shark Islander had dis-
appeared, having come to the conclusion that the
subsequent proceedings were not likely to interest
him any more. With regard to the coming race,
we suppose we shall have to give a tip, so here
goes for one something in the Daily kom style:
Beach ought to win, but if ne doesn’t, probably
inckett will—although we cannot say we care the
worth of an empty sardine-tin which way it goes.
The farce is about played out.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
W. W. Robinson, the well-known Auck-
land cricketer, has made two centuries in quick
succession.... The Brisbane (Q.), Bicycle Club, hag
mooted the question of the formation of a track
on the Eagle Farm racecourse. E, Markweli, the
late captain of the Club, has gone to England
Mr. E. A. Smith, well known in Brisbane as a sport-p
ing writer on the Queenspanper, has been elected
secretary of the Queensland National Association*<
- ..The South Austra'ian Jockey Club have de-
termined upon establishing a betting ring at
Morphettville, on the occasion of the Adelaide
Cup Sfeeting in May. All cash betting will be pro-
,T. Burke of Gundagai, and P. F. Macau-
lay Campbell town, race 100 yards, for £4O, at
GoUlbUrn, on ITth March ...In New Zealand, Tas-
manian cricketers made 130 in their first innings,
and Otago 186 ia their first. The match was drawn.
♦ * *
Miss Theresa Johnson, the English lady-
awimmer, has made engagements to appear in
B ranee, Spain, and Portugal. She says that before
leaving England, she is anxious to swim any lady
for £lOO, or as much as £lOOO a side.... Hanlan and
* d an exhibition race overjthe new course
at Oakland, Cal., Dec. 25. Had njt the time-
koepers reported 18mln. 43sdc. for Hanlan, we
might have believed that the distance was some-
where near the stated three miles.... Percy Weir,
while dribbling the ball down the held In a foot-
ball match at Clapham Common, Eng., Dec. 8. was
?“ ky the opposing back, and in some manner
had his arm broken in two places... w. M. wood-
R.toViPP attempted at the Exposition
Budding, Chicago, 111., to beat J. S. Prince's tifty-
mile bicyoling record. The track was laid in the
gallery, and 3 laps 632 ft. din. constituted a mile
P'esumably measuring eighteen inches from the
pole, rwenty-flvo miles were stated to havo been
covered in lhr. 26min. 7sec., but after riding ten
miles more Woodside stopped, finding himself
unable, owing to cramps caused by the sudden
intense, cold, to accomplish the task
Robin Hood, the English correspondent of the
Adstralasian, states that Fred Archer’s brother,
Charles Archer, has been deprived of his license
as a public trainer, and the renewal of Tom
Brown s license'is still Under consideration, with a
el f sa *’ .? n „ the vulgar vernacular of
c 1- t are both ' very hot members.”
Sir John wmoughby’s chestnut filly, by Hermit
out ot Adelaide, by Young Melbourne, first
favourite for the English Dol by, tins been i cry
appropriately named Australia W. Harrisoii,
one of the English bookmakers who visited Aus-
tralia last year. We notice, has been acting as stake-
holder in a very novel trotting match at Man-
chester. The drivers of the nays were—well-
ladies, one a well-known music-hall singer and
as her opponent was non est on the dav the
sporting cantatrice claimed and got the stakes
In an exhibition game of billiards in England W
Cook made breaks of 427 and 354.... Mr. Richard
Lord, late manager of the Thames (Eng.; Conser-
vancy, died suddenly last December. ..London
Bell s Life stated that Ivo Bligh had started for
Australia to be married to Miss Murnhu Sadlv
true-we mean truly sad....ln England, during
the season of 1883, only one sculling match was
rowed in which stakes exceeded £lOO.. w Clark’s
neurastheniponskelestemo is advertised asagreat
horse medicine. The name alone ought to be
sufficient to kill the strongest horse ever foaled
CONFIDENCE.
“Just keep your eye around, Bill, while I crack this here pantry, and see as there’s
no “bobbies” about.”
“Bobbies be hanged! Them bobbies are too blamed fond of a nantrv
themselves to run a cove in for raising a feed.”
SPORTING FIXTURES.
L l Ye shall be glad to have this Index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.)
RACING.
Gundagai J.C February 28, 29.
Tumut March 5, 6.
V.R.C. Autumn .. .March 1, 6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Orange J.C March 18,14.
Wollongong Marcu 17.
Gundaroo March 17
Wellington Annual March 17,18.
Albury March, 17,18.
Canterbury Park R.C March 2i
Bourke J.C May 22, 22.
Condobelin March2o, 27.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn.. April 8. 5.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
A.J.o Autumn April 12,14,18,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23, 24, 25.
Hay May 15, K
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
AQDATICB
Glebe R.C. Trial Fours March 1.
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta March 22.
Intercolonial Eight-jar Race, Victoria v.
N.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach. April 12.
ATdi I TICS.
Robinson v. Campbell, Bathurst, 150 yds.. . March 1.
Gulgong Sheffield Handicap March 17.
Burke v. Macaulay, at Goulburn March 17.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap April 14
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18, 19!
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
•"asino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A “Lament” to the Moon.
Majestic ruler of the night,
Tnat silent watches all below,
O, dost thou see me on thy flight,
Or hear me breathe my tale of woe.
Oft have I Strayed adown the grove
That girds yon silver glittering stream,
As day-birds piped their tale of love,
And I lived on in love's young dream,
But now, beneath an aged tree.
I sleepless pass the midoight hour,
And all for her—for her: ah! sho
Was Tuggrah’s sweetest, fairest flower.
My heart has often sung with joy,
As, musingly, I wandered on;
But every spot where turns my eye
Now mourns the love of her that's gone.
How oft, on wildly-beating breast,
I’ve felt the lioad of love recline,
And wondered if the gods were blest
With happiness more great than mine.
But now, all prostrate and forlorn,
Those magic scenes of lovo aro laid,
And T, all lonely. He and mourn
The loss of Tuggrah’s perfect maid.
Oh. gentle breeze, that sweeps the plain,
And kisses billows on the deep,
Bear from her breast its lightest pain,
Hush her sweet soul in balmy sleep.
For mol'e than this T dare not crave,
Though joyless life should bo my doom;
But these lew words beyond the grave
May livo to mark a lover's tomb.
R.D.
The True Man.
You tell me of your thinking man,
Who chops and chows his logic,
Of him who dabbles with the stars,
And matters meteor’logic;
But tell me if his heart can feel
For anything that’s human,
And if it doth, I’ll plight his worth,
A gallant and a true man.
I caro not for your craven kings,
Nor honours basely won of ’em;
There were but eight in Noah's ark.
And 1 have sprung from one of ’em;
Then let the standard now be raised,
With this inscription on it—
“ We're brethren all, though some wear crowns,
And some the peasant’s bonnet! ”
Oh! if a man will heal the grief
That warps and stings another.
Will hang a rainbow in the cloud,
Because he is his brother,—
Then, though he be in pedigree,
But counted un ignoble man,
I'd lift him high above the crowd
And cry “ Behold God’s noblemau! ” GS.
The foregoing mav be heartily commended to
some of our worthies, who, toady—oh! so hard—
for so-called honours.
Give Him a Lift.
Give him a lift! Don't kneel in prayer,
Nor moralise with his despair;
The man is down, and his great need
Is ready help—not prayer and creed.
'Tis (ime, when wounds are washed and healed,
ror liampsonisms to he revealed;
But now, whate’er the spirit be,
Mere wo'rds are simply mockery.
One grain of aid, just now, is more
To him than tons of saintly lore;
Pray, if you must, in your full heart,
But give him a lift-give him a start.
The world is full of good advice,
Of prayer, and praise, and preaching nice;
But generous souls, who aid mankind,
Are scarce as gold, and hard to iind.
Give without stint, and speak in deeds—
A noble life’s the best of creeds;
He's lit to wear a regal crown
Who aids a comrade when he's down.
T.K.


Had Tried
Everything I had heard of in the East and West
for Salt Rheum. My case was considered a very
had one. My face, head, and some parts of my
body were almost raw. Head covered with scabs
and sores. Suffering fearful. One very skilful
physician said he would rather not treat it, and
some of them think now I am only cured tem-
porarily. 1 think not, for I have not a particle of
Salt Kheum about me, and my case is considered
wonderful. Thanks to Cuticura Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great skin Cures and Beautiflers.
Decatur, Mich, MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE,
F
URNITURS SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streete, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion; well worthy of
inspection. _
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c„
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T7IURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
JD THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-strefet.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grv.at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E _ IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-Street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound.
oWOt) strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONitL-’TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairsT—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
D’ INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Oaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
Self-adjusting hammock chair—
Patented.
'.\i£
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingfttgtous in its
construction; works automatically. above
cut represents only two of thenumeftjaJ© sitions
that can be obtained, instantly, and wMyput little
effort. It fits perfectly every part body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It iS superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
-|7IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ASH.STANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices,
SOCIAL.
There was cricket again last Saturday,
and although this time the weather did not prove
quite so bright and sunny as that of the week
before, yet, despite the dull sky and somewhat
threatening clouds, there was a large assemblage
of ladies in the grand-stand and on the lawn, who,
by their pretty faces and handsome attire, lent an
additional lustre to the scene, which, without
their gracious and enlivening presence, would
have been bereft of one of its greatest and most de-
lightful charms. The improvements to the ground
lately have been immense; the seats all round are
convenient, and the hills thrown up in terraces
enable a good view to be got from almost any
spot, while tho refreshment buildings, bars, &c.,
all indicate that Sydney is fast advancing in civili-
sation. When the combined team went out, and
the ground, which is looking dry and brown,
except just in the centre, was cleared, most
of the grand-stand came down for a short
stretch. A cricket ground, when a match
is in course of progression, seems generally
a “gathoring-pl .ee of souls;” and this is particu-
larly the case on Saturday afternoons; for, on
account of the always welcome half-holiday, many
persons hard-worked during the week may then
and thus take a little relaxation in company with
their friends, or in true “ Pinafore ” parlance with
their sisters, cousins, and aunts (probably very few
of the latter are included). Among such a sea of
faces and almost bewildering variety of costumes,
it became decidedly a diilicult matter to single out
special ones for minute description ; but some
were so strikingly effective as to be at once patent
even to the uneducated eye. Most certainly in
this class was an elaborate combination of deep
claret-coloured corded silk skirt, and broche
redingote of the same hue, the whole profusely
trimmed with cream ducliesse lace. Another,
equally rich, was a navy-blue figured satin and
cashmere, Princess bonnet Avith Avreath of pale
pink roses, and large cream satin p xrasol. A great
number of Avhite toilettes were Avorn, looking
fresh and cool. A very pretty one consisted
of fine Indian muslin flounced to the waist,
large blue sash, and small bonnet of chip
straw and feathers; theAvearer did great execution
among the gentlemen. Two stately sisters from
Croydon looked well—one in pale pink zephyrs
cloth, and the other in Avhite laAvn, cardinal Avaist-
band, small Langtry hat, and immense dark red
sunshade. A tali gentleman promenaded with a
nice little brunette in cream Madras muslin and
Henri Deux hat nearly all tho afternoon; his
brother being equally devoted to a demure-faced
little lady tastefully attired in cream cashmere.
A Avell-known barrister escorted a fair Miss huil-
iug from Paddington, and seemed thoroughly
to enjoy the promenade, and his company. Mmy
mashers were discernib'e: their collars, if nothing
else, render them remarkable objects in the land-
scape, especially to the uninitiated, who vainly
wonder who and what they can be. The daughters
of a popular M.P. Avere much admired: the elder
Avore a fleecy soft white muslin, Avith waterfall
back, and apple-green sash, the younger wearing
pink nun’s veiling and large cream hat. A viva-
cious dark-eyed girl attracted many glances, and
so did her cavalier—but these were, of course, be-
stowed upon him by feminine orbs; and, really,
he Avas good-looking, tall and straight as a poplar,
with a martial bearing and “an eye like Mars to
threaten and command.” A cream llowered
silk, trimmed Avith bronze green satin Avith
aa immense amount of hand work on it,
and a flowing train, was the most con-
spicuous dress there, and no doubt very costly.
Another, of old gold combined with purple Pet-
sian pattern, from was also—like Mr.
Wisdom’s list-very liable to catch the eye. One
charmingly neat dress was of grey biege and ruby
velvet, Avorn by a young manned lady, and the
colours combined in good taste. A reseda green,
quiet and good, drexv glances to a tall and graceful
torm; and a Petersham lady displayed a stylish
summer creation of white satin and lace, with
other auxiliaxdes tending to effect. Peacock blues,
too, were very handsome. There Avas a lot of en-
thusiasm over Powell’s grand hit clean over tiie
fence, and a gi-eat rush of small boys for the bail,
eich eager to have the distinction of thx-oAviog it
back—part of the way. The German band played.
Some of their tunes Avere lively, and some might
Avell have been taken as dirges for the batsmm
put out—iviUmv Avail-y kind of airs. Hut Ave lis-
tened to them all Avith respect. We ahvays respect
age. The Australian Eleven are by r this time
off and axvuy to Brisbane, and then finally
hey! for England. Their many fair friends
here trust they may win fresh laurels in the old
country, and have a happy and prosperous cam-
paign, returning in triumph to Sydney".
The Liverpool Town Hall was gay on the
13th February, when a successful coucert was
(riven in aid of tho Town Band, the funds of which
will be largely increased, as nearly 500 people were
present. The D Albert Amateur Orchestra ren-
dered good music duriug the evening 1 . Mr. J. M.
Callaghan sang “I seek for thee,” and “Never
more,” in his usual good style; and Mr. J. Kodd,
who gave “The Midshipmite,” “My sweetheart
when a boy,” and “ The bloom is on the rye,” was
loudly encored. Mr. Sydney Davis fired two comic
songs at the audience; and “ Tho good young man
who died” was so successful that he had to re-
appear. Mr. C. L. Qwist recited “ Eugene Aram;”
and the people got into quite a simmGr of enthu-
siasm when Mr. W. Needs executed a clever Irish
jig in his most spirited style, in costume. Mr.
John Stephens accompanied well. It was about
II p.m. before the concert closed.
* * *
Next Wednesday, an entertainment will
be given in the Gymnasium, Liverpool-street, by
the Balmain Amateur Minstrels, in aid of the
Dramatic Club that dives into the drama under the
Unitarian Church. It’ll be real good, see.
• • •
It is one of the difficulties ©f open-souled
young bachelors that they scarcely know how to
give a return for tho many social courtesies they
receive at private houses. And the return must
be given in some shape. Why, society is almost
held together by this "return” business. Some
imagine that it’s only in politics that favours are
“not given for nothing,’ and a quid pro quo
always expected. But it’s just the same in “so-
ciety” circles. Perhaps we are cynical. Never
mind, we’ll stick to that, anyhow, you'll find it is
so. It makes an honest youth unhappy to remain
under a debt of obligation. Sometimes he gets so
unsettled about it that he concludes his obliga-
tions ean bo rubbed off the slate by a gift of
nothing less than—himself. But this can’t be
expected in every case. A young man gene-
rally thinks it a very serious matter to donate
such a large gift as that. He half fears the tremen-
dous value won’t b© appreciated. And, if we are
to judge from the cry of the modern materfamilias,
this particular way of discharging their debts is
one which the young men are getting to hesitate
over more and more every year. A simpler plan,
often adopted, is for a number of bachelors to club
together and endeavour to brighten the world and
§ lease their lady friends by giving a ball. Last
'riday night was such an occasion. A number of
gentlemen, mostly hailing from Paddington and
Woollahra direction, aud having for committee
Messrs. C. Jennings, K. Forsyth, W. C. Shipway,
G. Kenyon, and W. A. Gilder, entertained their
friends at un petit hnl in Mrs. Reid’s rooms. It was
capitally managed, exactly the right number of
each sex being present, and dancing began at 8.30,
with the atmosphere in a decidedly tepid condition.
Mr. Mason’s piano playing was excellent, and a
clever lady amateur amiably gave a couple of
extras. The ladies, of course, shone in all that
prismatic variety of dress which so well becomes
them, and colour was plentiful. White gave an
air of lightness to the room, and one young lady
in black was lightness itself. The hon. sec.’s sister
beamed in pink and pearls; and a crushed-straw-
berry was a choice dress worn by a lady who, with
her sister, is a favourite of tho iioor. From Glen-
view-Mreot came two attractive dancers—one in
all blue, the other in cardinal and white. A name-
sake of tho last two was a lady from Woolluhra,
in ruby and cream, who wan one of tho most ad-
mired ' maidens in the Cathedrgl Fayre, A line
waltzer appeared from Strawberry Hills; two airy
sisters from Oxford-street; from Begg-street, a
general favourite in blue ; a pretty Flower in
white ; and from Rosebank, a fair specimen of
fascinating vivacity in pink. At supper, which
was provided by the City Catering Co.—very
dainty, and more than ordinarily well served—the
most suitable bachelor was selected to propose the
health of the ladies. Twenty-four dances were
done, and then the “sweet sorrow” of parting
took place about three o’clock.
« • i
We dip into Grace Candour’s capital letter
in the Australasian, and fetch up a few more
facts for our fair readers about Ivo’s late match.
First, then, the bride is very beautiful; everyone
agrees to that. The Earl of Darnley sent her a
costly pendant, composed of a circlet of diamonds
round a large pearl. It glistened on her neck.
The Countess of Darnley’s gift was a diamond
butterfly with ruby eyes. It held up the tulle
square on her bridal dress. From the Countess of
Rosebery came a double horseshoe of pearls. Her
tulle veil was caught back with a diamond arrow
given by Mr. G. F. Vernon, groomsman. Among
the bridegroom’s gifts were a diamond brooch
shaped like a flying bird, and a diamond and pearl
bracelet. Lady Clarke gave a tiny, jewelled gold
watch, with chain; Lord Clifford gave-a gold
locket and chain ; and to the bridesmaids, the
Hon. Ivo gave each a bat and ball resting
on a shield of gold, as a brooch. As the
eight bridesmaids stood grouped at the ceremony
their toilettes formed a choice and tender contrast
to ihe bride’s snowy whiteness. They all wore
surah dresses of Cambridge blue, the box-pleated
skirts edged with coffee-coloured lace of arabesque
design; the bodies had full vests with lace at
either side; and below the gracefully draped back
skirts was a deep pleating in the waterfall style.
Sweet little bonnets of tine white straw were worn
with coffee-coloured lace. Sir William Clarke had
these eight Graces photographed; and Lord Neville
described them as “eight lovely apparitions in
blue, who formed an appropriate setting to a
priceless jewel.” Now, we think, the bridesmaids
have had a very good innings; and proceed to say
that the splendid dress worn by Miss Florence Rose
Morphy, while being meta-morphy-sed into the
Hon. Mr«. Bligh, was a combination of richest ivory
broche satin, plain satin, tulle, and duchesse lace.
It was comparatively simple, and close-fitting. The
These two elegant toilettes are suitable either for the ball room or concert hall.
The one with the square-cut neck, is a plum-coloured ottoman silk, the ribbon lace
and gloves of the palest pink shade. Round the square the lace is richly ruched, whilst
on the left shoulder is a large bow of ribbon, and also at the termination of the short
basque bodice. Pale blush roses in the hair. The second figure shows a peak bodice
with rounded neck. The material is a golden-brown surah silk, with cream laceand
gloves. The low neck is partially filled in with a full gathering of cream tulle, and a
deep frill of cream laoe forms a handsome bertha. The head adornments are golden
hair-pins.
corsage was cut square and trimmed with tulle
and lace, and pointed in front, but the hack of the
dress was princesse shape with long square train
of broche satin. In front, the plain satin was cut
into deep rounded tabs, which fell over a close
satin pleating half a yard deep, and the tabs were
edged with feathery trimming produced by ravel-
ling out satin. And her hair was dressed in a
Psycho knot. The Rev. W. C. Ford proposed the
health of Mr. and Mrs. Bligb, briefly. Lord
Neville chanted the charms of the bridesmaids;
and Mr. Hare made a witty speech, in which he
averred that it would soon be impossible to get an
English eleven to come out here at all—so many
things happened to them. Another speaker said
he had known the bride since she was “nothing but
a ilittle entanglement of curls.” The travelling
drees was grey with ruby trimmings: pretty straw
sailor hat to match. The happy couple shortly
sail for England by way of New Zealand. And,
finally, it is alleged that the Hon. Ivo first stepped
over the “ popping ” crease in Sir William Clarke’s
garden.
* * *
A funny festivity occurred down Hob-
son’s Bay. The great Werribee squatter, Mr. T.
Cbirnside, invited a lot of friends to a steamer
picnic. The sea rose, and on arrival at Point Cook
it was with difficulty the party landed. Every-
thing was splendid till departing time came, and
then it was found impossible to get aboard again,
and the steamer sailed gaily away. Some got into
vehicles; but a number of others, who started to
do the eight miles to Williamstown on foot, landed
in a network of creeks and swamps, and spent
most of the night searching for home, sweet home,
amid the music of curlews, bullfrogs, and the frail
but faithful mosquito.
• • '•
The Bachelors’ Assembly, which opens at
Needs’s next month, has now its complement of
members (TO gentlemen) nearly filled. This num-
ber will on no account be exceeded, as ladies
object to having their dresses mangled in a crowd.
Mr. J. Hardie (Mayor), and Mr. C. J. Roberts, who
is vice-president, have both signified their inten-
tion to be present oh the opening night.
** * *
Instead of the usual quarterly dinner for
men only, the Mayor of Melbourne gave a marine
party, ami invited ladies. He succeeded iu reach-
ing the other extreme, for scarcely any men went,
and the ladies were ten to one. They steamed for
several hours round Hobson’s Bay, and danced on
board, but some of the fair ones suffered terribly.
They had put on their best dresses, and there was
no one to see ...Rumour is busy with the names
of more than one other of Ivo’s team said to be
bent on following- his captain’s lead The com-
mittee decided not to carry on the evening con-
certs at Parramatta Exhibition ; but a grand ball
is projected in the local Town Hall, to mark the
closing of the show and to reduce the deficit
thereon The Government is about to erect a
refreshment pavilion and ladies’ room in the
Botanic Gardens, close to Allan Cunningham’s
monument. Just what’s wanted ...The Yarra
Rowing Club had a nice style of annual
picnic. They rowed the whole party up
in boats to Hawthorn Tea Gardens, and after sun-
down had fireworks, dancing, &c., and a romantic
return later on down the river... At Burgh House,
Moore Park, a fine party was held last week to
mark the host’s birthday. Half a hundred guests,
Compagnoni contributed to their inner comfort,
and over glasses of the fizzing tawny wine all
joined in the birthday song. The pretty wife of a
doctor (just returned from the home tour)’ was
admirable in black net and broche; bronze, bro-
caded with old gold, specially suited the wife of a
noted steamship man; and the wife of one of our
largest soft-goods lions wore a wonderful robe of
hand-painted cream satin. Singing diversified the
proceedings, and the dauglyters of the house did
the honours gracefully Miss Mitchell, well
known at Darlinghurst, a daughter of the late Sir
Thomas Mitchell, went home in the Garonne. Her
friends, notable old colonists, gave her a gold
watch R.C. bazaar in Parramatta Town Hall at
Easter A young lady earned £GO last month in
the Melbourne Zoo by carrying children at 3d. each,
•"•he i<=» a very handsome young lady—elephant —
To pay for the erection of a proscenium and
scenery at Petersham Town Hall, some ladies and
gentlemen, at the Mayor’s invitation, are arrang-
ing a dramatic performance at an early date
To-night the third annual concert of the Ivanhoe
C.C. takes place in St. Matthias’ Hall. These con-
certs are always either very interesting or very
funny. A number of notables will soon arrive
in the Colony. Sir Charles Lilley, Sir William
Manning, Bishop Barry, Mr. Salomons, Q.C.,
and Mr. Junes Fairfax, with their respective
families, are all on the road The annual sub-
scription ball took place on race night at Braid-,,
wood. It was a line affair, and was followed by
another It’s a regular thing in the Cabbage
Garden for oyclists to go to social sprees on their
wheels. Last moon, the Geelong, the Carlton, and
the Fernside clubs all went frivolling the hours
away, and returned by the light of Dian’s pale
lamp. The last-named club turned out three
double tricycles and four singles, besides the
bikes A party of ladies and gentlemen, cice-
roned by Messrs. F., E., and C. Williams, enjoyed a
nice trip up the Parramatta on Saturday in the
Algeria, and the South Sea bard was among the
guests The late Mayor of Hamilton was pre-
sented with a gold medal, a silver watch, and eight
guineas, on leaving for Sydney. We smile at those
eight guineas! The No. 3 Co., Naval Brigade,
met *o toast Lieutenant Deloitto’s health on Mon-
day night, ere his departure for home per Rosetta.
Miss Alice Sydney Burvett, after playing in
Melbourne, went to Adelaide, where she com-
menced piano recitals last Monday night.. ..A
capital programme of music will be given by the
boys of the Vernon band to-day, at 3.30 p.m., in the
Botanic Gardens. A dearth lately.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Vernon Band (Botanic Gardens) Feb. 21.
Carthona C.C. Excursion March 1.
Petersham Owl Hoot. March 4.
Drapers’ Annual Picnic March 6.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic March 13
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) March 14'


A Gbeat Business. —The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
Liver. These preparations are used throughout
the civilized world, and thousands testify to their
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at 6d., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. 6d. All druggists keep
them.*
BATTiaXAN'N'.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Are IlTo-w Opean..
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
■W- "W. CATES’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITTJJTREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management of the celebrated Mr. ALBERTO E. C* t 1111 ARB 11 , from Paris,
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to tl e hand, just arrived from 1 aria b 5
the steamer Potosi. formerly in charge of the wcll-linown Kid Glove Department of the Hon Marche,
Paris, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W CAT K lt'S, 193 and 19a Pitt-stkeet.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect tit The Paris Kid Glove Department is ntted
out in tho professional continental manner and style. Ladies and gentlemeni wib lind it to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS IdD GLOVE DEPARTMENI.
Kid Gloves iltted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect lit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mourquctaire stylo
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet Style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk aud Lisle Thread Gloves, Luce Mitts
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. Alberto E
GeismardOi Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, ana
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
EST- PRIVATE BAR UF-STAIRF.
Oiticura
2i'o3T// W‘
; >K>
HI
Eczema on Face & ccalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Scrofula on neck.
PIUPLES to SCROFULA!
DISFIGURING HUMOUS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, ItchiDg and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber's Iteh, Sore
Eyes, Seald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured bv the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Rad Rloml, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erys'pelas, Enremia, Pyscrnia, Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no rGal
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a ehild’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
Cl UTTCUR A RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
J lier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina*
Jelly for external use), instantly allays ItcbiDg and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Bcautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemi.'.ts and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resoevent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
DURABLE
Bull BBS,
CARRIAGES, PHA3TONS,
Platform Spring:
Waggons, Harness,
etc.
Also,
THE BEST TROTTING AND
PLEASURE CARTS,
BLACK WALNUT BEDHOOII
SUITES,
WARDROBES, SIDEBOARDS,
and
SUPERIOR SPRING MATTRASSES,
SAFES
(Burglar and Fireproof),
CD/
A
V/NJ
Y///1
/ /' /fi
IT
"UK
ia^'/V]
\\
,
SSaRSKS
door from Market-st).
QENERAX. AMERICAN IMPORTER, 72 TTork-street, £j -
- y
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Mv Dearest Belle,—To begin with, have you
heard of the American “ Bud” balls? _ I thiDk it
rather a pretty idea if carried out conscientiously
This is it. Girls under fifteen wear rosebuds in
their first infancy of bloom ; those under twenty
wear half-opened buds; and those over that age
wear full-blown roses. Now, I just wonder bow
many full-blown roses one would see at a Sydney
ball f
I saw an article in one of the daily papers this
week, in which the writer protested against our
unreasonableness in expecting gentlemen to give
op their seats to us in an over-crowded tram or
train. The writer went on to say that they were
bo BGldom repaid for their gallantry by even a
“thank you,” that really it was not, worth while
Undergoing any discomforts for our sakes. I
daresay there’s a good deal to be said on both sides;
but certainly I never anew before that a gentle-
man was only Well mannered when he was thanked
for so being. There is one thing I have noticed,
and it is this. When a seat is vacated for a lady It
is almost invariably by an elderly gentleman,
whilst the young ones calmly look on and take
their ease. I hope -oh ! Ido hope it was a young
masher who wrote that article. And, talking of
mashers, I saw one on the Block the other day,
who evidently felt satisfied that his bicycle cos-
tume became him, and no doubt it did; but worn
with canary-coloured kid gloves and a masher
umbrella, It looked absurd enough even for a
masher.
When telling you about the Foster concert, the
other day, I quite forgot to describe Miss Wil-
shire's dress, and as it was one of the best, I felt
quite sorry after my letter was posted. It was a
pale heliotrope satin, with white India muslin
flounces beautifully worked. The last flounce,
however, was of satin worked with crewels.
It must have taken a dreadful time to work, but
it certainly looked very nice, indeed. It was a
dress admirably suited to the wearer, whose jet
black hair (sans ornament) was a splendid con-
trast.
A quaint dress I saw at one of the theatres was
worn by a pretty little blonde. A soft white muslin
with very short body, and the full short sleeves
were tied up with cherry ribbon, just as wo had
ours done when we were babies. It looked so
fresh and nice, and l have not seen another like it.
Our pockets are still a great worry to us. They
are so inconvenient when fastened in the skirt of
the dress. Many a time I have been five minutes
nulling and tugging at my skirt before being able
to find mine. The fashion of stuffing the hand-
kerchief in the body of the dress did not have a
1 mg reign—and no wonder, for it was destruction
to a perfectly fitting bodice. PuttiDg it up the
sleeve of the dress was the next idea, but that only
did when the sleeve® were long and tight fitting.
(By the bye, don't wear long sleeves, short ones
just past the elbow look so much more dressy.)
The very latest is to carry a satchet, slung over the
shoulder just like a boy’s school bag. The satchet
is made of any material—say satin, which can be
either worked in crewels or painted in any pretty
design—then to it attach a strap of ribbon of any
colour, which is fastened to the left shoulder with
a brooch, and the bag hangs under the right arm.
Some have the satchets made of the same material
as the dress worn, but I don’t think that so conve-
nient, as it would necessitate having one to each
dress. Another new idea is the safety shoo clasp.
You know how tiresome it is when your shoe
ribbon Gomes undone whilst you are out walking;
well, the safety buckle or clasp is made to give
security to the knot of the ribbon bow, and, be-
sides being useful, it makes a pretty ornament to
the shoe. I hear that in Paris they are adopting
stuffed frogs, owls, and even cats’ heads for hat
ornaments; and they are not eontent with imita-
tions, but have the real animals stuffed for the
purpose. Horrible idea! Don’t you think so ?
There have been such a number of black dresses
on the Block this week, with just a sensation of
colour to save them from being too sombre. For
instance, a fine black cashmere had the long re-
dingote edged with a piping of rose-pink, also the
sleeves and collar. The black bat had one tiny
pink tip amongst a profusion of black feathers.
But what struck me as being more stylish still was
a black ottoman silk, with each corner of the
redingote caught up with deep crimsen satin
The sleeves were slashed with the same colour, but
in this ease the hat was all black. And so you are
tired of the small chequed sateens 1 Well, now
Belle, I am surprised at your bad taste, for dresses
made of that pattern and material can never be
anything but neat and ladylike. If you had seen
one I saw the other day, I am certain you would
have thought it as nice as I did. The check was
black and white of the very tiniest pattern, and
worn by a tall lady. The basque body was well-
trimmed with black Spanish lace, and each flounce
was edged with the same. There was no stint of
lace, which was of the very best and silkiest, and
1 can assure you it was one of the nicest dresses
of its kind I have seen this week.
The Montague-TUrners have gone to Brisbane,
where they can always be certain of a warm
welcome. I don’t know, however, what the
Brisbane people will say when they tind Failey
is not with the troupe. Verdi will certainly
be something' for them to look at, but, be-
lieve me, the Brisbaneites know when they
hear good singing. You will be : glad to
hear that Miss Alice Rees is considered to be out
of danger, also that Mr. Harry Woods is back in
Sydney—which, I think, dear Belle, is all the news
I have for you this week. So, now, adieu.l
Yours,
MAD.
TO CORRESPONDENTS
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to home their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Alpha You don’t tell us anything new
re the Wisdom-Buchanan row, and what you do
tell us you don't tell well. All that bosh aoout the
“ fighting editor ” ceased to be new about the time
the dove came back with the olive-branch. We
agree with yoll as to the propriety of certain per-
sons keeping their mouths shut. Perhaps you—
humph! “University”: You are in error. We
know, of course, that the old reading Scnatvs
populus que Uomanus of S.P.Q.R. was adopted by
many scholars, and even now has some adherents
in out-of-the-way places. But the new construc-
tion, small profits, quick returns, is now considered
the correct rendering, appealing, as it does, to
common-sense, while illustrating the well-known
commercial acumen of Roman tradesmen
Thanks “W,A.”: Item useless: rnpst of
the names illegible..." Amy ” : Names indistinct...
“New Chum”: It is impossible to find a greater
swindle than the game which you say is “ appa-
rently fair and square.” “ Highest mark is
worked thus: The usual devil’s-pool marbles are
thrown into the basket, to all appearance in the
most careless manner possible; but the fact is, a
few of the higher-numbered.marbles are dexter-
ously replaced by others loaded with lead, so thai,
as they are taken out, the difference can be
easily felt by the confederate who distributes
them. And you can safely bet that when the
pool is large, No. 17 marble seldom finds its
way to the hands of a “ New Chum.”
“ J.H.” (Parramatta) ; Persons said to have over
half a million a vear Dukes of Buceleugh,
Westminster and Bedford, Lords Derby and Dud-
ley, Sir John Ramsden ; each of the heads of the
Rothschild houses, the Comte de Paris, Prince
Demidoff, “Bonanza” Mackay, Vanderbilt, and
Jay Gould. We also append a list of all British
fortunes exceeding a million, which were trans-
ferred by death from 1873 to the close of 1880
Sir David Baxter, Dundee, £1,098,000 ; Lord WoJ-
verton, £1,000,000 ; T. Baring, £1,500,000 : E R.
Langworthy, Manchester, £1,200,000 ; J. Love,
Durham, £1,000,000 ; James Baird, Cambusdowo,
£1,900,000 ; J. Pemberton, Liverpool, £1,900.000 ;
John Penn, £1,000,000 ; Lord Dysart, £1,700,000 ; R.
Thornton, s xeter, £1,000,000 ; J. Crawshay, Glan-
morgan, £1,200,000 ; Baron L. N. Rothschild,
£2,700,000; J. R. Mills, £1,200,000: Duke of Port-
land, £1,500,000 ; J. Williams, £1,000,000 ; T. Wigley,
£1,300,000 ; and E. Mackenzie, £1,000,000. To these
you may add Lord Overstone, who is said to have
left£2o,ooo,ooo “Anon.” (Muswellbrook): what
do you take us for ? If you write any more in t his
style, you are likely to get better acquainted with
a boot than you are already; and you know some-
thing about boot-protectors now (we allude to
boot-closing), or we are very much mistaken
“Constant Traveller” (Cooma): Much obliged, but
we have strained and even hurt ourselves in try-
ing to make anything out of your item. What in
dynamite do we c>re about. Mr. Sladen, J.P.,
a servant in the Education Department being
“delighted witn the climate of Cooma,’ and
believing that “plenty of people will visit Cooma
during the summer mouths t ' We don’t credit
the assertion that “plenty of peoplo ” will visit
Cooma in any month, until Cooma is more Ccom-
atable. The other “funny par.” about a patent
medicine is not “funny” enough to be inserted
for nothing “ H.P.”: Wo are not aware of it
“Melbourne Follies”: Thanks; but not in our
style “ Rhadamanthus ”: Your verses will pro-
bably appear in an early issue “Vulcan”: We
have received your National Anthem, “ Fair Aus-
tralia.” We receive lots of National Anthems.
Every on the staff has the family fire lit
every morning during winter with National
Anthems. Just at this season, the stock of An-
thems is getting ahead in spite of all our efforts.
Our Teddy makes cricket balls and kites out of
manuscript about "the land of the free,” and
Maria's bustle is stnffed with sublime sentiments
about the “liberty that sweetens toil,” and fair
Australia “rising in beauty from the sea.” So we
can’t take any more National Anthems at present,
unless they come from celebrities, like Barren
Sladen, Cyril Haviland, or “ Pyn.”...“ Bushman ”:
Much obliged. We especially invite designs for
sketches from interesting creatures like you who
can’t draw. Your suggestion, however, for “ A
sketch on the Parliamentary situation,” came too
late, and we have had to hide it in the coal-hole ever
since we received it, for fear the drawing should be
seen by our artist, “ Hop.,” and make him jealous.
Next time you send, give us a design of an amor-
ous snail or an oyster tripping it in the mazy
dance.


ER SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. she retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
Ask for Hockings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars. 143 Pitt-street.*
BALSAM AND BUSTERS.
Hold on till this cough is over. Ready.
We shall be long-winded by way of revenge for
having no wind, and it is here that wo follow the
custom of all great anonymous writers, and ooze
out a small portion of our personality to gratify
the craving of thousands of worthy souls who
weekly hang upon our quill. We shall not de-
scribe the fires that roll in our flashing eyes, and
we shall not hint at auburn curls when Nature
has thatched this mighty dome with a dry flagi-
tious red. Our externals shall remain a secret,
but, regarding internals, we take the public to
our bosom at once, by stating that our adieux
have long been breathed—so to speak- to one
lung, and it is only by the tenderest juic.s of Dr.
De Jongb, and a humiliating parsimony in the
exercise of man's greatest gift—vociferous pro-
fa- ity—that we encourage tho other in its arduous
task. This, by wa5 r of counterblast to our
enemies—who have alleged that it was not a lung
but a hemisphere of tho brain that had fled. Al-
though not exactly clothed (tuck that shawl more
closely round the neck, dear, close up that sash,
and just fix that pillow a little higher), wo are
decidedly in our right mind—at last. But wo have
wandered a bit, wo may say a good deal, during
this attack; and now, as we spread out the slips on
the bellows across our knees, and again proceed to
instruct a waiting world, we feel disposed to give
a few incidents of travel. We started, then, from
this bed, and proceeded by easy and natural stages
to occupy a place of some standing in the world,
to wit, the top of the Himalayas. Tho prospect
from this point, as Ernest Morrison would put it,
was quite extremely extensive and satisfactory.
To the North we had the tine declivity down
whose slopes poured the waters of the Obi, the
Tensei, and the Lena, while, just outside their
frozen mouths, we could see the merry Esquimo
pursuing his humble blubber-hunt, and farther
away could just detect the smoke rising from the
fires of a search party that had found Sir John
Franklin and party alive and well. Towards the
south-east we had a splendid view of the opera-
tions of the Black Flags, and saw some interest-
ing little forays around Sontay and Bacninh.
Southward, we had the great Indian peninsula,
dotted with a thousand shining cities; and just off
the Cape, the P. and O. boat floated gaily on with
the Sydney mails, while we could just catch a
glimpse of a poker party on deck, made up of testi-
monialised fat parsons on sick leave, and the ship’s
officers. About 400 miles south-west, away in the
Punjaub, we saw a tiger hunt start, and seating
ourselves on the highest edge of a crater, we drew
our furs more closely round, to watch the sport.
We watched it for hours, and bet on the tiger.
We bet too well. Ho was pursued to the foot of
our mountain, and, though the hunters turned
back, the tiger came on. We couldn’t see more.
He was within a hundred yards-foaming, fagged,
and ravenous. His eyes bloodshot; but, woe-be-
gone and all as he was, we recognised him as one
of Chiarini’s pets, which we had seen the night be-
fore. We rapidly recited the articles of our be-
lief, and then, with one shriek, found his glisten-
ing teeth and horrid claws buried into the right
lung, and heard a gentle voice say, “ Now, dear, do
be quiet.” So the blisters were bound round, and
the medicine was poured out, and we learned that
we were “ down.” Thus ends the first cough.
“Drink and smoke, of course?” said the
doctor. “Never, doctor, hut the other men on
the staff “Oh, never mind the other men.
TWtuou give it up. The best thing lor you,
being of a feeble constitution, is to drink as much
of you can of all sorts. Do as the others do. Don t
eat Take, say, half a dozen stiff glasses of raw
snirits early in the morning-you wont need
fast then. Then light a pipe of strong to-
bacco tnd smoke all day. That’s the best thing
for vou. What weight are you ?
“ Something over eight stone.
“Too fat-you must come down-fatty degene-
ration of the heart. Won’t do, you know, for a
writer Must come down to six stone. Stay up
mtefeet into rows. Get into debt. Get plenty
°“'what'do you prescribe further, doctor ?’ ’
“H’m, let me see-a writer-plenty money, of
Co “Rut ? so-so, doctor; just a few thousands in
r nvernment debentures, four or five hundred a
vear from rents, and say a thousand on mortgage.
tint this infernal Property-tax
“Keen cool, sir, keep cool. And your writing?
“WelF what’s a poor guinea a line? And yet
1 well° voumuStekea'spen. 6 First feed up like
. Ssaswaaa
l!2Sd’nS paid for. and ’), take a trip to Europe,
i well takc the world easy (man in possession
so fa snoring heavily), and you’ll soon
fn-riffhts. My fee is one guinea.” Interval.
Cough one hour, and then .
The stilly nights— falsely so called, for to
lne buuj uj s r [ o t a nd tumult run mad.
the fe v erish ™ tw j n k ling through the light cur-
-7ms S at the window quits his native seat, and be-
a raving lunatic, careering up and down
comes a ravmg m Tho trains that go shriek-
ed hv outsWe are pursued by nameless furies
ID % the sounds seem to die away in the distance,
and as the sounus them like the winds. You
?°iw the aff righted monster over mountains, and
foliow the anng gts> and as lt descends the
t*? r ° a fGorges or darts with its long flaming trail
dismal gorges, fancy you can hear
shriek** of de y hght of the destroyers,
the helUsbsnr p ii e d-up carriages and the
the hideo u t 8 he c dying. You feel faint, and sit down
groans of the , lHere Jt dear> » sayB
and cry a tumbler of cold water is m
the d° and a wet towel is round your head,
your haA“, ana a ie and labe i an d spoon and
Grange are on a chair alongside. You find
bedroom, and the railway smash
L Die man tipping up a load of wood outside, and
—you cough again.
• • ■
Ttut travelling has also its joys. In one
B VV Jo visited we had riches and honour. We
country we visite, f a marble palace in
(? u " L «n d whi 1e at homo in humble Sydney, our
Venice, and, , a( . ua t,i C g had been felt on
choicest twice throuf? h the
occasion ot being theatrical critic at-
navigatmn of a hard a floated Bwan -iike in
tached to this staff, now "* dola> and i ooke d
our own bo answered back when the bright
into dark eyes t ans Mark , p> and amor ous lays
mooa over the silver Adriatic. Oh
came murmurm„ , dowers a nd new suits
the bilT“nd boote soled Ind heeled for a
without the bill, ana Doouio the cba nge
shilling, aT^ d And one day, as wo
°t a pound m your r de i p o polo, chinking
woujd .<»™
charmM rS WPto& with a «oWen *oW«t that
turned into a porcelain cup and spoon, and the
streets closed in with wall paper, and the pillows
were wedged into our backs, and we heard—“ Time
for your medicine,” and we coughed again.
« • •
And, now, dear, remove the bellows and
the paper, and hand me my trusty ham- bone and
the sonorous boiler-lid, for I would trill a little
refrain to its dulcet accompaninent:—•
When chillest penury surrounds,
And everything goes bung,
I cough the rosy hours away,
Content with half a lung.
I sing of love or roguery,
As poets erst have sung,
A full voiced chaunt to gladden men.
Albeit with half a lung.
I’ve no more confidence in men
Than has good Mr. Young,
Yet gaily sing the world’s sweet ways,
And yet with half a lung.
Oh, say not that my brain was turned,
When my last dirge is sung.
But put it on the " cousrhin,”
That ho died with half a lung.
a priest her intention to be a nun, he cunningly
contrived to introduce to her a young Catholic,
who had joined the church, who by dint of des-
perate endeavours has won the three million
maiden. Her blunt father says: “Let the girl
have her own way;” but it’s at this point that
Mamma Mackay intervenes—A pearl fishery is
being worked near Panama. A monster pearl,
rivalling in size most of the historic ones, was
found in December last. It has been named the
“ Lesseps.” The largest pearl known is in Beres-
ford Hope’s collection ; it is pear-shaped, two
inches deep, and four and a half inches in circum-
ference, weighing three ounces. The “Pilgrim
Pearl,” of Moscow, weighs twenty-four carats,
and is diaphanous. Philip 11. of Spain pos-
sessed a Pauama pearl said to be worth £4OOO
“ Your father is worth at least half a million, is he
not ?” said he to his jealous sweetheart. “ That is
true,” she murmured. “ And yet you doubt my
love,” he replied, in an injured tone—“No, sir,
my daughter can never be yours.” “I ddn’t want
her to be my daughter,” broke in the young
ardent, “I want her to be my wife.” The lady
to whom Mr. Oscar Wilde is engaged to be married
is Miss Constance Lloyd, daughter of the late
Horace Lloyd, Q.C.
VANITY FAIR.
Two men were arrested in a Boston
Theatre, and charged with theft, for taking down
the play of “Young Mrs. Winthorp” in short-
hand... Woolner, the sculptor, has been com-
missioned to carve Mary Anderson in marble. He
has a rather nice job Madame Bistori has built
herself a large and handsome palace in Borne.
She is socially a very popular woman.. .A* Abbey’s
new Metropolitan Opera House, New York, per-
forated pipes run about the front of each row of
chairs, and distribute hot or cold air according to
the season of the year The Rev. Stephen Glad-
stone draws a larger stipend as rector at Hawar
den (pronounced Harden) than his father does
for acting as Prime Minister of England....
'Tis an old saying that an oyster may be crossed m
love. ’Tis a new one that that delicious bivalve
can be imitated by art. Yet the Bordeaux native,
a tasty morsel served on a real oyster shell, is the
product of human skill. This industry, it stands
to reason, can only be carried on properiy where
the shells of the real oyster can be obtained in
abundance Brown has been popular at homo
weddings. At the marriage of Lord Wolmer to
Lady Maud Cecil, the bridesmaids combined white
surah and coffee brown in a most daring style, and
their head-dresses were all of brown feathers.
The emblematic pure white could scarcely be worn
by some of the aristocratic brides now-a-days,
unless they ignore its significance. Fancy the
Countess of Shrewsbury in pure white!
Speaking of the taste shown by youthful brides in
preferring flowers to jewels, when standing at the
altar, Madge says:—‘‘You see, the flowers could
never have been at a wedding before, whereas the
jewels may have been at any number, so that they
miss the suggestion of freshness given by the
bridal bouquet.” A very successful novel, bear-
ing the peculiar title “ Thy name is Truth,” was
published anonymously. It is now acknowledged
to be written by the daughter of the proprietor of
the Dublin Freeman’s Journal. The workings
of a large English newspaper office, both mecha-
nical and editorial, are admirably described
The proprietors of a Curiosity Museum in the
Bowery, New York, lately decided that a marriage
between a lad of 16 in their employ (David Moses)
and their giantess, Miss Blanche Gr»y, would draw
well David objected to undertake so much
responsibility; for Blanche weighs 517 pounds, and
is steadily increasing in weight 51bs a month. At
last, however, liberal promises and a cheque for
1000 dollars overcame his scruples, so one night
the public curtain rose on the marriage scene.
The bride and bridegroom were joined ; the best
man made a speech ; the clown indulged in all
sorts of antics; and the bridegroom walked round
Mrs. Moses, contemplating her proportions with
dismay and apprehension. The clergyman at-
tempted a hiccoughing speech and was pulled
away by the clown; and as a number of spectators
climbed on to the stage and began embracing the
bride, or at any rate, each taking a part of her,
the curtain was dropped on the scene
The story runs that when Miss Eva Mackay,
daughter of the Bonanza millionaire, confided to
It was announced that the Union Bible
Christian church down at Creswick (Vic.) would
have three services on Sunday. Miss Sleep would
preach in the morning, Mrs. Bettis in the after-
noon, and Mrs. Beadle in the evening, it looked
as it the party who telegraphed this information
to the capital was a wag, and it was likely that the
editor who paid for the telegram swore. It was
hard to find the part of the paragraph where the
fun lay. We couldn’t see it in the preachers, for
they were very old; nor in the wag, although he
laughed like a hyena. The picture of an editor,
with his nose inked, forking out cash for that tele-
gram, and swearing at the distant wag, seemed to
be the right lay. We looked in on him. But,
gosh! we were deceived again. The picture was
right enough, as far as the inked nose and the
forking out were concerned, but there he was sit-
ting, smiling sweetly, and believing the item a piece
of very interesting information. Now we think
of it, that’s where the fun lay V. »
NOCTURNE.
A red moon hanging very high,
Flame-colour, Hushing all the west,
Like the red ibis’ tiery crest;
A moauiug sea, a sullen sky ;
And on the sombre shore, hard by,
The salt grey waves, whose wild unrest
Tells some dim woe in the sea’s breast;
A man who seemeth like to die—
“ And oh,” he cries, “ the red, red moon! ”
“ And ah,” he moans, “ the salt, salt sea!
I have sought my love from morn to noon,
From morn till night—till night, ah, me.”
Lo, here her footprint he espied,
And laid him down in it and died.
Woman Hems
She is better now, and we’ve fixed the
broom-handle with a tin plate. “What’s up?”
Oh, only a little domestic difference ! She wanted
to learn fencing 1 , and to go to the gymnasium in a
“ tight-fitting, high-necked garment of claret-
coloured or sky-blue material reaching to the
knees, with tricots and plastrons to correspond.”
We have since offered a large price for the head of
the Viennese correspondent of the Herald on a
charger. Or on a mule will do.
Here is a true love story—at least so it is
styled by Vanity Fair Last autumn, among the
guests at a shooting lodge in Stratherrick, Scot-
land, there was a young and beautiful Australian
lady with £3OOO a year of her own. She moved
about a good deal with the shooting parties, and
so had opportunities of observing a good-looking
young underkeeper. Observation begat fancy,
and fancy begat love. She proposed, was accepted
and is now married to the lucky gamekeeper. The
happy pair are about to proceed to Australia.
Read this“ It is said that a great many
marriages in the lower classes in Switzerland are
avowedly entered upon with the understanding
ihat if after a year’s trial the husband and wife do
not suit each other, they shall givg in anoint ap-
plication for divorce on the ground of ‘incompati-
bility of temper." Now, this is a par. that’s
calculated just to make one jolly. Banish e’en
the sharpest grief, dispel all melancholy. Lot us
pack up quick, and hie us to some picturesque
Swiss town. Let us fly. * * * The stars denote
just where the besom broom came down.
AT A PICNIC.
She stood from the crowd alone,
And her face was passing lair—
Fair as a queen on a throne,
And crowned with golden hair.
Her eyes were like diamonds dark—
“ May I have the next dance, I beg?”
She crushed me with the remark,
“ You can’t; I’ve a wooden leg.”
This is a little romance from over the sea,
which corroborates only too truly the wisdom of
the ancient Weller’s adviee, There was a fascina-
tng Tasmanienne, round and rosy, a widow. Call
her Birdie. One day the virtuous partner of an
affluent mercantile man, a staid member of the
church, too, went merrily through her domestic
duties; and among them was the one which with
true wifely loyalty she never neglected—that of
searching his pockets. This morning she was
rewarded. The little pink note ran:-“Dear
Charlie. Be at Post Office to-morrow at 8. Love
and lots of kisses. Birdie,.” That night after
tea the staid church member explained to his wife
that he had to “go back to the Office,” and she
said, “ Poor hubby ! I should so like to help you in
your work.” Half an hour later, hubby w»s at
the “ office.” It was the Post Office, and Birdie
had just come tripping smilingly round the corner,
when the commiserationg wife appeared on the
scene. By the time she had done “ helping ” him,
hubby had a richly-coloured Buchanan eye, while
Birdie was knocked out in one round, with her
smile and her skirts severely demoralised, and her
bonnet and bustle having alike lost their original
fascinating contour. Birdie is now in Sydney.
Whether the climate caused it, or en-
thusiasm resulted in some mistake, or whether
they merely illustrated the natural course of
events, we can’t say—but the other day the wife
of a Townsville man presented him with the un-
expected gift of four girl babies. They were
simultaneous babies, and even the lady most im-
mediately concerned, admitted that she could not
exactly account for the peculiarly wholesale way
in which they arrived. The local Jeames lost no
time in calling on the surprised a"d delighted
father, and after they had jointly and critically
examined the four strangers, he remarked that at
their then interesting stage, it was difficult to
determine the identity of any one given young
lady. “ Yes,” replied the puzzled parent, “there’s
some trouble ahead, I’m afraid. You see, they
have different coloured ribbons on their arms;
but the nurse has to be somewhat particular when
she washes those babes. If they once get mixed,
the family’s done. You ask how I feel about it ?
Well, if I had only had half the luck in my busi-
-1 ness that I have in my social speculations, I’d be
a millionaire. I had three girl children on hand
before these came. If I only had one boy in the
business, it would help me feel better about these
recent numerous arrivals.” Jeames suggested
that in a little while, as they grew older, the
trouble would not be so bad. The comprehensive
parent shook his head as he said, gloomily, “You
mean well; but you can’t take the trouble off me.
When these babies grow up to be young ladies,
there’ll be aheap of trouble among their beaux—
to say nothing of dresses, and they must all wear
something. Why, a young man might be engaged
to Laura—that’s the one with the green ribbon,
no, the red—no that’s Jennie, and the blue is
Katie, or Annie, I’m not sure—but anyhow, he’s
just as likely to marry Annie and never discover
his mistake. But I suppose the girls would know.”
The reporter thought they likely would, and as
he bowed out, the quadruplex father continued,
“ Yes. I don’t mind saying I’m a bit staggered, be-
cause I didn’t expect it, you know; but still I am
very proud of my domestic success.” And he
went in to sort them over again.
“Never kiss the maid when you can kiss
the mistress.” This is good enough advice for
almost anybody. It’s the course we have always
pursued ourselves. When we hear of a man de-
liberately reversing this very sensible proceeding,
we think it’s our duty to let the public know. In
New Zealand, the parents of two influential and
fashionable households agreed that the eldest son
of one should marry a charming daughter in the
other. The young people acquiesced; and even if
they didn’t love one another passionately, they
were just as much attached as the parties gener-
ally are in society matches, and more so. The day
was named. The young man often spent the even-
ing at the house of his fiancee’s parents, and occa-
sionally slept in the “spare room,” as the place
was some distance out of town. The bride elect
had an exceedingly pretty maid, and being on
gracious terms, talked with her about her lover in
that interesting and warm way in which ladies so
situated often do. And the maid listened, and
echoed the praises uttered by her mistress. One
morning the lady rose early, and intending to go
for a walk, rang for her maid Hebe. The sum-
mons was not answered as promptly as usual.
Going over to her room, the lady entered. Pretty
Hebe was not there! Another servant was sum-
moned, who, after some reluctant evasion, com-
municated certain facts which indicated where the
lady might And her maid. She resolved she would
find her. Papa was sent for, and the lover’s
room was entered. Voila! Any denials would
have been a work of supererogation, because, you
know, the fact of a prepossessing maiden putting
her head under the bed-clothes can scarcely be
accepted as a proof that she is not there. The
wroDged bride “ went off.” In about ten minutes,
the wronged bride’s gay lover and the wronged
bride’s giddy handmaiden also went off—into the
street. They went together; and let us do the
young man justice, he is now married to the Hebe.
But, kiDd readers, read on, please, just three lines
more. Oh! woman! A short week had hardly
passed since all these naughty things—all outraged
society’s sympathies were being shed in deluges of
tittle-tattle over the cruel fate of poor deceived
Ariadne—when society’s crocodile sobs were sud-
denly choked. The heart-broken bride had eloped
with another young fellow.
• « •
The American Consul at Crefeld has re-
ported to his Government that all the marriages
between American girls and Germau noblemen of
which he has heard (thirty-one in number) have
resulted in divorce, abandonment, or separation.


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
3=Bi-tS
-7
■S3
EASY TERMS SYSTEM INSTRUMENT.
OZESGh-^SiTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALIIVG,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO..
IROH, MY, and HI MUtfTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES*
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
MACHINERY.
PUMPS,
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
ffttVios Drilling, Punehing and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
, Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
and Screwing
WOOD-WORKING IHACHINERT.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines tor both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
fiimrlp Double. and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rake’s, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Larire Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
B and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling- their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate an thgse symDtoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, bv whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name ana trade mark. The
Laboiainry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG- & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
SMS*
llMin.: 1
jj£J!|WV;3
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
HaveaTw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKERcand SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MW.V SONS’
Kdinbuvgn Pale 4ie.
PAPEIiR AN GIN G S!
with
DADOEB. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to ruatou,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite H unter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &e.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ" aad.erta,]s©r,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sifcteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
7
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
mr THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off ftho Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The on y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
0T Each PLUG Is STAMPED with toe word
1 EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Stall’s Tobacco Go., Lin.
AT TifE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT ANT) CLARENCE STREETS,
Anri ouq be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
‘mitstlon*.
0 o,
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
|y WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
V
CHAMPION RACE, 1884.
EVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
Capital £2500, in 5000 shares of 10s. each.
About 150 Prizes—
£l226 for Horses, and £1275 for Stars, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
Five stars of £2O each, £100; 12 stars of £lO each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £2OO.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programme similar to that of last year’s
Champion Meeting, .v 11 parties are requested to
forward draft, P.O. orders, or cheques; if cheques,
exchange must be added, and in all cases postage
fees; registered letters only received. Applica-
tion, by letter only, addressed “Adamastor,” care
of L. A. Pereira, Edgcumbe’s Hotel, Dean-street,
Albury, N.S.W. P. B.—Results sent to every share-
holder. Sydney agency discontinued.
Foster 's Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
_ _
m
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE I
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively oared bjr Mt/ULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. Wa mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. Thero are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correot DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made ef the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Hold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
BAU -d
jA
/N-
Yt
mar
BOAR’B HEAD STOUT.—This favourite braaa
of Stout selected with great care from the
beet of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To bo procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO.. Sole Agent*.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
nourishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price. 4s. 6d. Sold everyw cere. Sole Proprietors,
MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.8., Pharmacists,
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
N.B.—All imitations illegal.


F
OR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS,
Glenmore-road,
Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen, —Some few weeks ago, I was sc
severely affected with indisposition as to rendei
my rising each morning u matter of difficulty anci
Fain, on account of severe pains in my back ; anc
was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him
sell had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for ray work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what use you please of it.
Fours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABbE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers ami Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c„ caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in tho
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
German with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of.the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land,
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
Biz.
~.;, . ■ ! i
US
■
’
-
■msbl
II
1
Rowlands’ JErated Waters and Cordials.
Very few more important discoveries have been
made in the colonies than that which brought to
light the undeniably great value of the mineral
springs at Ballarat. These waters, which flow
from unknown depths, have constituent parts of
the greatest value for the manufacture of rerated
waters, and, as might be expected, the products of
the local factories found ready markets thousands
of miles away from the locale of the works.
1 rotessor A. M. Smith, and our own Government
scientist, Professor Watt, have submitted this
Ballarat spring water to scientific test, and they
find it to contain over 33grains of solid matter per
gallon, consisting chiefly of chlorides and magne-
sium and lime salts. With this splendid water, the
like of which is not procurable here-the Sydney
water being entirely without lime of any kind—
Rowlands Aerated Works at Ballarat are gradually
commanding the whole markets of Australasia.
Their works are situated oh the site of the purest
springs of Ballarat, and immense business is done,
giving constant employment to 180 hands.
Ail the principal houses of Melbourne—the hotels,
olubs, &c.— are now supplied by Rowlands, the
bottles being packed in casks and cases; and the
article be sends out no more suffers by competi-
tion owing to distance, than does British beer
ana porter, or Irish or Scotch whisky, of known
brands. Mr. Rowlands has now established an
extensive depot at 31 and 33 Hunter-street, whence
supplies are forwarded to the principal hotels and
clubs about Sydney. There must be some natural
excellence to enable the waters to find a pood
market here. The figures are high, but it is con-
tended that only the better class of trade is
catered for. Recent cables announced that Mr.
Rowlands’ exhibits had won highest awards and
gold medal at the Calcutta Exhibition. The prin-
cipal lines from Mr. Howlands’ factories are the
celebrated Soda Water, Seltzer Water. Potass
Water, Tonic, Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Vigorine,
Lime.iuice Champagne, and a host of cordials of
various kinds. The purity of the whole line of
manufacture is guaranteed. Any person desirous
of testing these splendid waters may inspect before
purchase by calling at the Sydney depot, 31 and 33
Hunter-street, Sydney. Appended is Professor
Watts’ (Government Analyst) report on the cele-
brated Ballarat water
1 Albert-street, Sydney, 23rd January, 1884.
E. Rowlands, Esq.
Sir,—The sample of water received from you
has been found to contain 33*28 grains of solid
matter, per gallon (residue dried at 100*C). The
soluble portion of this contains chiefly chloride of
sodium, with tra'ces of magnesium salts. The in-
soluble portion consists almost entirely of carbon-
ates of lime and magnesia. The water contains
mere truces of ammonia, and is remarkably free
from organic matter, and should therefore be ex-
ceptionally well fitted for the purposes to which
it is applied. The sample of soda-water was found
to be free from injurious metallic contamination.
Chas. Wait.
DROUSIETOWN.
“ Nothing coming, nothing going,
All things drowsy, Drousletown.”
Robert Buchanan,
(“The White Rose and Red,”)
You are going to get something new, this
time ; something l Arcadian and bucolic ; some-
thing that will recall to you the smell of the now-
mown hay, the bleat of the gambolling lamb, the
low of the pensive oxen. We arc building this up
by moonlight, having just returned from a noc-
turnal ride We were afraid to take off our spurs
for fear of breaking the spell ; our whip is on the
table before us ; and our saddle, resplendent with
German silver stirrups, is astride upon the filter.
When we set up a horse wo resolved to do the
thing properly, and there is such a hippie smack
about our costume and accessories that we are
doubtful if there was a horse ever foaled which
could yield an amount of riding proportionate to
our equipment. When wo purchased the steed,
the man who sold it said : “ He’s a lively little ’oss,
sir, just up to your weight.” The latter part of
the statement wo are unable conscientiously to
endorse, chietly because our acquaintance having
been as yet but a short one, our purchaso has not,
so far, honoured us with his coniidence in this re-
gard—but he is certainly “ lively.’ 4 Ho is a horse
of strong inclinations, and is as full of objections
as a police-court lawyer. Ho has such a strong
objection to being caught, for instance, that when
we contemplate an afternoon ride we go out to
catch him shortly after 11 a.m„ and generally suc-
ceed in getting him hitched up about tea-timei
One day we couldn’t catch him at all, so, in our
despair, appealed lor aid to the schoolmaster, hero,
who kindly gave us the loan of the first trigo-
nometry class, by means of whose help Buce-
phalus was, at length, conquered. But even when
we have saddled up, our difficulties are not at an
end. Once try and get on him, and he commences
to rotate like the ily-wheel of a Hour-mill. On
more than one occasion, when faint with fatigue
in our endeavours to mount, we have been obliged
to appeal for succour to the constabulary—a most
excellent officer, of whom more anon-and have
thus been enabled, after another struggle, to hoist
ourselves into the saddle. As he sidles down the
street, we glance furtively into the window of the
little store, and are conscious of possessing a Fred
Archer-like appearance ; but once we essay a trot
or a canter, our inward conscience tells us that we
present but a feeble spectacle. The very cattle
we meet upon the road appear to eye us with re-
proachful amazement; and our advent in any
village seems to lash every dog within a radius of
four miles into a paroxysm of fury. “ You’ll soon
get into it,” say the rustic populace, encourag-
ingly ; and they are very generous with their
advice. Drousietown's “oldest inhabitant” said
to us : “If you want to get your horse into an
easy canter, give him the spur freely and hold him
in.” We did this when four miles away, where
naught broke the stillness of the forest air but
the answering cries of the gorgeous plumaged birds
as they winged—or, is it “ wung ?”—their airy
flight from tree to tree—we did it, we say, and wo
limped back.
You want to know where Drousietown is,
of course. Well, it’s hardly anywhere, You start
from Wisdomville, on the Murray, cross over in a
punt, and find the noble city hidden behind a
clump of prickly pears. We journeyed thither
about noon, and all we saw on the way was two or
three oows in a condition of profound mental
abstraction, and a man fast asleep under a tree.
The punt was dozing on our side as we reached
the river, and the men, exhausted by the apparent
Stagnation of business, were stretched in the
shade, gazing moodily at the river as it whirled and
eddied by. [lt is a great thing, by the way, when
talking of a river, to say that, it “whirled and
eddied,” but it is a greater thing still, when talk-
ing of a few feeble hills bordering a turnip field, to
write “ and stretching far away to the westward
is a chain of lofty mountains upon tho lofty peaks
of which every colour flashes, every shade re-
poses.” Once be able to reel off copy in this style,
and your fortune’s made—in prospective.] We
told the punt-men wo should like to cross; and
they appeared, on the whole, surprised. But they
were courteous in the extreme, it was a splendid
punt, only it took sotno time fixing up; as one
man had to tighten a wire rope bv means of a
windlass, another to see to the chains, and a third
to grease the machinery, and test the steam-con-
taining power of the boiler. At, length everybody
was thoroughly awakened, and, the engines being
started, we went over ar. a g rent rate. There is a
very strong current in Ihe Hunter Itiver, and at
times the wire rope bioaks. i hen tho punt,
“Startled like a young g y.eljo ’ (we’re going it >
is carried on the undulating b -sc.tu of me tide as
far as Newcastle, and ignominious!y towed back
by a steam-launch.
Just over the punt is au hotel nestling
amongst trees, and surmounted by vines, and
geraniums, and carrots, and other exotics. It is
so primitive an hotel that it almost, if wc may
state it so—and why not, since this is a free coun-
try ?—borders on the primirval. We entered a bar
which was rather under the size of a grand piano
ease, and knocked on the counter with a silver
coin of som» value. After about ton minutes, a
little girl with a piece of bread and treacle came
in, and, seeing us, said “ Hullo, man!” “Hullo!”
we replied. Then she trotted out, and subse-
quently we heard her saying to rather a comely-
looking young woman who was hanging
up clothes: “Go and look. There’s such
a hugly man in tho bar.” After solacing
ourselves with a read of the advertisement sheet
of the Maitland Meltcuuy forabout ten minutes,
we conceived the happy idea of clinking together
two bottles, which stood upon an un-ended cask,
in order to deludo the proprietary into tho idea
that we were devastating tho bar. Presently a
tall, good-humoured man slouched in, rubbing his
eyes. “Ho had,” ho explained, “ been having a
‘ lay down.’ ” Arrived at Drousietown. we entered
a little store-there are only two there—to pur-
chase some trilling article of drapery. The only
person in the shop was a vacant boy, who had out-
grown himself, and who appeared much discom-
fited by our advent.. “He didn’t,” he said, “in
reply to our modest request, “know nothun
about it.” “ Where’s your master?” we enquired.
“Out a scoopunj*’ be answered, dropping a mar-
ble. “And your mistress." “She—oh, she’s
havin’ a ‘lay down,’” he replied; and proceeded
to wind up a top with great deliberation. We then
went out into the sunshine, which was darting its
golden arrows [three columns of gorgeous de-
scription held over until next market-day.—hiD B.]
* v *
“Seoopun,” which is “Drousietown” for
scooping, is an alluring pastime much favoured by
the Drousietownites. (This par., we must state, is
en parenthetic.) When we commenced to get popu-
lar here, a number of well-meaning, miscreants
invited us to a night of this captivating sport. We
showed up about 10 p.m. at a little wharf, at which
steamers of a curious build come coughing up
several times weekly, to take away the pressed
lucerne—the principle industry here—which the
farmer’s union consigns to Brunker and Woll'e for
sale at the Sydney markets. Our attire consisted
of a pair of pants borrowed from the schoolmaster,
and the goloshes of a worthy, though aged citizen.
These, supplemented by a light overcoat, which
we used to wear over our dress clothes, and a hat
belonging to the younger son of a publican, com-
pleted our equipment. The boat we went in was a
galley of several tons burden, and was propelled
by sweeps, the manipulation of which was only
adapted to the strength of a giant. In a tin can in
the stern were several gallons of beer, which
would, were it drunk in sufficient quanti-
ties, depopulate any country; and the idea
of the whole affair was that the crew (some
eight strong) should pull as hard as hard as
they coul.l until the scooper, who stood in
the bows with a net, should spot a shoal of fish
whereupon he scoopod for them- and hardly ever
got any. Often, when he scooped, he would bring
up one little benighted mullet no longer than a
pipe-stem; but he never failed to besprinkle the
crew and the beer at every dip with the brackish
water of the Hunter. This diverting sport lasted
until 3 a.m.,. when the fish being divided vielded to
each of the Nimrods a splendid breakfast for a
child of 10.
• • •
Drousietown, as its name implies, is fast
asleep. During the day there is no sound at all,
and during the night all that floats upon the noc-
turnal breezes Is the barking* of the local dogs.
4 PAGES.
8 PAGES.
The Enlargement of the D.T. has created quite a bustle in
social circles.
We (always having been rather extravagant in our
ideas) have three dogs: and every night three
other dogs, with whom they have formed an
acquaintance, come and see them. When things
are on an amicable footing, all the meeting does is
to gambol bn the verandah with a noise like thun-
der; but when the religious element is introduced
into their conversation, and they disagree, they
adjourn to the back to have it out in the kitchen,
and bang about the buckets to such an extent that
the Presbyterian clergyman here stated, confiden-
tially, to the constabulary, over a game of draughts
at the School of Arts, that he continually dreamed
at night that Von Moltke was advancing in full
force on Drousietown No door is ever kept
shut in Drousietown; so, often when you return
home from a convivial meeting, you see a cow
meditatively discussing the geraniums in the front
garden, two goats in your bedroom, and a startled
fawn—we mean, foal—on the sofa in the parlour.
When our own canine friends are unvisited, and
there is no dog club, they entertain themselves by
baying at the moon. As we chiefly write at nigh ,
tbi-i is to a certain extent company, but when deep
in the throes of poetic composition, we find ar,
times the liveliness of our foot-footed watcheis
a little monotonous. On these dreary occasioi s
we go out and shell the canine “push” with
cobble-stones, each one of the dogs being of the
retriever breed, they bring back the missiles with
unswerving accuracy and imperturbable good
humour. Drousietown is rather an important
place, judged by the number of its public build-
ings. Tt contains three churches, a corresponding
number of Sunday-schools, two stores, three
public-houses, a Government school, a School of
Arts, and a lock-up-a truly gorgeous stmeture
rather lsrver than the Sydney “Central.” This
provisional penitentiary is bossed by tao Con-
stabulary before mentioned, and there is a legend
in the township that it has never contained but
one prisoner—a drunken selector, who knocked
the Constabulary up in the middle of the ni-iht,
under the impression that he was seekiag admit-
tance to the best hotel. For all the Drousietown
police force has to do in the way of preserving
peace and order, be might lie on his back and sing
comic songs all day; or else, as the papers have it,
“ make a good living at home, irrespective of his
oidinary occupation,” by kilting at reduced rates,
or taking in “pinking.” The school is a neat
Gothic building, which has, however, so sunk in
its foundations that when once the doors are
closed, they get jammed so tight that the teacher
has to proclaim a half-holiday while the combined
classes tug at the handles with a clothes-line. The
schoolmaster is a young gentleman of—to quote
the News’ reports—“great personal attractions,”
and though without the boils of the late Blank
.Job, Esq., he has all his patience. Thoreare about
120 scholars, whose ages vary from 18 months to
18 years. Some of them bring feeding-bottles and
rattles, and usually go to sleep after the first half-
hour, and are, in consequence, generally oblivious
until “school goes out,.” Yet, it is recorded that
on one occasion, after a baby had been at her
studies three months, the father called round on
the teacher armed with an oak club, and wanted
to know bow far she was into the second book of
".Tewclit.” The storekeepers of Drousietown
are courteous to obsequiousness. They never, of
course, have anything you want, but they are un-
tiring in displaying what they have got. So much
so, indeed, that the other day when we went in to
match some pink ribbon (which they were out of,
but which was expected daily) we were within an
ace of purchasing a horse-rake and a duck-musket.
* * *
The School of Arts is an imposing structure
■designed after the Gneco-Dubbo style, by an archi-
tect who was unwell. It contains a rather spacious
h dl, a reading-room, and a committee-room ; the
latter apartment having been consigned to us for
our sole u 8» and benefit, except at such dread
times as the committee sit, or the Good Templars
or Oddfellows hold their revels. The library con-
tains a spectral collection of dog-eared and muti-
lated novels, and bound periodicals in a similar
predicament; while the array of papers is such as
to cast a shadow of melancholy on the soul. At
th« solicitation of the G.W.T. here, we joined the
Good Templars, and have been enjoying ourselves
ft KFOftt deal ever since. The ceremony of joining
I is vey imposing, but they won’t let you write all
about it in a newspaper. This, however, we can
say, without fear of excommunication They
give you a pass-word, and when you meet a man
and want to test him, you draw him out of tlu
public-house up the lane where the prickly pears
are, and try him forthwith. “Jinks?” say you;
and if he replies “ Bolger,” you t now ho is a
good Templar, and borrow something. This is as
far as we have got in the Order at present. There
is one thing, by the way, in connection with tem-
perance, which should be noted. The moment
you join the Good Templars you imagine every
man you meet smells of rum. The other evening,
when at an evening party given by the Sexton of
Grapeton-a neighbouring village—it was our lot,
in an aesthetic game of all-fours, to be placed be-
side a veneraDle gontleman with long white hair.
After the game was over, we drew our host aside
into the cow-stable, and said “ The old boy has
been loading up.” “ Sir,” was the reply, “ that
gentleman is now 76 years of age, and for 75 years
11 months 30 days and 35 hours he has never
akon anything stronger than peppermint.” “ But
iow do you know ?” “ How do I know ? Sir—ho
smy father.” Hem I Good night 1 I
* * *
Luoerne hay being, at present, £5 a ton,
Irousietown is comparatively prosperous; and
verybody appears to have something to spend on
ark brandy and saddlery. Yet no one seems to
are about improving his dwelling-house. In
point of architecture Drousietown gleams with
but a paled lire. The old post-olnce was opposite
the school, and the postmaster, in those days, used
to eke out his salary (£3O per annum) by selling
toothache and copy-books to tho scholars. But
the march of civilization has brought, in its stride,
a new post-office, and a fresh postmaster, who is
also furnished with a telephone in order that he
may communicate, in cases of urgency, with Wis-
domville. The new post-office is big enough to
pach several suits of clothes in, and the postmaster
is one perambulating heap of affability. There is
a mail-boy, too, attached to the establishment,
who is rather over six feet, and “bearded like a
pard.” He, too, must have inherited at least the
counterpane of Beau Brummell, for he has a pol-
ished manner that is not to be acquired in these
degenerate times. The most imposing building,
perhaps, in the township is the Presbyterian
Church, which is a white structure with a steeple
liae a pepper-castor. The gentleman who holds
l orth there is earnest to a degree, and, considering
1 hat often his congregation consists of lire boys
land half a dozen girls, ho is the more to bo com-
mended for having tho command of eloquence
even under adverse circumstances. And the more
so, .when it is considered that all the girls have
(heir ‘chaps” waiting outside, and every boy has
an apple in his pocket.
* * *
The adults of Drousietown have a soul
above education. They do not even care for
politics; their worldly spirit hovering continually
about lucerne. They talk about it, chew it, look
at it, think of it, gloat over it, and, in all proba-
bility, dream about it. Talk to a resident about,
say, Wordsworth’s wondrous sonnet on the “ Sing
ing of a Shell,” and he will commence poking the
mud off tho sole of his boot with a piece of stick.
But once mention the magic word “Lucerne”
and his face Hushes, his eyes sparkle, his ears flap
forward, and he is a different man. He don’t care
about tho spondees; all he is thinking about is the
spons.”
• • •
And so we leave Drousietown, just as we
found it, fast asleep. And so, with our hand upon
our heart, wo leave the admiring reader. [Thank
Heaven, thore’s ho egotism in this paper!— En. B.j


at e-no
MAR&I
[trade)
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
oming fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. —To guard against fraudulent imitations.
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 330 OatfQr&street, London.”
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 339 Oxf or(L-street, London."
ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
L£S 11 and CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
HT TIME PAYMENTS, IP REQUIRED.
iR.BURGIS
TAILOR..
IBs ■■■■•
A
mm
JiJlit "if
'
Sr . /
gr VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, ITO PITT STREET,
JOB
CHEAPNESS, PIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams lor self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony,
IT B
L I
C NOTICE.
M El. & CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
h"ml m
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when wgII matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The groat demand
for this old Irish brand m England, Scotland, and
the Colonics is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG. KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., IMstillcrs. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BKIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
ars hall's Fluid
£XTRAGTofI)ANDELiON
~or Liver Complaints.
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
TS. MARKET STREET
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. W ABE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILD NGS,
Corner Gcorgrc & Market Streets, Sydney.
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing: Gas,
Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
IH I
ORNL’
win
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOItNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGII-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS,
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. Tho extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“ Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, ana I always do so
When occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. HAYES.”
Mexia, Texas, Juno 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to tho
whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass*
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitio taint, may’be made healthy and Btrong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for 96*
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
wr THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY 9
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex, <■ rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ ' hiskey Doctors.’
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IS&" 308 GEORGE STREET.
'Sf4£flßATo*
8^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
ISr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTER BEFORE
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHZ and WHICEEE3.
. Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thin, and
| will do it on cither bald head or
bare fate, force* heavy If out ■
tachein from 2 to \ weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
tEFOne afteh
Copyrighted
3 pkti. No injury, easily applied , ecrtain in effect. Packets Is. 6<f.
earh, 3 for 'is. 6d.,post paid, sent under cover-, free from observation.
jAddrese, Frank Dougina, Sole Agent,Box 730, G.P.0., Sydncy,N.S. W•
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
sewing
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNB,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WALWTTI
Wood,
&c. &c. &e.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 QEOIIQE STREET.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged aa
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST ami Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMER FIELD & €«>., whoso chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADENH ALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PKOBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London. „ . _
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
THE PEOPLE'S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
I iU. Warranted first quality
[ v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
tPmm TS IQfiMAR'KE JST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKIBL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraeted Painlessly
ZOEDONE
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcohoLo beverage acta as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing auv intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is or great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonio
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen ]4 pints ...21/-
.. „ .. 6 „ l „ .. 34/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney,
OILS.
<s
WALL
PAPERS
Office : 330 George-sireet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
KST N.B. Pattern* and Prices sent.
r
imb
LLAS
REMOVE BE D
STUDY economy;
and
Have you rUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
Gil George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts,
Paranoia made to match cos,
turnes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted


ACROSS THE GREAT CONTINENT.
PASSENGERS to England have the choice of
studying the ocean horizon for two months,
or ot viewing the United States. A trip across
the territory of the Great Republic costs nothing,
and avoids the monotony of an unbroken sea
voyage.
TRAVEL TO EUROPE VIA SAN FRANCISCO.
THE GREAT BURLINGTON ROUTE
run through Express Trains to New York every
day, and is universally conceded to be the Finest
Equipped Railroad in the world for all classes of
travel.
FOR SPEED, GORGEOUS SCENERY, AND
COMFORT, IT IS UNRIVALLED.
T. I>. McKAY,
General Agent, San Francisco.
Connects direct either by Northern or Southern
Route in Union Depots with through trains via
Niagara Falls, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Washing-
ton, New York, Boston, and all Eastern Cities.
Pullmann Palace 16-Wheel Dining and Sleeping
Cars run only on this line.
32— MONTGOMERY STREET-32.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
READ IT ALL.
It may Savs your Life.
hop bitters
ABE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED EROM
Hops, Illicit it, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘of all other bitters, being the greatost
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trilling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘ drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP HITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to aH the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiM suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM*
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. Bd.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, Sta.
43 ERSKINK STREET.
Yyy W. TJ filfUTf,. nnrl all Otiaw*lafa
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Maud Masher.
A POMN.
With the author’s kindest [?] to
Maud Miller.
Maud Masher, on a summer’s day,
Did the “ Block ” in the usual way;
With her Langtry hat and sunny curls,
She was far more fetching than many girls.
Smiling she walked, and her merry eyes
Were blue in tint as the cloudless skies.
But when she glanced adown the street
Dusty and dry in the noontide heat—
The smile gave place to a look of pain,
A sort of look one can’t explain—
An anxious, “ will he come?” expression,
Which ofttimes tells the heart’s confession.
The Dude walked slowly down the path,
With vacant face and horsey scarf.
He raised his hat when to Maud he came,
And stopped, and called her by her name;
Then, taking her hand in his dainty kid,
He gently asked her how she did.
Poor Maudio blushed as the gorgoous swell
Expressed a hope she was “ pretty well.
And deeper still her colour grew
As she answered “ Yes, and how are you l
Then he spoke of races, fetes, and balls;
Of wealthy friends, ar d morning calls;
Of the Johnsons’ marriage, and wondered whetber
A pair like that would live long together;
And Maud forgot, as ho chatted there,
To arrange her ribbons or smooth her hair,
[ But listened, and in voice subdued
Mado trembling answer to the Dude.
At length, not having more to say,
He pressed her hand and walked away.
Maud Masher turned and looked, “Ah, me!
No other fellow talks like he;
Ho slanders chums in such airy style,
And blasts fair names with a winning smile;
And father says that his Treasury bortli
Five hundred a year, at least, is worth.
My fondest dream’s to be his bride,
And do the Block by his darling sido;
To dress in satins, silks, and laces,
And go to balls, and fetes, and races.”
The Dude looked back as he onward strode,
And saw Miss Masher cross the road:
i* Upon my soul, I’m fairly floored
Bv the artless ways of little Maud!
I like the air of sweet surprise
With which she swallows all my lies;
Her blush denotes a warm young heart—
By Jove, she gives ’em all a start!
There’s nothing nicer in Sydney town—
I’ve half a mind to settle down.”
But he thought of his father and mother —how
They were far too swell to “ know ” Maud now,
Though, people said, in years long gone
’Twas Maud’s papa had helped them on.
So, saying “ She’s pool', ’tis there’s the rub,”
He turned his footsteps to the Club.
But the waiters smiled that afternoon
As he hummed, o’er his chop, an old love tune;
And the maiden gazed, with a wistful eye,
At a bridal dress in a shop close by.
He wedded a wife with a splendid dot,
Who ran after actors and lived for show.
Major Sutherland, of the “ Harmy,” has
proved himself rather too muscular a Christian (?)
at VVallsond, a summons having been issued against
him for assault. The “ Harmy,” not content with
assaulting common sense and decency, now aims
at aping Wisdom and Buchanan in the matter of
nasal phlebotomy and funereal optics.
Mr. Samuel Birkett, a milkman, was sent
up lor 12 months in December last, by the Middle-
sex Bench, for assaulting pmily Brightly, aged 13,
under the following circumstances, lie opened
what he called a teacher’s class for encouraging
girls who hail left school to keep up their lessons.
A prize of not less than 10s. was to be given
monthly to each pupil. Another peculiarity about
his system was that ho only took one girl at a
time. When Mr. Brightley, “from information
received,” went to the prisoner’s house to bring
'his daughter homo, he found her crying, in an un-
furnished room, where she had been sent to learn
tables—and violated.
Mr. Corrie Grant lias incurred the wrath-
ful displeasuro of the London court of Aldermen,
through his having at the late Ipswioh election,
made the following statement:—“ He had been to
many of the London Corporation dinners pro-
fessionally, and had seen members of the Corpo-
ration so drunk that they had to be carried out by
servants, and yet these same men sat on the Bench
next morning to judge those taken up drunk and
disorderly in the streets.” The Court of Aldermen
having discussed the soft impeachment resolved
to “ let it pass in the hopes it would soon be for-
gotten.” About the wisest thing they could do,
Bince they couldn’t disprove it.
On 13th December, the Manhattan Chess
Club Rooms, New York, were crowded to see
Zukertort play 12 games of chess at once, without
Bight of a board. At 8 o’clock he took his seat in a
small back room, the moves were given to him
viva voce as they were made, and he cried out his
reply, in most cases immediately. When a wrong
board was accidentally given, ;Zukertort at once
corrected the error, and ran off the positions of
every piece on both boards, with some humorous
comments on their faulty stratagems. General
applause broke out when he ceased speaking. At
half-past three in the morning, the games all
ended, the great champion io nng 6, winning 4, and
drawing 2.
At the London Central Criminal Court, in
December last, three men were charged with con-
spiring to defraud the Army and Navy Co-oper-
ative Society. When the advocate for the prose-
cution had opened the proceedings, one of the
jurymen, addressing the Recorder, remarked,
“We have come to the conclusion that they are
a lot of blacklegs altogether.” The Recorder
asked what ho meant by a “lot of blacklegs.”
The foreman of the jury made answer: “The lot
of blacklegs are all those cc-operative store-
keepers—those military and civil people that
cheat honest tradesmen.” It Is quite evident that
there must be a large percentage of nightmen on
the Middlesex jury list.
Touching the recent Carnival Day at Cas-
tlemaiue, the Mount Alexander Mail has been
worrying round to ascertain how the fluids suf-
fered during that festive time, and the list of the
killed and wounded sums thusly:—“ There were
between 4500 and 5000 revellers present. These
disposed of 24 bottles of spirits, of which 0)4 were
whisky, and although only 2 bottles af colonial
wino were uncorked, still the crowd encouraged
native industry by surrounding no less than 90
gallons of colonial beer. Temperance drinks, how-
ever, suffered the most, there being no fewer than
1030 bottles of these cordials slaughtered. What
we’d like to hear now is the local chemists’ opin-
ion as to which brings them in the greatest har-
vest, “snakes in the boots,” or the “oh rny’sin
the stomach.”
An English paper thinks it would be in-
teresting to know what Lord Coleridge thought of
some of the sights he saw in American law courts.
In many west ern towns, large ones, too, it is com-
mon to see judge, jury, counsel, prisoner and
audience all expectorating together. To witness
a loarned judge, before commencing to sum up,
quietly advance within shooting distance of the
nearest spittoon, and eject a stream, would try the
nerves of an ordinary English lawyer. The play-
ful habit American jurors have ol sitting tipped
back in chairs, with their feet elevated so as to
show to the court a dozen pairs of well-worn
soles, is also hardly consonant with strict British
decorum. But so far as the elegant use of expec-
toration goes, no American could beat the gentle-
men who shower deluges from our own tramoars.
Why, they can hit without even taking aim. They
just wait till the car stops, and then lean over and
let fly. Either getting in or getting out, some one
is sure to be fortunate.
The Victorian Act regulating the Gover-
nor’s salary enacts: —“The Governor shall not
receive in any year for the salaries of the stall, or
for travelling expenses, or for any other allow-
ances or contingencies whatsoever, any sum
beyond the sum of £lO,OOO for the Governor s
salary, and shall defray the salaries of his staff, his
travelling and all other expenses, except repairs
to Government House, out of such salary.” Since
that Act was passed, successive Administrations
(whether Radical or Constitutional or “mixed ’)
have interpreted that enactment in a manner
most Liberal—to the Governors, who besides a
house (which cost £130,000) containing furniture
(to the tune of £10,000) and surrounded by a do-
main (on the laying out of which over £3OOO was
expended), are allowed £7OO a year for gas and
water, £3BO a year for a house caretaker, a house
assistant ditto, and a house “mechanic,” £2OOO a
year (on an average) for furniture, &c., and £2OOO
a year for gardeners. And this list of extras
doesn’t Include special trains whenever His Ex-
cellency (for the time being) or his friends require
one, the free use of a steam launch when a Govern-
ment House party would go a-picnicing, aesthetic
fittings for the Governor's offices at the Treasury,
cradles for illustriously-born grandchildren, and
so on almost ad infinitum. These figures go far to
show that though tiie “ Blue Ribbon of the Colo-
nial Service” may be a very nice thing for “a
well-connected party hack who wishes to nurse
his estate ” to obtain, it is a deuced expensive
thing for Victorian taxpapers to have to provide.
That things are as they are, and have been, is
proof conclusive of the snobbishness of Victorian
statesmen and Victorian Parliaments; and not
merely of their snobbish ness, but ofTheir recreancy
to straight Liberal principles.
“Atalanta,” in Ibe English .journal Ashore
or Afloat, tells the following of Seward, the
pedestrian, who is credited by London Bell’s Life
with having run the 100 yards in seconds:—
“ It may not bo generally known that some twenty-
live |years back Seward and Gale, the wonderful
endurance pedestrians, bought a large canvas
booth, which they turned into a hippodrome, and
travelled the country in partnership as circus pro-
prietors. Seward, being almost as good an equos-
trian as he was a pedestrian, undertook to do the
horsemanship, while Gale use to amuse the com-
pany with some feat of walking. During their
travels the topic of conversation at the inn where
they used to make headquarters frequently turned
upon running, and Gale, who always had an eye
to the main chance, often made a match for his
partner to run the local champions. Seward, who
was a man of very retiring disposition, and spent
nearly all his spare time in reading, would some-
times decline to run, and even when he did consent
it was only by dint of a considerable amount of
persuasion, although the business always proved
more profitable than that of the circus. Of course
in these off-hand matches Seward ran entirely un-
trained, and generally had to meet the fastest men
in the district. In spite of this, Gale told me that
he never lost, and frequently would let his oppo-
nent get several yards’ start before he would leave
his mark, but would be at his shoulder before run-
ning llfty yards, and win as he liked. In one of
these affairs Seward met an opponent who was said
to be a sound half-second man. The local cham-
pion was very unsteady in toeing the mark, and
fipquontly got over before the pistol was fired.
AT length Seward, to the consternation of Gale,
went down on his knees and told the starter to fire.
Away went the local celebrity, but Seward was up
like a cat, and ere sixty of the hundred yards they
were running had b«en covered was on level terms,
and shooting out like a flash of lightning in the
last thirty won by fully four yards.”
The Melbourne Herald, in its anxiety to
cater satisfactorily for the literary taste oi! the
Victorian capital, is apparently inviting corre-
spondence from such as are “ a little bit off.” In
a recent issue appears what the Herald is pleased
to term “ a strange communication, which speaks
for itself.” And particularly coherently does the
writer —whose name and address are given in full-
speak for himself. He was an interested student,
it seems, of a receDt debate between Mr. Thomas
Walker and Mr. David Blair, at the Melbourne
Athameum, and he asks the editor “ What was the
meaning of both of the debaters having distinct
forms which I should call spirit controls, and of
an opposite sex, which I distinctly saw the whole
of the evening; on Monday night more strongly
than the previous nights?” “Spirit-controls!”
Well, we should have suggested that the dear man
must have taken one “ whisky ” more on this
Monday night “than the previous nights,” except
that his clear and circumstantial description of
the costumes of the spirits puts such a theory
entirely aside. After minutely describing the
wardrobe of Mr. Blair’s lady “control,” he goes
on to say, “Also behind and at the side of Mr.
Thomas Walker were two male and one female
spirit. The males were clothed in grey robes, the
female’s white and Ipure, and about middle age.”
Judging from the well-known longevity of spirits,
one would naturally have expected this “ middle-
aged” garment to be a bit off colour, and the fact
that it was still “ white and pure ” says wonders
for the “washing” in th< other world. And we
fully agree with one of the concluding passages of
this interesting letter, where the writer says:
“ Now, all this is proof to me that we ought to
have all this made known to humanity, and hear
what our great thinkers can construe it into. It is
not works of, as some will say, the evil one,
for, if so, why, I, for one, shall never feel that fear
of death, like so many are making themselves
miserable over; but it shows to me the wonder-
ful works of an Infinite Power: and the
bright gifts that mankind may have given
to him by pure and sincere investigation.”
For ourselves, we should dearly like to “hear
what our great thinkers can construe it into,” and
suggest that Sladen should accompany the Herald
reporter on a visit to the house of this Melbourne
gentleman. He gives a most cordial invitation in
this same letter, saying—“ If your reporter wishes
at any time to visit my house, he can see spirit
drawings, which I have no conception of, and
very mysterious, and he is welcome to publish a
report upon them, and I defy anyone else to copy
them by hand-work in pencil or ink. ’ We know
of no one who could do justice to this art collec-
tion, except Sladen, and should like him to pub-
lish a report ” upon It- in verse. We fancy his
style would be just adapted to the subject.
Mr. Ellery, the Melbourne “ Astronomer
R'jyal,” denied that Ithere was anything remark-
able in the red sunsets—denied, in fact, that they
were redder than usual, and said that ’twas merely
because attention was drawn to them that ignor-
ant people thought them more gorgeous than
customary. His explanation resembled the reason
given for bread always falling on the buttered
side, it fell just as often on the other side, but
then people took no notice of it. It was only
when the butter stuck it to the floor that they
said “ of course.” The unfortunate Australians
who bashfully suggested that there might be
some connection between the red suns and the
few million tons of dust belched out at Sunda,
were sat upon with unpleasant emphasis. But all
the home scientists have now come to the view
that the red, yellow and green suns are very ex-
ceptional, and are directly traceable to the earth-
quake.
According to the official report read at the
recent meeting of the Australasian Wesleyan Mis-
sionary Society, no less than £10,795 10s. 9d. has
been slopped away during the past year in missions
to persuade the “ pore little heathen ” to swop his
“ bonearrers ” for bibles, and wear oyster-bag
pants and stove-pipe hats. We are not aware how
much of that sixteen thousand odd was spent in
missions to the savages of Woolloomooloo and
Waterloo, but it will be time to gird our
loins and endeavour to convert the heathens of
England, for, according to Dr. Fairbairn, Chair-
man of the Congregational Union of England, the
educated as well as the industrial classes are
drifting away from Christianity. Thousands of
other clergymen know this as well as Dr. Fair-
bairn, but it wouldn’t suit their books to make it
public. Like the other “ profesh,” they find it
pays best to always cock a stiff upper lip and say
biz. is as good as usual.
Poor old man! He went to JLe Melbourne
Post Office, and asked, “ Did me sub send ine that
letter yet?” No answer. He coughed outside the
window, and whispered gently through the slit,
“ Say, Miss, did me son send that letter yet ?” No
answer. “ He said he’d writG me one,” mused the
old man, “ and it’s time it was here now. Miss, did
me son ” “Name?” demanded a sharp voice.
“ I’m his father,” said the old man. “ Who’s
father? What d’you mean ?” “Bob’s; I’m Bob’s
lather.” “Oh, bother I What is your name?”
Patsy Larkin.” “ Well, there’s nothing here for
you. “Maybe it’s coming. Does Bob say it’s
cott'mg’ ? It’s about time now.” No answer.
S pose I best wait ?” And the old man went over
and sat down on the steps. “What are ye doing
there ?” asked the bobby. “ Waiting for me son’s
letter,” said the old man. “ Come ’long, then,”
cried the bobby, and Patsy was taken to the lock-
up. He was kept there for a week, and, being re-
leased last Saturday, he walked straight to the
Post Office window, and asked, “ Say, Miss, did me
son send me that letter yet?” ” What’s your
name?” Patsy Larkin.” “Here! Yououghtto
leave your address or come sooner. This has been
waiting- for you this last month.” “Thank ’ee,
ma am,” said the old man, and he crept down the
steps and in among: the crowd, and congratulated
himself that he had escaped the bobby this time.
But he calls it “ a near squeak!”
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER-LESSON VII.
mpre We
hd\fe &
j—i Motel
JjyJSilojo
r (_X HisWlv
. is to ware!
v 'us.but vvefti)
>/ee ky IV 5j 2e
o/Ais ear/ y /, df
) 1)c is a rpordL
jf j*s hard f Q wnfe
sou>7(/ Philosophy Wif/j
Tiea away c/own inside ones
coll or.


a
£
339EM012
STORS
s •
WcAflfcYOPmiTC POSTtJffICS;
‘ vIiATCOr S9S ®€OP6€ «TP«*I
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
EF" C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 60S George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD" CLOTHING.
have now often* tor the SUMMER SEASON* THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MAOE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
shapes & shaws l blue serge suits, 35 <. and 425.
| ANDARD CLOTHING TWEED SAC-COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
is 1 WEED SAC UOATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s
t HE BEST VALUE BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
IN SYDNEY. TWEED TROUSERS, lfis. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 3Cs.
“ STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 35<. and 425.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
r JCBOU.S’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS,
TWEED OVERCOATS, 425., 505.,’655.
®PECIAL” COLOUREI) HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
Sristy’s HATS, all new Bummer shaptes.
~?S’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
KttrT'l®, complete,
LIABLE MACINTOSH CLOTHIN G.—All
madoje opi speeial^orden
. B
jRITE* FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
-335. 6d.
, MNNEL TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
G, CRICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 375.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roil collars, 6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d , 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 31s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 13s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d„
18s. Bd., 31s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d., I3s 6d.. 15s. tid.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 31s.
PE APES and SHAW, George-street.
MERCERY DEPARTMENT is Stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season. i
GENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancj
from 12s. per dozen.
UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbrlggan,
OiriVißFlo-Ind'an, and Sfujn Silk, with Pants to match.
ghNT’g WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or 11.8.* 305.. 40s, 50s. half-dozen.
vSsNCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 305.. 405., 425. the half-dozen
e,v Y LINEN COLLARS.— The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, wKSh patent
SpA 8 o e tabs for holding scarf in position..
a> ® In all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis.
tT>,”jhert, Four-in-Hand. v,
jffJ“HHLLAS, 8,10, 12, 14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 3.55.
Tut! NtW TITANTA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrelU, 1 guinea each.
ST?* NEW COMBINATION- BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 30a., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, Gecrge-sfrcot.
'©lff Sz Sort’s
3£
be Lad from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
°hina & glass at wholesale prices.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
t l . /\
m mmmwmm m
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Sim
ner of Loyal Arcade, Sydney.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
C. B. MODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler,
er* TWO SPECIAL PIUZES (the oflly awards)
at the International Exhibition, 187 S-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B. —Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR ,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chiftaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erencli and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Yases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SoItLO Bazaar
352 George Street.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
f wallow & AlttKLL's prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 12 kinds—Canterbury, Normanby,
and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat.
Infant’s Food. Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottks....
Excelsior Mills.— superior Victorian oatmeal,
Pearl tiarie.v, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Burrows & Co.’s prize assorted Confec-
tionery... A. M. GUNT & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, in J 4, and lib tins.. R. Whittington and Co.’s
prime York flatus, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
General Provisions ...Victoria Lion Preserving
Company’s superior assorted Jams.. Scandinavian
Condensed Milk-Gold Medal Brand,
843 & 345 RENT-STREET, near Klng-st., Sydney.
GILBEY’S SILVEBSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of tho highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCK* l .it At Cl#., Sole Agents,
3V<> Gfxirgp-Rtrnet. Sydney.
it®- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:-SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in tho Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
|Jt|HE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
WWW*?
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1868.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, IW3
Pftid-ap Capital
Resets® Fund £132,500
Directors: „ J
The Hon. Sir John Ba?,-Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.O#
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: „ , _
Jas. Scroggi-e, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager :
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, GiralamDone.
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G-
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. . , ,
RillK negotiated and advances made against w 00l
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
rAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GKORSE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address-
er" 6-J4 GEORGE STREET.
a
st, the Ca
TEMPORARY PREMISES
110 King.street, Sydney.
“ GUNSLER, THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER'S ”
“ GTTNSLEU THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises sueb as b®
desirt s are not now available,
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his, customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking ho may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetato
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Tear
Holidays, a lew specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.K. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
O 8 E YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENEILBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES I
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
brain j
we s
TREATMENT
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one mouth’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 355., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if thB treatment does not effect a euro
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


<3-010- j eT77“eiier w
(REGIBTI iRED.)
■WATCHES, FBOM 30s. EACH,
gggjfe*. Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
J&.
nsPL^-' 2 ’ 1
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S GLOTHIER,
la OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and 'Fashionable MEN’S, JOYS’, and YO
SUITS TROUSERS and VES'LS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOFT FELL >“
SUITS, TRO USERS and WEST S, SAC, FROCK, —-i-
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
XIJ cl LI LI OVI-c ■ wiaTb
Every article is ma
|3F” Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both sho|)^ offli
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to cho ° So N .
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIP
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, rear Market Street.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
CARTONS HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
m
mmm
Mi
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YOkK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
SEARL & SONS,
NOKSEBYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY PETERSHAM.
Pelargoniums now in full ,oom. nspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY..
6T GEORGE STREET WEST.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Sfe
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
HOT WATER BATHS
HAIR cr*MO • WiuMV<!Ni; ESimiSHHO
• i 37 1159 14! OXFORD ■ •
fe...-:/JALF H Ol ID fi Y cYS-'t Y r/YU/H SC*Y
tSfamSiihaadaSk
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Pitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
HIGrGrIU’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
<
Ingham’s
£UPHOf(bIAJ
Queensland Cure
Asthma, Bronchitis a
Coughs,
NO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS,
rw-q PREPARED 'ONLY BY
Thomas Xnoham
m OCKHAMPTON
W&8&
252
TO
-6'
*
T*
r
O
-o
2
o
o
30
0
%
*
%
<a
( £rs
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in * BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
lit and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produoe.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PSSARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
(rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Olfice Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in p&ce. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLA^
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile
Fancy Stationery . f
Knjfllsfi Papers and Magazines recei*
every Mall.
ttOYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE BT..
WRIGHT, HEATON &
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, SydH
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT oi
SOUTH WALE^,
P S
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Vass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Juuee
Wagga Wagg®
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonambie
Bourke
Northern District, N.B.W.S
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Ur alia
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES
Southern and South-Western
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
I tf#*'
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line: Jk
Townsville Ravenswood J u
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South AuS trft^*
WM. MCCULLOCH & CO., *****
Agencies in all parts of the 01
'A
3ES. ROWLANDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, ' " *
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorinc?
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
