

ISS4:. STSEASOIT. ISS4=.
TMY HU «sms,
’
•-fcV -
the largest drapery establishment
< AND THE ‘ ,
c b_oicost Assortment of Gr-oodLs
IN THE
Anthony hordern and sons
V<Y..V
P
V»’
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
ar ° now Showing a Most Magnificent STOCK of
L LATEST NOVELTIES and the MOST
Dresses, Silks, French and English Hillinery, Parachutes and Sunshades, Gloves, Ribbons, Laces,
Rets, Veils, and the innumerable accessories to fashionable attire.
e ndid Assortment of English-made FURNITURE, Electro-plated Goods, Carpets, Bedsteads and Bedding, Chinaware and
Glassware, not equalled in Sydney for Price or Quality.
lll ' SHOM 7 " CASES are filled with the choicest products of the leading manufacturing centres, and are alone worth a visit.
GOODS in cv. ry one of our thirty-six departments, comprising' all the
>T APPROVED FASHIONS from London and Paris, in . Ul .
,v\«p.
OXJH ONLY ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
V
Palace Emporium, Hay market, Sydney,
■• L \
___
The Bulletin


CITY BOOT PALACE o:
JO
®sr
Wales
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OE SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HUNTER lias mucli pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacd 11 ' 1 ’
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Roots and Shoes, embracing the
novelties fete. Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The
increase oßtrade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of assi 11
and those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & 00., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & GO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Ollice : HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling anil Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—Tho celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Laehlap and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &e„ &e.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
~ • •" -Bangor Slates.
Francisco—Quicksilver.
—Cu rrants.
Thos. Bell and CoF—Eng-iisU Hams, Bacon, &e., &o.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendei aedjCompany, Hayangc, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet; Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel IMffiihg. Winv&e.-
Thos. Perry agd-Sbn, Biistou Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and €<>,, Edinburgh—Ale.
Bruntort and Co., Redruth -Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt,—Port, W hie.
Dubes Freres, Bordeaux Clarets, Cbablis, Saute rues
& COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South iromßh-rSksott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros,, Graham Bros..
J-lndera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
tar INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
MEINRATH AND CO.,
96 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
O YD.
yc
‘ .
The patrons ojfe- the'sAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Austrahancoldhicr.-, lire informed that, in audition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
• ! A V
W ■
JE*. R®
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Beg-s to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Deparffl e i
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, P c, '®° #
selected by the proprietor during- his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently r cC ° B ! #
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a sharp 0
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
POUT WINK. , (
Id-year old, Gilbey’s .. ~ ..
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality No. 1 (very superior old)
No, ***** grape
No. +* **
No. *+*
No. **
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial guar*'
SHERRY.
40-year old, Oilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry)
I me Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry"
Common yhorry, ... ...
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine ... ••• S '
Orange Wine
IRISH W HUSKY.
T . ’"|
Jameson « *** ... ~, .
Did Dublin Whlt-hy (***) bottled by Burk* (
Kinahnn’.s um i vailed L L ... .. ... i
Thorne s Old lri,;h Whisky ■■■. i
Jameson's ... SsOd H ... j
DmiviUe’s ... ~, j
Kinalum’s Draught, per Imperial quart ...j
Jameson’s „ , ao i
” __ sb 6a 1 *
l .. ‘ WW3 ' ,U o ..
Masks
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Borne Highland
Kilmarnock
Gleniivet ”) - ”, Us
Gieuiivet Whisky, per Imperial quart
Masks . a
6
■ V
*»•*'!
•’ i
«)»'"! i
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva...
Celebrated Key Brand, very large pi z< ’.
bottle containing; more than a quart l( id
Flasks Key Gin ... ... I s
If VP
ttw
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best Qualify all r<?
allowed tor. J3T Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers ami delivered at ,
fetation or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. ' Ijo"'
On receipt of <£3, tl‘ e .gfe
T >.w.
P. K. LAPKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS. IDWIm
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in » .
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY y l Quart SUPF
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SLTPEI
TOTAL—IS QUARTS.
SUPERIOR
itio.it
51 {llß^
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best
given perlect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent deinv make '
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office. p auj> ’ pltaae 11
Kindly Note the Address - ,//?’
R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & l^f' 0 ' r
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, SydJ» ri '


THE
BULLTIN
Vol. I.—No.39.—New Series
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 18847
Price—6d.
** THE BULLETIN" APPEARS THIS WEEK
PRINTED ON WHITE PAPER. THE FACT
IS, THAT THE CIRCULATION OF THE
NEW SERIES HAS SO OUTSTRIPPED EX-
PECTATION, THAT THE CONTRACT
QUANTITY OF PAPER HAS BEEN OVER-
PASSED. AS NO OTHER AUSTRALIAN
JOURNAL IMPORTS PAPER OF SUCH
QUALITY AS “ THE BULLETIN,” WE
ARE OBLIGED, FOR A FEW ISSUES, TO
USE THE BEST WE CAN GET. LARGE
SHIPMENTS ARE, HOWEVER, ALMOST
DUE, AND IN A FEW WEEKS WE SHALL
RESUME OUR WONTED COMPLEXION.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY D, 1884.
That Property Tax.
Amongst the fiscal proposals of the Govern-
ment, the imposition of a property-tax
stands pre-eminent. On it the Treasurer
relies for the production of the major por-
tion of the additional revenue which is
required. But, apart from that, which is an
accidental circumstance due to a Ministerial
preference, the proposed tax is remarkable.
It is the expression of a principle not hither-
to fully recognised or adopted in the inci-
dence of taxation in this colony. That
principle has, indeed, been variously stated.
Timid and compromising advocates prefer
to put it in a sort of apologetic form, and to
represent taxation based on property as a
sort of insurance. It is sought to cajole the
wealthy into acquiescence by explaining to
them that what they are called upon to con-
tribute, more than the poor are required to
furnish, is simply a quotum proportionate
to the protection which they are afforded
by the institutions of their country, in their
enjoyment of their superfluous wealth. This
is, in a sense, true. Peaceable communities
are ordinarily averse from changes, espe-
cially sweeping changes. No intelligible
plan for counteracting the artificial but
indurated system, by which inequalities in
the material condition of mankind have
been fostered and preserved, has yet been
accommodated to the comprehension of the
masses. And until that has been accom-
plished, moderate men, while actively in-
teresting themselves in schooling the people
to an understanding of the true ethics of
social science, and in contesting the falsities
which selfishness and dullness perpetually
reiterate as truths almost as divine truths
—will shrink from inaugurating movements
of change, which are almost certain to be
diverted from their proper course by the
influence of passion, resentment, ignorance,
and envy. No rational and humane man
would, however clearly he might perceive
and however deeply resent and deplore the
effects of selfishness as embodied in exist-
ing social arrangements, incite the suf-
ferers to a Jacquerie. The position of the
best sort of would-be social reformers is
closely analogous with which the Girondists
occupied in relation to the first French
Revolution. And. warned by the fate of
these noble but unfortunate reformers, thtir
object is to educate, not to incite, the
masses.
** . *
The glai’ing inequalities which, as matters
are now arranged, exist, the severity
with which they press upon the majority of
human beings, and the flagrant evils which
an undue superfluity of wealth developes
amidst the fortunate few, create a natural
reaction. At present, unhappily, the most
powerful lever ready to the hand of the
advocates of reform is envy. Now, envy is a
vice—a deadly sin—and no casuistry can sa-
tisfy any candid investigator, however clear
his appreciation of the evils of the existing
constitution of society, and however stroDg
his conviction of the necessity for change,
that a revolution wrought with a vice for its
propelling force will have a happy or desir-
able issue. Fortunately, envy alone is not
sufficiently powerful to effect anything con-
siderable. It repels all who are not person,
ally under its influence. The history of the
world does not record one great revolution
effected by envy alone. It is suffering which
turns the scales. When life becomes intol-
erable to the majority of a community, re-
volution is close at hand. Suffering does
not alienate the sympathies of the disinter-
ested and philosophical. It rather excites
their feelings, and by unduly operating
upon their sentimental faculties is apt ||to
diminish their severity of reasoning and re~
straint. In the older communities of
Europe, the limit of human endurance can
be perceived to have been almost over-
PROFESSOR HEARNE.
passed. The desperately poor and the too-
rigorously oppressed have commenced to
writhe and heave in a fashion which every
student of history and of human nature at
once recognises as ominous, and diagnoses
as proceeding from cognate conditions
which have in previous instances invariably
culminated in a social inflammation and erup-
tion. Among these conditions, one of the
most prominent is the unequal incidence of
the burdens rendered necessary by the cost
of Government. Wealth gives influence,
and influence is employed to shift a proper
proportion of public expenses from wealth
on to poverty. Then, the deluge. First, the
abuse; next, inevitably, the reaction; and
the more an abuse is “venerable by its
antiquity,” the more violent the explosion
The age of an evil means simply an accumu-
lation of wrongs and an heredity of resent-
ments, often swelled beyond reasonable
bounds. The temper of Irishmen towards
the English governing class, well illustrates
this position.
* * *
To those who, like ourselves, while recog-
nising the necessity for social reform,
earnestly desire to see it accomplished by
easy progression and peaceful change, any-
thing is detestable which tends to establish
or aggravate the evils so much to be de-
plored in older countries: and anything
is welcome which is calculated to diminish
contrasts and round off inequalities of
condition. For these reasons, the land
policy of Sir John Robertson is ab-
horrent to us, and the present propo-
sals for a property - tax most welcome.
The first excites denunciation because
its operation has been distinctly to fos-
ter that accumulation of landed estates
in few hands which is mainly chargeable
with the present wretched and perilous
condition of European countries. This,
it must be admitted, is precisely the con-
trary of the intention with which the law
was framed. Sir John Robertson had the
best intentions. That he blundered is no
very tremendous discredit to him. Every
Liberal of the day blundered with him. The
fault he is chargeable with is an inordinate
vanity or stolidity, which has disabled him
from perceiving how his own Act has
worked against his designs. His perverse
refusal to believe that his magnum opus—
the sole legislative fruit of his brain —was
an abortion, has wrought heavy injury to
his country. While, therefore, all true
Liberals will greet with pleasure the intro-
duotion by the present Government of a
Property-tax, recognition of Sir John
Robertson’s fiasco should operate as a warn-
ing to examine critically, lest in this case
also the measure be susceptible of such dis-
tortion in actual administration as to ope-
rate adversely to the very principlo it is
intended to embody. The opposition of the
propertied class, and the nobodies who seize
upon every respectable opportunity to gri-
mace as public men, is of small concern.
That had to be reckoned for, as a matter of
course. Probably the chief effect of the
“influential” agitation now afoot against
the Government proposals will be to
oement the adherence of the compara-
tively unpropertied majority, already well
disposed to approve the Ministerial pro-
gramme in this particular at least.
• • •
At the same time, it must be recognised
that the fiscal proposals of Mr. Diuus have
weak points. The conception of including
personal effects in the category of taxable
property is peculiarly assailable. In prin-
ciple, it is probably the strongest amongst
the Treasurer’s propositions. Household fur-
nishings and equipments are the diieetest
expressions and embodiments of luxurious
living which one could put one’s hand upon.
When it is proposed to tax superfluities, it is
severely logical to begin at luxurious sur-
roundings. The wealth so invested is the
most useless to the community of all wealth.
It is capital withdrawn from reproductive
employment to minister to the convenience,
luxury, or display of individuals. The wealth
sunk in such trappings nourishes no industry,
does nothing to assist in the development of
the country, employs no reproductive labour*
It is therefore, theoretically, the most justly
obnoxious and taxable of all wealth. But
from the region of practical politics, senti-
mental considerations cannot be excluded.
When all that we have claimed with respect
to the taxable character of chattel property
is allowed, it must be admitted on tho other
hand that the administration of such a tax
runs counter to the spirit and sentiment of
the community. If there be one thing
Englishmen cherish more jealously than
any other, it is the inviolable privacy of
their domestic arrangements. The idea has
passed into a proverb. Every Englishman’s
house is his castle. In running counter to
this sentiment, the Government has, we
think, made a mistake. This part of their
proposals may be abandoned without sur-
rendering the main principle of a tax upon
property, and we trust it will be abandoned
accordingly.
• • •
A good deal has been said about the over-
sufficiency of the proposed tax. It fir." * tr.
argued that the amount which wo vio bo
realized, were a penny in the hum red
pounds collected, would far exceed the
£750,000 estimated by the and che
requirements of the revenue. This is a mere
matter of statistics and arithmetic, and ogn
easily be dealt with by the Commit t( e ol
Supply. The principle will not beaht < led
by an alteration in the per-centage. The
minor or supplementary taxes propo a d av;
open to any amount of debate. Whether
tea be taxed, or sugar; tobacco, or beer, ob-
jections would equally be raised by inter-
ested parties. For our own part, we would
have preferred to have seen the excise duty
imposed upon beer rather than upon to-
bacco, for reasons readily understood.
Neither tea nor sugar commend themselves
to us as taxable commodities. Despite the
opinion of the Echo, which declares that
tea is not a necessary of life, we regard it as
distinctly answering to that description in
this oolony. Strictly speaking, bread, water,
firing, and clothing are the only necessaries
of life. But, outside these, tea assuredly
stands foremost among the secondary pro-
visions which wholesomeness and customary


A fretful mother and cross child indicates
ill-health, requiring- only Hop Bitters to remove.
See.
Goughs and Colds
THE Best Cure for the above is Sum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
er PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
8«. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
QO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
OdL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of Buoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. Gd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
FINEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
use have rendered necessities. If the penny
per £lOO be really adequate to furnish more
than the Treasurer's estimated require-
ments, the tax upon tea might be dropped
altogether, for, assuredly, a penuy per £lOO
upon superfluous wealth is not too much for
the prosperous classes to contribute aunu-
ally towards the expenses of Government.
And, if the sum realizable be still in excess
of requirements, it would be better to raise
the minimum of property whiqh is to he
exempt from taxation, than to reduce the
per-centage chargeable per £lOO. The main
principle is to make superfluous wealth con-
tribute. £3OO is certainly not much in the
way of a necessary capital provision for old
age. Even £lOOO would not be too high a
maximum to exempt. A man who accumu-
lates £lOOO as a provision lor his deoliuiug
years has not, we think, an aggressive
superfluity.
PLAIN ENGLISH .
Sauce for the Gander.
It is amusing to note with what malignant Phari-
saism the Jingoes and their organs inveigh against
any small mistake that Republican France makes
in her policy or her manners; while all the time
those ultra-conservatives turn their blind eye to
the enormous crimes that a monarchical power
like Russia daily commits. A meddling British
Missionary is somewhat rigorously treated by Re-
publican Frenchmen at Madagascar, and the Jin_
goes and Exeter-Hallers unite to denounce the
act. Yet we never hear their voices lifted up to
denounce the accursed deeds which, with the
express sanction of a Monarch who is allied to the
House of Guelph, are daily perpetrated in Holy
Russia. To endorse the despotism of the Czar, to
prop the throne of the unspeakable Turk, to crush
the effort of the Egyptian fellah for nationalism,
to strangle Ireland by Coercion Acts, and to seize
every opportunity of sneering at any little fault
discoverable in the working of Republican institu-
tions is the ignoble line which it delights
the soi-disant aristocracy of England to take
Yet, gracious Goodness! what a howl would be
raised by those shoddy upper suckles if it wa 8
with reference to French prisons that one read of
“ violated women—rats so lierco that if a femalo
prisoner is conlined of a child she has to fight them
at night lest they devour the infant—foetid cells —
unimaginable dirt and filth-bodies devoured by
lice—no decencies of civilization, and no comfort,
not even a fragment of soap—bad, mouldy, and
insufficient food—no medicine in sickness, weak-
ness, confirmed debility, madness, aud death;” or
if it was of French Algerian exile that Prince Kra-
potkin wrote in that awful description of floating
prison barges, each built for the transport of 800
convict3—but as the owners of the barges them-
selves occupy compartments for 100 exiles each,
the 800 are jammed in the space destined for 000;
of tho prison which, built to accommodate 060, is
often crammed with 2200 inmates, one-fourth of
whom are usually down with typhus; of the weary
march of months, six or cght convicts chained
together, each false movement of any of the gang
being felt by the whole of the chain compauions ;
of the lash used by the convict drivers ; of the
foul stations at which the nightly halt is made-of
a hundred infamies as bad. To inveigh against
these things, if done by Franco, would be quite
right; but when Russia docs them, oh dear, no !
To inveigh against them, then, would be to offend
Mrs. Edinburgh and the brother-in-law of Mrs.
Wai.es, which would be such extremely bad
form I
When Avill the world shake off such yokes ? Oh,
when
Will that redeeming day shine out on men
That shall behold them rise, erect and free,
As Heaven and Nature meant mankind should be
When Reasou shall no longer blindly bow
To the vile pagod things that o’er her brow,
Like him of Juggernaut, drive trampling now ?
Mr. Vaughn’s Seat.
Some very nice points, involving the right of mem.
bers to retain their seats in the Assembly, have
been under discussion. Probably the most diffi-
cult of all is that referring to Mr. Vaughn.
Robert Matteson Vaughn is the member for
Grenfell. Subsequently to his election he joined
another person in tendering for a Government
contract, and placed a deposit of £6OO in the
Colonial Treasurer’s hands, undertaking at the
same time to lodge £6OOO more should his contract
be accepted. His contract was accepted, but he
and his mate had in the meantime discovered that
their tender was ever so much too low, and neither
turned up to ratify the agreement or put down
the further df posit. Then the original deposit of
£6OO was forfeited to the Government, and the con-
tract cancelled. Afterwards, a lengthy correspon-
dence ensued, resulting in the £6OO being restored to
“ Robert Matteson Vaughn, Esq., and the other
person.” The question is: Does the law, as it
stands, without any undue straining, apply to
cases similar to the one we have described ? It is
simply a question of whether a naan who has not
signed a contract can be considered a contractor.
“ With all due respect to the committee ” [to
which the matter was referred], said Mr. Abbott 1
“there was no agreement between Mr. Vaughn
and the Government, because an agreement was a
thing that could be enforced, or it was not an
agreement at all.” Mr. Levien cited a case where
the Minister for Public Instruction accepted a
tender to build a school-house, but finding, before
tho contract was signed, that there would be some
difficulty in obtaining the laud, merely told the
successful tenderer that the plan was abandoned.
Then the opinion of Mr. Alexander Gordon
was obtained, and it was to the effect that, as no
bond had been signed, there was no contract and
no Governmental liability. Taking this as his text,
Mr. Levien argued that Mr. Vaughn had not be-
come a contractor within the meaning f the Act,
and, therefore, his seat should not be declared va-
cant. Other members followed in the Bame vein. We
have no wish to see the existing law strained to
meet this peouliar case, but we have a very strong
desire to see some amendment introduced to pre-
vent similar occurrences in future. For if it be
decided that Mr. Vaughn has done nothing to
render his seat liable to forfeiture, what is to pre-
vent other members from pursuing a similar
course—from tendering for Government contracts,
and, on discovering that loss would result from
success, from using their parliamentary interest
to recover deposits which were legally forfeited ?
And so the necessity for an alteration to put a
stop to such occurrences appears to us as obvious
as that any application of the existing law to the
matter would be forced and inexpedient.
News from the Soudan regions commence to be
complicated. Just after the Madhi’s victory
over Hicks Pasha it was cabled that our moral
rulers, prompted no doubt by the teaehings of
“ The Secret of England’s Greatness,” proposed to
“sool on” the Abyssinians to attack t.heMAHDi
from behind, the port of Massowah to be the re-
ward of tills courageous proceeding. Now we
read that "Admiral Hf.wktt” is sending a gun-
boat to protect Masso wah, threatened by the Abys-
sinians. Something wrong somewhere. Surely the
Abyssinians would not be so awfully wicked as to
want to grab the port without cutting any of their
neighbour’s throats. In the days of the Borgias
in Italy, when a powerful “noble” had a quarrel
with another fellow, he used to hire an assassin to
cut the other feliow’s throat. But, of course,
bribing Abyssinians to kill our enemies is entirely
different in principle, The ancient Israelites used
to do things of that kind, which, in fact, are quite
nermlBsal)le to chosen peoples, like the Jews of old
and ourselves of to-day.
HOW HE GOT IT.
“Hello, Bill! been at it again I see. Who was t’other party?”
BILL, (M.P.): “Well, you want to know how I got that black eye? You see I have just
been up attending the ’Ouse, and-I take it the Ayes ’ad it.”
T he Rates oe Subscription to The Bulletin
are —For one year, 345.: half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are se. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Little Melbourne boys derive a deal of
quiet enjoyment from the open drains of that
city. When swollen by rains, for instance, the
unsavoury streams provide a nice standing-jump
for the more adventurous among them; still, in
the ordinary way, there is nothing- beyond the
risk of a splashing, to make these sports really
exciting. Opposite the Mint, though, there is
frequently a boiling water gutter, and a daring
adventurer had his foot badly scalded the other
day, as the result of a false leap. This ought to
satisfy the boys... The French schooner “Ambroa,”
just arrived at Noumea from the New Hebrides,
reports that the crew of the French sehooner
“ Idaho ” were attacked at Lacouie ; an English-
man and a Frenchman were wounded, but not
seriously. This is the same place where the English
trader Caseu was killed... The terrible unanimity
of the Melbourne dailies to keep Garton off the
licensing bench, has ended in nil. He climbed up
an easy victor. It is a strange thing that when
the Argus, Age, and Telegraph agree to de-
nounce a particular man, the public would, if
they could, make that man Governor— If master-
printers can arrange about copyrights, Free-trade
Service will have the school books of the State
Schools printed in Victoria In the city of Mel-
bourne, there are 380 public-houses, 30 wine-shops,
and 150 spirit merchants and brewers The Mel-
bourne Gas Co. propose to reduce the price of gas
to 6s. 4Hjd. per 1000 cubic feet. Now, Sydney Gas
Co! Boys in the Victorian State schools, are to
receive carbines, and be instructed how to handle
them. They have begun practice at Geelong —
Elizabeth Murphy, 16 years of age, seduced by
her employer, drowned herself at Ballarat on 27th.
Left letter telling of shame and remorse.... Perrot,
the schoolmaster with the beard, has been pro-
moted two grades. Good Mary Hislin broke
open the poor box at St. Francis’s church Mel-
bourne. Laid by the heels 14,674 out-patients
and 3683 in-patients, were treated in the
Melbourne Hospital last year. 654 died, and 194
were discharged as Incurable. Of the 554 who
died, 553 were in-patients. (N.B.—Something fatal
in this part of the report!) Salaries, drugs, and
surgical materials came to £10,1:5019s. 9d.; food for
the patients, even including oilmen's stores, came
to £6523 11s. 4d. (N.B.—Has that anything to do
with N.B. above?) Total income, maintenance
account, £23,576 2s. lid.; expenditure, £23,474 2s. 2d.
Sanatory arrangements declared good.
A banquet of 300 covers was the glorifica-
tion in Madrid, over the anniversary of the dis-
covery of America. Nobody thought of wearing
crape for the loss of it—Trollope received £4B
for his first novel, “Macdermotts of Bally Coran.”
The largest price he received for one work was
for “Can You Forgive Her”—£3s2s Bicyclers
and tricyclers are now called wheelmen, in Ame-
rica— Germany in case of war has 38,000 officers,
1,460,000 soldiers, 27,000 physicians and officials, and i
300,000 horses.... The pigeon-post coming into more
general use—Nearly 40 papers issued in Calcutta
—about 20 of them in English Bismarck has an
enormous timber and distillery business A Lon-
don paper calculates that the aggregate income
drawn by persons as directors of public companies
is not less than one and a half million yearly....’
Colliery explosion in Den-Ver, Norfolk. 57 killed-
— “Chinese” Gordon, Governor of the Soudan...
Hon. J. G. Francis of Victoria, dead Between
December 1, 1883, and December 1, 1883, twenty-
two threatres were destroyed with a loss of 675
lives—On the 4th of December last, the French
artillerymen stationed in the neighbourhood of
Paris, celebrated the fete of Saint Barbara (or
Saint Barbe), who, as all gunners know, is the
patron Saint of arsenals and powder magazines.
In the 3rd century, Barbara’s pagan papa handed
her over to Governor Martian cf Nicomedia—for
being a Christian. Just as the cruel sire was about
to strike off her head, he.waslaida “stiff” at her
feet by a flash of lightning. The powder room
aboard of French ships of war, is called “ Sainte
Barbe.” French powder-monkeys might be ap-
propriately called Barbary apes.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent# who give neither name nor nem-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“D.M.” (Casino): A mere matter of custom
and etiquette. It respectable doctors advertised,
so would disreputable ones, and the best blower
would have best show “Cacoethes Scribendi”:
Will watch it “F.C.K.”: Thanks for the verses.
.. .“ Azimcour” : Very old, and very dirty....
“Parvum in Multo”: Your Latin is better than
your English, this shot “L.L.”: Please send
sddress, and we will write to you “D.M.VV."
(Ermington): We are sorry you don’t like “Sir
Tom ” now appearing in the News. If you told
Alfred so, doubtless he’d stop it, and substitute
one of his own stories. The authoress is certainiy
not at her best in it; but they say that she is dishing
upsomeof her juvenile productions. As may be ex-
pected, this Oiiphant has plenty of things in her
trunk....“ Wyclilfe ” (Maytown): Simply spiteful
“ Tomkins As you see..C.J.Y.”: Couldn’t say
unless we knew the constituents of the packets.
Probably a mild stimulating irritant... “ Lambda
Lambda”: Capital idea. Shail use, with a little
touching up “Lohler”: A very fair article.
Quite up to the standard of country newspaper
leaders, and with more than their average bold-
ness of thought. ...“J.J.” : Much obliged
“Geordie”: It was Charles Larkin who delivered
the speech you refer to, at Newcastle (Eng.), in
May, '32, just alter “Silly Billy” had dismissed
Earl Grey. The following passage in the speech
attracted much attention at the time:—“We
Eossess an aristocracy unparalleled in its insolence,
aughtiness, arrogance, disdain of the people,
and rapacity. We have a Minister strong in popu-
lar support dismissed, like Neckar.jby the intrigues
of a faction from the councils of his sove-
reign, and like Neckar to be brought back, I trust,
triumphant on the shoulders of the people. (Grey
was brought back triumphant.) We have a
luxurious King, hostile to reform, and incited to
resist the wishes of his people, by the disastrous
influence of a foreigner (Adelaide of Saxe-
Meiningen), who has been elevated to the dignity
of Queen Consort of England. But, above all, we
have a people as resolute and determined as ever
were the French to be free. Such is the fate
of England. Should not William IV. recollect the
fate of Louis XIV. ? Should not a Queen, who
makes herself a busy intermeddling politician,
recollect the fate of Marie Antoinette?”....
“D.S.”: Your verses are rubbish.. ‘Rhadaman-
thus”: Suitable for an album, but too abstract
for us “A Subscriber ” (Young): We are sorry
you object to prisoners under the care of a warder
cleaning the P.M.’s house. But we wouldn’t op-
pose it violently if we were you. One af these
days you might want your cat-kennel white-
washed, and tnen “P.G.M.”: We are afraid that
while a caricature of your kiss-in-the-ring parson
would be a drawing, it wouldn't be a draw. We
would be grieved to the soul to hear that this
kissing parson is “a sworn enemy of The Bulle-
tin,” did we not know the enormous benetitwe
derive from the snulflebusting unpopularity
Were we “popular with the clergy,” we would
put up our shutters, sell our dawg, and “guy.”....
“A.H.” : Your interesting communication is
attended to. We are glad you guarantee the facts
as true, We receive 145,000 letters weekly, and all
the writers guarantee the facts as true. This is
what bears us up, even in times of adversity....
“An Observer” (East Wardell): We are glad to
hear—we are easily pleased—that the Coraki shed
is well looked after by a volunteer officer. Are
you—hem!—the volunteer officer?.. “Spokeshave”:
Evidently a mistake somewhere. vV ill try and re-
cover it for consideration.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Noumea has been deserted by its Eng-
lish Protestant pastor. He has generally left
during the hot months, but this time he has gone
no one knows whither; and should he return, he
will find his flock have deserted him, for they do
not intend to put up with his “ coolness.”
“Stockwhip ” Kelly said, some six months
ago, in reply to the Bishop of Newcastle:—" If
you wish the black man to live on this earth,
happily and contentedly, leave him alone. The
more he is given to know, the more is he given to
want, and the closer is he brought to the devil.
No sooner is he taught the use of a gun, than off
he goes, out of the Missionary camp mayhap after
saying his prayers, to shoot nis next door neigh-
bour, butt her his piccaninnies, plunder his camp,
and ravish his wife.” Does not this utterance re-
ceive clinching confirmation in the following ex-
tract from the S.M. Herald of 20th instant ? :
“ Ten young girls of very tender years were pub-
licly ravished, and when two old men went to
expostulate with the ravishers they were shot
Tav v&MI V> "XQ UTOVittUto, KYVtVfIMAV.
-AV SttV. 1
v vU\\\
'*tVo^yA' J s;Wo\;
\ yAUt'
o\6^
Some Parliamentary Motions.
MR. WISDON MOVED, AND MR. BCHANAN SECONDED
down. Then followed a scene of bntehery of the
most revolting kind—men, women, and children
sharing the same fate. Mothers cast their cf lildren
from them; and with their husbands took to small
canoes, preferring tc trust to the mercy of the
elements in these frail vessels than to the piitiless-
ness of these fiends of their own race.” These
darkies or demons, had just returned homo from
Queensland, after being civilized, and being uaught
the use of powder and shot.
The Dean of Melbourne can think a bit.
He is an old man, with the regulation number of
crotchets, and a few others cultivated on his own
account. But the other day, in speaking of the
Temperance movement, and its claim to 1 ieal all
the sores of life, the dean observed that such socie-
ties assert too much. “For instance,” Ik s said,
‘ intoxicating drink was not known in the { garden
of Eden, and Adam and Eve sinned. Nor was it
known a little after, when Cain murdered Abel.”
f here is a line of thought opened out by the se two
sentences that splits up sheaves of tempi jrance
tracts, aud bursts brainfuls of statistics. AVe are
lyminded that before there was any “whisky,”
km had its 100 per cent, and' murder its 25 pe r cent,
of the human population. That score hasnH been
reached since the birth of Bacchus.
At the Harvest Thanksgiving Services
held the week before last, in connection with the
Independent Church, Collins-street, Melbourne,
the Rev. Mr. Hamer made some truly singular
remarks in the course of his sermon. He said he
remembered when harvest times were so poor that
people, though willing enough, were unable to
contribute a harvest for the benefit of the Lord and
His Church ; but that this year they could all
spring up with alacrity, and render assistance to
God's good works. Mr. Hamer must have queer
notions of the Supreme Being if he thinks that he
needs our shekels to help Him along. Just think
of the blasphemy of the idea of puny mortals
essaying to contribute a harvest (of shillings, six-
and threepennies) for the benefit of the
Certainly Hamer added “and His Church,”
which, of course, happens to be Hamer’s. Odd
coincidence and, of course, the proceeding
wound up with a harvest—we mean a collection.
Thrice happy England, blessed with an
Established Cnurch statutorily empowered to col-
lect extraordinary tithes for the glory of God and
the enrichment of the rector I Unfortunately
for the rector, there are village Hampdens abroad.
For instance, in December last, Messrs. A. and E.
Bath, occupiers of a farm at Halstead, Kent, de-
termined to resist the exaction of the “ extra-
ordinary tithes.” They refused to pay them.
Thereupon, the rector seized a stack of hay, their
property, and by auctioneer Martin offered it for
sale. At the outset, the auctioneer informed those
present that he was not a “ parson’s man,” which
was met with the response, “ You know better.”
Someone thereupon knocked the auctioneer’s hat
off, and this was followed by various missiles
being thrown at him. One of the parties threw a
small bag of soot, and his face was completely
blackened. Subsequently, his clothes were torn
to shreds. In this condition he was advised to get
off the farm, but declined to do so till he had sold
the hay In the end he purchased the hay himself,
on behalf of the rector, for £2. Police were pre-
sent, but did not interfere. Subsequently, an in-
dignation meeting was held, at which a resolution
was passed heartily congratulating Messrs. Bath
on their public-spirited conduct in resisting such
iniquitous taxation. When will British statesmen
have the courage to pluck up the Established
•Church, that weed which pollutes the air, and to
leave rector and vicar, bishop and dean, to rely for
support on voluntary contributions ?
Melbourne is a great place for disputation
upon that bootless subject, “The Future Life.”
There is any amount of sects and sectaries, scof-
fers and believers, speculators and idealists. But
none of ’em know any more about the matter than
the other. This is a matter of course; and so, to
the calm and dispassionate individual who does
not say grace before meat because gravy cools
rapidly, and who does not return thanks after
meat for the reason that surfeit has shortened his
wind, the squabbles and quarrels between the or-
thodox and the heretics appear to partake of the
profitless amusement of “boating the air.” For,
look you, why cannot men and wo men face the in-
evitable in an honest and reasonable spirit. They
were not consulted when they were sent hither,
and if so be—as Jack says—they are to be punished
therefore, why where’s the good of maintaining
those old Trojans, Messrs. Molesworth and Hof-
rqyd, as authorities in Equity ? However, this is
diversion—a word which has a dual meaning. Let
us hark back. In Melbourne, the harmless
lunatics are many. Notably, there is one Dr.
Blair, who writes the phosphorescent leaders
in the Wori/d. There is also Mr. Walker, a
gentleman who made his appearance in Victoria
some years back as a trance-lecturer and spirit
medium. This was after the phosphorus business
in Canada. But Spiritualism was not material
enough for Walker. In due time he became a
Freethinker of the Bradlaugh type. Why not?
The thiner pays. People say that the great comfort
of life is the assurance that Christianity affords us
of future blies. But, then, future bliss has to be
earned by such uncomfortable penalties in this
life as self-control and docent morals. Is it likely
that such a creed as this commends itself to those
who only understand that life is worth living-
illustrated by the yokel’s idea of happiness, as
“ sittin’ on a gate a’ day and chawin’ fat bacon ”
so far as it affords the means of indulging the
animalism of humanity? Bless you, the youthful
Walker took on this point, and nourished and
cherished it. And, to-day, Thomas Walker is the
leading card in the bright Secularist pack. That
giddy youth. Dr. Blair, is, on the contrary, a
“strictly orthodox Christian,” as men are apt to
become at the age of 110, when the fires of youth
have been quenched by the impotence of age. He
believes in the Christian theory; and is eager in
his championship. And so the Secularist Walker,
and the discursive true believer Blair, have had a
three days’ mill over the subject, at the Melbourne
Athenaeum. A more pitiable display of ignorance,
a more abject exhibition of the influence of pre-
judice on the one hand, and cool impudence in the
cause of expediency on the other, could soaree
take place. Of the two men, Blair was un-
doubtedly honest. But, then, what is the good of
being honest unless one can impress others with a
sense of the dignity of honesty ? The whole
matter was puerile. But the Secularist speculator
had the better of the orthodox journalist, and this
is not saying much in his applause. Asses both;
the one gained nothing by his folly—the other
much. As the Secularist walked forth, after the
conclusion of the battle, he was justified in placing
his finger to his nose and muttering “ Walker 1”
The case of Lizzie Murphy, the servant girl
who drowned herself in Lake Wendourie “in
order to avoid exposuae of her shame” (vide
Press), has stirred up a tremendous amount of in-
dignation among the Ballarat public. A meeting
was convened “to consider what steps shall be
taken,” and married men only, attended. The
notion of “ married men only ” gathering to-
gether to discuss seduction, proves that the Bal-
larat people understand what they are about. Set
-a thief to catch a thief, you know.
An Anglican preacher advecateg the
abolition of the sermon. We like the notion, and
are prepared to aooept the proposal, as a substan-
tial instalment of much-needed ecclesiastical re-
form. The instalment to follow should be the
secularisation of the clergy, who, as it is, form one
mendicant class too many.
At the Viotorian Royal Humane Society’s
meeting some awards and certificates were
granted. Emma Jefferis, aged 10, received a certi-
ficate inscribed as follows:—“ For venturing upon
a plank across a stream, and in endeavouring to
save a companion, tumbling in herself.” Queries-
What did she get it for ? Would she have got it
had she not “tumbled in herself?” To have
saved her companion without tumbling in herself
would not have earned the Society’s admiration.
Or is it that the mover of the award, in trying to
work his passage aoross the sea of English compo-
sition, “ tumbled in himself ? ”
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rata ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, reaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ante, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
“ Buohu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary
Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., Genera, Agents,


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Arabi Pasha is an admirer of Lord Ran-
dolph Churchill. Ho spoke of the tierce little man
as “ the friend of slaves.” This is rather rough on
the English Conservative party.
The health of the Emperor of Germany is
a subject that we are getting just a little sick of
—far more sick than the old man ever is, in our
own private opinion. When the morning journal
favours us with a “cablegram” to the effect that
the tough warrior is “indisposed,” we feel it's
only natural that he should be at his time of life.
But, next morning, when the further information
is vouchsafed to ua that the dear old monarch is
“better,” we feel doubtful about those cable-
grams; we do, indeed.
THE EMPEROR’S HEALTH.
Your paper this morning will probably tell
How the “ Emperor William is rather unwell;
But your paper, to-morrow, will haste to explain
That the “ Emperor William is better again.
’Tis a shame to upset you so sadly, because,
All the while, the old fellow is just as ho was.
While the remains of Mr. James Goodall
Francis were being conveyed to the Melbourne
Cemetery, the pens of scribes were busy trying to
locate his work in the field of party politics.
Liberals claim him on the strength of some of his
principles, Conservatives on the strength of others.
Tn the scramble of disjointed maxims which have
constituted the political wisdom of Victoria, no
higher compliment could, perhaps, be bestowed
upon the dead man’s memory. Both sides admit
that he did not play a game of last and loose. He
simply maintained possession of his personal
liberty, and declined to be carried on the shoulders
of any faction farther than ho saw. While the
chief-mourners and pall-bearers were around the
coffin, it was an idle piece of work tor the Conser-
vatives to dijf up all tho Liberals had said against
him at certain times, and tor the Liberals to dig up
all the missiles hurled at him from the Conservative
camp. James Goodall Francis was not affected by
the logomachy; and who, indeed, of the com-
munity was ?
Sir W. J. Clarke dreamed a dream lately,
and when he awoke, he seized his cheque-book
tnd wrote a letter. Bound his pillow came the
duties of life; some winged, mild-eyed, gentle,
nthers wingless and furnished only with jaws,
claws! and bellies Hunger was there, with a lank
furrowed face. Squalor was there with bleared
eves and the stench of dirty rags. Sin was there
in a nate, fragile form, trembling on the brink and
i I™- ahndderingly into the abyss. And the
Lnndov of war was there, with shaggy hide and
ba Mnw g rn»ks Human passion and want and hop©
Jnd were Ml there, and each pleaded that
?he sleeping baronet, out of the money got by
him so easily, made mainly by the Rowing sweat
striDDed arms of thousands who are still poor,
would g?ve something to lift it along. The
wonet scanned the pleaders, realised that there
wondrous grace in the shaggy hide and yellow
tl o bandog, motioned the rest to betake
themselves to thei>’haunts, and awaking sent a
Cheque for £5OO to Colonel Sargood.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen possesses one of the
nnaiitips which ko to make a great man. It would
qualities wme g him a great man, as
of other great men in Melbourne
the K u i^, u thcv werc being crowded up. Hut Sir
wooM feel >“! y fl^ r ®££ii t y. H e can stand tire.
When Collins-street loads up its journalistic mi-
trnitieuse shoving in scrap-ends of neglected
tra i!Liunks of blatant bigotry, shovelfuls of
HaO°Rnu-1 is’li U tuid bits of waste truth, Sir Bryan sits
bad Englisb, aim on" hitcheg up his pau nch, and
Uugbs hke blazes. It makes a bilious man happy
,a wfir nt the fallen statesman. There is some-
thing crackling and sunny about his disposition.
And when some inordinately splenetic discharge is
and his friends fear that his appe-
tite hi blasted to pieces, he scoops up the full of his
wmuth of vegetables, and says, “iMivver moind.
rt’sine own counthryrain, an me own co-relie-
it, sme .. ~ They re me own fnnds
only turning the dacentpinny,
the poor bhoys! Them’s fine spuds; pass me over
another dozen or so.’ „ . .
n h „ Rev . H. Dickson (O.E )is an official
member of Shepney (Eng.) Board of Guardians,
and this is the manner in which ho, the represen-
fative of One who went about doing good, essays
L; the working of the poor-law machinery
withmererand charity. An old labourer applied
for a few pence a week to enable him and his wife
tn keen “out of the house.” Beheving-officer
Hooker said the man had a little furniture, but
that his wife only earned sufficient to pay the rent.
Thereupon the following discussion ensued:-The
Rev Mr. Dickson said that people were not desti-
tute as long as they had furniture in the house,
when he (the reverend speaker) resided in Lanca-
shire no relief was allowed to anyone as long as
there was a chair in the house. Mr. Prosser: Then
you would not give a man a loaf as long as he had
a chair to sit upon ? Mr. Dickson : No; that is
what poor rates are for. This is not a benevolent
society? 0 Mr. Prosser: If you do that in Lanca-
shire do you think we ought to do it in Kent?
M> Dickson: Yes, Ido. Mr. Prosser: Well, then,
I don’t? Luckily for the applicant, Prosser’s views
prevailed.
Hero-worship is not yet dead. There is
still a feeling of reverence for great men in the
minds of the people. This extends even to the
inanimate objects which have become, so to
speak, spiritualised by association with these
mighty minds. Only the other day the effects of
the late Mr. Marwood, hangman, were sold by
public auction. The competition for the posses-
sion of these was very spirited. The last rope the
great artist used was sold for £4 10s.; his Bible (he
was a man of considerable but unaffected pietj)
brought thirty-five shillings, The difference in
the amounts realised by these articles is an index
to the present state of religious thought in the old
country. His whisky-flask brought only eleven
shillings, which is a matter of surprise to us. We
would have given more for it ourselves, if only to
make a presentation of it to some of our friends in
nublic life. We are not more explicit for various
reasons. His Gladstone travelling-bag, however,
which he carried with him on circuit, realised the
comparatively handsome sum of three pounds
Evidently it was purchased in the belief that
Marwood had at some time or other carried a head
in it It is a tine old spirit which causes people to
treasure so dearly the relics of £**-‘* t .
It encourages us to go and do likewise, if we
can’t all be hangmen, at least a good proportion
of us have a chance to be hanged. This thought
alone is joy.
Hector A. Stuart, better known as the
“South Sea Bard,” is now sojourning in this city,
having arrived from San Francisco in the “City
of Sydney.” Mr. Stuart is a native of Australia,
was born at Illawarra, but left his native land
when a child, thirty years ago. Since then he has
led an eventful life, and has travelled over most of
the globe. He has also achieve' l distinction as a
poet—his poems “Ben Nebo” and “Nat Ivan,”
describing a cruise he made in the South Seas,
having been eulogistical-
ly received by the critics.
He is also noted in the
United States as a prose
writer, is author of the
librettos of the operas
“Otumba”and “Bluejac-
kets in Zanzibar,” and of
two marine romances,
“ Signals of Distress” and
“ Kegs of Silver.” He
has also served in three
armies—the Corta Rican,
during the Walker inva-
sion; the Mexican, dur-
ing the war of the “ Re-
forma,” and the Union
army, during the Ameri-
can rebellion. He is a
member of the Grand
Army of the Republic
attached to Lincoln Post.
During his service in Me-
xico, he was one of sixty-
eight “bravos” who cut
out the Iturbide, a gun-
brig, under the lire of
thirty-seven pieces of ar-
tillery, in Puerto Viejo,
Mazatlan. Mr. Stuart’s
father, James Stuart, was
a merchant of Sydney,
well-known to old colo-
nists. He was lost at
sea, many years ago.
His mother, a daughter
of Captain .Tames Crow-
ther, of the British
Army, died last year.
Mrs. Stuart was a lady
of marked intellectual powers, from whom the
poet undoubtedly inherits his talent, and whose
memory he has embalmed in an elegy of singular
beauty, set to music by Professor Joseph Uoeekei,
who some years ago toured the colon with
Jenny Claus, the lady violinist. A sister of
the deceased lady, Sophia, is married to Mr. A.
Williams, in early times a “ noted colonist,” but
now living in retirement on his estate at Canter-
bury. His sons and daughters—cousins of the
poet—are well-known in social circles; the former
also holding responsible positions in the Civic
Government. Since his arrival, Mr. btuart has
been the recipient of many courtesies; and, under
the guidance of the Williamses, the Pottses, the
Thompsons, and other well-known residents, has
visited the leading places of interest aroiind
Sydney. Being also an artist, he has made sketches
from these, which he in-
tends “workingup” on
his return to the United
States. Mr. Stuart comes
to visit his aunt and cou-
sins,and will cave shortly
for Washington, to as-
sume a position on a Re-
publican journal of that
city. He is at present re-
siding with the family
of Mr. T. F. Smith,
who, by the way, is a
nephew of Sir William
Fenwick Williams, the
hero of Kars. One of
Mr. H. A. Stuart’s poems,
“Tropic Love,” appeared
in a recent Bueletin, an'
was justly admired by the
many readers of this jour-
nal. We may remark that
the Grant Anthem, now
one of the popular pieces
of music in the United
Stateß, was composed by
the " South Sea bard,”
and sung on the return of
the ex-President to the
Republic, by Signorina
Adelina Speranza, the
celebrated prima donna,
and daughter of the com-
poser of the music, Pro-
i essor O. Speranza, assist-
ed by a full orchestra and
chorus of two hundred
and fifty voices. His ode
on the “ Fall of the Bas-
tille ” is also a fine com-
position, and is one of the patriotic songs of the
French Republicans in California. Mr. Stuart
travels as correspondent for the Argus, exa-
miner, and La Voce del Popolo, in which jour-
nals his Australian letters will appear. His merits
as a poet have attained the stamp of foreign ap-
probation, and he justly ranks among tne fore-
most of Australian-born bards.
G.R. Sims, in his “ Horrible London,” names
the following as having passed through a single
common lodging-house :—A paymaster in the Royal
Navy; two men who had been college chums at
Cambridge,one of whom had kept a pack of hounds;
a physician’s son, himself a doctor, who sells fusees
in the Strand; a clergyman who had taken honours;
a commercial traveller and superintendent of a
Sunday-school; a member of the Stock Exchange,
removed afterwards to a workhouse in a stite of
delirium tremens; a brother of a scholar of Euro-
pean repute, who died in a slum, leaving his wife
and three children in a miserable den in the neigh-
bourhood; and the brother of a vicar of a large
Loudon parish, who also died in a slum. Then,
again, he tells how he found in one fearful court
a master of a celebrated college, who is also a
Fellow of the Royal Society; in another a lieute-
nant in the army, who ekes out a drunken exist-
ence as a begging-letter impostor (a kind of Jack
Cardiff); elsewhere the sons of officers in the army
an* l navy, contractors, and wealthy tradesmen—
some of them waterside labourers, and one of them
the potman of a low beershop.
MR. TOM McKAY,
The American Railway Agent,
“At the recent grounding of the ship Ch’t-
toor, on the Marion Reef, there was a striking ex-
hibition of bravery and presence of mind by the
Chinese cook, who throw himself into the water
with a bowline, which he succeeded in fastening
round the captain’s body under the arms. He
then regained the vessel, hauled Captain Gourlcy
aboard and saved his life. Such an act of bravery,
it is thought, deserves recognition in a tangible
form.”—Daily paper.
A GOOD LINE.
This Chinaman brave
Dared a watery grave
His captain to save
With a line.
Few people who rave
Of the “ yellow-faced knave ”
Like that would behave—
It was fine!
So, whenever the breeze
Sweeps over the seas,
And you, at your ease,
Hear its whine,
Your duty do, please,
And help some Chinese—
A vendor of teas—
With a “line.”
Father Tom Barrett, P.P., preached the
Gospel to the benighted miners of Pleasant Creek
(Vic.), some twelve years ago, when the Spiritual-
ists of that section began to see visions and dream
dreams. Father Tom—who, by the way, was “ a
rale dacent sort,” always drove a fast horse, drank
reliable whisky, would join a couple in the holy
bonds, and afterwards play the fiddle at the mar-
riage festivities whilst the boys “ welted the
flure ’’—determined to nip the new religion in the
bud, and took aggressive measures accordingly.
He hired the local assembly rooms, billed the
diggings with flaming postei s announcing a lecture
condemnatory of Spiritualism at an early date.
The lecture came off, but it must be ssid that his
“riverence” did not display a profound knowledge
of the subject he had uhdertakenjito deal with
Nevertheless, his rich Connaught “brogue, as
broad as the Atlantic itself, was used with telling
effect on those whom his reverence termed the
“ heretics.” Said he, by way of illustration:
“ And now, my brethren and friends (the heretics
aforesaid), maybe you don’t know of the convo-
cation of Anglican clergymen that was held in
London a year ago, when the question of Hell was
under consideration. Well, they argued it for
three days, and, when it went to the vote, they
decided that there was no hell. Just listen to that,
now Anvhow there were some Yankee ministers
amnnastthem • and, although they say the Vankees
are not Darticular about hell, they brought up the
nnesHon for discussion again, and, at the end ot
?h*f B fhird dav the Yankees carried hell." That
settled the question.
: i he-
The \ ictoriau War Dcpaiti e ‘
come so thoroughly disorganised that the Govern-
. u nAMMaw to annoint a Roval Com-
ment found it necessary to' appoint a'" oy
mission to put it right again it! e . . Bev eral
right. The Commission has been f urn ished
months, and at length aßeport lias be the
of its labours, lho “?vertigation pr Kind - that
war material is of the most_innoce , j’ 110
ritte3, swords, and ar Y cann _ri ett'eet * and
theatrical managers to assist in stag ;,, s tlv-eele-
amongst other^regularitiesi that • the. justly
t>rated VV. E. Murphy, wood c ipp hold
H.M. \ ictorian to rues, was not co P , tliere
the exalted positionany onge. iireij _ t
must be some mistake. . h studied
Melbourne— nay, in the w
and carried out a ' h ; - He was tb g
half as weli as tne Murp y. „ _ pod
laithful henchmau Graham Bery Ba nd
old days, when the programme of . been
flaminghouseswasissued.andsnc it®eo to
chief wire-puller of the Tradesria
!ble2
of the working classes, was able to command a
good billet from the erstwhile democratic Berry,
when he held absolute sway and could reward his
friends. But the Coalition Ministry has “ busted ”
the whole concern, and “W.E.M.” has to go. An-
other injustice to Ireland! Anyhow, Murphy
could see how the cat was likely to jump, and in
anticipation of the report of the Commission, has
started a Working Men’s Building Society, of
which he is the manager, in imitation of that
master of finance —Mirams. Yes, W.E.M. is one of
those that know to come in when it doth rain.
Mr. Thomas D. M‘Kay, the celebrated
American railway passenger agent, whose portrait
appears in this page, is the representative to Aus-
tralasia of the “Great Burlington Overland
Route” through America. His name is famiiiar
to all Australians who have visited San Franeiseo,
and throughout these colonies—and, in fact, in
every quarter of the globe, he has an army of
friends and well-wishers who are delighted to
meet him. Mr. M’Kay has been connected with
the Burlington Railway Company upwards of
eleven years, and, although only thirty-four years
of age, is a walking encyclopedia of information
on railroad management and railroad
travelling. His many gentlemanly qualities and
genial disposition stamp him as an American of
the true type. No traveller to America need have
any misgivings as to his feeling “perfectly at
home in ’Frisco,” if he has the good fortune to
meet this gentleman, as all needful information
regarding hotels, railways, steamboats, and plea-
sure tours, &c„ is furnished gratia; and, in addi-
tion, we can confidently add, thoroughly reliable.
The Burlington Railway Company is one'Of the
largest and wealthiest corporations in the world.
It owns and operates a line 4417 miles long, and
employs a capital of one hundred and twenty
million dollars—representing in English money
over twenty-four million pounds sterling. This
Burlington Overland Route line passes through
the richest and most populous states of the Union,
and carries the traveller over (via Salt Lake City)
the main range of the Rocky Mountains, through
the grandest, and most picturesque and romantic
scenery in America, and lands him in any of the
great cities of the United States. Mr. M’Kay’s
mission to Australia is to disseminate information
to the travelling public regarding railway- travel-
ling in America, the best mode of reaching the
chief points of interest en route, and to report on
the general importance of these colonies from a
commercial standpoint.
Not long ago, at one of those sparkling
Lyceum suppers where Irving used to gather the
wit and genius of London, a question arose: Who
is the most brilliant all-round man in Englhnd ?
After eliminating name after name of those who
are famous over the globe, the company narrowed
the list to Gladstone and Sala, and finally decided
in favour of George Augustus Sala. With fair
reason, as he bubbles with the glittering humour
in which Gladstone is deficient. And he is the man
who, according to Archibald Forbes, is soon to
visit Australia. Forbes says: “ I had myself
aspired to writing a book on Australian life and
characteristics, but realised my incoro petenee to
do justice to a subject so large and important.
But I was unwilling so rich a Held should go un-
garnered, and when I returned to England after
the happy months I spent on the great continent
of the Southern Seas, 1 went to George Sala. with
whom I have long cherished a close intimacy, and
told him of the opportunities that awaited his pen.
Sala has written about all the world excepting
Australia; and all the world reads what he writes.
His powers of observation, naturally acute, have
been cultivated by long practiie in the profession
of special correspondent. I propounded to him
that he, a brilliant and original speaker, should
lecture throughout Australia; I was able to aasuit
nim of an intelligent and cordial reception ; 1
urged him to undertake the work, and in
short, the famous R. S. Smythe has agreed to
“run” the famous G. A. Sala through the
colonies. He will probably reach Australia early
in 1885, and lecture through to the end of the year,
and then do Tasmania and New Zealand. Owing
to his present literary engagements, it is almost
impossible for Mr. Sala to come sooner. By the
bye, some time ago, a fellow who announced him
self as George A. Sala lectured here. He was
pretty good fun, and we had our little joke by
gravely reporting the show as though the lecturer
has been the great G.A.S. in person. The result
was that in a few months we received a fiery mis-
sive from the real Simon Pure, in which he de-
nounced the report as an invention, and seriously
assured us that ho had never been in Australia in
his life, and had no knowledge of “ a place called
Pitt-street.”
The three nights go-on-as-you-please upoii
Christianity, in which Messrs. Thomas Walker and
David Blair have been engaging at the Melbourne
Athenaeum, ca'ls to mind Bradlaugh’s early
struggles for notoriety—though Tommy isn’t alto-
gether a Bradlaugb, you know, not as yet. The
rejected M.P. used to get up religious discussions
at sixpence a head with a certain Father Ignatius,
a theatrical “monk,” who shaved the top of his
head and went in for a very highly-coloured kind
of piety. The Hall of Science. Gos well Road,
London, was their favourite battle-field, wherein
Bradlaugh aired his atheism, and the “ monk ” re-
velled in his religion—the latter, by the way, being:
many points ahead of his burly opponent in the
matter of eloquence, for Bradlaugh, in those days,
was better at billiards than at public speaking,
however much he may have improved lately.
This Ignatius, too, was a clever kind of a hum-
bug, with a particularly spiritual way of ex-
pressing himself. In the pulpit, he was s
big fellow with the ladies, and at Margate
Cappy Margate the English cockney water-
ing town) used to melt them to tears by talk-
ing of his “angel mother’s grave,” and de-
siring them to “ place one little, simple flower” on
her tombstone—somewhere in the neighbourhood.
Bushels of flowers went on that tombstone, until
It began to be whispered that the tonsured divine
used to crib the nicest, and make them into bou-
quets for his fancy girls. All this while he was
collecting funds for the establishment of a nun-
nery, or something of that sort; but it proved to
be a very sickly institution, the young nuns never
distinguishing themselves in anything particular,
except in agreeing that the Father was a “ good
man.” So in course of time —a very little time-
the nunnery bust up. To return to Bradlaugh,
though, certain people are suggesting that he 1?
the party referred to in Archie Forbes’s letter to
Smythe, as the “ best living English lecturer.” So
he may be, if the Great War Correspondent is to
be accepted as second best, but not otherwise; the
people with such a mighty fine opinion of Brad-
laugh’s talking powers haven’t heard him. Brad-
laugh’s addresses are exactly like very dry cham-
pagne-only they never sparkle. And all this talk
suggested by Walker’s “discussion.” Well, well.
Two of the Rev. Charles Strong’s most
bigoted foes—the Revs. J. L. Rentoul and Murdoch
M'Donald—were duly rewarded by the brethren
for their orthodoxy, with the appointments of
Professors of Theoiogy at the Ormond College.
The flavour of worldliness attaching to the title of
“Professor” seems to have communicated itself
to the natures of these good gentlemen, as the time
arrived for parting with their flocks and taking up
their new duties. The Rev. Rentoul, in particular*
has given evidence that the Presbyterian shepherd
can be a keen man of business when he has nothing
more to expect from his sheep, and the way 10
which he has “ cut up ” at the last minute is
exciting a deal of holy comment in Melbourne
circles. The Rev. R., be it known, landed at Mel-
bourne, nearly five years ago, upon the very com-
fortable errand of saving East St. Kilda souls m
£3OO per annum, to be paid quarterly. His church
committee didn’t exactly see the force of shelling
out a quarter in advance, but, however, when the
quarter was about half through, they did make
glad their pastor’s heart with the r ‘ bawbees.
After accepting these periodical cheques for
for nearly five years, and with a guileless simplicity
indicative of a holy ignorance of figures, the Re?:
R woke up amazingly when it came to a fine*
settling, putting in a claim for "balance due
exceeding by some eighty odd pounds the arith-
metical calculation of his flock. This sad diver-
gence in views is explained in some quarters W
the curious statement that the reverend financier
has for five long years been considering tW*
lawful “ screw ” commenced from the date of
leaving the Lan<3 o’ Cakes, whereas “thefirm


FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventitive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any diseace if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING a packet. Tv hole-
sale Depot for New Soruth WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
Rsroßg
»r
A
MOSPHATf
ACID
Prepared according 1 to the directions Ol Prof.
E. N. Horaford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENCED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
0T No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
“ W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. Jt is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It eures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Baok.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIG
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the beat No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are oach and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BAKEOISf JIOXMAM A CO.,
isiv As cut*
have, for exactly the same period, been consider-
ing that the engagement began from the day of
his landing in Victoria. [By the way, from the
“leric’s point of view, what a pity it is that he
didn’t come over by sailing vessel, then there
would have been a nice snug little “quarter
waiting to welcome him on arrival, and all these
complications would have been avoided.— Ed. B.j
So this pretty little squabble stands adjourned for
a few days, but, seeing that (according to the
testimony of a sheep) the Rev. Rentoul had a habit
nf preaching for two hours at a stretch, upon
occasions, it does seem hard that the church com-
mittee should stand out over a few paltry pounds
in parting with such a treasure. The keen busi-
ness ability displayed by the St. Kilda pastor in
the closing act of his ministry, has already peeped
out in his new role of “ Professor.” He and the
Rev. Murdoch M’Donald are both members of the
Theological Hall committee, and, as such, formed
two out of a meeting of sir which passed a reso-
lution to the effect that—“ This committee agrees
to be responsible for house rent for the two pro-
fessors, until such time as houses are built.” At a
subsequent meeting of seven— the two poor house-
less gentlemen again assisting—it was resolved
“ That house rent for each professor should not
exceed £l3O per annum.” As this allowance for
rent—which seems far too moderate to the lay
mind—is due to the Professors from January Ist,
a certain soreness has been felt by the admirers of
the Rev. Murdoch, over the circumstance of his
enjoying, as a special favour, the use of his manse
until March 31st. However, as he has “author-
ised” the Presbyterian organ to disclaim his in-
tention of “osTciny a shilling for rent while he
occupies the Toorak manse,” we can only compli-
ment the thrifty gentleman on his careful arrange-
ments for the future.
• • *
Bob Lawson, a well-known Queensland
engine-driver, was recently sun-struck, and died
in 34 hours, He was a colonist for 30 years, and
drove the first locomotive that was ever run in
Queensland. 58 years of age when he handed in
his ticket Archbishop Goold was laid up at
Brighton last week with “rheumatic pains in his
elbows,” and “a swelling in both his feet.” Dr.
Brownless was attending him. Now, we like to
extend sympathy to church dignitaries when they
suffer, but don’t know how right to pour out our
tears on this. If he would allow the ailment to be
called gout, we’d shed at once. But His Grace
prefers general descriptions, and we have to wait.
....The “law’s delay” would appear to have had
something to do with the suicide of poor old Mrs.
M’Millan, the widow of Angus M'Millan, the ex-
plorer. A difficulty in getting at seme funds,
recently relinquished, by the appointed trustees,
back into the hands of the Victorian Government,
tended, it is said, to throw the old lady into a very
despondent state. Trustees are accountable for a
good deal of despondency, one time and another.
Scene —Weribone Station, Queensland; time—
-8 a.m. Party (a new chum); three weeks’arrival.
Mistake—dose of strychnine for Epsom salts. Con-
sequence-four planks and six feet of soil. Doctor,
parson, inquiry—none. Public opinion: “Oh!
only a new chum!”
• • o
Jean Ingelow lives with two of her brothers
in a comfortable London home, aglow with flowers.
She is posted on the topics of the day, and mixes in
society in the season, being much sought. She
is yet in her prime, though her hair is somewhat
grey Christina Rossetti, the poetess, lives with
her mother in London, and has dark hair and eyes,
and most fascinating manners Mrs. Craik (better
known as Miss Muloch, author of “John Halifax,
Gentleman ”) lives in an old Queen Anne house in
a pretty part of Kent, and is very like some of the
quiet gentle characters drawn in her books. Her
first novel was published twenty-five years ago.
She has written thirty since then, but only a few
since her marriage, about fifteen years back
Robert Browning, the poet, is 70 years old, with
white hair and moustache, though still vigorous.
He lives in Warwick Crescent, London ...The
Duchess of Teck, commonly known in England as
Fat Mary, rides a tricycle; the Princess Louise
rides one; and the Princess of Wales gave her
eldest daughter one for her last birthday present.
.... Harriet Beecher Stowe is 73 years old, and still
deriving a comfortable income from sales of
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” Huxley’s son is said to
be distinguishing himself at Oxford by writing
verse. We fancy we see the old Professor stand-
ing amidst his cheerful skeletons, with the leg of
an anthropoid ape in one hand, and the letter con-
veying this harrowing intelligence in the other.
We see his grey hair stand on end, the thigh-bone
brandished on high, and the skull of an Andaman
Islander receive a taste of what’s waiting for
Master Leonard when he comes home after the
vacation General Mesny, of the Chinese Army,
who is now looking after Celestial interests in
Anam, is a native of Jersey. He has been in the
Chinese service since 1863. He speaks Chinese
with perfect fluency.
This paragraph will be interesting—not
to say inte-roost-ing—to poultry-breeders and
chicken thieves. It is stated that the manufacture
of eggs is being carried on in the United States on
a large scale, one establishment turning out up-
wards of a thousand an hour. We don’t doubt it.
The manufacture of lies is carried on there on a
reasonably large scale, too. But these are mostly
for exportation. Yet, why not make eggs ? The
thing is not so wonderful after all. The yolks are
said to be formed of a paste composed of corn
flour, starch, and other materials, the whites of
albumen, the inner skin of gelatine, and the shell
of plaster of Paris. , The yolks and whites are
frozen before being inserted in the shell. They
are rolled into an oval shape, and there is
your egg. From theii hardness, these arti-
ficial eggs are supposed to be particularly well
adapted for election purposes. Their effect on a
candidate is more pronounced than that produced
by the old-fashioned hen-fruit, though, perhaps,
it is h«rdly as picturesque. Still you can’t have
everything in a minute. By the way, it may be
well to take this egg story with the usual amount
of salt. So too, with another story we heard that
the egg-manufactory in question was started
Principally because a law had been passed for-
bidding any fowl in the States except the American
eagle to lay eggs, and that the eggs of the eagle
were kept solely for I aster-gifts to the ambassa-
dors of foreign powers. We are cautious about
receiving these statements, because you never can
believe half what you read in the papers in these
days.
A vigorous Christmas in the fine old festive
spirit was that kept up by the family circle of
Thomas Boswell, of Prahran who was admitted into
the Melbourne Alfred Hospital the other day. He
was suffering from scalp-wounds, caused by having
been struck by an axe during a reunion at his
ancestral home. It warms one s heart to read
this. Of late, Christmas in this country has be-
come a rather poor-spirited affair. It has lost the
old riotous humour, and has become snug
and smug and dreary. We remember the time
when people would begin a month before Christ-
mas to prepare lint and bandages. Now there is
nothing about it to tear —except, perhaps, the
goose. But the family of Thomas Boswell are
evidently of the good, old-fashioned stock,
that stick to their ancient customs. It makes
one glow with pleasure, and a kindly longing to
smash something, just for sheer joy, to think how
Thomas Boswell came home to spend this festive
season with his friends, how they slashed into the
gooso and plunged into the whisky, how they first
grew hilarious, and finally furious, with fun, and
how one of them took up the wood-axe, and in a
paroxysm of affection laid open Tommy s head to
the balmy breezes of the night. There is some-
thing natural and true about all this which de-
lights us. The grand old freedom of the Satur-
nalia is the feature that Christmas can least afford
to lose. It is a good thing, occasionally, for a son
to be able to smack the author of his being over
the head with a fire-shovel, or a father to flatten
out his first-born with an axe-handle. It pro-
motes peace for the coming year, and is it not
Peace and good-will that Christmas comes to
bring? We should rather say it is.
.Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
Rougji on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, war+a, bunions. Moses,
Moss 6c Co., Sydney, G-eneraJ Agents.
The Nichi Nichi Shimbun, tells the story
how a Japanese, a resident of Kanda, recently
made a most annoying mistake. He was on the
look out for his wife, whom, for certain crimes
and misdemeanours against his marital dignity, he
intended to kill: when, hearing through the door
of a house the voice of a woman, whom he mis-
took for his faithless consort, he rushed into the
tenement, and did not discover his mistake until
he had given her particular fits with his dagger.
It is illustrative of the rapid way in which
Japanese civilisation is becoming assimilated to
to that of Great Britain, te read in the Shimbun
that the “police have got a clue, and are on the
miscreant’s track.”
Dear Henry Ward Beecher is getting even
more naughty than ever, in his old age. It’s only
the other day we trembled at the intelligence that
Irving had placed a private box at the disposal of
the oily parson, who expressed his sanctified satis-
faction at the performance of the “ Merchant of
Venice,” and now the latest American item is to
the effect that the reverend playgoer has been
lunching with Charlie Wyndham. Wyndham’s
productions can hardly be regarded as of the
ministerial pattern, but we expect to hear soon
that Beecher has been to see his new friend in
“ Pink Dominoes ” pronouncing it to be a severely
classical play, with a beautiful moral. Why, it isn’t
a bit more moral than Beecher.
The convicts in New Caledonia, in order to
obtain spirits, resort to very ingenious contriv-
ances. For instance, one was discovered with a
false stomach containing rum. This was made of
tin to fit the body. Others have been found with
imitation bananas, also containing spirits, and
even a package of tobacco was imitated in tin.
These convicts dispose of spirits at fabulous prices
to their fellow-prisoners; and it is said that there
is a large sum of money (all in gold) hidden at lie
Nou, where the convicts reside. They carry on a
large trade in carved shells, which they dispose of
openly in the streets, or appoint one of their gang
to dispose of them at a commission, and the pro-
ceeds are then invested in drink or lost in gambling
amongst themselves.
About these Hunter’s Hill baths, there are
two sides to the story. We gave one the other
day. Here is the other. The objection to the
erection of baths at the foot of Alexandra-street
was solely on account of the unsuitableness of the
site. In the construction of works of this nature,
the Government find £1 for £1 subscribed by the
municipality—and the department wisely would
not sanction the expenditure of public money for
baths in a mud-hole. The same gentlemen who
prevented the baths being erected in shallow,
muddy water, have for some time past been mak-
ing all the necessary enquiries as to the cost of
floating and other kinds of baths, to be built for
the convenience of the public, on the Parramatta
River, at the foot of Drunmoyne-street, Hunter’s
Hill, not only a central site for the residents of
the borough, but easily reached from other parts
of the river and the city.
There is a controversy waging between
hangman Binns and gaol-chaplain Pigott (of
Liverpool). Pigott declares that Binns smelt very
strongly of liquor, on the morning when Dutton
wasjhanged—so strongly that he felt constrained
“WHOLESOME FUN.”
to rebuke him on this wise, “ My friend, let this i
(pointing to Dutton in extremis) be a warning to |
you never to touch spirits in the morning.” Binns,
on the other hand, avers that “no man can say |
they ever saw Binns that morning or the day be- j
fore, take a drop of drink.” Or the ease may be j
put thus:—
To hangman Binns, says chaplain Pigott:
“ My friend you’d best put in the spigot.”
To chaplain Pigott, hangman Binns:
“ Tippling ain’t one of Binns’s sins.”
The deeply interesting question; "Does Binns do
a matutinal?” will probably remain unsolved,
since the evidence either way, is precisely equal—
a hangman’s against a parson’s word.
The statement by a Melbourne firm that
they have already imported some four hundred
Indiau servants into Victoria lor domestic pur-
poses, has provoked from the local Herald an
indignant protest against the introduction of these
Goanese—“ an inferior race’’—into the colony.
Considering that the dusky ladies and gentlemen
are jfellow-subjects with ourselves of Queen Vic-
toria, the article in our little evening contemporary
provides a splendid target for the satirist. The
notion that none of those two hundred millions
of darkies, subjugated by a handful of whites
from across the seas, must be allowed “a show,”
in their turn, to cross the other seas and wash the
plates and dishes of any descendants of their
former conquerors who may choose to employ
them, seems very droll when you come to think
over it. As regards their utility for domestic
labour, that is a matter which will speedily right
itself. If the Goanese are no good as servants,
they will not hold positions in Australian
households for long. But the Herald makes in-
sinuations against the industry and honesty of the
new arrivals, based on the apparently established
fact that, as Christian converts, they are notori-
ously lacking in those virtues, compared with
their heathen fellow-countrymen. An intelligent
foreigner should be able to extract a screaming
laugh from thinking well over all this.
This is how the Melbourne Herald es-
capes its responsibilities:—“The dead body of a
woman, name unknown, was found lying on the
Railway Pier, Port Melbourne (Sandridge) at 6
o’clock this morning. The body was removed to
the morgue by Constable Clapperton, and when
found was cold and stiff, and appeared to have
been dead about five or six hours. Deceased was
45 or 50 years of age, sft. Tin. high, medium build,
with very dark complexion, dark hair and beard,
whiskers and moustache turning grey. The body
was dressed in dark frock coat, iight grey tweed
trousers and vest, white shirt and brass studs, with
Chinese characters on them, white underflannel,
cotton socks, and light elastic side boots. In his
pocket was found an aluminium chain, with silver
coin attached, on which was engraved the Lord’s
prayer, a bunch of keys, a pocket knife, pair of
spectacles, and a Government tramway ticket.
There were no marks of violence on the body.”
Dr. Yuille, when ho read this, simply went off his
feed. It was the witching hour of six, and that
“tocsin of the soul, the dinner-bell,” had sum-
moned the ooronorial household to its aliment,
when a ruffian newsboy (the gallows chuckles!)
delivered the Herald. Forgetful of his usual
custom to reserve all nauseous draughts until
absolutely necessary, the coroner read the above.
Since that time he has been laid up, suffering
under a depressed nervous system, the which (not-
withstanding medical advice and the entreaties of
his friends) is still further aggravated by his per-
sistent personal perusal of the “Origin of Species.
The Herald has much to answer for. But the
reporter has been sacked! Alas and well-a-day.
Three star and Royal Blend mix matters, don’t
they ?
We have received a very nicely litho-
graphed letter from Dr. Barnardo, of London. Dr.
Barn ado has earned himself a noble reputation by
his labours in establishing homes for destitute
children. He goes out into the highways and by-
ways and dives into the fetid lanes of London to
rescue the poor, little homeless street arabs, who
starve by thousands in the richest metropolis in
the world. We quote from the letter:—“ln addi-
tion to nearly 5000 children, who, since the estab-
lishment of the ‘Homes,’ have been received,
trained, and sent out to earn their own bread in
this country, upwards of 300 boys and girls have*
within the past 13 months, l een placed in care-
fully-selected situations in Ciinada, Australia, and
South Africa.” Of course all this requires money,
and the institution is supported solely by the gifts
of the charitable. There are lots of people
who might do worse with their money than
send a five-pound note to Dr. Barnardo. The
answer some of these people give is usually that
London is a long way off, and charity begins at
home. God is a long way off, too; and they would
have a pretty hard row to tow if He thought
after the same fashion. And, as for charity begin-
ning at home, there is no legitimate call for charity
in this country. No man, woman, or child need go
hungry here if they choose to work. There are
hundreds of people in the interior who would be
glad to employ all the destitute in Sydney if the
destitute would do anything. And if the destitute
won’t work, they can always join the police-force.
But in London the case is different. There is no out-
let for poverty there, except the gaol or the grave-
yard. Dr. Barnardo enclosed an envelope with his
address upon it. He requests people when re-
plying to give their “ full name, title, and address.”
We have not any title yet. We have not com-
mitted sufficient crimes to have been made a J.P.
At the same time, considering the goodness of the
cause he advocates, we sent something to him.
We sent an application to be received into his
destitute home.
Off the coast of Normandy, and nearly
opposite to “the land of Langtry,” lie the few
half-tide rocks known as “Les Casquettes.” On
the largest of these is a light-house, and here from
infancy to maidenhood grew up the light-keeper’s
daughter, the subject of Algernon Swinburne’s
last poom, “Les Casquettes,” published in the first
issue of the English Illustrated Magazine—
a new venture of the Messrs. Macmillan, with, for
editor, Mr. Comyns Carr. Swinburne makes the
maiden turn her thoughts abroad and wonder
what the great world away from her storm-girt
rock—
“ Hardly the breadth of a few brief paces,
Hardly the length of a strong man’s stride”—
can be like; and she
“ marvelled haply what life would be
On moors that sunset and dawn leave golden,
In dells that smile on the sea,”
till at length,
“And forth she fared as a stout-souled rover
For a league-long raid on the bounding brine,
And light winds ferried the light bark over
To the lone soft island of fair-limbed kine.”
But the maiden didn’t seem to find things to her
taste at all out in the busy crush of humankind;
and
“ Too full, she said, was the world of trouble,
Too dense with noise of things of earth;
And she turned her again to replenish with
double
Delight her desire of the things of her birth.”
Thejdescription of the seven black-helmetded rocks
by storm and in calm, by night and by day, is very
fine; but if Algy had brought his knowledge of
practical life to bear on his poem, he would have,
instead of sending the maiden back disgusted to
her rock-home, settled her down quietly as head
barmaid in a St. Heiier’s hotel—but then, you see,
Algy doesn’t write for practical people, only for
the leaf-couched dreamers of the highest drone-
stratum of society.


G. CHIARINI’S
mil imi emeus
AND
MEUAGIiHIE.
VM
pi
A
NOW OPEN EVERY NIGHT AT 7 O’CLOCK,
AT BELMORE PARK.
GRAND AFTERNOON PERFORMANCE,
ON SATURDAY, JANUARY 9th.
A KINGLY ENTERTAINMENT,
DELIGHTFUL MUSIC.
MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION OF ALL THE
ANIMALS,
including
THE ROYAL BABY BENGAL TIGERS 1
Which are only Six Days Old ! The mother show-
ing her love and affection for them by
caressing and fondling them—a living
picture that would delight any
Artist to behold.
Bring the Children ! Let the Little Folks see
them 1 They will be delighted !
THE FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THE STUPENDOUS ATTRACTION!
Now augmented by the arrival of the
WORLD-FAMED FAUST TROUPE.
10 CELEBRATED PERFORMERS,
Ladies and Gentlemen
fresh from the leading Circuses and Hippodromes
of Europe, who will appear for the first time
in Australia, in conjunction with
Chiarini’s already recognised
GREAT COMPANY,
in their
GRAND and WONDROUS ENTERTAINMENT,
which would alone be worth the price of
admission to behold.
Kent Argos, August 4th.—Sanger’s Amphi-
theatre.-To us the most wonderful performance
was that of the Faust Family, who ten in number,
represented with marvellous accuracy, and telling
effects, splendid groups of historical statuary and
allegorical pyramids The members of the family
appeared completely white, and aided by a
capital display of lime and coloured lights, the
effect of the various groupings was grand. This
alone is fully worth the entrance money.
WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
AFTERNOON PERFORMANCES.
Doors open at 3 o’clock, Performance to com-
mence at 3 o’clock.
PLAN OF THE SEATS CAN BE SEEN AT THE
CIRCUS TICKET OFFICE FROM 10 P.M DAILY.
PRICES OF ADMISSION :
Boxes, containing six chairs ... £1 10s.
Dress Circle chairs 5 S
Stalls (carpeted seats) 3s.‘
Pit 3s.
Children under 10 years of age, half prioe to all
parts of the Pavilion.
L. MAYA,
Secretary.
Q PER A HOUSE.
Lessee • JT ;: ••• W.J. Wilson.
Sub-lessee and Director ... Signor E. Majeroni
Business Manager Monty Browne
Treasurer Joe Brown.
Under the Patronage of Lord Augustus Loftus,
Crowded Houses ! Crowded Houses !
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
and every evening until further notice.
MAJERONI’S Commencing with JEALOUS?
MAJERONI’S their JEALOUSY
M’HESSK ELEGANT PLAY JEALOUS?
MAJERONI h in Four Acts JEALOUS!
MAJERONI’S and Six Tableaux, JEALOUS?
MAJERONI’S supported by their JEALOUS?
MAJERONI’S Specially Seleoted JEALOUS?
MAJERONI’S COMPANY JEALOUS?
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein's, 411 George-st.
Prices :-Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 3s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovh.
this;thursday evening.
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in
STRUCK OIL and the CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, ?g.
Tla.© ISeliaffole BvLgrgries I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
io ktm
PATEN
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
XT’ AVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
"*■ Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
MB & 80., Bolt Agents, 007 Beirgi Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on tile Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
and;
BRUCE.
mm
281
GEORGE ST.,
opposite;
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
2v£a,rtiKL Keeslian,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel nremisea M tt ■>- ,
visitors and others the best accommodation; oomffl’^thci^™*” 8 COuntry
JabesWIARTIMa com.
389 GKOIU.I, 8 fREET, SIDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
FOR
Bicycles,
from
£8 to £25.
OUR STOCK FOR I#B4,
comprises
THE SPECIAL CLUB,
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
MACHINES,
All ridden by the best riders of
the day, and the
BEST MACHINES IN THE
TRADE.;
&
FOR
Tricycles,
*rom
£4 to £2B.
We claim broadly, that our
TRICYCLES
are
the best;in THE TRADE,
and shall be pleased to forward
Testimonials for the
CHEYLESMORE & IMPERIAL
CLUB TRICYCLES
to intending purchasers.
Our Juvenile Tricycle,
that always gives satisfaction.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR NEW SHIPMENT FOR 1884.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves: Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYB, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone* and
Port Mackay, every fortnight;
FtilsteT ok StteAMSHiPS:
Buninyong .. agoo Geelong
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Serwent
dina
Gabo.
Balmain
1000
1000
1600
600
400
3000
600
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
Rodondo
You Yangs ..
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
Jil 16 11108 1 versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
Kp” lor future arrangements, Managers are
Pmitely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “coached,” and pupils prepared
lor the stage in all its branches.
D
A
N ID ± & & ;
SCHOOLS, COLLBCES, CONVENTS, &c.
PROF. CHRISTISON
(just arrived from Europe per M.M. Co.’S
steamer, Sydney);
feefes it> annouhbe that he Will commenbS
TEACHING ALL THE LATEST STYLES OF
WALTZES, &c,
Those wishing to engage the services of this well
known master, pupil of the greatest masters
of the day, apply at onee by letter to
“THE BULLETIN” OFFICE,
Sydfabyj
•• ' • '-• - ■ »—^
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, sth February, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Pates tt> wftir;H
Ttaa&ttiean M
reSeiVgd a 5
this offtcfe.
Roofs, Girders, and Columns,
for Workshops, Eveleigb
New Dock, Cockatoo Island,
Contract No. 3
Bridge over Barwon River at
Humumbah
Gas Fittings, Piping, &e., Hospi-
tal for the Insane, Gladesville
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, William-street, Sydney
Kerbing and Guttering in front
of Deaf and Dumb Asylum,
Newtown-road
fcifcb February,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Railway, Orange
to Molonir
Roofing Asylum for Imbeciles,
Newcastle
Contract 3iii. road I’etn-
mount to the Grafton find
Armidale Road
19th February,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Dwarf Wall and I
Iron Bailing, Court House, Al- I
bury
Erection of Court-house and
Lock-up at Cudal
Slating Boof of Main Building,
Benevolent Asylum Liverpool
Erection of Court-house, Glad-
stone
Erection of Betaining Wall,
Pence, &c, Pilot Dagnell’s
house, Pilot Station, New-
castle
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino
Conveyance ofCoals for Dredges
and Tugs, Shoalliaven Biver
Caretaker’s Cottage, Bare Island
Fortifications
Erection of Gallery, Courthouse,
Forbes
Tank, Fencing, &c. Public Build-
ings, Wilcannia
Erection of Kcfreshmont-rooms I
at Werris Creek Kailway
Station
26th February,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Police Buildings,
Cowra
Erection of Wharf, Palmer’s Is-
land, Clarence River
Paving- Post and Telegraph
Office and Court-house, Forbes
Construction of two Ferry
Steamers
Lease of Refreshment-room at
Werris Creek Railway Station
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
4th March,
at 11 o’clock.
18th March,
at 11 o’clock.
29th March,
at 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1886,
at U o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
WANTED, a well educated YOUTH, as Ap-
prentice to Zinco-engraving, Apply at
BUXtIiXTiN Office.


Today, as from the time of its introduction,
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead of every other
stimulant a,nd tonic in the estimation of the pupiic
and of scientific men.
“ Sound the good old bugle, boys, we’ll
have another song.” This was the introduction
to a renowned song; hut, as the world improved*
so did the words of that Avell-known ditty, which
now reads: “Bring the good old ‘Bugle Brand.’
we’ll have another beer,” &c. Foster’s “ Bugle
Brand ” of Beer now has an immense sale, which
is the surest proof of its quality.*
«*. an.
7s. 6d. ss. <»ii. j»er j»air-
The Oriental Geld Company
(Only Australian place of business, 47-1 waorse-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQOIBITB GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring- beauty,
which will give delight at tho Jlrst glance, and
„ will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
ol the alchemist s laboratory- There have been
good and useful imitatfoDs of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the snade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
oriental Gold cannot, alter years of wear, be dis-
tinguished Irom the eostliest wares ol’ the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured ol it. Iho discoverers ln-.ve not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Oold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot bo
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Someof the goods are mounted with the NEW'
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century-artiticial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in Are and glitter, anti
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with cage*-
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy t*>
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT—EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pesterc-d to buy, because we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do ut»
good all the time
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At Ss. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring,
A Set or Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Par-ring*.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At Is. Od. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ming.
Beautiful Charm.
Eleg-ant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand A ibert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch. Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Coliar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At .-61 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Titeselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—sB. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two da?s, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“ Struck Oil” P-8.
opera House—" Jealousy ”... ib.
Chxarini’s Royal Italian Circus ib.
When the Gaiety curtain rises, the mothers
of Paul and Virginia are discovered at a game of
“brag,” the stakes being the virtues of their own
orogeny. By and bye, one Dominique (a slave)
comes along, and has a say in the matter. It Was
gome time before we recognised in the humble
negro the Sturdy Signor Verdi—the object of our
constant flattery. At first, we thought it was
Rafry Sellars, and then a Christy “ corner ’’-man.
the man, you remember, who comes out with
variegated trouseis and costive carpet-bag to
know “what time does de 5 o’clock train start? ”
William’s pants appeared to have once done duty
as a portion of a sugar sack. He wears a Crimean
shirt, also, and a waistcoat slit up the back. For
years we have vainly endeavoured to discover why
coloured males of mature age have their waist-
coats split behind. To us it appears a heartless
mockery to see a garment buttoned ostentatiously
in front and know that in rear it offers no protec-
tion to the biting remarks of a censorious world.
And yet we felt there was something wanting in
William’s dress—something, the absence of which
half-destroyed the general effectiveness. The sub-
ject is a delicate one, and we would far sooner
that some other member of the staff had to point
it out. People with even the slenderest acquaint-
ance with Negro Minstrelsy must remember
that there is always a young man who comes to a
lawyer’s or merchant’s looking fora job, and who,
on turning round, shows the hardness of the times
and the difflcfllty of Retting a patch df the exact
pattern of his pantaloons. And now you know
why Verdi’s dress was not as effective as it might
have been. Will it be believed ?—there was no
patch. And how the management can presume
to put before a discerning public an African with
trousers of the same material all through, is cer-
tainly beyond us. Now, a good crushed-straw-
bery square, about the size of a gate-way, extend-
ing from the lumbar regions down, would soon
remedy this and give the mounting of the piece
that air of careful vraisemblancc it at present
lacks.
* * *
tfc is always nice to hear Verdi’s voice. It
makes you comfortable while it lasts, and sorry
when it ends. But his action on Saturday night
was not up to much. His “double-shuffle” is
decidedly weak, and his knowledge of basket-
making is quite elementary. He tries this industry
in the third act while Virginia sings. He can do a
lot of things well, from singing to turning up the
“joker” at euchre—but he can’t make baskets.
• • •
Miss Montague was a plump Virginia, who
appeared cn deshabille, and reminded us of Ber-
anger’B Lizette without a petticoat: —
And when did woman look the worse for none ?’’
while as “ Meala ” Miss Sherwin looked like one of
those unconventional ladies 'ou see at the police
court on Monday mornings, explaining why their
Saturday night steps were so erratic and their
tongues so loose. Only in the most extensive
wardrobe could a dress like hers be found, and as
for her boots—they were marvels of chaos, and
showed what a woman will wear who is in lovb
with her profession. As Paul, Mr. Turner looks a
likely-enough fellow for a young lady to fall in
love with, but it is not easy to subject the music
he—or, for the matter of that, any of them—has to
render to any of the ordinary canons of criticism.
* * *
For “Paul and Virginia” is a wild, half-
incoherent, musical dream. The Lord of Misrule
appears to have had a hand in the orchestral scor-
ing. The note for which the ear is hearkening
never arrives, but always sends a stranger to take
its place. The oddest effects are produced by the
unsparing us« of accidentals. These sharps and
flats appear at every corner to peunce upon the
unfortunate melody going that way, and worry it.
They blind-fold it, bang it about, fire it down cel-
lars, and tow it through ponds till the poor thing
becomes morose and hardened with ill-usage.
Then it is passed on to the orchestra, and by the
time the trombone and flute have done with it, it
looks like the withered infant the fairies some-
times leave in cradles, having extracted the real
child. There is a plantation danee by “niggers”
on the estate belonging to St. Croix, of such a de-
pressing nature that if the slaves of the period
were in the habit of indulging in this dance, it is
difficult to see what course was open to the over-
seers except to flog them three times a day.
“Chawles” and Annis must return to operas,
where there is more scope for their undoubtedly
great powers.
The arrival of the Faust family, and the
undimished attendance of the public, are the chief
items of interest connected with Chiarini'E. The
“family” is a big one, consisting—so far as we
could make out—of nine persons all told. There
may be some more to come. With this we have
notning to do. With blanched faces (chalk) and
white tights, they formed, under judiciously regu-
lated lights, groups of startling suggestiveness.
From the way the tiny members twined round the
senior’s legs and bodies, suspending themselves
Irom the most insignificant protuberances they
could discover on their parents’ frames, it was
clear that the Fausts were a family capable of
strong attachments. “ Look ’ere Bill,” said a
mariner, as he observed an infantry captain drill-
ing his company, “ look at this (fill this in accord-
ing to taste) person breakin’ of ’em up into bits an’
splicin’ ’em agin.” This is just what Faust pure
does with his talented off spring. We never saw a
man support a family so creditably. But go and
see them, and then tell us whether we have said
too much. The fact is, there are things done by
Ted, Eugene, and Victor Faust in the tumbling
and balancing line that made us, even, rub our
eyes—things that have never been thought of,
much less performed, in Sydney before.
* * *
Now that the spirit of innovation is abroad
is there no possibility—if only to keep up to the
times— of keeping pantomime and circus clowns
on skilly and solitary confinement till they master
a few new jokes? Or, if this is expecting too
much, till they relinquish some of the old ones?
At all events, when a man is getting up in years,
when: —
“ Grizzling hair the brain doth clear,”
when he is an inoffensive citizen, and pays his
honestly-earned money for a couple of hours’
harmless amusement, it is a little exasperating to
have “ I bought her the day before to-morrow,”
or “ his mother was my stepfather,” rammed into
him before he has time to accustom himself to his
novel surroundings. While these outrages were
going on We remarked several respectable trades-
men—men with a stake in the country and grow-
ing families—shift uneasily in their places, and
look despairingly towards the door.
* * *
During our visit we learnt more about
tigers than ever we krew before, and aro now full
of information regarding these unsociable brutes.
A spare, light-haired Scandinavian-looking man
attends to them, and pays no more attention to
their inch-and-a-half fangs or dismal growls than
atram-car conductor to the last book on etiquette,
pe at once made friends with this man. It was
>rom him we got all the information we possess.
He showed us his head, which one of them had
opened from the temple to the poll with a playful
scratch. Old cicatrices were on his arms, aud his
mgs were scored with old lacerations. He told us
was a mistake to suppose that menagerie tigers
nave been trained from cubs—have been always in
confinement. The two brutes we saw him cud-
Pi v.? au< * kissin g were not caught till they were
tvfi 01 n * ne J' ears old, and had probably crunched
tne bones of many Hindoo lovers, who wandered
c °° lan into the jungle to tell each other what
rp.klo have been told just as well at home. Once,
~nen aboard a small craft, the biggest and fiercest
a ® er broke loose. The native crew didn’t wait to
argue the question, but shot into the water like
cormorants, and brought to the keeper, who was
ashore, the news that his favourite man-eater was
wandering about the fore-castle looking for fight.
Then the keeper—the spare, undemonstrative map
who told ils this—went aboard by himself, found
that his pet beast had killed two antfelopes, and
was having a quiet “blow out” in the captain's
cabin. So the keeper looked him steadily in the
face, and observed : “You think yersel very
smart, don’t you? I can’t go away for a little
rational enjoyment but a b kitten like you
must commence to show off before people and run
a lot of respectable coloured householders into the
river to be chawed up by alligators. Very funny,
ain’t it ?” He then put a hitch of the cable round
his neck, and moored him to the bat-head. We
believe this, because it is precisely what we our-
selves would have done Under similar circum-
stances.
** * *
At the Academy of Music, the Miller-cwm-
Foley combination drew good houses during the
week. Victor, also, was there, and handled half-
hundred weights in a way that suggested un-
generous doubts as to their being 56-pounders—
doubts which we were mean enough to entertain
tilt we sneaked round and handled them ourselves.
About M. Victor there is nothing superfluous—not
even hair. Had Miller taken the weights, or even
tfce huge 130tt>. dumbbell, and fired them through
the skylights, no one would feel surprised; but to
see a slender, rather wecdy-looking man hold 1301 b.
at arm’s length above his head, and juggle with
heavy weights as if they were brick-bats, let you
at once into the secret of how the Chinamen can
sidle along under loads big enough for a camel—
because they are used to it.
• • •
j>ut it was a rather dreary show, or would
have been, only for the sparring. This relieved it.
The misfortunes of even our best friends please
us; and so, when the champion feather-weight
artist of Victoria shook hands with a coloured
“ slogger ” just before up-ending him, a simmer of
enjoyment went round, and good-humour was
firraiy established for the remainder of the even-
ing. But the “ darkey ” was a very awkward cus-
tomer, and had an unpleasant habit of planting
his left fist fair on the Champion's “ kisser as a
demonstrative man beside Us* in cheek trousers
and heavy jewellery, called it He buckled to
with his whole heart and soul. His feet also per-
formed an important part. They were occasion-
ally on the ground, but mostly in the air. As a
rule, the feet are the weak point in coloured races.
They are useful, of course; but, as there is gener-
ally as much of them behind as before, they seldom
satisfy our notions of gracefulness. So, when this
African wanted to arrange a meeting between his
left fist and the “champion's” nose, he shot into
the air like a Randwick boy when a billy-goat
takes a mean advantage of him behind his back.
This kept up the interest of the audience, and
made the time pass pleasantly.
• * •
Yes, the boxing was by far the liveliest
part of the bill. Four Chinamen sitting near the
door appeared deeply interested in it. Whether,
with the ingenuity of their race, they will improve
upon it in any way—such as by substituting chop-
sticks or chisels for boxing-gloves—can only be
surmised.
** * *
Good houses—all but the pit—have been
the rule with the Majeronis. We noticed, too,
that the interest of the audience in what was pass-
ing before them on the Stage appeared far more
Concentrated than On th 3 opening night. As we
could detect nd difference in the acting, it is not
too much to infer that the increased appreciation
is due to the public coming round—it is no un-
common thing; we ourselves hare witnessed it
often—to the opinion that artistes of unusual
merit were among them. And yet we adhere to
the view that “Jealousy” does not do them jus-
tice—does not give them fair scope for a display
of their talents. But it, at all events, gives the
Signora an opportunity (of which she avails her-
self) of dressing so as to drive hall: the ladies in
Sydney mad with “jealousy.” And now there’s
not a podgy, stumpy kitchen-wench, from Botany
toj the Northl Shore, that doesn’t practice three
hours a day before a glass to see if she can’t show
off the same amount of frills, and tep-hamper,
that sit so well on the graceful Signora.
There has been no change at the Royal,
but to-night (Thursday) the Williamsons chip in
with “Struck Oil” and the “Chinese Question.”
We shall be there : we can’t help it. Tim-? has
dealt lightly with Maggie Moore since she first rose
upon our horizon that opening night in Melbourne,
ever so long ago, and awoke in our hearts an en-
thusiasm wnich, when the night was farther ad-
vanced, induced an Irish lady to shift us from
under her window and start us for home by treat-
ing us to a bucket of suds and a tidal wave of
blasphemy. There was a “jubilee” on for the
success of the Pope’s arms, or something, and t his
Celtic devotee was fasting and waiting for the
dawn before tackling a couple of pounds of
sausages and a pyramid of roast potatoes,
when our matutinal laughter disturbed her
peace. Ever since, when we feel disposed for
mirth, we first look at the clock, and, if midnight
is long past, we go outside to a neighbouring
paddock and have it out there. Main , morbleu!
What a lode they struck with “ Struck Oil ” !
* * * *
The Kenuedys have been scooping the
bawbees at Dunedin, where they (like ourselves)
love the Scotch. They gave a benefit to the utago
Benevolent Asylum, “and the sum realised,” we
quote the paper, “ was a little short of £9O Mr.
Kennedy generously made up tne dilf'erence ”
saxpence. . . But listen to this: They put up
“Struck Oil” at the Newcastle Vic. the other
night, with Mr. Ttiynne as John Stoiel! The
Newcastle Hanby (which will have its little
joke) has the following anent the performance:—
“ ‘ Struck Oil ’ will be held in kindly remembrance
for ever by Newcastle playgoers, if only tor one
thing achieved. It has moken up that sofa which
appears m the mansion of the wealthy. The judge
sat on it, and it collapsed.” On the following
night, “East Lynne” was announced “with Miss
Morgan iu the dual parts of JLady Isabel and
Madame Vine. Who iu the name of Tompkins’s
cat is M f ss Morgan'? . . . But we don’t ask
who is Jack Soauuebury ? An admiring uni verte
knows who he is; and we are sorry to see he has
come a cropper over his Brisbane spec. The free
list is not suspended at the Theatre Roy a I, there,
now; but then there is notliing to sec but spiders.
And listen to this before you uio. Tue Adelaide
Register— only second to the Argus as a higb-
class daily in the colonies—formw pre.isely the
same conception of Jennie Lee's dramas and com-
pany as we did. It objected to Jennie altoriusr
“The Ticket-oi-Leave-Man ” so as to give herself
all the “fat,” and also to her singing local comic
songs in the piece whenever a chance presented
itself. On the obnoxious critique appearing, Mr.
J. P. Burnett wrote a letter to the Register
which concluded as follows:—"As it is completely
a matter of business with me, and (sic) it these
attacks, calculated to affect our receipts are con-
tinued, I shall simply withdraw all advertisements
and privileges we have always extended to you
most iiberally.” Mr. Burnett evidently considers
one of the privileges permission to pass in fiee to
“Jo,” and tehold him enact Bucket (0, willow,
willow!), and Warner, Guppy 1 Finlayson of the
Register, however, was equal to the occasion.
To Mr. Burnett’s letter appears the following foot-
note:—“The greater part of Mr. Burnett’s letter
may be left to speak for itself. Until Mr. Burnett
condescends to be more explicit iu his charges, we
must decline to enter into a discussion with him.
The only remark we need make is that we are not
aware that Mr. Burnett has extended to us more
than the ordinary courtesy of sending two tickets.
If he had, we should have respectfully declined
his liberality.” This offended J.P.B. (member of
the Dramatic Authors' Society) all the more, and
he got a very powerful Adelaide organ—Frear-
son’s Weekly (!)—to champion him. Frearson
quotes the Register article—mild enough it is, too
—states that Mr. Burnett isan “entire stranger ”
to the proprietary, and asseverates that it goes
out of its way to chamoion Mr. B. merely “ that
our readers may adequately appreciate the dia*
bolioal Character of the treatment meted out to
the company by the reporter of our Qrenfell-
street contemporary.” But these truly talented
lien are always quarrelling with their Critics :
Def rieg was the same, and so was the “ Vagabond,
and so was—Gubbins*
** * *
We learn that the social suceess of Jim
Allison in London has been—as it should be—of a
very gratifying nature. Oh arrival, James was
waited on at his hotel—the Grind —bv the heading
dramatists, professionals, and dilettante, who lis-
tened eagerly for every word that fell from his
ruby lips. ‘‘ls your theatre in Adelaide much
larger than Drury Lane ? ” asked Paul Merritt.
“Well,” answered Jim, after a pause, “ the audi-
glorium is about the same size, but the prosenm is
considerably more extended.” “Is there only one
theatre in Adelaide ?” enquired W. G. Wills. “ Only
one,” was the reply; “but I tbink of running up
a Beadyon house when I get back there, some-
thing on the model of ybur Savelby Theatre here.”
“Have you made any purchases of plays?” en-
quired Herman Merivale, blowing the ashes @ff his
cigar, “Yes; I’ve got ‘ln the Banks,’bv Sims and
Pettitt, and I’m going to read to-day a new farce,
sent me by Toole, called ‘The Critic,’ written by a
Mr. R. B. Sheridan—a new man, I suppose.” “ Will
any new people go out with you?” enquired
Sydney Grundy, with a hoarse cough. “I think
I’ll get Madam Mudgeeque,” replied Jim, “ and
engage Signor Maccaroni, who is in Sydney, to
support her.” Here the Duke of Newcastle w/.s
announced, and the conversation took a more
general tone.
** * *
Al. Hayman is bringing out a Miss Kate
Castleton to Australia, and announces that he is
going to give her £lOO per week; and sends us,
by way of booming her, about 75 notices of the
press, all of vVhieh are of a peculiarly encomiastic
nature. Al. asks us, with delicious ingenuousness,
to print a lot of these, but vre have, unfortunately,
mislaid the handbill. Miss K. may be nil they say
she is, but if so, she has been a good long time
making a splash. We shall welcome Miss C. with
effusion—when she comes ; but we are yet suffer-
ing in the left ear for having been “a little too
previous.” If you haven’t heard of Kate, you’ve
all heard of Lotta, who is now playing in London,
at the Opera Comique, and who lias been nick-
named by the Yanks “the Dramatic Cocktail.”
And did we tell you that the Vivians and a Mr.
Harry Cowan, who now call themselves the “Bijou
Company of Vaudeville artistes,” having done
Minmi, Singleton, and East Maitland, they played at
Morpeth on Tuesday, and wo forwarded a special
reporter per ox-truck to tell us all about it. And
talking of high-class Variety people reminds us
that Gilbert Sarony and Billy Sweatman (“and the
demon still pursued him ”) are still with Emerson
in ’Frisco. Tom Dixon was with the company
until lately, but the Argonaut remarks, he
has “gone West to look after his voice.”
Meanwhile, the conductors of all the horse-
cars have been notified. Oh, and the Countess de
Mirabeau Martel (“Gyp” in La Vie Parisienne,
rather a dull satirical society paper) has written a
comedy called “Autour du Manage,” in which
she attempts to prove that matrimonial matters
are all more or less mixed in all aristocratic French
families. This is how the heroine, who is about to
be married, talks in the first act:—" Oh, oui,” she
says to herself, “je vais le tromper. Eh, bien;
quand je fais les choses, moi, je les fais mieux que
personne.” Lively look out tor the boss, isn’t it ?
And, yes. Bead this pretty stanza:—
“ The white-robed choir, like choirs of cherubim,
Chanted; when, 10l by Heaven’s first rapture
stirred,
I heard my child’s voice blend with the soft
hymn:
That was the sweetest sound I ever heard.”
What should you think that was from, now ? The
Christian World, of course? Why, no. It is
from Clement Scott’s “ Theatre,” a magazine de-
voted to the interests of the profession.
* * *
A rumour has gone abroad that Miss
Agnes CoDsuelo is-- coming out again. We wish she
wouldn't. We don’t want her. We can worry
along well enough with Minnie Hope, Una Brooke,
and that crowd for pages, with selections from
newly-arrived respectable domestic servants for a
back ground. A second misfortune that seems to
threaten, too, is the departure of J. B. Howe (by
the way, he’s Parjeon, the novelist’s, brother)
with Willing’s play, “ Glad Tidings,” for Aus-
tralia. Wo wonder whether the old boy knows
that the Queen's Theatre is no more! Let young
Dillon return, and the thing will be complete; for
do not the Antipodes clutch in their loving arms
“ the fairy actresses ” and “Jean Valjean ?” They
must be -to branch off—funny people at Wagga.
Talking ot “All for Gold,” written expressly lor
Dam pier by Francis Hopkins (of Perricouta,
N.S.W.), the Express says:—“Doubtless the en-
thusiastic audience of last evening would willingly
hear Francis Hopkins’ great drama repeated again
to-night, to-morrow night; indeed, every night
during the week.” We expect AlfrGd will sub-
scribe to this paper. You don’t care to know, we
suppose that Bobcrt Buchanan, of critics,
says they hold a hat in one hand and a
bludgeon in the other. And fancy—but, read:—
“ Walter Beynolds, the author of several dramas,
has sold the right to “Wanda; or, the Sin of a
Life,” to John Stetson for three years. “ To-day;
or, Vanity Fair,” is in the hands of Poole and Gil-
more for this season." .This in New York. Well.
Yes, that’s so. Josey Deakin is once more
back in Brisbane, playiDg in “ Genevieve de
Brabant,” and Wallace and somebody Hse are
singing the eternal gend'armes' song, “Well run
’em in.” Boob! The lyric is somewhat mouldy.
Oh, and Annie Leaf and Charles Harding are back
in Sydney.
We asked them alter Scantle’s hair;
They shook their heads and heaved a sigh.
W« asked them of his eyebrows weird;
They moaned, but they did not reply.
“ Farewell, my sweet! farewell, mine
Emelie!” We take this from Chaucer, a gentle-
man whose only dying regret was that he did not
live long- enough to meet Douglas Sladen. But as
Douglas did not flash upon the firmament of song
till some four and a half centuries afterwards,
Chaucer, being in a bit of a hurry to die, could
not wait for him. The occasion of our quoting
from the defunct bard is a melancholy affair.
Chancing to take up the New Yohk Cmpper, and
,iust casually glancing ,ovcr it. what do we see?
Just this:—'“Divorced.—Thomas Derby has been
divorced from his wife, professionally known as
Emelie Melville.” That’s all.
*• *■ • *
DANSEUSE.
Yes, I’m a girl what dances,
Comes to the front with a bow ;
Lifts up a leg, so ! and glances
Down 011 the stalls. You’ll allow
I’m a jolly, funny, fanciful, and airy little sprite
That makes the baldheads’ bosom quiver, shiver,
with delight.
But me— ah, me !
I wish I were a child again upon my mother’s
knee !
Sh ! Whoo ! in the limelight twirling,
I peep at the circle and pit—
Feet, so 1 and arms, so ! whirling
Neck and eyes radiantly lit!
I’m a jolly, funny, fanciful, and airy little sprite
That makes the young men’s bosoms quiver,
shiver, with delight.
But me—ah, me !
I wish I were a child again upon my mother’s
knee!


PEPPER AND SALT.
THE RULING PASSION.
“ Mr. Archer, Agent-General for Queens-
land has been made a C.M.G.”
We know you well—have pressed your hand,
Oh, lord of many an acre wide,
We thought that pent within your soul
There was a modicum of pride !
We thought this “ honour ’’ would be scorned,
At least, by Gracemere’s gen’rous king ;
JBut no 1 you clutch it like the rest—
O, Archer, this is harrowing !
Just think, Companion, now elect,
What some of these Companions are ;
How dullness oft and roguery
Bedeck’d is with that self-same star !
Such “ things ” some are, whom all condemn,
Well, Archer—you are one of them.
fi m m
It is rather a pity
4or the News boys, that
the Earl of Fife’s country
seat is in England. The
Earl of F- and Lord
Iteay are, next to “ Char-
ley ” Beresford, the
Prince’s greatest friends.
Formerly, he was in with
tiir Frederick Johnstone
—the baronet who de-
clares to win so often,
and so seldom does—Vis-
count Cole, and Captain
Farquhar. But “ Wales”
—as “ Cupid ” and the
other swells would call
him—has since his illness
got too respectable for
this lot. And wisely so.
For, it will be remem-
bered, that a lot of
screenings came out of
his acquaintance with
that Cole. These three
worthies were the co-
respondents in the Mor-
daunt divorce case, and
came out of it very badly
indeed. But, notwith-
standing this, and the
fact that the Prince has
dropped them, it will be
of some solace to the
gilded members of our—
and other—communities
to learn that the popu-
larity of these gentlemen,
in Society, is unbounded.
Wandering, as usual,
from the point. The
reason we regret, for the
sake of Alfred’s
“crikets,” the distance
1 rom them of Lord Fife’s
English seat, is that it is
called “Duff House.”
Pass the dripping.
* * *
There is a telegraph
clerk in this colony
whose spider has been
lor some time a bit “ off
colour.” Instead of crawl-
ing out of the inkstand
soberly over the paper,
at the bidding of its
master, it dances around
to such an extent that
the telegrams it copies
are about on a par, so far
as legibility is concerned,
with the heirogiyphics on
the Chinese tea-chests.
The other day, a “ re-
spected resident” of Bun-
gat oora, received a mes-
sage which read as fol-
lows “ Your life is
worth since 7 groats.”
Much puzzled by this, he
journeyed to the tele-
graph ofice, "from
whence the message had
been sent, and inter-
viewed the clerk on the
subject. After holding
ibo message up to the
light, and examining it
through a magnifying
glass, the clerk was Anally
obliged to confess him-
self nonplussed. “But
underatand,” he added,
with dignity, “ I am only
a telegram writer. I
don’t profess to be a tele-
gram reader.” On the
message being repeated,
it was found to read as
follows “ Your wife
will arrive by the seven
boat.” Wonderful con-
venience, telegraphy, is
it not ?
The Duke of Saxe-Coburg, and his nephew
the Duke of Edinburgh, have had a row. It seems
that when recently stopping at Coburg, the
Duchess, in the Duke’s absence in the Tyrol, gave
a ball, but omitted to send invitations to two
ladies, whom she considered to be of the “ de
la cruehe-cassia ” order, but both of their husbands
got a card. Furious at this slight, the wives made
their husbands wire to the Duke of Coburg (who
was with Prince Alfred in the Tyrol), and request
an explanation. The Duke appealed to his niece,
but she said her list was full; whereupon the Duke
forbade the attendance of the Court officials at
the ball. His Highness was particularly sensitive
with regard to these two ladies, because, it would
seem, that in his weak moments . . . We don’t
suppose, however, that the absence of the Court
officials interefered much with the success of the
ball, since the Grand Duke’s kingdom is only
about the size of Phillip Park. And, it very likely
■ ime in luckily too For as the Grand, Chamber-
lain an<J Usher of the Red Rod’s services were net
required, they were enabled to turn an honest
penny—the one at digging graves, and the other
at selling ginger-bread. After balancing this
period, we were just going to close up, when sud-
denly we remembered something. Since the burst-
up of the Duck of Teck, the Queen (“ long may
she rule over us,” we feel so good) has issued an
order that no gambling will be permitted in any
of the Royal palaces occupied by pensioner-
princes and princesses. The mandate is in prose;
but, it is substantially as follows ;
Our Royal command. This comes from one
Whose brow Great Providence anoints ;
You’ll play no more—the thing is done !
A t whist, for more than shilling points,
And let the cry that “ seven’s the main ”
Be never, never heard again !
And head them not—’tis our command ;
We’ll smite such gamblers thigh and hip !
And banished from this fair land
The miscreant who holds the “kip I”
He asked for Bread, and they alltone.
SIR GEORGE (to Lord Derby): “A Barren Knighthood! Not a Baronetcy? Horror!”
Let no prince ring in from this day
On his prince-pal the false “ tail grey.”
At euchre play, for love or snuff—
Or clothes-pegs, Christmaa-cards, or starch ;
And sixpence, mind, is quite enough
To bet that you will “make a march.”
Ah, Teck spent all poor Mary’s dower,
“ Taking them up on the Queen and Bower.”
We hold at billiards ’tis not right
To plank your greed down on the table,
And bet to go in off the white
<“ A simple moral ”) you are able,
Nor shall you “gilt ” bet, be it said,
That you will “cannon off the red.”
Obey the mandate, every elf !
No more our hand dives in our pocket!
We want our little greed ourself,
And our safe, we’ve made shift io lock it,
You’re doing well, too well, by far,
So just look out-
VICTORIA R.
THE SOLDIER’S GRAVE.
It was long, long since that the soldier died,
’Way back in the early days,
When with red, red coats as proud as goats
The land was all in a blaze.
But they dug him a grave, and they dug it.deep,
And they dug it long and wide ;
And they put thereon a good gravestone
To tell the date he died.
They pass away with the sound of drums,
And flags that did flaunt and wave ;
Into other hands went all those lands.
And with them the soldier’s grave.
And a squatter he was who got those lands,
And little he got them for ;
And the sheep did chew the grass that grew
Over the wolf of war.
But the squatter he fenced the grave around,
All to show the dead respect,
Though like Sir John Moore,who had died before,
But little the soldier recked.
It was right, right early the squatter rose—
He s dead now, the Lord him save !
■^ n< rn'i l , B was grand on his own good land
lill he stopped at the soldier’s grave.
He stopped and he stared, and rubbed his eyes,
And said but the one word “ H 1” I
-* 1 or the gravestone there had a circle fair,
Marked out by a cold chisel.
Then he set a watch, and a good, good watch.
Who slept with one eye alone,
he found the man who made the plan
Of the circle on the stone.
“ Now, God you save, my good, good man,”
„ He said to that wight so free—
But what the h—l do you do here, tell—
Confound you, tell to me.”
“ What am I doin’, you want to know ?”
„ The wight replied with a leer—
Well, I m making, I own, a good grindstone
krom this old gravestone here.”
[Note.-This is true. The author of the fore-
going beautiful ballad saw the gravestone, with
the circle chipped on its face. He saw it when he
U P, a .t Springwood, about a year ago.
for the good of bis.health and the local publicans.l
It is an open secret that a well-known and
respected gentleman who was at the last general-
election, to the eternal shame of the electors, re-
jected for a Northern constituency, is about to
proceed to England to actively interest himself in
the Tiohborne Claimant. “ What ship do you pur-
pose going by ?” enquired, over a friendly glass, an
acquaintance. “I am going home in the Saffckles
and coming back by the Pennyloap,” was the dig-
nified reply. Phew! *
• • ■
‘Monday.—ln consequence of a foul at
the regatta on Saturday, Beach and Triokett have
been ordered to row again on Saturday next.”—
Wire in Newcastle Herald.
As-tonishing J A foul again I
In truth, this must the soullers pain !
With auguish their brave hearts must throb
(The steamer fare is—yes—ten bob).
We ask—with a good-natured grin—
Whose turn it is next time to win ?
We ever feel a vast
amount of satisfaction In
chronicling acts of pure,
disinterested kindness,
but seldom have we ex-
perienced a livelier thrill
of joy than that agitating
our frame as we call at-
tention to the behaviour
of certain Melbourne
pickpockets, who, in the
event of “dropping
across ” documents of no
professional value to
themselves, make a point
of depositing the same in
the nearest pillar-Dox, m
the hope that they may
thereb.vbe returnedtothe
original owners. In one
instance, a seaman's dis-
charge, and in another, a
purse containing sundry
documents, have, by this
means, been placed under
the immediate notice of
the authorities. Some
money, however, left by
the owner of the purse in
the immediate vicinity of
the documents, does ap-
pear to have been of some
value to the light-fin-
gered “finder ” other
wise, no doubt, tha
would have been re
turned, too.
THE THOUGHTFUL THIEF
We will shed a little slob
ber
(For as Christian men
we should)
O’er the modern sort of
robber,
Who is thoughtful,
kind, and good ;
The gent, who lives by
thieving
Has been doing deeds
of late
Which are almost past
believing,
They are so consider-
ate.
Now the pocket which he
rifles,
When the light is grow-
ing dim,
Oft contains some little
trifles
That are useless quite
to him;
But instead of straight-
way burning
Any refuse of his
“ And,”
He has taken to return-
ing
All he doesn’t want —
how kind !
So, in awe and silent
wonder,
We this modern prig
will toast,
Who returns bis stolen
plunder
Through the medium
of the post.
What we specially admire
is,
That he does his good
by stealth,
And our very best desire
is
He may loDg enjoy
good health.
WHAT ?
“I may have used disgusting language;
perhaps I did. If so, I apologise for it.”—W. It.
Campbell, M.P.
Oh, why did you apologise ? We really see no oc-
casion ;
We think it was a monstrous thing that Parlia-
mentary invasion.
We viewed it, too, with horror, and in short we
cannot understand it;
Like you, “ great head,” we have a holy horror of
the hoi-ny-handed
Invade the precincts of the House! we think that
you did passing well, sir;
Why should the smell of fustian reach you while
you sip your B. and seltzer ?
Enough to make you, in whom all admit a sutT’ring
country’s ti usting,
Use in your indignation just some language p’hap*
that was disgusting.
Down with the working man! because our trust
is wholly solely in you;
You are the backbone of the land; you are the
country’s bone and sinew.
Important more than working men in millions by
far, you;
Or if not, you bucolic swell, say what, in sulphur,
are you ?


* “ xous goin’ to cop it.”—Frances Darby.
This paragraph is intended for thoughtful
a rs only—wan-faced men, with corroded brows
.ruminating eyes. It deals with a grave ques.
Bn<l In a reoent New Zealand paper there ap-
tion' , a letter headed: “The Outcry against Men
P e ® r . ure .” The writer defends this class against
° f flacks of certain persons who consider it an
th ® “nism in the colonies. Says he:-“lnstead of
ftD | of cultured men of leisure being any sort of
•lin society, I venture to characterise them a 8
very salt of society. If I were asked what in
! .udement was New Zealand’s supreme want
ft now, I should unhesitatingly reply an infusion
f cultured men and women in independent cir-
° unstances.” We quite agree with him-on be-
hlf too, of our own colony, as well as New Zea-
, Where should we be without John M'Elhone
d Andy Lynch ? And, as to men of leisure, we
believe in them. Anyone who doubts this has
,y look at our police force. And when he
° v* that “ these are the people who keep up the
ofty idea! life of the community,” we are brothers.
Dibbs’ Outrage.
"What? Grab my luxuries! Confound it; take half that fellow’s loaf, as usual."
Have we not experienced it all, ourselves? We
perceived this want of culture and refinement
immediately we started our journal, and began by
insisting that all our contributors should lead
lofty ideal lives. The consequence of this
was that half of our time was spent in
holding them under the pump, and the other
half in bailing them out of the lock-up.
But we did not give in even then. We were con-
fident that our theory was right. And so we con-
tinued as we had begun. The result is that the
majority of our early contributors now slumber
under the shade of the waving cypress, and the
rest are in the madhouse. All but two. One of
these—owing to a temporary inability to distin-
guish between his left hand and his right, and a
habit of hiccuping the hod-carriers off the ladde r
when the hall of dazzling light in which we now
dwell was being built—we have sent out to a farm.
The farmer came in the other day and wished to
know if we objected to our contributor beiDg
chained. We replied with ready cheerfulness
that wo had no objection whatever. He then
told us that the bard had evidently come
out to his place under the impression that
he kept a distillery. This was a little
ruse of ours to get the bard away, but we did
not tell this to the farmer, who went on to say
that after emptying all the hair-oil bottles, and
drinking all the kerosene in the store-room, the
bard had an interval of melancholy sobriety.
During this time he used to howl around the
house at night, to such an extent that tbe
children were afraid to go to out the wood-heap
and a valuable dray-horse was found dead of terror.
To this succee<leda calmerperiod. The bard then
passed all the day under the shade of a tip-cart,
with his mouth covered with one ear, into which
he was singing a lyric about the “Mournful mimosa
moaning to the moon.” The lyric, be said, was
too sacred and delicate to be sung to other ears
than his own. After this he was quiet for a while,
and used to spend most of his time down in the
gullies. One day, he came up to the house with a
flushed face, and a simmering eye, holding iu his
hand a dipper, containing a coffee-coloured
liquid, which he proferred in turn to all the
members of the family. On their refusing, he
reeled out again. The farmer followed, and found
him in the fowl-house with an oil-can and a piece
of gas-pipe, which he had fixed up as a still. He
had discovered a way of making an intoxicating
liquor out of turpentine and oxide of iron. The
latter he got out of an old tank at the back of the
house. There was no peace after this. The demo-
lition of the still did not affect him He had an-
other down in the gully. Whenever he was not
making the liquor, he was drinking it. Whenever
he was not at the still, he was in the stable hob-
nobbing with the horses, who got into the habit of
breaking out to prance round the yard and till the
air with Bacchanalian neighing, he leading the
chorus. At last they became so depraved that the
farmer had either to shoot or sell them. He deter-
mined to sell one as a trial. The man who bought
him rode off on his back well-pi-enged, for he
was a line-looking animal when sober. In
about an hour or so, the horse came pranc-
ing home by himself. He had eaten his rider
—one of whose boots were found on the road.
Then the farmer took the bard and tied him to a
peach-tree, to frighten oil the flying-foxes by
flapping his ears. The flying-foxes, it seems, came
in the night. By the light of the pale moon the
farmer went out to see how the bard was getting
on. Ho found him knee-deop in flying-foxes.
They had mistaken him for a gigantic member of
their own species, and, coming too near his deadly
hiccough, had perished in myriads at his feet.
Pleased at this, the farmer got a saddler who lived
close by to make the bard a suit of flying-fox
skins, as he had clawed all his other clothes to
pieces climbing up turpentine-treos. He now
chiefly affects the society of “goannas,” and lives
in a hollow log. He says that in the “goanna - ’ only
he finds that appreciative instinct, combined with
contemplative calm, for which he has been search-
ing all his life. His opinions on this matter are
more fully expressed in his ‘‘Ode to.aOoanna,
which is now on our file, and which wo shall pub-
lish whenever we can get somebody to decipher
the charcoal marks in which it is written. It may
suffice to say that he has come to the conclusion
that the life of the “ goanna” is the only sensible
one for a man of genius, and that he has forsworn
fusel oil and turpentine juice forevermore. The
goanna in the next log provides him with enough
snake-eggs and native pears, and there is a hole in
the top of his log through which he can see the
moon. So he is happy. As for the other contri-
butor—but we have no time this issue. Neither
have we time to remember what we started to
write about. After all, what does it matter ? And
when it comes to that, what does anything
matter ?
* * *
WANTED—A PRINCE.
“ I would like to see a Prince of the House
of Hanover exercising Her Majesty’s prerogatives
over all Australia, aa had beeu the case in the
Canadian Dominion.” —J. L. Purves, in Mel-
bourne.
You little man, your little words
Apparently you do not mince ;
Your little mind, then, bolds it true
“ Divinity doth hedge a prince !”
Yet have your thoughts, now, ever ran over
The princes that now live, of Hanover ?
We know, then, all these princelings dull.
Too feeble they to do much harm ;
So dense In everything but one—
The holding out their little palm.
We tell you, though we preach no sermons,
* Yous have alloy in these small Germans [! —Ed.B. |
A Marquis is not big enough
For vour great mind, we thus are told
You’ve turned your fine forensic eye,
With its bright gleam, on Leopold 1
Yet you’ll see, if you read this journal,
He’s but a hollow nut, this Colona..
Perhaps you’d like the Duke of leek
To guide the fortunes of this clime ;
But if he came, you’d have, J L.,
To ** set ’em up. boy,” ev ry time.
You could not, when he lost a bet, sir.
Ask for the “ shug ’’—not etiquette, sir.
Another Highness that’s Serene,
That little chap so short and tat,
How would ho suit?— you know, of course,
We mean our old familiar Bat.
Yon cloud might p’haps a silver lining gain,
If came thS potentate, Saxe-Meiningen.
Prince Schwartzburg-Rudolstadt might suit,
Or Suhaumburfir-Lippe, what a yo say .
You’d get that “ push ” for three half-crowns,
And coals and candles any day.
But learn they’ve been poor England s loss, age* ,
This little string of German sausages.
Confine yourself, we recommend,
To your congenial badge r ing,
And ere you speak get up your facts,
We want out here nor prince nor king.
Get up your facts—for our opinion
Is no prince ruled in the Dominion.


“ A tremendous free-and-easy with .Jesus”
was enjoyed by the Salvation Army in a Mel-
bourne Temperance Hall last week. A “ Head-
ache for the Lord ” would have been a
a much better description of the perform-
ance, from a sinner's point of view; forjthe free-
aud-easiness of the brass band was something
appalling. Major Barker, who presided, foretold
the early doom of the magistrate who is going to
“ put his foot on that Salvation Army,” for this
rash man, it appears, is to be relegated to his pro-
per sphere through the agency of a “ hallelujah
torpedo.” There was the usual selection of
“testimonies;” one gentleman artlessly describing
how he had walked into the meeting and was im-
mediately “ turned ”—a statement which few will
be disposed to doubt. Another convert was splen-
didly irrational in his fervour. Said he: "I
haint ’xactly a well heddicated young chap
—praise the Lord—but I’ve tumoled on a
blessed Sunday from one hotel into another
—praise the Lord—but not lately—Hallelujah 1
—and I mean to stick to it—praise the Lord.”
The singing, testifying, and collection were fol-
lowed by a pretty general “ knee-drill,” enlivened
by certain individuals, at well-regulated intervals,
springing to their feet with the announcement
that, they had “found Him.” This piece of infor-
mation appeared to give unbounded satisfaction
to the “ officers ” on the platform, but as the
larger number of these fortunate discoverers have
had a similar “And” during every “knee-drill”
for months past, they would appear to be a body
of holy decoy ducks. However, as they are always
reckoned as “fresh souls ” at every meeting, they
may be acting under instructions, such as were
given to the American voters—to “ poll early and
poll often.”
* * *
K.B.
He clutched the Times, his eager soul.
With sunny hope this time was whetted—
Z “ Oh, after all I’ve spent in gloves,”
He cried, “ Still I am not gazetted.”
* * *
Now then, one, two, three, altogether! for
the City Melbourne Council. After taking ener-
getic action in the matter of stray dogs, upwards
of a thousand of which have been recently assassi-
nated through the instfumentality of a newly ap-
pointed functionary called the “dogman,” there is
now some prospect of the city Fathers tackling
the burning question of “ cats.” Councillor Curtain
has discovered that cats keep respectable citizens
awake late at night by their wailings, and considers
that the civic authorities ought to make a supreme
effort to “ suppress” the feline screnaders. This
is indeed a great and glorious scheme. The wea-
ried Melbournian, tossing his head on a sleepless
pillow, trembles with joy as he remembers that
the weird chorus, ascending to the heavens from a
neighbouring roof-top, will shortly be “sup-
pressed.” Married men, in particular, are on the
tiptoe of expectation, desiring to know if certain
other “old cats,” who “keep respectable citizens
awake late at night by their wailings,” are to be
suppressed also. But wc fear that the Council is
not yet educated up to that, and will require a
good mauy of Curtain's lectures before “ curtain
lectures” are abolished by civic law. We shall ex-
pect our own Council to adopt this enlightened
man’s suggestion without delay (as far as the four-
footed felines arc concerned, at any rate); so, in
anticipation of enjoying the uninterrupted slum-
bers so long denied us, we will burst forth into a
little hymn :—
The Catless Future.
(Copyright secured).
The nightly caterwauling
Of the pussies so appalling
In Austral's cities soon will be suppressed,
A nd those feline serenaders
Will no longer be invaders
Of our dwellings, and disturbers of our rest.
For a Councillor named Curtain
i And a clever one, that’s certain)
Proposes that thoso demons be destroyed:
And there cannot be a question
Thut bis novel, sweet suggestion
Will be welcomed with approval unalloyed
Far too long we’ve been distracted
Bythe dreadful deeds enacted,
When the “ tabbys ” and the “tommys” vigil
beep;
But very soon—thank Heaven!
When we turn in at eleven,
There’ll bo a chance of dropping off to sleep.
And a future bright is dawning,
When we’ll get up every morning
As fresh as early daisies from our bed;
Oh, a prospect so entrancing
Clels one’s senses fairly dancing -
,Ju6l us while we stand upon out head.
(Left standing.)
TO MRS. BARDWELL.
“ Mrs. Bardwell has resigned her position
as a Public-school teacher.”
The scalding tear upon this page a little hole is
burning-,
And 10, behold, a pall of gloom is on the Seat of
Learning.
First Wilkins, and then thou, fair dame ; in sooth,
’tis inconceivable ?
His loss was bad enough, but thine is almost
irretrievable!
No more those fairy hands of thine will sound the
rhythmic thwack.
As sharp descends the little cane upon a little
back ;
No more a bad kid will bo sent more bad kids to
rejoin
For planking down his school fees in low, common*
copper coin !
No more wilt thou the little girls, in those tones so
divine,
Unveil the mystic secret as to what is “ four times
nine.”
Oh, Education’s outlook has become quite sad and
drear.
The Tree of Knowledge droops, its leaves are
yellow and are sere !
We never knew thy worth till now—alas ! and
thou art gone.
And of its brightest ornament a Public School is
shorn !
This rhyme is not quite perfect, as doubtless you
will find—
But please excuse us ; think of the condition of
our mind.
, ■:
“Traiuiug for a prize-light!” “Not at all. Only preparing lor a Parliamentary career.”
BOB’S BATTLE.
The froth was yet upon his beard
Of one long beer just swallowed,
When, seeing Dave, “ I’ve got you now !”
Forensic Wisdom holloa’d.
“ I'll teach you, sir, to talk of me ;
My aim I never miss, sir.”
Then ups he with his fist, and lands
“ Auld Dauvid ” on the “kisser.”
“ Aha I ” cried Davy, mad with rage,
“ You’ve banged the sacred head
Of one whose ancestors are Scots
Who ‘ laae wi’ Wallace bled.’
This blow maun be washed out wi bluid,
If thus ye dare to treat
One who hails from the land of kail—
Here, waiter—whusky neat.”
Then David ups he with his fist,
It was an awful crash,
And, bif ! he catches Robert just
Where he conceals the hash,
Revenge, by thunder,” Robert cries-
“ Quick, waiter, something short,”
And then on the “ oracular ”
The gifted Dave he caught.
Once more they meet, “I’ll vow," cries Dave,
“ That he shall make amends ”—
But just then they were parted by
A posse of shocked friends.
This bloody battle as viewed through
The Parliament’ry lens,
Is written down a cockfight ’twixt
Two legislative hens.
NOW, THEN!
A POLITICAL, JINGLE.
(Written in the Language of the Country, and in-
scribed to the Hon. Member for the Hawkesbury.)
Lift up your voice ! and of your eloquence
Let us, who wait in expectation, sip !
Catch Toby’s eye ! pour out both wit and sense,
Or, if we must speak plain, give it lip.
We are aweary of the droll Giraffe,
And Stuart's platitudes, we let them rip !
We’re sick to death of Campbell’s feeble chaff ;
So seize the moment, now, and give it lip.
Shall Melville rant for ever ? Shall Levien
Be eloquent ©n tail greys and the kip ?
Shall MVElhone monopolise the scene,
And you be mute ? No, Harry !—Give it lip.
Remember, there, by hundreds you were sent,
And, if you will be silent, take our tip :
You might as well a lime-kiln represent—
So brace up, we implore, and give it lip.
Denounce the Parliamentary small beer,
Or guy, we’ll say, the Opposition whip ;
Proclaim the cat’rer s muffins are too dear—
No matter what you say—but give it lip.
In Windsor, now, they’d hang upon each word,
If you’d for once in oratory dip ;
With tears of joy soft blue eyes would be blurred,
And loud would surge the cry—“He’sgiven it
lip,”
Does no one want a bridge ’gin his own door ?
Does no one want a punt or patent slip ?
Is no constituent on that “ statement ” sore ?
Why, cert’nly !—so, prithee, give it lip.
It will, you’ll find, full soon be said by some
If your voice aids not, on her way, the ship,
That you’re the Member for the Deaf and Dumb
Asylum. Harry, therefore—give it lip.
Would you your name with Harris’s have sung V
We ask you ere we trot out for a nip-
Or ranked with others who have lost their tongue,
A thousand thunders, no !—So give it lip !
BRIEF MENTION.
Words of Wisdom—“ You’re ad d liar.”
A contemporary says that Mr. M'Elhone is
fond of unsavoury subjects. Why, certainly: a
man must have some self-esteem.
The Grafton Argus advocates a tax upon
“ knowledge ’’—meaning newspapers. This is a
very safe thing for it to advocate, The tax will
not hurt it much.
Sir Alfred Stephen has a pet monkey.
And why not ? There is no knowing when there
will be a vacancy for an A.D.C. It is well to have
one’s friends at hand.
It is reported that Buchanan and Wisdom
have joined Miller and Foley in their sparring tour
throughout the land ? “ I struck him to the earth,
sir, and put my foot on him.”—(Buchanan).
TAKING THEM AT THEIR WORD.
He went Into a shop once, wh«re
“ You are not pressed to buy:”
He didn’t buy: now, arnica
He uses for his eye.
The Clarence and Richmond River police
are allowed to wear serge uniform in hot weather.
We think this is a privilege which should only be
granted to serge-ants. Now, you can kill us as
soon as you like.
We should think so. A man was found
dead close to Blackall (Q.) lately. He lost his way
while looking for water. Small wonder he lost his
way. Nobody ever looks for water at Blackall—
unless to drown in.
Aphorism from the Express: “A man’s
appetite resembles a railway pass. It is not trans-
ferable.” We think this might be put better. As
thus:— A man’s appetite is like the Express—
nobody will take it.
A squatter from the country invited a
Noose reporter to dinner at the “ Kafe” the other
day. “ What would you like ?” enquired the host,
when they had sat down. “ Oh, I’m not partieu-
lar,” replied the Noose reporter ; “ I can eat any-
thing 1 but soap.”
The D.T. says:—“Small, mean-natured
men are not much troubled by mural impossibili-
ties, but they closely hedge the lives of the best
and biggest men ” Now we know what’s the matter
with John Lucas. Hedged in by moral impossibi-
lities, whatever these may be.
MATRIMONIAL.
The Bride of Dr. Ellis, has
Wer name no more the same;
You see the tuneful Doctor,
With aring, has changed—Arnheim.
[We went a good way for this.—En.B]
An inquiry into the loss of a ship was lately
held in Wellington, N.Z. A passenger deposed that
the captain was perfectly sober at the time of the
accident A movement is on foot to present the
captain with a testimonial, and we hear that stre-
nuous efforts are being made to obtain him for
the Museum.
A kerosene well was discovered in the
Tumut district a short time ago. This should be
good news for what the imaginative Alfred would
call the “votaries of Bacchus.” The public will
be glad to learn that an enterprising lirm are about
to build a distillery around the well. They call it
a distillery. And why not ?
In mournful memory of Georgiana,beloved
and only laying hen of Mrs. Nowecant Mentioner,
killed by a nasty next-door dog—
Darling chucky! how we miss thee,
None but eggless cooks can tell;
We have lost thee,
Doggie found thee,
Georgiana, fare thee well.
We see by a W.A. paper, that Mr. Bur-
nett, the temperance gentleman who refuses a
\ glass of rum, but never a purse of sovereigns, was
: some time ago “showing ”in Albany. Says the
| report,:—“The Hudson Surprise Party attended
| his meeting last Saturday and took part in it.
They wore loudly applauded, and Mr. Rurnett
cordially thanked Mr. Hudson.” We should like
|to have—for many reasons—seen Tommy at that,
I Temperance meeting—especially if he played
' “ Slocum s Dog.”
It is reported that Mr. Parnell, M.P.> is a
great lady-killer; and has an off chance of securing
several dowager-duchesses. The only reason whv
he holds off is, that he is afraid that if he married
ft dowager-duchess, Ireland would be under the
’mpression that he was a duke—or say a juke. Nbt
much of a joke here, yo><i will say ; but then we
can t always be funny at 6d. a pop.
These are the days to circulate informa-
tion. That spirited journal, the Manning River
limes, ever on the alert to provide instructive
reading for its subscribers, came out with a para-
graph in a late issue about the bursting of a
brandy bottle on the shelf of a local bar. The
Horgon eye of the editor must have been on that
pottle at the time. No mention is made of this
tact, however: genius is always modest.
Kewrious, very! Week before last the
Kew (Vie.) bench made the following deliciously
Dogberryan decision:-“If there had been any
corroboration of the complainant’s evidence we
should have fin'd the defendant much moi-e
heavily ; but as there is no corroboration , we shall
fine him 40j.” Had the complainant’s evidence
been disproved, we presume these sapient judicial
luminaries would have only fined the defendant a
shilling.
“Though far away from the scene of in-
human butcheries, yet our hearts have in this
colony ached with anguish.” This if what a person
says in a letter to the Herald about the destruc-
tion of Hicks Pasha’s column. Ton thousand
niggers march into a country where they have no
business, and when the inhabitants, resolved to
defend their property and their lives-chop the
niggers into mincemeat—the hearts of New South
Wales colonists “ache with anguish.” Booh!
Our religious readers will be glad to hear
that a notice of motion was given in the late Wes-
Jeyan Conference heJd in Melbourne to have cer-
tain alterations in the rules regarding expulsion
irom the Church. It is good to know that the
gates of Heaven wiil not be closed in future with-
out due warning, We are afraid, however, that
as far as poor Mr. Osborne is concerned, we shall
not meet him in the next world, after ail. And he
knows where we will go; or, if he doesn’t, he can
ask the Protestant Standard.
Very seldom, indeed, do “the boys”
figure as defenders of the law ; boys have a strong 1
bias the other wry, as a rule. To their honour, be
it observed, though, that they do occasionally
walk in virtue's path. The other day, a lady
named Mary Hislin was about breaking open the
poor-box of a Melbourne church, when she was
collared by some “little boys,” and handed over
by them to their natural enemy—the policeman.
There is reason to believe that the poor-box didn’t
contain sufficient to square those boys—hence
Mrs. Mary’s misfortune.
The champion gaol-bird of the colony
lives at Newcastle. Upholders of the rights of
women will be glad to know that the champion is
a lady. Alike in her elegant summer home in the
truck station, and in her winter quarters in the
district gaol, she is hailed by the happy and hilari-
ous title of “ Poll Cott.” She has received over
200 sentences during the last 40 years. We should
think —though we do net wish to obtrude our sug-
gestions—that she should now be eligible for
something—say, a—but no, there are wicked old
women enough in politics. But still they might
make her an alderman.
The school teachers in some of the Ameri-
can States are required to pass an examination in
physiology and hygiene, “with particular refer-
ence to the effect of alcoholic drinks, stimulants,
and narcotics on the human system.” This is a
point ahead of our school system which we boast
so much about. But we are not yet rich enough
to afford the necessary amount of stimulants and
narcotics for the teachers to experiment upon.
Luckily, there is no need. They can study the
effect of them almost anywhere. And if they can’t
tind out enough that way they can always ask a
reporter.
The Melbourne Wesleyam have appointed
the Rev. Quick canvasser for subscriptions. Cap-
able men, these Wesleyansl
Quick’s the man, and quick’s the “tack,”
And quick’s the way he sallies out;
And if, to-morrow, he’ll come back,
He’ll come back Quick, without a doubt.
And if for years he won’t come back,
Until the money’s fuddled slick,
Yet still we’ll say that quick’s the tack,
And when he comes, he’ll come back Quick !
The Australian Brewers’ Journal has been
thinking out loud of late over the agitation
raised by the Victorian Anti-Beer-Adulteration
Association, and what it thinks is that the fuss is
now subsiding, and it is very much better it
should do so, because, as the A.B.J. points out, “The
general public are *nly interested in getting a
palatable beer; it does not really matter to them
whether the bitter is derived from hops or not so
long as it is wholesome and pleasant, and we have
little doubt that if it was clearly shown that some
other bitter was as good in every way, and one-
tenth of the price, they would be much more
likely to oppose the association than support it.”
Exactly so. And a capital bitter we believe is
made from rocksalt, pauper’s left-off rags, and
arsenic.
This age is going to the dogs very fast. It
lacks stability; it lacks reverence for ancient and
time-honoured customs. Even the Bench, which
used to be the citadel of venerable precedents
and white-headed usages, has caught the infection.
Listen! It was in Tamworth Court a little time
ago. The thermometer was at 105 e in the shade.
Suddenly, and amidst a breathless silence, Judge
Murray rose up and took his wig off. Then the
members of the Bar took off theirs. Most of the
people in the Court went out in disgust after this.
They had lost interest in the lawyers; they were
no more in awe of the Judge. The respect was
paid merely to the wigs. The time is fast coming
when these will be used as hen’s-nests. This will
be an appropriate end. Many an addled old egg
has been hidden in a wig before.
Smithson stole his baby out of the peram-
bulator, and his wife brought him before the
Hotham Bench, the other day, and charged him
with the theft. Of course there was a mother-in-
law in the case, the wife having gone home to her
ina. Lawyer Daley pleaded hard for poor Smith-
son, and glancing at his notes, said, “It’s that
dragon of a mother-in-law!” “What d’ye mean
by calling my mother a dragon?” asked Mrs.
Smithson. The lawyer was about stating that it
was in his instructions, that he was told, &c.; but
he caught the husband’s eye, and there was in it a
look so beseechingly imploring, so full of terror
and entreaty, that he sat down saying, “ Oh, no
one told me, ma’am, no one told me! It wasn’t
your husband; no, no; indeed, it wasn’t.”
There is confusion in the Wollongong
cemetery. Such of our readers as have survived
the Christmas festivities may remember that some
time ago we gave a picture of that home of the
happy dead, in the condition in which it then was.
It was a grisly vision. The surface was strewn
with bleaching bones, and mouldering skulls, and
skeleton hands. One would almost imagine, on
gazing at this ghastly debris, that the dead had got
up out of their graves to dance with joy because
they were not living under the present Licensing
Act, and had fallen to pieces in the very middle of
the revel. Now, however, things are changed.
The cemetery has been fenced in, and its present
appearance is that of a deserted pound. Some of
the scattered gravestones have been picked up,
and dumped down in whatever places best pleased
the eyes of the municipal labourers. And, as we
said before, there is, therefore, confusion in this
plantation, where the wicked are popularly sup-
posed to cease from troubling and a kindly preju-
dice assumes that the weary are at rest. The
wooden cross of a plebeian Hodge may now stand
over the spot where repose the sacred relics of a
De Smythe, and the carven tombstone of a “ de-
ceased in the Lord ” local preacher may cover the
sinful remains of a dog-inspector. Any idea of
jest, for weli-counected corpses under such condi-
tions is. of course, out of the question. The town-
councillors should see tothis. They w iU be corpses
themselves some day.


OUMAS park
To be sold on the Cround on &t r 9^ February !&U bj
MILLS & PILE
Jit S!^
terms.
Orwflfth Caen Balance in lour
Equal Payment*. «i 1 1 3. end 4
year*! wttb interetl el 6 per cent
per tnnum payable naif-yearly
if BALANCE le PAID WITHIN THt
FIRBT TWO VEARB. INTEREST .o
be ADJUSTED tu S PEP CENI
per Annum
CAM 0 l N
Park
WiT
au
me /
A*
//in
*ta
uB
locaUf
rUutyz-
•o
if t a
It V K H • it
N
5 M
10 J «A H t ‘j \ » J / 0
is?.
y- « ' l s U
ft. if n t to CTf /* n'
S OUT H L*Ji
Ml
s
II &
10*.
V 5
li''
”Wi
uo»
Urtn \mlk v Sn<tn
IriKilK*
K ¥*
hftt All mrun tru* m ft r' » <*?•#*
AU t'f/r tC m/$
a
J. TURNER ROBINSON to CO.’B
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1884,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET*
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
08, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HO?
EVERY
mm
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstog’s Now Jtfork
Describing bow sufferer from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manentiy Cured
• Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOIJB, AND HI POTENT
HEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and'Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Go.,
73 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 4th February, 1884.
FKESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS TO
TEACHER’S RESIDENCE.
FRESH Tenders are invited for additions to the
Teacher’s Residence at the Pennant Hills
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may he seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tenders for Additions
to Teacher’s Residence. Pennant Hills Public
School,” must be lodged with the Acting Under-
secretary, Department of Public Instruction, at
or before 10 o’clock a.m.. on Wednesday, 27th
does not bind himself to accept the
L’onder. _ _
G. H. REID. I
February 1884.
The Minister
lowest or any .
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother £
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
C CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
j highly interesting to the sex. Post, free, 'n
secure cover, for Is. «d., money order or N.S.W'
stamps. To be lmd only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT.
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.! J
WISDOM’S WAYS.
old Solomon (he’s now at rest—
Asleep these many days)
Hath mentioned that ’twere ever best
To walk in wisdom’s ways ;
So bearing his advice in mind,
T-ve always been astir
To look around about and find
What “ wisdom’s ” movements were.
But Wisdom’s ways, I grieve to see,
Are rather rough and rude.
And singular it seems to me
That one so sage and shrewd
As Solomon should ever speak
So highly in his praise ;
For seeing what occurred last week,
I don’t like Wisdom’s ways.
The congregation had assembled in the
Minding doing duty as church and school-house,
no shdpherd Md put in an appearance. After
a short time, tme mendber suggested a
K * Carrifed. From sacred to profane is only a
j„d a very short step, too, according to the
6t fdAn of the congregation in. question; for from
me, guide nie’’ to the “Mulligan Guards
® me d such an easy march, that the followers of
*?® IPhurch 1 Phurch Militant easily fell in, and the old build-
■nff rang again with joy and felicity. But the
was reached when the “ Bounding Brothers
fpnrkv Point” performed some of their astound-
S* feats on the horizontal bar-said bar being the
>nn tie Of the building. Glorious old Junction!
rf thev cannot get religion there, the people know
how to enjoy themselves on the Sawbawth.
gtaff-Captain Thurman, of the Harmy, is,
it would appear, a poet. He is the author of a
inlast week’s war Cry that commences as
follows: . .
« Brother Tresize he has gone-they say he is dead,
rit to the home of the happy his spirit has fled
To receive at the hands of his Saviour a crown.
And live with the angels around the bright
throne.”
A twang of the mandolin
TO THE STAFF-CAP.
How do you know that the late Tresize
Has upward floated to the skies ?
Not that we’d like to doubt it;
?ut, what we want to ask, sweet bard,
he fljfswflr can’t be very hard—
Is “ W hdt d’iJoib know about it ?
Margaret M'Cornfic'k lias earned the sym-
pathy of the Collingwood Bench. It is not every-
one can do this. But Margaret had special oppo-r-
-timities. She was 76 years of age. She had reared
« biv family of sons and daughters, and they were
5n married and living comfortably in one or other
of the suburbs. Between them they used to make
On 7s a week for the old woman and let her board
X lodge with son Peter in Collingwood. On
Fridav night a constable found her on the steps.
Peter had* ejected her. The constable took her
long, and Peter being asked by the Bench to ex-
plain matters replied; “I can’t support her for 7s
5 go 1 1 had to throw her out? It was that
that stirred the Sympathy of the Bench, so the
chairman spoke up and said: “ We send her to gaol
for Mx months I” Now, if Margaret had not lived
among civilised people, she would not have been
sympathised with in this practical way.
There was a great lark not long ago at a
township we will call Ginandrumgera. It seems
that a bobby who was staying at a hotel there got
lovelorn on the imported “highly respectable
single woman ” who was the slave of the estab-
i shment. He proposed, in due course, and was
accepted. Collecting together all hw savings, he
gave them to his future to take care ot
and enjoined her to proceed to the next township
hy Tuesday's coach, whither he would follow her;
hut only to find she had fled with the local sexton.
He is still following. Opinion in the district is, we
understand, divided in the matter—a considerable
section in the community arguing that it is less
penal to steal a mule than to marry a policeman.
We are unable to offer a solid opinion on the sub-
{ect; since up to the time of going to press, we
tave never either stolen a mule or married a
Eoliceman. But there is no knowing what might
appen if corn continues at ss. a bushel.
There is in Melbourne a “ Society for Pro-
motion of Morality ’’—not but what all Melbourne
society goes in for promoting that, but still this is
a particularly virtuous body. Some highly-
coloured correspondence in the Herald, on the
somewhat extensive subject of “reclaiming our
fallen sisters,” appears to have drifted under the
notice of the Society for P. of M., and the hon.
sec., in the course of a letter to the Herald, says
—“You have been pleased to mention the Society
for the Promotion of Morality in connection with
the proposed efforts, and as it is one that has the
Society's special and warmest sympathy, I have no
hesitation in offering, in accordance with your
suggestion, to take charge of any funds that may
be now contributed for the object.” A proposal
So paralysingly noble in its nature, has, we are
pleased to say, already borne good fruit. It has
provoked a beautiful spirit of emulation amoDg
some of the poorer citizens, who loudly express
their readiness to promote morality upon the
same arduous terms.
There is always something new from Illa-
warra. Other places may stagnate occasionally,
but it is always stirring. A lady and gentleman
driving along the high road there, some days ago,
heard a rumbling noise, and the next moment the
air was tilled with blasphemy and rocks. The
buggy disappeared in a crab-hole, and the occu-
pants were shot into a crowd of navvies, who
, hustled them about, and said they should be
ashamed to be poking into places where poor
labouring men were trying to make an honest
living. Those poor people were constructing the
Illawarra railway, and had the whole countryside
honeycombed with dynamite. There was no notice
up to warn people when a blast was going off.
Half the men would leave if such notices were put
up, as the fun of seeing bald-headed, elderly
gentlemen turning over and over in the air and
reaching for things would then disappear. No;
this paper has always stood up for the innocent
pleasures of the working man, and we strongly
protest against any interference with the harmless
amusement of the Illawarra navvies.
At a reoent hospital subscribers’ meeting
In Grenfell, the proceedings were of rather a lively
character, in consequence of the people taking it
into their beads that the chairman was mounting
the high (Towle) horse. After the usual row, the
platform was rushed, and threats were used of
converting, by means of the adjacent creek, the
presiding genius into a bath Towle. He, however,
catching up all the papers and proxies, “ fled to a
neighbouring hotel. ’ Mr. Pitcairn, the C.P., who
happened to be present, “ addressed the meeting in
a humorous speech,” and entertained the sub-
scribers with a reading of that truly jocose publi-
cation, the Hospital Act. Eventually, “ Mr. Wood,
a relative of Dr. Rygate," proposed that gentle-
man, and, after some confusion, he was declared
duly elected. The decision of the subscribers is
said to have completed the crumpling up of
Towle, who, when last seen, was gloomily brood-
ing between two“pegB” also “at a neighbouring
hotel.” As not uncommon with a breeze, it put
that Towle quite in a flutter, and he consequently
became soon dry. (.Being written in English, w e
cannot call this dog-Latin; but we can, and will,
designate it cat-copy.— Ed. B.]
We should like to live in Nyngan. Life
there would have just the requisite excitement for
us. At present we are livinsr on the upper storey
of a dynamite store, the roof of which the brick-
layers are at present repairing. We have a kero-
sene factory on one side of us, and a wood-yard on
the other. And still we are not happy. There are
not sufficient elements of insecurity in these to
furnish the spice of danger we like. In Nyngan,
however, we think we could be contented. The
editor of the local paper, speaking of an accident
which occurred to a resident the other day, winds
up with this cheerful reflection:—“As it is, beyond
a black eye, a scarred forehead, and the temporary
loss of his voice, he has sustained, comparatively
speaking, little injury.” If both his legs had been
broken, his arms smashed at the elbow, his eyes
punched in to the back of his head, one of his ears
off and the other hanging by a strip of gristle, his
lower jaw knocked away, and his back broken in
the middle, we suppose the editor would have
called that a serious accident. Evidently he has
gone through all this kind of thing himself. It
takes all the effeminacy out of a man’s writing to
live in Nyngan. We should like to send one of
the Echo scribes up there for a while.
The villainous excesses into which the
rising generation in Victoria are at present run-
ning received an apt illustration a few days ago at
the Richmond police-court. A man named George
Gerten, a strong, robust, middle-aged, working-
man, came up before the Bench to complain of
the abominable treatment to which he was sub-
jected by his son. “ Your Worships,” said Gerten,
“ he’s the plaigue of my life. He turns the house
into a hell, and is breaking the heart of his
mother. He laughs at my authority, and keeps
me in danger of my life. I can do nothing with
him. Will your Worships send him to the Re-
formatory V’ r “Whei’e is he ?” asked the Bench.
“ God knows, your Worships,” cried the distracted
father ; “ likely as not he’s raising Cain now about
the neighbourhood. He’s a divil, your Worships ’
“But how long has he been carrying on that way?"
“ This last three years, especially, your Worships.
1 He was bad before that, but latterly he’s a terror.”
“ What age is he now ?” “Six years, your Wor-
ships,” said the outraged father’. The Bench got
on its end, and looking Gerten in the face, said,
“ Ef ye don’t take to yer heels, we’ll clap ye in for
a month.” Gerten took to his heels. And so a
weak-kneed j ustice encourages youthful depravity
to pursue its downward course !
Everybody who knows anything about
Court life is aware—or should be—that on New
Year’s Day every member of the Royal Family
resident in the United Kingdom is supposed to
pay his (or her)—clumsy, this—respects to the
Queen. Last New Year’s morning—this item is
obviously inspired by a cablegram; but, Lor bless
you, we spare no outlay in this office where Her
Most (stand up) Gracious Majesty is concerned —
last New Year’s morning, then, the Queen, who
was calmly discussing a red herring (she always
had a predilection for the Army) for breakfast,
with her Bulletin propped up against the cruet,
suddenly lifted her eyes to the cuckoo, and saw it
was half-past ten. “Is Colonel H.R.H. the Duke
of Albany arrived at the kessle ” (aristocratic pro-
nunciation ; in a like manner, the swells call
Berkeley Square “Barkly Squah”) “yet?” en-
quired Her Majesty of the milestone polisher who
has succeeded John Brown. “ Some of him,” re-
plied the faithful Gillie, producing a tin box.
r ‘ Here is His Royal Highness’s left eye-ball, his
knee-oap, his electric smile-producer, and his ear-
trumpet. The balance of Princo Leopold will
arrive by the next train.” “ ’Tis well,” was the
Royal reply. “ Beatrice, shake the teapot at the
family pictures, and give us another cup.”
CROYDON PUBLIC SCHOOL.
This edifice, which was opened by the. Minister
for Education on Monday (Mayor Deakin presid-
ing), may be classed as among the best erected by
the Department. It stands on the crest of a hut,
occupying near upon two acres of ground, secur-
ing a good site for a teacher’s residence and a
spacious play-ground. The edifice is very stoutly
built. It stands on well-laid stone foundations,
with superstructure in hard-pressed, well-burnt
brick. Its form is the two sides of a square, from
the centre of the longer portion of which rises a
handsome turret or clock-tower, surmounted by
a large wind indicator. The entrance beneath
this tower is ©f handsome design, and has been
very neatly executed. The divisions comprise#
two extensive departments—for boys and girls,
together with an infant department and class-
rooms. Each room is well flooded with light
from coloured gloss windows. The ohildren of
each branch are accommodated on slightly raised
platforms—the latest improvements in this respect
also being decided on. The residence erected for
the teacher is a neat, well-built villa of brick.
The water supply is secured from very extensive
underground tanks. The whole work has been
carried out under contract by Mr. Peter Graham,
of Croydon, who has performed his work in a
first-class, substantial manner. The contract was
proceeded with, from commencement to finish,
without a perceptible break; and the people, as
well as the department, have every reason to be
well satisfied at the early completion of the work.
Mr. Reid delivered a capital opening address.
Aftorwards, the children (300 in number), were,
with the lady visitors, regally entertained by the
committee, the youngsters each being furnished)
with an appropriate souvenir. Messrs. Lacy.
Beaver, W. Hudson and the committee generally,
worked hard to make the affair successful.
There is probably no place in Sydney
where the want of accommodation for ladies is
more felt than at the Tramway Station in King-
street. Here, any day in the week, hundreds of
ladies and children may be observed on the path-
way in the glaring sun, hustled here and there by
street roughs, suffering every kind of inconveni-
ence and annoyance. There is likelihood, how-
ever, of this being at an end. The old tramway
office on the western side has been taken by Mr.
F. G. Nicholls, formerly manager of No. 2 Coffee
Palace in its days of success, who will change the
place not only into a first-class waiting-room, but
will provide light refreshments in the best style.
Mr. Nicholls will be assisted in the management
by Mrs. Nicholls, so that the comfort of ladies is
guaranteed. The rooms will be open about Friday
next.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Ayer’s Ague Cure should be the com
panion of all who reside or travel in malarial dis-
tricts. No family or traveller in such places
should be without it, for use as preventive and
ready for any emergency. It is certain, harmless,
and the best artimalarial medicine.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of tho Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Publio Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘‘Arnold's l ’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made.
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane*


A Great Business.—The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
Liver. These preparations are used throughout
the civilized world, and thousands testify to their
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at 6d., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. 6d. All druggists keep
them.*
Faded Complexions.—How many thou-
sands of ladies there are who look wan and faded
while yet in early life; to all such let us whisper a
word, lou have iu Bristol's Sarsaparilla the
means ot restoring your colour, brightening you.-
eyes, sweetening your breath, and giving rou
sound general health. 8 you
The Referee.
STORTING FIXTURES.
LWe shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Newcastle •.. .February 9.
Oootemundra February 13,14.
Tasmanian K.C. Summer February 13,14,15.
Murrumburrah J.C February 14,15.
Cooma Races February 20, 21.
Gundagai J.C February 28, 29.
Tumut March 5, 6.
V.R.O. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Orange J.C March 13.14.
Wollongong March 17.
Gundaroo • • March 17.
Wellington Annual March 17,18.
A 1 bury March, 17,18
Canterbury Park R.C March 22.
Condobelin March 26, 27.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn April 3, 5.
Balonne (Q.) Races -... April 8, 9.
A.J.C Autumn April 12,14, lb, 19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23, 24,25.
Hay May 15,1 M .
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
R. 4th Class Race February 9.
S. Dingy Club <a> e t Feb. 9.
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta March 22.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race, Victoria y.
N.S.W April 5.
ATHLETICS.
Franks v. Murphy February 9,11,16.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Canterbury Park Race Club has decided
upon a meeting on 22nd March next.
~ The Wellington (NZ.)Cup, run for on Friday
last, resulted in a win for Poet, Normanby second,
and Vanguard third.
At the South Melbourne (dub swimming
matches, on Saturday last, the 400 yard handicap
was won by A. T. Kenny, of St. Kilda, in 6min.
27sec.
The professional players, Flowers and
Ullyett, have been included in the team of English
cricketers which is being organised to visit Aus-
tralia next season.
The Orientals defeated the Our Boys on
Saturday last, in the Junior Crieket Cup contest,
by four wickets. The Orientals are now first
favourites for the Cup.
Mr. J. Fitton, who left Auckland on Christ-
mas Day to perform the task of riding through the
North Island of New Zealand on a bicycle, to
Wellington, accomplished the journey in fourteen
days.
At a course of horse-taming entertain-
ments given by Professor Sample, in the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building, the proceeds, to be
applied for the benefit of local charities, amounted
to no less a sum than £BOO.
This is a par. specially for our lady
“snorts.” Mr. F. Ironside has an idea of starting
“ Frisquette Clubs ” at the various railway
suburbs, with the object of matches between the
clubs during the winter Saturday afternoons.
Only the Sirocco and the Sao started for
the £2O prize in connection with the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, the Sirocco having to allow her
little opponent 4)fj minutes. The wind was blow-
ing fresh from the north-east, and the Sirocco won
with a minute and a half to spare.
When rogues fall out. At Mudgee, a
couple of peds. fell out over a race for an alleged
£5O, when it came out that several competitors in
the l-ecent Sheffield Handicap had run under as-
sumed names, and that the two men in the £5O
race had arranged to “double-cross ” each other.
One of the liveliest cricket matches we
have seen for some time past eventuated at
Parsley Bay on Sun—we mean Saturday last, when
some of the best exponents of the game in Aus-
tralia gave a specimen of their play. The “Aus-
tralian Giant” landed, or rather watered, one ball
some half mile down the harbour.
The Maitland Anniversary Regatta was a
big boom. The All-comers’ Handicap, in skiffs,
fell an easy prey to E. Shepperd (5618), who is
much too good for the provincials, and not quite
good enough for the metropolitan scullers. Gor-
don and Campbell won the All-comers’ Double
Sculls, and Thomas Ricketts won the 200 yards
Swimming Handicap.
N.S.W. will be represented in the coming
intercolonial bowling match by Messrs H. C. Fraser,
G. Hardie, T. R. Allt, W. D. Cruickshank, H. B.
Cohen, G. Davidson, A. Tompsitt, J. Davies, Can-
tain Heselton, J. Young, W. F. Akhurt, T. C.
Hinchcliffe, W. F. Edmunds, J. Forsyth, J. R.
Hamilton, R. N. Sadlear. I. Dunshea. G. M. Miller,
D. H. Chisholm, and IT. W. Carpenter.
On Jan. 28 George Bubear defeated Win.
Elliott, in a match for £2OO, over the Thames
champion course (Eng.). When Elliott left Ame-
rica for England the Yankees were of opinion he
had improved wonderfully by his trip to the
States, both in physique and style, and that he
could easily defeat any man in England. He pulled
a boat put together by Ruddock, the crack Ame-
rican builder.
The sail off, on Saturday last, between the
St. Crispin, 23 ft., scratch, and the Regina, 20ft., 9
minutes, for Mr. Geddes’ ten-guinea prize in con-
nection with the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club,
resulted in a win for the 20-footer, which finished
only five minutes behind the “ Snob.” For the
S.A.S.C. skiff race, the Bacchante, Desdemona, and
Lucia started, and after an exciting race the boats
finished in the order named.
At the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club meet-
ing, Mr. Trebeck moved “ That the half-decked
boats be divided into two classes; the first to in-
clude all boats over 20 feet, and the second class
those measuring 20 feet and under.” Mr. Stafford
moved an amendment—" That the first class should
consist of boats over 22 feet, and the second class
22 feet and under.” The original motion was car-
ried. Need wo say that the former gentleman
owns a 20-footer, and the latter a 22-footer ?
Young Dutchy (says the ’Fkisco Chronicle)
is down on his luck, as the expression goes, for not
only did he fall foul of the law within a few days
of his arrival, after suffering shipwreck on his
way from Australia, but he is suffering severely
from a carbuncle on his breast, which necessitated
an operation a few days since. However, he still
bears up his spirits, p.nd has deposited £2O as forfeit
to get on a match with any light or middle weight
on the coast—time, place, and amount of wager as
may be agreed upon.
Some of Captain Bogardus’s principal
feats were killing 89 birds out of 100 at Coney
Island in 1880; breaking 300 glass balls in succession
at Etncoln, III.; breaking 990 glass balls out ot 1000
at Bradford, I’a.: breaking 1000 glass balls in lh.
linin. iosec. in New York, whfire he also broke 5500
glass balls iu I'd. I9miH. 2sec., out of 5854, loading
his own guu and changing barrels every 50 shots.
The Captain, who has defeated the best shots in
the world, was an excellent shot in the hunting
field, and it will probably be a long time before his
feats with the gun will be excelled.
In England, the inventive Mr. Rucker has
patented a most ingenious device, consisting of a
bar, by means of which the front wheels of two
bicycles may be joined and driven tandem by two
riders. The first advantage—immediately ap-
parent—is that falling over the handles is quite
impossible. A greatly increased pace is attainable;
and, this, with the augumented safety, enables
ascents and descents to be taken which previously
caused dismounts to be made. The tandem can be
quickly taken to pieces, and the two large wheels
transformed into separate machines.
Amateur athletes have been distinguishing
themselves pretty considerably at home. Only
the other day we were referring to the sensational
flight of the Messrs. Waddell to the New World,
and now we have news of the departure of Mr.
John Muirhead, secretary of the Clapton Beagles,
to a much older region. Mr. Muirhead, in point of
fact, has “suicided,” and seeing that it was all on
account of a young lady whom he had only known
for a very few weeks, we are forced to conclude
that the deceased young gentleman was more
liberally endowed with muscle than brains.
The cricketers of New South Wales have
at last decided to cut the painter with the ground
trustees. It is certainly better late than never,
but if the cricketers had taken this action at the
start, the Association would now have had a
handsome sum at its credit for the formation of
much-needed playing grounds. There can be no
two ideas as to the excellence of the Association
Cricket Ground, but it would seem to be a big
mistake to spend such large sums on the one
ground, in view of the acknowledged want of our
cricketers lor more scope in the way of good
wickets.
The members of the Sydney Amateur Sail-
ing Club are still hankering after a shed. As a
smoking-room the thing might act very well; but
it is ridiculous to expect boat owners to sail their
boats over to a shed single handed to pick up
and set down a fresh water crew. The shed would
be of no service to boat owners, with the exception
of one or two, and the club would no doubt find
it cheaper to rent a smoking and lounging room
higher up town. But “ once bit, twice shy,” an
old saw which the wealthier members will no
doubt remember when the question of “securi-
ties” for the proposed new venture crops up.
Attendance poor at the Goulburn races
on Friday and Saturday last. First day:—Ho wlong
won the Shorts Handicap; Minorca ditto the Sell-
ing Plate; Strathmore carried off the Grand-stand
Handicap, after a great struggle up the straight
with Fiiendship; Prima Donna very properly took
first place for the Flying Handicap; and Minorca
f I >HC man does not ap-
pear to be happy He
/ k f]ds d We<xry,
I far-away look.
\ i J ady
Wife.
fS he
hdS found
r d lo nef yet
j low fya > r
"upon b ,s
fo]eeve See,
She JColdS
him and treats
kod his corps
J~iis exfolan
ai'ipv f hd I" Jje h<xs be^n cl vVcilk
fyrocLgbtfye filter-JVl&rket does r>ot
Seem to satisfy Jjer. She SSys "that
/vili hot wdsb jt j. S dre.dd/ul to he so
Skefrti cal. Tp, e poor man Will hSe ho
u./o something wiP wasp
His cruel Wife's bdir \stju\te.
hfill S'hefdT) him with The }>room ?
Props ** 1
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER-LESSON VI.
appropriated the Members’ Race. Second day: |
Omadhaun won the Novel Race; Bayard came in
first for the Gundary Mile; for the Town Plate,
Strathmore and Friendship ran a dead heat, Strath-
more taking pride of place in the run-off; Haven,
with 12st. up, won the Ladies’ Bracelet; and Binda
won the Forced Handicap, after a good race with
Tan.
The match in Melbourne between Murphy
and Malone, in which Murphy was to walk (30,120,
and 180 yards while Malone ran 100,- 200, and 300
yards, resulted in rather an unsatisfactory win for
the walker. Malone won the 100 yards in the
alleged timo of 9 4-5 seconds, over a soft sloppy
course, which looks very much as if the ground
was short, or the watches were “ going on wheels.”
We doubt very much if Malone could break ten
seconds on the best ground the world ever saw.
For the 300 event, Malone stopped after going a
few paces, thinking it was a false start, and Murphy
walked over by himself. Murphy won the 200
yards’ spin in 19% seconds, with Malone only five
yards in the rear; and this on a soft course. The
Melbourne Sportsman vouches for the correct-
ness of the times. Rot!
In Canada, Mervine Thompson, the cham-
Eion wrestler, wagered £2O that a pair of draught
orses could not pull him from a ladder. A har-
ness, greatly resembling a pair of shoulder braces,
only a great deal stronger, was thrown over
Thompson’s shoulders and around his waist, with
two large straps left dangling from the small of
his back. Then, lying face downward upon the
ladder, fixed in a horizontal position, securely
lashed to a telegraph pole, he grasped a round of
the ladder with both hands, and placed his feet
firmly against another flat round at the foot of the
ladder. A team was hitched to these straps, and
then commenced the tug of war. The large pair
of horses started, strained and tugged. But in
vain. The man could not be pulled from his
position. After making three or four futile
attempts, this team was removed, and a heavy pair
of sorrels attached to the man. They, like their
predecessors, could not succeed, and the man of
muscle did not exhibit the slightest sign of fatigue.
On Friday at noon Edward Triekett and
Beach rowed over the two islands course, as
ordered by the National Regatta umpire, in con-
sequence of a foul between the two men in the
champion race. Beach got all the best of the
start, which was made at the red buoy off Fort
Macquarie, but lrickett lost no time in obtaining
pride of place, and, by the timo Dawes Point was
shot, had a clear length to the good, which he
lengthened ouWo-snmu half dozen, afteg rounding
Goat Island. Triekett kept on increasing his lead",
and won by any number of lengths in something
over 27 minutes, as per usual no two watches on
the steamer agreeing. Beach Jacked the dash for
which he is so noted, and was evidently pounds
above his rowing weight. If report speaks truly,
such work as Beach performed between Anniver-
sary Bay and Friday last is not calculated to make
him the man to row within cooey of the Canadian,
and it is to be hoped the successes of our at pre-
sent best sculler will not carry him off his head, as
it has done many a stout man before him.
Geelong (Vie,) Turf Club Summer meeting,
Thursday and Saturday last. Sundowner won the
Handicap Hurdle Race by half a length from
Triplet; Gambler third. The Trial Stakes fell to
Precious Stone ; Forlorn second, and Esmond
third. The Geelong Gold Cup fell an easy victory
ro Linda, who cantered in a half length in front of
Little Sister ; .Agitation, a!couple of lengths away,
third. Maude won the Sires’ Produce Stakes by a
short head from Second King; \Babel third
Westbury carried off the Connemarra Plate ; For-
lorn second, and Josephine third. Phantom de-
feated Baron Von Mueller by half a length for the
Grand Stakes ; Josephine third. The second dav’s
sport opened with the Barwon Stakes, won on the
Post by Second King from Ebony. Le Grand beat
Little Sister by a length for the Mares’ Produce
Stakes. Koh-i-noor won the Selling Stakes •
Westbury second, and Hill Talk third. Ferryman
defeated Linda by the shortest of heads for the
Geelong Handicap ; Vheatmeat Moonlight
won the Handicap Steeplechase, followed home
by. Tandsticker and Australian Court. Precious
Stone cantered in the winner of the Stewards’
Purse ; Belle Brandon second, and Athena third.
In an article headed “Reverend Fafhers
of the Turf,” an exchange savs :—“On the lath
May, 1836 died at his living, Caidecot" Bedford-
shire, aged 68, the Rev. William H survey, known as
Parson Harvey,’ a reverend father of the turf
better remembered, no doubt, for his eccentricities
than for his promotion of horse-'breeding and his
inculcation of humanity. How he lived in ‘a
garret,’ it was said, at Pimlico: how ho kent a
; hospital for decayed cracks’ in S’loane-street • how
he snored in an easy chair, v yitli a couple of
n i u^c° n m h ?P s da »? ll P«' out of his; coat-tail pockets,
at Mr. Tattersall s house ; ho y he bought un
•savages,’ like Vandyke Junior, and tamed them
by some process that he kept tjo himself, so that
he would amuse the bystanders in Tattersall’s
yard by hanging on to the ‘ sav age’s’ tail without
the slightest objection on the part of the ‘savage-’
how he would ride his ‘decayed crack’ or his
savage to divine service at Westminster Abbev
and take care to have a shoe loose so that he might
leave the horse at the farriei-’g to save the extra
expense of putting him up-alli this, no doubt and
much more, was remembered for a laugh against
him; but it is forgotten that he did his best ac-
cording to his lights, though he may not have been
very successful, to breed good stock with old
Phantom (winner of the Derby in 1811) and his
Partisan mares and others, and that he deserved
the approbation of Mr. Colam’s society for his per-
sistent denunciation of cruelty; replying - to those
who told him that a horse was ‘ all the better for
a good thrashing,’ in somewhat unclerical lan-
guage, perhaps. But the devil of it is that they
get bad thrashings.’ ”
The Miller-Foley-Victor combination must
have made a good thing out of their week’s show
at the Academy of Music. On Friday night, Larry
Foley’s clever pupil, and King, who styles himself
the “ Feather-weight Champion of Victoria,” had
about the best set-to of the week, the professional
being knocked about to such an extent that to-
wards the iinish he repeatedly dropped to avoid
punishment. In England, recently, tne best pro-
fessional and amateur light-weights were brought
together, when for the first time in the history of
pugilism an amateur was found good enough to
best a professional, although it was thought Cap-
tain Barclay, the great sporting authority of his
day, was equal to any professional in England, had
he chosen to go into tne ring. We fancy a second
case has now cropped up here, for it is very doubt-
ful if any man of his avoirdupoise can be found in
Sydney good enough—either for points or endur-
ance with the gloves—for the clever amateur
who put King through his facings on Friday
night. On Saturday night “The Soldier” per-
formed the much-talked-of, but seldom-seen, feat
of “ knocking a man out” in three rounds. The
soldier stood head and shoulders above and weighed
stones more than his opponent, and the first
round was pretty even, the little one drawing the
ruby rather freely from the “ Lobster’s ” pro-
bosis, but, in the second, weight told its tale, as,
alter some heavy exchanges, tne soldier struck his
man heavily under the ear, bringing him down all
of a heap. Foley then tried to put a finish to the
affair, but the plucky little one insisted on a third
round, which ended in the “ Permanent ” meeting
him as he was falling with a terrific blow under
the ear, bringing him with a heavy thud to the
stage, where he lay till carried off by four men.
The combination purpo.je “starring the pro-
vinces” and the neighbouring colonies; after
which Miller says he will journey to the States to
close with Sullivan’s kind offer to knock him out
in four rounds.
The steamers Admiral and Leveret —of
which we shall have more to say further on—were
well-freighted with passengers, on Saturday last,
wheu they left the Circular' Qbav for the
scene of the Clitford-Pearce race. Pearce was the
firft to d 0 h| R preliminary canter, and had his
t “HF been out of si^ht ifc would have been
*? dlBc °ver any resemblance between the
finely-drawn frame and the ordinarily robust
tMnt' I P oked altog-ether too fine, and we
him £ ral u er made a big- mistake in stringing
mu P to Buch a pitch, knowing Pearce was not at
,-n e ro b h e fi 0f times noted for P luck or staying power
m cb u case we would rather see a man a shade’
heavy side than chance weakening him
HiHnn OVW j rair !i n i. 8 ‘- Clifford looked in grand con-
wPP’ a ? d 000 Id he only show a little more hair and
mßn to n f e ™ ad i, he 7 oul l be the most Perfect speci-
°t > manhood we have ever seen step into a
P? a £- Pearce, an acknowledged demon for a mile
o?,a k k G °mmand immediately after the start
and by the time Uhr’s point was passed had'
a clea !,' l® n ffth to the good. Further 011 he in-
bls but at the mile point, passed in
Clifford had decreased it considerably*
and before a quarter of a milo further had been
P®BP^, a * ed > the nose of his boat was level with the
him ri K , T ear , ce by this time had not much
hi f?’ but what remained he used to deli be-
Snf^ PU a^ rOS A S Clifford, and stop rowing, when a
t' occurred. As soon as the boats separated, Clif-
obtained the lead and held it with ease over the
22m(n D ri er of uu® course, which he covered in
ShtH o’’ 0 ’’ with . a freBh n °rth-easter blowing and
fnr e thJ^o rU £ m * Br under him. And now a word
for the steamboats, which were grossly misman-
the best nn^rfr l^, 08 * on top °I the competitors for
a™m£s,*£ art the course. At one time, had any
had t to the gear in Pearce’s boat, or
Cu ler ’ h,7 any chance, fallen out of her—
gaw Black Charley ”doin a race—it
would have proved an utter impossibility for the
master of the Leveret to have prevented his chax-ge
hnAte B Mi Bhll ] g up botb boat a nd man. The steain-
Sn WDg a race should be compelled to
competitors aS ° nable &nd Bafe distance behind the
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
Saturday next, W. Metcalfe’s horse Aus-
tralia and J. Venable’s Patience race at Parkes for
fif 0 ' V AtTembleVale, the Salisbury United C C
™ < Q f f a h e v Arl ?i dale cricketers. This is the third
MS* ¥ ffe “ th , ese clubs which has ended simi-
larly— On Saturday last, at Moore Hark
Britannia C.C. scored a win against the Clarence
C.C. Scores: Britannia, 67; Clarence, 17 ...Ateam
?ilr,o I i C^ eters ’ ponasODe principally of protest
S'onal players, is being organised by Alfred Shaw
mn?K[ Bb, i r^+i. ’?* Dillywhite, to play a series of
matches in the colonies. Barnes, wh6 was one of
Jl°- Bll *? hs , eleveD ’ » nd Gunn, a prominent pro-
fessional player, will be included in the team
The first match in the colonies will probablv
be played at Adelaide in November next
At Auckland (N.Z.), there is talk of a swimming
™ atc ;h, m sprints, between Kirby and Pul for cf
r ofl £rs to s wim any man in New Zealand
from iOO yards to two miles.... At the West Tam-
athletic sp or ts, on Anniversary Day, the
West Tam worth Handicap, 150 yards, resulted in »
win for Mullins, Chad second, and Lennan third
and Fitzpatrick won the 100 yards Wand Handicap
by a yard from Moran.. .At Mount Pleasan/
the Pearl C.C. defeated the local Sucking Mur-
dochs, on Anniversary Day.. Oran«>e rapes
poned to 13th and 14th March Returning From
Clarence Town races, a man named Barney Logue
was thrown off his horse with fatal resulted Hufri!
cane who ran third to Martini-Henry aud Sardius
for the \ ictorian Derby, turned out lor a holiday
The committee of the Melbourne Cricket Club
have decided to present Mr. Bruce with a trophy
C u™^ emor *u te 1113I 113 making, in the recent match
rno *J°J:h am < the J ar ff e st individual score ever
f^ d , m the colonies. Whilst returning from
the Geelong (Vic.) races, Charles Allen, the book-
maker, was thrown out of a buggy and had both
legs broken.. The Oriental C.C. have received
permission to form a * mud wicket ” on the North-
east corner ot Moore Park.
• • «
William Cummings, champion runner at
was . engaged as slipper for the
Rawclifte (Eng.) coursing meeting. .A six-oared
racing barge, 32ft. long, 4ft. beam, and 18in. deep,
is being built in San Irancisco for parties residing
in the Sandwich Islands. It will be fitted with afi
the latest improvements H. Hutchens, the
famous English professional sprinter, made his re-
appearance on the track Nwv. 3 in a 35-yard handi-
cap at Lillie Bridge Grounds, London. Starting
from scratch, he finished a moderate tnird in his
trial heat, won by H. English, 1734 yards start, by
hall a yard lrom W. Harvey, 11J4 yards . ..
A small fish of the spotted ray or sltate species,
having two pairs of eyes-one on the upper
a ? d on ,° on the lower side—was recently caught
at Kendall, Eng.... ...Formal protests were made
against many of the fishy decisions rendered by the
.lodges at the International Fisheries Exhibition
Musket s son Petronel (winner of the Two Thou-
sai}d Guineas of 1880) has been put to stud duties
at the Duke of Beaufort’s establishment ...London
BEI.LS Life says:—“For some days past there
have been rumours afloat that several American
scullers are located up Barnes was, and some go as
far as to say that both Gookin and Gaudaur are at
present on this side of the Atlantic. If this be the
case, they have kept the secret of their where-
abouts well, as several men who have de-
voted some time to loitering along the river
mu Ve -rJ ailed to Siean any tidings of them.”
Jhe Wheelman, a monthly magazine deserving
the favour with which it has been received bv
cyclists, has combined with Octing, both names
being retained.. .R. Purcell, of Erie, Pa., found
in the stomach of a three-pound whitefish a bullet
weighing 336 grains. The bullet’s recognized bv
George Foster, a veteran of the War of 1812 as of
the same size and shape as those used bv the Erie
patriots against Britishers George Williams
while swimming in Lake Pontchartrain, grasped
the jaw of a sawfish floating near him, and broke
w !£ nch V. ? he Baw was 38 inches
long, and had 42 teeth.... It is proposed to establish
a series of races at Montreal, Can., whereby the
amateur snowshoe championship of Canada will
be decided. The distances will be 220yds" 440yds.
880yds., one mile, and two miles, four races to be
run respectively at the annual meetings of the
Montreal, St. George, Canadian, and Emerald
Clubs, and the fifth during the Winter Carnival.
" fight for £5O took place recently near Liver-
pool, Eng., between men hailing respectively from
Warrington and Manchester, the latter winning “
32 minutes, 16 rounds having been fought The
loser had two ribs broken . During a footrace at
Lee Driving Park, Wilkesbarre, Pa., William
Surtees, of Pittston, and Alfred Jones, of Nanti-
coke, quarrelled, and the former fatally shot the
. .A toreador was gored to death during a
bull-fight at Guanajua, Mexico, Nov. 16. The
Terrible Count de Lagrange ” leaves no issue.
Strange that the man who was so often first above
the turf, should be the last of his own race, when
be stepped beneath it.


Durable American Buggies, Carriages, Phaetons, Platform Spring Waggons, Harness, etc.
The best Trotting and Pleasure Carts, Superior Spring Mattrasses, etc.
General American Importer, 72 York-street, Sydney,
ONE DOOtt FROM MARKET STREET.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Are ILToTxr Op>exa.-
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
■W- T*7\ C-A-TEITS,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management of the celebrated Mr. ALBEIITO E. GEIBMARDO, from Paris, decorated
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to the hand, just arrived from Paris by
the steamer Potosi. formerly in charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of the Bon Marche,
Paris, now kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CATER’S, 193 and 190 Pitt-street.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. The Paris Kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and style. Ladies and gentlemen will find it to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEI AUTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitts
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. Alberto E
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
IST PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
Giticura
go.'*!
f>n
/lißv
v - C:
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Sc r ofula on nee*.
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticuiia and Cuticura Soap
externally.
llad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enrnmia, Pyiemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
ft. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina,
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fieshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiors
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cent 3; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
You’re going to have a little article ou
pantomimes and on poetry. You may say you
ion’t want a little par. on pantomimes and poetry,
hut vou can’t, have it all your own way. Were
obliging enough, heaven knows. We have only, as
we walk down the street, to smell negus, or see the
confectioner's man knocking at the door with
the custard in a soup-tureen, for your little
Rmall and early” to become at once a matter ot
historv. If you only knew the dress suits we have
sacrificed on the “ Social ” altar,, the bales of ten-
•md-sixpenny patents we have immolated at the
shrine of Terpsichore, you would indeed testify—
on oath, if need be-that, like Mr.Merdle, we have
done our duty to Society. So let’s have, dear blue-
fiVod ones, our own little—we seem fond of the
word “ little ’’—way this time. We have casually
sDOkenof Mussy’s pantomime, and, indeed, quoted,
in these columns, its most sparkling gems; and it
affords us some satisfaction to oe «ble to state that,
having before us now a heap of old London pan-
tomime books, we are enabled to say that, for
uure, solid, unadulterated gloom, Smileless George
can find, at the East-end of London, some libret-
tists who run him rather uncomfortably close.
For instance, here now is a quotation from Mr.
Towers’ (Prank’s brother) pantomime of Goody
Two Shoes,” produced in London at the Pavilion
Theatre in Whitechapel, familiarly known to us,
when we represented that fascinating borough in
the Imperial Parliament, as the “ Pav.’ Mark:— j
** They won’t believe in the rope trick, nor any of
the otheis, , _ ,
Nor my Yankee tricksters, the Davenport
Who came from America full ot chuckle and
grin _ _ . ~
To think how they’d take poor John Bull in.
» * »
Then another East-end bard:
“ If he’d [Coburn] have fought Jem Mace, though
once they had a doubt of him,
As the Irish say, ‘Jem would have knocked
saucepans out of him.’
What nations in the world can put such men in
To fight D such clippers as Sayers, Mace, and
King?” etc.
Again, a Mr. Cheathom writes “ St. George and the
Dragon” for the Standard theatre. What do
you think of his style ?
« i saw with pleasure the great interest the Prince
of Wales has shown , ...
In laying the new wing of the London hospital
the (sic) foundation stone.”
And—
“ Come, Britannia, own you are to Name,
Let recognition come soon to save new-numbered
slain.”
All this belongs to the East-end, as we have said,
and it is from the Whitechapel and Wapping bards
that George has so much to fear. He has, how-
ever, we conceive, by no means to be so much
afraid of H J. Byron, William Brough (dead, poor
fellow), and F. C. Burnand, To back up this asser-
tion, we will briefly quote from the first panto-
mime books of these humourists that come to
hand, premising, however, that if our readers
expect to find in their lines that melancholy which
seems now inseparable from modern pantomime,
they will be disappointed. But,then, thunder! you
can’t have everything. Here, now, in Brough s
“ Hercules and Omphale,” is some play upon the
name of the muscular god
“ Dejanira.—
Don’t taunt your friends by naming her cool ease—
Her cool ease! Hercules, whate’er the rule is
Of accent, but one way to see her cool is
Produce him.
Kind
Strange such language in this circle is."
Here is a slab of Burnand in “ Cupid and
Psyche,” the subject being teeth:—
“ Repeat our words! Your fun at us pray poke—
we
Thought teeth was not a subject for chew quo-
que.”
H. J. Byron—he is sick, now, so the London papers
sa y_i Bl W e think, the author who appears the
most incapable of infusing gloom into his copy, of
the lot. This kind of thing (from “Princes;,
Springtime”), vou know, in an age in which sorrow
is the chief ingredient of pantomimes, is unpar-
donable:—
•• Though we’ve for years been forced to wear a
Our crown, at length, has got a little heir,
That is to say an heiress, such a pearl,
In fact our little ’air’s a little curl."
This kind of writing in Sydney wouldn’t draw the
prompter’s aunt; and still less the following, in
which Mr. Byron is talking of the ways of infants:
“ Off it’s cart-wheel suck of paint a part,
Thus dining upon wheel— hem!—d la carl."
* * *
The foregoing has been written with a
purpose; and that purpose is the instruction
(blended with amusement—but no magic lantern)
of the community. As a matter of fact, those few
natives who have studied, in the shadow of the
cane, their Lindley Murrays, have always skip-
ped the chapter on versification; and now
nearly every fellow who wants to pen some
verses to his girl, either employs the man who
writes tae shoe-shop stanzas, or cribs them out of
the London Journal. Now we are going to show
you that writing verse is not only easier far than
scientific lying—and that’s not very easy—but it is
a mere trick. For instance, pantomime:
Somebody.— j a
Don’t Taylor tremble, just, when M’Elhonaswears.
SOMEBODYELSE.— , .
What! Mudgee Taylor ? Silly! Mudgee cares!
Vou meet something ia muslin or sateen, say, at
a ball. Vou dance with her-you get blocks of im-
pregnable fowl for her—you spoon corn-flour,
feebly masquerading as blanc-mange with a dab
of Hobart raspberry on its apex, into her —you
help her on with her jacket and try to look as if
you didn’t see a bit of yesterday’s lunch profusely
arabesqued with mustard in one of the side
pockets, and you love hor. You get home at about
4 a.m., and after madly tearing upstairs and re-
ceiving notice from under the bed-clothes from
your landlady, you sit at your window and sneeze
the rest of the night at the moon, vainly striving
to compose a copy of verses for your beloved.
But, then, you are not so clever as we are. Here’s
the style of thing, now, that would fetch almost
anything-that waits:—
I sit and dream, am in despair,
For I see floating in the air
Thy angel face!
Red ruby lips, deep golden hair,
A face that’s more than fairy-lair!
The night apace
Creeps on, and it will fade at morn,
And leave me prostrate and forlorn!
Oh, be no scomerl
But meet me in the golden glow
At—but the spot so well you know—
The Museum corner.
Well you see, she’d chew that for a week, and
then’show it to her little sister, who would copy it
out and send it to the grocer’s boy. The grocer’s
bov would give it to his master’s daughter, and his
master, after spanking his assistant, would copy
the piece out in his turn, and send it to the little
black-eyed vest-and-pants maker opposite. So it
would become gradually well known and popular.
» • ■
A young lady now wins a half-crown scrap
album at a Diorama. She is very proud of the
treasure; and, after securing with some emotion
the sewing-machine man’s autograph, she asks
vou to write something in it. Then you hurriedly
think of Norval's father, and wonder whether she
has ever heard of him; then your thoughts fly to
the boy who stood on the burning deck when all
but he etc., and are dubious. About the drummer
who “ woke and rose, and beatiDg loud the drum
forth on his round he goes,” you are equally un- ,
certain; and you dare not risk “A simple child
that lightly draws its breath;” so in the end you
do something in this style—
Attractive would be all that’s writ
Upon these pages pink and blue,
Delicious ev’ry bit of it,
Were all but halt as nice as you.
Then you would call next day to receive congratu-
lations from the family generally, and a ‘ mug
from your adored; and, in all probability, get fired
out by the old man when he comes home from the
warehouse. One last sample. You see her at the
circus with ’Arry, the hair-dresser s assistant, one
perceives you not, but is chewing Barcelona nuts,
while vou are chewing—which is less expensive—
the cud of reflection. Next morning she receives,
on a billhead with the top torn off, the following
dirge:—
To think with thee, I once did waltz,
And came the schottische, Susev Anna;
To think, ah, one so fair and false!
We tripped, as one, the varsoviana I
Now all is o er; the sky is black,
My sad life’s sun has a thick haze on;
So all my Christmas cards bring back;
Return me quick that necklet brazen.
That silver ring by bearer send;
And 1 want, too, those trim goloshes,
Though fled—and this my heart does rend—
Are all those lovely lemon squashes.
Take back, jade, all thou gavest me—
A timber-pipe at one-and-three.
Now, dear reader*, you’re set up. No verbal
thanks. Let-since it is so hot-your congratula-
tions take a liquid form.
The natives of New Caledonia and Loyalty
Islands are now engaging themselves willingly for
mines, plantations, ships, and stores, at wages
ranging from £1 to £3 per month, the natives pro-
viding their own clothing. This class of men come
considerably cheaper than the New Hebrides
natives, on account of their superior constitution,
and also, on account of their being civilised; they
are not likely to Hie. being acclimatised; and, as a
rule, give ag- f more satisfaction to their
employers. Uuii, .utco, they were unwilling to
work, but the difficulty evidently seems to have
been overcome. New Hebrides natives cost, on an
average, about £2 a month.
A DRUG IN THE MARKET.
LADY : “Have you any ‘Kid Reviver,’
Mr. Druggs?”
MR. D.: "No, madam, we do not keep
any, but (with animation) we have the
‘Infant Restorative,’ which is much
more highly recommended at present.”
Some bags of lime set fire to the Y.M.C.A.
premises, at Adelaide, lately. This was the first
time the Association ever contributed to the
spread of enlightenment. Which causes us to touch
our little harp:—
young men, you think to heav’n you’re nigher
Than us—O drear delusion 1
If here your premises catch tire.
What will be your conclusion ?
Alas, you ne'er will be quite luminous,
Till you are in a blaze bituminous.
The labour trade will commence shortly
at Noumea, permission having been accorded by
the French Government. The regulations will be
vely strict; in fact, so strict that it will be doubt-
ful whether any recruits will be obtained. The
Government also intend sending Government ves-
sels, or vessels chartered by them at so much pc
dav, in the labour trade, in order not to allow any
merchant or reckless recruiter to make any profit
out of the labour trade. The planter and mer-
chant will then only pay the actual cost of expense
in obtaining the labour, so that it will be nn im-
possibility to attempt any kidnapping, being en-
tirely Government vessels and under Government
supervision.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen I I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, I persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
s conds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Locle, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘take it down’—in other words, to take it to
Eieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
ere is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, I>4 seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a lew days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
LA round of aDnlause followed the speaker M be
descended the tribune.]


Biz.
THE GREAT LAND SALE AT DOUGLAS
PARK.
No announcement has been made in the press for
some time which should attract so much attention
from speculators, householders, and others, as
that of the sale on Saturday (Feb. 9), of the great
Douglas Park Estate, on the Southern railway line.
This estate is one rendered famous by the late Dr.
Jenkins, as a stud farm, the Nepean Towers herd
having, for years in succession, won the highest
awards at our great Intercolonial and Interna-
tional Shows. Douglas Park is beautifully situ-
ated on the railway line, between Menangle and
Picton, and has a frontage to the Nepean River,
which here flows throughout the year—one of the
prettiest and purest of our inland streams.
The land consists of undulating country, and
for agricultural purposes, wheat-growing, &c., is
unmatched, having great depth of soil. For
lucerne-growing the land is equal to the Hunter
River flats, as many as from six to eight crops
being cut each year, one paddock being succes-
sively cut for seventeen years and is still good,
while for pastoral requirements the grass is fine
and luxurious, and the cattle have for years been
entirely free from the diseases or epidemics affects
ing- stock in other parts of the country. A portion
of the estate is to be subdivided for the purposes
of a township—and it is certain a township will
very soon spring up, as the whole country round
is richly agricultural, while on the spot centres all
the trade between the district and the metropolis.
Plans, &c., and all information, can be obtained
from the auctioneers, Messrs. Mills and Piie, Pitt-
street, Sydney. The land has been subdivided into
large and small blocks, the work in this respect
reflecting every credit on the surveyors, Messrs.
Atchinson and Schleicher, Eldon Chambers, Pift-
street. Trains will leave the Sydney sta-
tion for the estate at 12.35, enabling visitors to
lunch and inspect prior to sale, which commences
at 3 o’clock sharp. Free tickets can be obtained
from the auctioneers.
THE AUCTION SYSTEM FOR COLONIAL
GRAIN AND GENERAL PRODUCE.
No undertaking of the kind in Sydney has proved
such a signal success as the system of auction sale
of colonial produce instituted by Messrs. Tate
Brothers, of Sussex-street. It is pretty well known
that the old system of sale created by no means
a satisfactory or certain market here for any kind
of produce, producers of every description having
often to submit first to vexatious delay and then
poor and irregular returns. There was no reason
whatever why farm and dairy produce should not
find in the metropolis as large and ready a cash
market as ordinary imported merchandise, but it
seemed that no one cared to move out of the old
grove. Messrs. Tate Brothers, however, wisely
took the initiative six or eight months ago, and for
their purposes secured a central building in
Sussex street—some distance from their own
ollices—and here they designed alterations which
turned the place into a first-class mart. The
opening of the new building soon secured large
support—notably a great portion of the farming
community of the Northern rivers decidingto con-
sign their produce to the firm for auction sale. The
result, without exception, has been an increasingly
higher average of returns—consignments are not
allowed to spoil on the wharves. In fact, exten-
sive sales on samples are effected, securing pur-
chasers at the ships’ side. The sales are held
twice a week, or oftener if required, and the
whole trading community are apprised of each
sale by circular, and press notices, the atten-
dance in consequence is always large. Some
very big lines of Northern maize and N.Z.
oats have recently been sold at auction, the
prices being very much more satisfactory than
usual.
Young and feeble mothers with frail
children will both become strong by the use of
Hop Bitters. Read.
F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT8TANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room" suites, in~ exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T71 URNITURE. —THE LARGEST STOCK IN
Jj THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOPTAl'lLEsTmi STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for singlb
rooms. Gri.at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
X71IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
JQi Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 30s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
o
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound,
pWfJO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, a5s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Efnbroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
EAS Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs^
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
KkINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
r DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
RLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUGH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
S'
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
s fc
■—
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEG ANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
1/1RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JT TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REa£
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass •
1 new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
B“pps
n6ll-street.
W A iMYTNBwj6oN, l ‘.S r i%^ each - BltAI) -
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Ohnim'
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES BRAdI
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connelistreet
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very comnlet*
1 Assortment; best make, lowest priced
SOCIAL
Notwithstanding that sapient King Solo-
mon affirmed there is nothing' new under the sun,
we venture to think that when the literary genius
of the Press concentrates its efforts on “ babies,” a
iiovelty has been struck. He lives up at Tamworth
—the man who has done it, we mean. At the in-
vitation of the master, Mr. C. Poison, he went out
to the anniversary picnic of the Nemingah school,
and it was there that his rapt gaze fell on ‘‘the
very beautiful infants which were present.” Of
course, Jeatnes saw other objects of casual in-
terest. There was, for example, ‘‘Mr. Noel Lin-
coln, who lent such aid to the various athletic
sports as only the physically pure can give;” and
“dear little ‘Maori,’ with her dark flashing eyes,
was the delight of all.” Then there was an indivi-
dual bearing the Italian name of Duffy, who
“ shed an [esthetic radiance o’er the scene, which
is only produced by a dignified presence, a noble
bearing, and a bewteful blonde moustache.” But
these were only by the way. Babies were the
piece de resistance, and of these, chief among—
well, a good many—and altogether lovely, was
that (mark the journalistic astuteness) of Mrs.
Poison, the charming wife of the teacher, who,
“while she was the youngest married lady present,
yet rejoiced in the possession of the most beautiful
baby we have met in an experience extending
over, say, forty years. That baby’s arms would
be a heaven-sent blessing to a sculptor, while its
enchanting features and happy laughing smile
might be envied by the angels.” We are confident
that the wise King of Israel believed it was right
lovely woman’s charms should be recognised in
the chronicles of the day, for, if our recollection
serves, he wrote a little in a freely descriptive
style himself. But Solomon never foresaw the
Baby Reporter.”
• • •
The gay youth of Parramatta got up a nice
dance in their Masonic Hall, a few days ago, and,
with Mrs. Rafter’s catering and Skipper’s music,
kept up the circling till the smallest hour of all.
The ocoasion would hardly seem to have war-
ranted very extraordinary efforts in the dress line:
but, possibly owing to the natural eagernegs of
Parramatta girls, and partly to the fact that this
particular kind of year only comes once in every
four, the Parramatta girls struck out. Two
Harris Park sisters were great favourites; also a
Paddington visitor in cerise satin and striped silk.
But the idol of the hour was a symmetrical damsel
whose vivacity drew notice to her extremely
pretty toilet of cream ottoman and nun’s veiling,
dashed with cardinal bows.
Two ducal divorce suits are now fluttering
the dovecotes of the English aristocracy. In one,
the parties are nearly allied to royalty. Barely
two years ago Lord Colin Campbell was married
to a lovely woman, under circumstances that, to
the outer world, seemed to promise the acme of
nuptial bliss. Not overwhelmingly rich, there
was the more reason they should cling together ;
if she was mentally superior and physically almost
perfect, he was brother-in-law of the Queen’s
daughter, Louise, and son of the great Luke of
Argyll; and it was a true love match. But the
match sizzled, the flame went out, and black
embers only remain. He gradually found himself
dwarfed in the presence of his every way superior
wife, coldness came, and the attentions of the
comprehensively gallant heir to the throne roused
jealousy in the breast of the humiliated husband.
Ho was about to institute proceedings, when she
forestalled him by an appeal for judicial separa-
tion, which is now being heard. . . The other
case is one not so much of mere incompatibility,
but of dark disgrace ; which is hardly surprising
when we say it is in the Grafton family. The Earl
of Euston, heir of “ His Grace” the Duke of Graf-
ton, is plaintiff. Having, to satisfy his aristocratic
lust, married a courtesan, he now seeks a divorce
to wipe out the disgrace. Without stopping to
inquire whether an alliance with any woman could
disgrace a member of the Grafton family, it is
interesting to know that this noble young man
once resided in Adelaide, where he condescended
to accept £3 a week for filling a sinecure in the
law courts. He was then Captain Fitzroy. It
didn’t much matter at the time; but in view of
the more splendid prospects of an actual Earlship,
it becomes necessary to get rid of the undesirable
matrimonial incumbrance of his youth. So the
Earl now maintains that the wife of his lordly
bosom—Kate Cross, the courtesan, alias the Coun-
tess of Euston—had a husband living when he
married her. Evidence has been entreated from
the four winds of heaven to prove this, “private
inquiry” men subsidised into affluence to find
some trivial circumstance in support of it; and at
last, in the wilds of the Hokitiki bush, a miner has
been discovered and taken home, prepared to swear
that the noble Counteas was his lawful wedded wife
when she married the Captain. And it will be very
hard if a rich man can’t prove a small fact like
that.
• • •
The Rev. D. H. Ellis, 8.A., LL.D., late
precentor of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, was married
at St. Mark’s, on the 30th January, to Miss Ada
Throsby, eldest daughter of Mrs. E. H. S. Yon
Arnheim, of Upper Wiliiam-street, Darlinghurst.
Though only intended to be a quiet wedding, the
church was filled; and. had there not been some
uncertainty about the date, the crowd would have
been much greater—for, either in the clerical,
musical, or social sphere, Dr. Ellis is a well-known
man. His congregations at the Cathedral exceeded
r egularly those of any other preacher, his efforts
in the choir were lately recognised by a handsome
testimonial, and his name announced for a sub-
urban service at once filled the church with those
anxious to hear a cultured man speak on daily
topics in a very piquant manner. The wedding on
Wednesday was iD several respects different from
ordinary ones. It took place at 8 o’clock in
the evening, and, we presume, for that reason,
evening dress was worn by the gentlemen of the
party instead of the usual frock coats ; the bride-
groom, however, being in clerical attire. At 7,
an ordinary service Avithout sermon was held, the
sitters retaining their seats at its close, and many
others coming in filled the aisles and porches. So
great was the desire to obtain an early glimpse at
the central object of interest on all such occasions,
the bride, that the Rev. T. Kemmis had to an-
nounce that those standing on the seats must get
doAvn before he could allow the ceremony to pro-
ceed. Which caused a number of nice girls who
had got into high positions to get down Avith a
high colour. An arch of greenery was erected at
the end of the centre Avalk, and garlands of leaves
and flowers were placed on each side. While Mr.
Noble, organist, played a voluntary, the wedding
principals entered. The bride, leaning on the arm
of her brother, Avore a toilet which, if not ex-
travagantly costly, attracted notice for its
exceeding grace. It was cream surah silk,
with square open bodice, trimmed with a
profusion of lace at the neck and on the elbow
sleeves; front of skirt covered with soft puffs and
creamy lace falling over them in small cascades,
gi\ r ing the dress a very soft appearance, draped at
top with lace wings; a long train standing weli out
and caught up in soft festoons, lace ruchiog at the
bottom. The veil, a very fine and soft one worn
over the blossoms in the hair, was held at the back
with a silver monogram. No groomsmen appeared,
but the bridesmaids were seA r en. Of the three
elder, Miss Arnheim and Miss Moffitt wore pale
pink nun’s veiling, the tucked flounces alternating
with rows of Avhite lace, softly draped and looped
up Avith ribbon to match the dresses; open square
bodice and half sleeves Jace-trimmed; bows in hair.
Miss Ada Bridges wore an equally pretty dress of
deep rich crimson, verging on magenta. The four
little girls were Misses Arnheim, Osborne, L. Os-
borne, and M. Osborne, in rose pink, deep crimson,
rose pink, and pale pink respectively, and they
looked delicious. The bride was given away by her
brother, H. Arnheim. Among those present were
her mother and grandmother, Mrs. Throsby, both
ia black, with white muslin headdresses. A Dar
linghurst young lady Avas charming in cream satin
tunic beaded and belaced, over a cream llama
underskirt, gloves and flowers to match. Two
young sisters wore pale blue veiling, with square
frduts, and edged with white lace. A drab nun’s
veiling and silk lace to match was noteworthy. A
very handsome dress was cardinal satin top with
cream silk net. fichu, and cream skirt. Two little
girls wore brown silk checks and brown straw hats
matching. A beautiful robe was all of black
velvet, with white lace neck lingerie, train, and
close white b@nnet worn with edging of poppies.
To the usual wedding march, the bridal party
passed out; breakfast took place at the residence
of the bride's mother, and the bridal couple de-
parted later on for Coogee. Nothing remains to
be added—save that the bride is a native born
ydung lady!
• • •
A genial party gathered, 7 o’clock on Fri-
day evening, at the invitation of Mr. Quong Tart,
to open his new tea-rooms, upstairs in the Royal
Arcado. The tables were spread with a choice
banquet, and lined with representative city men.
The Hon. J. S. Farnell was chairman, supported
by the Hon. the Premier and Mr. Badgcry, M.P
Among others were the Hon. J. P. Abbott, Messrs.
Barbour, Withers, Abigail, M.’s P., T. Forsyth
(Mr. Tart’s partner), Callaghan, &e. fhe duty
toasts having been liquefied, Mr. Premier Stuart
proposed the health of the host, and though his
remarks were in a low tone, it was evident he had
the highest opinion of Mr. Quong Tart; in fact, he
said so plainly. Mr. Tart’s reply included some
personal reminiscences. It may interest ladies to
know that though his infantile eyes first opened
on the scene of human vicissitudes in the land of
his celestial forefathers, yet the halcyon days of
the youthful Quong, that is about twenty years,
were spent in Braidwood, where he was brought
up as “a happy English child” by a lady whose
kindness to him will, he says, be ever grate-
fully incribed on the tablets of his memory.
Mr. Quong Tart has been a great horseman; and.
as a cricketer, he was for seven years the demon of
the district. In Sydney, Mr. Tart ascribes his
success, in satisfying humanity’s aching void with
tea and scones, entirely to the sweet encourage-
ment given to him by the ladies; and they, he pro-
tests, shall still be the chief objects of his ceaseless
solicitude. That’s why he has provided such
pretty rooms, wherein, we understand, he intends
to enter on a more varied lino of business, and
provide other light trifles besides the celebrated
and salubrious scone. Mr. Callaghan proposed
“The Ladies,” which toast was fancifully answered
by Mr. R. A. Price, Mr. Forsyth, and, “by special
request,” by Mr. Tart again, in a style that kept
the table in a simmer of laughter. “ The Press ”
concluded the business. Both “ fizz ” and tea were
added to the usual refreshments; and all admired
the rooms, which arc effectively decorated in the
Anglo-Chinese style of art.
• • •
As the carriages rolled up to the Town
Hall on Tuesday afternoon, it was evident the
first reception of Mrs. Hardie as Mayoress was
going to be a large and fashionable affair. Such it
was, and there has seldom been such a number of
well-known society faces and such an array of
charming toilets on a similar occasion. Mrs. Hardie
received her guests cordially, and they passed
into the large vestibule, where the seats were
soon filled, and coffee, ices, and the usual
little concomitants were dexterously introduced
to notice by the nimble waiters. Of course, the
gentlemen could not compare with the ladies—in
number, we mean. But why qualify it? They
couldn’t compare in any way. The City Band
piped and played in their best style; and, while
the fair creatures of beauty and impulse carried
on their low converse in sibilant whispeis, His
Worship the Mayor carried off all the sterner
stragglers he could pick up in the corridois
and on the outskirts, and regaled them
with the bubbling wine juice in the room
where the past municipal magnates have
their memories kept green by means of imposing
groups of photographs. In other room the visi-
tors’ book claimed attention, and ladies made
strong efforts to write legibly without removing
their gloves, and wished Signor Geismardo were
there to put thorn on again. At half-past 3 the
reception commenced, and soon after 4 the earlier
arrivals began again taking leave of their hostess;
and by 5 the pleasant and successful re-union was
a thing of the past.
Among their numerous other efforts to
make the Parramatta Exhibition attractive, the
management determined to have en afternoon’s
bicycling, and it came off last Saturday. A track
of five laps to the mile was laid out on the Park,
and the engineering difficulties in its formation
were surmounted by cutting off the bumps and
spreading the loose earth in the hollows. This
ingenious arrangement had the effect of > aking
the track alternately hard and soft; and, while it
prevented the run becoming monotonous, it also
afforded the convenience of soft spots when any
cyclist wanted to come off suddenly. A good
many took advantage of these soft spots. But the
most brilliant idea was that of fixing the winning
post on top of a hill. It obviated any reckless
speed at the finish. The cyclists made a first-
rate show, the grey uniforms of the Subur-
bans, dark brown Redferns, navy blue Par-
ramattas, and cinnamon-hued Burwoods being
conspicuous. The central pavilion, kept solely
for the short-panted young men for toilet
purposes, was surrounded with a perfect armoury
of flashing steel. Spectators were numerous,
ladies especially fluttering their rainbow ribbons
and dainty sunshades in the sunny breeze. A band
played, and the balcony gave a fine view of the
events. One novel prize was an allotment of land,
given by Mills and Pile, and won by Timewell, for
the five-mile race. During the afternoon, there
was plenty of promenading, and few of the pass-
ing figures were neater than one in thin cream
veiling, white lace and blue bows; the closefitting
bonnet was a mass ef glistening white beads and
edged with blue; the young lady completing her
artistic equipment by carrying a sky of her own
in the light blue lining of her parasol. A com-
panion’s rosepink skirt, decked with rows of white
lace, was combined with a top of pompadour
sateen and back drapery, with bright effect. A
decidedly neat maid adorned the balcony, in fine
black grenadine and ottoman broche, and bonnet
bearing asters and mignonette. A cream lustrine
was nice ; two cashmeres of coffee brown were
trimmed with ribbons to match in good taste: two
fair sisters wore deep cream cashmeres, embroid
ered in white silk crewelling, that were very
pretty; a third was, for variety, garbed in a neat
veiling of French white, with puffed flounces; and
a slate-coloured Irish poplin was exceedingly nice.
Two sage greens claimed notice—one of cashmere,
the skirt being striped with harmonising check
silk ; the other of watered moire, bunched and
trimmed with myrtle green lace. A pearl grey
corded silk was equally neat. Down below, games
of bowls were carried on by ancient parties on the
green, but lawn tennis was allowed a rest. A pro-
cession and evolutions by the bicycle men closed a
pleasant afternoon’s doings.
* *■ * *
The Friendly Society’s picnic at Brough-
ton’s Creek assembled about 500 persons on Anni-
versary Day, the fair sex in great force, some
costumes being excellent. Two Foxground sisters
looked pretty in drab cashmeres ; and a blue
sateen trimmed with maize looked nice also. A
local belle’s neat figure displayed a rich cardinal
velveteen, and acted most magnetically on the
local youth. Foot-races, pastimes, and dancing to
the Kiama band Mr. and Mrs. F. Wyatt gave a
dance at Pomona a few days ago, to celebrate the
23rd anniversary of their wedding day. Some
elegant dresses were worn : the hostess’s white
silk with green satin stripe was trimmed with pale
pink and shaded green ribbons; peacock feathers
on bodice. A pale blue satin and bro-
caded moirs looked as well as any. Two Woollahra
sisters, charming; a Melbourne brunette wore deep
ruby satin and white jet, pearled hair; the little
house daughter, pale pink skirt with lace flounces
and ruby satin redingote. Some splendid singing
was given by a popular and clever young couple...
Another Subscription Bail was to take place at
Noumea on the 26th Jan., and was expected to be a
greater success than the last Hon. Ivo Bligh in
K vi.S. Rosetta Mr. Thomas Archer, of Queens-
land, a C.M.G—Queanbeyan ladies to the fore
again with a bazaar. It was in the Temperance
Hall, to reduce the debt on Presbyterian Manse,
and netted £lOO—A great fete takes place at
Boulapari, New Caledonia, at the opening of the
first 60 miles of road inland. The Governor has
issued a public invitation to all the inhabitants to
attend, providing the means of transit, as well as
board and lodging during the fete, which will last
four days, winding up with a ball and great display
of fireworks The Tam worth Liedertafel gave
its second concert on Anniversary night, when
“Esther” was re-produced. A lively little can-
tata, “ The Picnic,” followed, and in it the vocalists
sat round a cloth spread on the stage, some on
chairs, some on the floor. Expenses were more
than receipts On Thursday, Messrs. S. Heffnung
and Co., of Pitt-street, entertained their 200 em-
ployes at a picnic in Chowder Bay. Their eldest
clerk, Mr. J. Langley, took the chair, and several
speeches were made at the luncheon, Mr. D.
Marks, resident partner, coming in for adulation.
The sportive company returned home at 7 o’clock.
... .A few days ago, the Grand Hotel, the largest in
the colonies, was opened at Melbourne, and the
occasion celebrated by a banquet, at which Mr.
John See, M.P., was the chief man of the hour.
His firm, Nipper and See, are the proprietors
At an inquest in Ballarat on a young girl who had
committed suicide for want of a plain gold ring,
one Juryman wished to add a rider to the verdict,
‘That it is desirable the laws of the country
should be altered so as to punish seducers.” But
the majority of the jury objected to it. Majorities
of juries are often very curious people —Consul
Kahlo’s American touring party is postponed. It
was to be in March; but they don’t march yet —
Loma House, Wynyard-square, was opened just
three years ago by the Sydney Y.W.C.A. to assist
young women. It has now its full complement of
boarders who pay. but in some cases assistance is
given free. In the last three months, thirteen
persons applying at the Home have been found
situations The Londoner’s Club intend to meet
every Monday evening. Elections took place at
last meeting, held at Punch’s Albion Hotel
Archdeacon Puddicombe, of Goulburn, broke a
leg last week All the Melbourne women who
flatter themselves they keep coeval with the fash-
ions, now wear crinoline steels at the bottom of
their skirts. w hen they come here a man will
have to case his limbs in sections of stove-piDe to
get round Cole’s corner uninjured. ...Lady Deas-
Thomson gone. She was daughter of Governor
Bourke Melbourne boasts a Kalizoic Society.
Members revel in health and beauty. At least,
that’s the theory At the Wollongong show,
opened by the Premier last week, great excitement
was felt over the ladies’ riding ccntests, and a
dashing Kiama girl, hitherto almost undefeated,
Miss Geoghegan, was run very close by Miss
Jones, of vVollongong, and the judges gave them
equal. But the lady with the Milesian name took
the prize as best driver A Ladies’Club started
in Melbourne. All the fashion papers are taken...
Sir George Wigram Allen, K.C.M.G. .This is a grade
higher among the Knights but lacks the charm
of heredity attaching to a baronetcy On Friday
evening, Mr. W. A. Hutchinson, M.P., was ban-
queted at the Balmain School of Arts, on his relin-
quishing the office of local alderman. Reason—
can’t do duty in Council and Parliament both at
once. Mr. J. Cameron, Mayor of Balmain, pre-
sided. Usual toasts honoured From Baden
Raden, the Rev. Dr. Ellis and his bride continued
their honeymoon at Katoomba, and ho preached
at the G. W. Hotel on Sunday night. Miss Arn-
heim’s bridesmaids, by the way, paid the doctor
the compliment of dressing in his academical
colours—pink, cerise, and deep crimson. Great
interest was exc ted when the reverend bride-
groom raised the veil to give his bride the looked-
for kiss. One girl said it was a taste of Ellis-ium.
The Bachelors’ Assemblies, which were so en-
joyable, will be continued this year at Nithsdale.
Mr. Hardie, Mayor of Sydney, is President, and
the committee has been formed. Previous mem-
bers have a pre-emptive claim to be enrolled up to
11th Feb., but after that no one can join without
being accepted by ballot. Mr. Deeper is secretary.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ini ercolonial Cricket Match... ... February 8, 9,11.
Plain and Fancy Ball (Parramatta( February 11.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) February 30.
Carthona C.C. Excursion March 1.
Drapers’ Annual Picnic March (».
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) March 14.


ACROSS THE GREAT CONTINENT.
PASSENGERS to England have the choice of
studying the ocean horizon for two months,
or of viewing the United States. A trip across
the territory of the Great Republic costs nothing,
and avoids the monotony of an unbroken sea
voyage.
TRAVEL TO EUROPE VIA SAN FRANCISCO.
THE GREAT BURLINGTON ROUTE
run through Express Trains to New York every
day, and is universally conceded to be the Finest
Equipped Railroad in the world for all classes of
travel.
FOR SPEED, GORGEOUS SCENERY, AND
COMFORT, IT IS UNRIVALLED.
T. D. McKAY,
General Agent, San Francisco.
Connects direct either by Northern or Southern
Route in Union Depots with through trains via
Niagara Falls, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Washing-
ton, New York, Boston, and all Eastern Cities.
Pullmann Palace 16-Wheel Dining and Sleeping
Cars run only on this line.
32— MONTGOMERY STREET-32.
Township of
-v .«* ,
m foun ijuuai PArmmrs\
4/
i>H'
1
RN
• i
terms
O/Vf FIFTH CASH BALAHU^
CR
»/M INTIHCST 4f
V". ARRVAA
AYAiUf HAlf YCAHI\
'j If BALAHCI n PAfQ
■Him* mi hr!l #
rf4*> wrfßtsr ru
ei ao jus no 4 f ifi
ffA aamvaa
!
m
11-12-
12-
RML
*% 2
Vt #
A/.
i
//
W!(7
& l8 “S
/i
zt
T/X
> *'
ft #
la 4T
■§
L. 113
9
■is
”./2
¥\t
S f*'
al fO
V
7>y
S*
inf
W 9
IOC3Ur
to n
htick
s»«f
Is 3
s*
trt
ft
A
Jr-4
Av
1
y -
an
5^
Jt
%
«* ■
I4,luii lb mil: SCmiM K
mm iQfc>
LICEHXEB fUBYFYnt
OMOB OfJuifmT ST
—r
ZSFSS
HT"
p n
BLI C N
OTIC E
Tin, El, 8 CO.'S
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORIT WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will tlnd this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout tho colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “ as a firm ” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & 00.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Fliuders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY
XX
XX
XX
II
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xa
XX
XX
11
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
IT IS AN INDISPUTABLE FACT
that
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in
PITT STREET,
SELL
CHEAPER and BETTER GOODS
than other
STOREKEEPERS DO,
Their efforts to please their customers
have been eminently successful, and in
no instance more so than in their
NEW
TAILOLING DEPARTMENT.
This branch of their business is in
charge of a Manager and a Head Cutter
of undoubted ability, whose efforts to
please have been so much appreciated
by
THE GENTLEMEN OF SYDNEY,
that the Tailoring Workrooms have had
to be considerably enlarged, to comply
with the demands of an ever-increasing
trade.
THE UNPRECEDENTED VALUE
of their
FIFTY SHILLING SUITS,
made to Order,
has become as proverbial as household
words, and the satisfaction given by
their
THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS,
Made to Measure,
brings Fresh Customers daily from far
and near.
As we do not wish our customers to pay
for other people’s bad debts, we are
READY-MONEY TAILORS.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in
PITT-STREET.
NOTA BENE. NOTA BENE-
COUNTRY ORDERS SUPPLIED.
WHETHER you live in town or in
the country, there is no better
or safer shop to buy at than HORDERNS’
in PITT-STREET.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street,
Yes, Hordern, Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
Yes, Hordern Brothers, 211 Pitt-street.
XX XXXXXXXX3
XX XXXXXXXXX2
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
A
CHILLES ” GRAND CONSULTATION
CHAMPION STAKES,
RUN MARCH 8.
5000 Members, at 10s. each.
First Horae £lOOO
Second do. 000
Third do.
000
Starters 300
Non-starters 300
By letter only, with two stamps, to “Achilles,’'
c.o. Walter Montgomery, Box 73, G.P.0,, Sydney.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
T'.riD rpt le —You say that, the hat elastio,
when taken the hack of the head, looks very
the hair is dressed high. Of course it
(iocs but, you stupid little goose, I should have
thought you would have easily done away with
that difficulty. This is what we do here: fasten
to one side of the hat a long piece of elastic, make
n lood at the end, and attach it to a button on your
dress rou may think it mannish, but as fashion
tends that way at present, you need not mind. For
instance, Henri Deux hats, rector collars, stiff
white linen cuffs, short hair, &c. But, instead of
the elastic you may substitute ribbon to match
our Sume l have seen three pieces of ribbon
worn (very narrow), each of a different colour to
blend with the hat trimmings; but that looked
very gay &nd not ovcr-tastcful.
T think I can find room to describe a few block
dresses to you this week. One which struck me
m being among the most charming was a white
Knotted*muslin skirt flounced to the waist, each
flounce beina- tucked and edged with lace, a short
nerfectly fitting black cashmere jacket with black
braiding, and a rich crimson rose at the throat,
the sleeves, which were just to the elbow, were
close fitting and edged with pure white lace. The
w was a large shady white straw, trimmed with
rosettes of white lace, and a long white feather
which rested on the left shoulder. A white lawn
flounced skirt, with black broche redingote and
white straw Henri Deux with black velvet prim-
ming was neat. Short tight-fltting jackets are
into favour. One of line grey cloth,
worn over a prune silk skirt, was very effective.
'Phe jacket was braided richly at each corner and
on the collar with military braid of corresponding
colour Zephyr cloths are beginning to be few and
hptweoa’ but a particularly nice one was of
the tiniest Rob Roy check, red and black, trimmed
with embroidery of the brighter colour wich white
Pitching; white straw hat, with white lace and
feathers. A peculiar pale green nun’s veiling,
with three rows of narrow black velvet on eaoh
flounce, was natty. French m elins are worn by
a few, but are not likely to become very popular,
being' expensive and not at, all durable. Tippets
made to fasten at theshouldor are still much worn
and are very stylish-looking- on (wood figure; bjit
a tippet on a pair of round looks almost
hideoiis.
I saw some nico dresses at tile Gaiety Theatre,
the other night, but a peculiarity was that they
were nearly all black, either silk, satin, or lace. A
fine-looking lady showed to advantage in redingote
of black satin spotted with old gold. Very pretty
looked a fair young lady in cream llama skirt,
with black velvet bodice cut square and trimmed
with black lace, black kid gloves, and golden hair
worn low on the neck. A black satin trimmed
round the throat and down the front of the skirt
with amber passementerie, looked extremely well.
Mrs. Turnor wore, as Virginia, a pale blue
robe caught up at one side with silk cord,
displaying a handsome white satin skirt,
hand-painted in beautiful floral designs. I wish
you had been there, dear Belle, to hear her sing
the bird song, with flute obligato! It was really
worth hearing. But I didn’t think she looked at
ad like a drowned maiden in the last act; they
might, at all events, have put on her head a wet
wig, and made it a little more realistic. It re-
minded me of the man who was ship-wrecked, and
got his photo, taken to send to his friends, showing
him as he looked when rescued from the wreck, in
a clean starched shirt and hair faultlessly brushed.
I hear that we are to have another Liedertafel
concert in about a month’s time, and also that Mr.
Paling last week presented the Society with a
Grand piano. This, I think, was very nice of him,
and shows that the interest he professes to take in
the Society is not all talk.
I have thought of late years that the good old
fashion of sending Valentines was dying out, but
judging by some beautiful ones I saw the other
day, some one means that it shall be revived.
Those of which I speak were from Mr. E. R. Cole’s,
George-street, and were in every shape and size.
One, fan-shaped, with white silk fringe, card and
tassel, and beautifully painted, was just what I
know you would like to receive from your
“ heart’s best love.” A book-shaped one struck
me as being exceedingly pretty, the design being
a group of birds on the wing, carrying the mes-
sages of love to the happy receivers. Yes, I must
say I think Valentines great fun, and I hope you
and I will get plenty.
Did I ever tell you about the woman’s rights’
ball they had at Goulburn some time ago? The
rules of society were all reversed, the ladies
having to choose their partners, and at supper
time the gentlemen sat down first, whilst the girls
waited upon them. I can’t say I approve or it, as
I should fancy it would make the girls bold and
forward, and how awfully small the men must
have felt} Edjth has just come to call for me to
go with her to Sands’ picture gallery to see some
of Mr. Ashton’s pictures, which, I hea-, are very
fine ; so, whatever else I have to tell you, mus
keep till next time. Edith looks ever so lovely in
a cream sateen, trimmed with figured terracotta
lace and ribbons, aud the daintiest of bonnets,
composed of lace to match the dress trimming,
and one blush pink rose just behind the ear. So
now we must go.
Yours,
MAD.
Sir George; Grey ridicules the idea of New
Zealand joining the Australian federation. He is
right. If ever there was a country fitted by size,
position, and resources for a great and independent
Career, it is New Zealand. What it woilld ghiu by
sending members to d federal coiigress in Vic-
toria or New South Wales is beybnd the compre-
hension of anybody, except Vogtel Or Service, who
see no absurdity in an Imperial confederation
with the capital in London and Antipodean
members in the House of Commons.
The Canterbury Times blandly states that
Mr. B. C. Stephenson, the translator of "Impulse,”
wrote the libretto of “The Pirates’ Isle,” which
was “the first English operetta ever written.”
How about “Incle and Yarico,” written by
Southern, who lived about a century and a half
ago ? The schoolmaster is abroad in this instance;
very much abroad! Southern was the author
who, when growing very old, wrote a play which
was accepted by Garrick for Drury Lane. During
the progress of the second act, Garrick said to
him—“ There 1 do you hear how they are hissing ?”
“ No,” replied the poor old dramatist, “ I am deaf,
sir, very deaf.” By the way, a person named Gay
(who is dead some time) also wrote an English
operetta called “The Beggar s Opera;” and B. B.
Sheridan (whom we have not seen about King-
street lately) is credited with having written the,
libretto of “The Duenna,” pronounced by Byron
to be—tho’ we don’t agree with him (we can afford
to disagree with the dead)—a masterpiece. The
Canterbury Times is behind the age—excepting
when it quotes our little theatri jal pars.—and for-
gets the name of the paper from whence they are
culled.


OUR LITTLE BOY.
Mr. Editor,—We feel it our duty to write
you whit the Cuticura remedies have done for
our little boy, who has been terribly afflicted with
Salt Rheum, Scrofula, and Erysipelas ever since
he was born, and nothing we could give him
helped him until we tried Cuticura, which, after
using quite a quantity, began to help him and
gradually cured him, until he is now as fair as any
child. His body was completely covered, and his
face and hands swelled very badly. We had no
comfort with him: it was so much work to take
care of him, and he suffered so. We began to
treat him when he was 18 months old, giving him
at first 10 drops of the Cuticura Resolvent at a
time, bathing in warm water and Cuticura Soap,
and applying Cuticura carefully to the entire
body. He is now years old and is perfectly
well. We hare not written because we thought
it might appear again; but it has not, and we ape
very thankful.
MR. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBINS,
Belchertown, Mass.
Political
Points
The retort courteous. Mr. W". R. Camp-
bell, in Parliament, on the anti-immigration depu-
tation: “They are not dirty, but they are a lazy,
loafing lot.” Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan (one of the
deputation), at the monster immigration meeting,
on Mr. W. R. Campbell: “He is a silly-billy, with
more boots than brains, who would be more at
home in a cow-yard than in the Legislature.”
Wolseley, addressing the British Volun-
teers, the other day, said that, as there were indi-
cations of some terrible war coming over the
world, he thought England should be prepared—a
remark which, divided by the idiosyncracies of
the speaker, will give as the quotient, “ A baton
and the command-in-chief for Sir Garnet.” Well,
anything, even the mutual admiration brigade,
would be better than Cambridge and his lot.
There are 1200 vendors of stamps in Victoria,
and these made by commission last year £BOOO. Mr.
Berry said that one firm in the capital made no less
than £l5OO of this sum. It is known that two or
three firms make between £4OO and £5OO per annum
as a regular thing. Berry has reduced the commis-
sion Irom 9d. to 6d. in the£, and threatens to intro-
duce a scheme which will add most of this commis-
sion to the G.P.O. revenue. It is estimated that
there will be £62,800 worth of stamps used in 1884.
Of the 43,350 State tenants in Victoria-
some lessees, some licensees-25,000 are in arrear
with their rents. The total sum amounts to over
a quarter of a million. 300 are six rents behind,
and the balance from five down. It was hoped
that the late harvest would help them to pay off
gome of the arrears, but, between bush-fires and
the recent rains, the hope seems to have died out.
It is well these selections are not in Ireland! And
it is well that the laws which some Victorians call
sacred when applied to Ireland dare not be put into
operation in the “intensely loyal colony.”
Republican authorities of Paris are
bundling away to the municipal limbo, the city
Storehouse, the statues and pictures which Legiti-
mist, Orleanist, or Napoleonic chauvinism erected
to the fat and fatuous Louis Dixhuit (“ de English-
man’s king”) to Charles Dix, to Louis Philippe
(whose head, as Bon Gualtier noted, was shaped
liked a pear), or to Monsieur Verhuel Kantipole
(Nap the Third). Flandriau’s portrait of Verhuel
was pierced with bayonets after Sedan by the
National Guard. A fine marble statue of Eugenie
Verhuel has also been treated in the same way.
Sic transit gloria Rosce mundi—non Rosce mundee!
The “Mirabeau of the Mobs” has now
issued the programme for the Australian demo-
cratic party, and it is comprehensive enough to
please the most ardent advocate of “government
by the people for the people.” It includes almost
everything, from the election of colonial governors
to free scholarship in the universities and the
representation of labour in the Upper House.
For liberality, it has only been outdone on one
oocasion, and then by the famous Jack Cade. If
E.W. O'S. would only take a leaf out of the latter’s
book, and promise t© make pint pewters and long
sleevebs hold a quart of beer, he would secure the
vote and assistance of every democrat in what he
so grandiloquently calls “these sunny lands be-
neath the Southern cross.”
Mr. R. Baker, M.L.A. for the Wimmera
(Vic.), in conjunction with a Mrs. Sinclair, is blamed
for playing the venerable old dodgo of button-
holing a Minister, and getting something for next
to nothing. The Ballarat Council have been occu-
E’ g a piece of land at the rear of the Corporation
s this last 27 years. One time this land was
not of much value. Now it makes a fine property.
Without letting the Council know anything about
it, Mr. Baker got the Minister to sign it over! to
him. Ballarat is pretty mad. Major Smith says he
doesn’t like blowing out the light of a brother-
member, but swears that by the Lord Harry he’ll
expose both Baker and the Minister. Hoi Expo e
away, Major I Baker has the land; and, if he has
ntjt paid current coin for it, by the Lord Harry he
paid enough in some other way. What do you
if.hink a member’s conscience is worth ?
Read this, and you’ll marvel how the
nobility of England put up with those odious
'‘lower classes,” and wonder they didn’t abolish
them long ago. We get it from Truth “ A most
disgraceful exhibition of cruelty took place at
Arundel. One of the Duke of Norfolk’s finest
red deer escaped and took refuge in the river,
where hundreds of men and boys pelted it with
stones till pieces were literally cut out of its body.
It is hoped the Duke of Norfolk and the local
authorities will have the miscreants severely
punished for killling the stag.” Of course; the
scoundrels ought to be hanged. That’s not the
way to kill a deer. It ought to be chased by
gentlemen in red coats, and then torn by dogs.
There’s something aristocratic about this style;
but we have no patience with a low vulgar man
who’d throw stones at a stag.
Mr. William Hay’s suggestion that a life
Peer to represent each colony in the House of
Lords be created, the individual to be nominated
by the Premier of each colony concerned, is a
perfect inspiration. We have no difficulty in pick-
ing out the men likely to be distinguished.
Premier Griffith, of Queensland, would, of course,
dominate his Speaker, Groom. The notable quali-
evis which impressed Griffith with Groom’s over-
whelming fitness for the highest honours in the
Legosisture still attach to Griffith’s Speaker.
iQueensiand represented by Lord Groom ; New
Southw ales—well, why not by Lord John Davies?
■That would only be another step to a colonist
already di&tioguished for his eminent qualities.
Then Victoria might have Lord Tar-brush Woods,
or Lord Bent: and so on with the other colonies.
Mr. William Hay would, of course, receive a life
Dukedom for his suggestion.
When it became known that the Prince
,of Wales contem placed a visit to Stockton-on-
•‘T&is subscription lists were opened at the in-
stance of the local R. B, Smiths, for the purpose
decorating- the town in honour of the occasion.
Amongst others, the ironworkers were asked to
Contribute to the fund. To their credit be it said,
the delegates who represent the ironworkers of
Stockton and district resolved:-" That we, the
delegates representing the ironworkers of Stock-
ton have no sympathy with the object of the
circular which has been under our consideration,
and knowing the great distress which prevails
among the labouring classes of this district, we
think it should be the duty of all to irj aud
alleviate the same, instead of contributing to the
cost of such pageantry. 2. That deputations
be appointed at each of the works to wait upon
their manager, requesting him not to close the
works on the day of the royal visit.”
There was a touch of the French Revolu-
tion about that exciting anti immigration demon-
stration last week. The immense crowd marching
down Macquarie-street, headed by the orators of
the meeting, and uttering cries and cheers en route,
was stronglv suggestive of that march of the po-
nulaco Tuilleries, which culminated in the
King and Queen being only preserved from their
furv by the intervention of Lafayette, iortu-
nately, the Sydney populace were better under
control, or perhaps some violence might also have
resulted there. To make the resemblance more
complete, one of the orators later ou plucked a
leaf of the Eucalyptus and called upon his hearers
to emulate his example as an indication of the
evergreen character of their principles. Camille
Desmoulins did something similar on one occasion.
Was this a mere accidental resemblance, or was it
another of those clever devices (original or imita-
tive) by which E. W. O’Sullivan continues to work
up the applause and enthusiasm of the crowd ?
An ancient Russian custom is that of dis-
tributing donations of money to the poor from
the houses of wealthy citizens who may have been
so unfortunate as to die. Singular to state, indi-
gent Russians assemble in considerable numbers
on these melancholy occasions. There are draw-
backs, though, connected with this ancient cere-
mony. in the case of a millionaire looking more
delicate than he really is, it leads to a deal of dis-
appointment. Hope deferred maketh the heart
sick, somebody once remarked, and the poor devil
of a Muscovite who day by day, week by week,
and month by month watches the decline of his
wealthy and consumptive neighbours, must get
sick at heart indeed. And at last, when the rich
man does “hop the twig,” the patient watcher
stands a good all round chance of being crushed
to death in the scramble for the largesse, as hap-
pened at Moscow a few weeks back.
For when the wealthy noble draws his final breath.
The peasant—how unpleasant!—oft gets squeezed
to death.
William Westgartli, in a letter to the Fall
Mali. Budget, discusses the future of the British
Empire, we need not say from an exceedingly
Jingoistic standpoint. He says—“ When all parties
are for a united Empire it is surely not impossible
to make one. Representation is of the very essence
of our political system, and yet the entire colonial
section of our Empire is totally unrepresented in
our so-called Imperial Parliament.” What West-
garth wants —what he in reality advocates —is the
surrender of the substance of the local autonomy
that is the blessing of these colonies for a shadow
of representation in the Imperial Parliament.
New South Wales or Victorian autonomy, crude
though it may be as yet in its working, is at least
based on manhood suffrage. Why, then, for the
prospect of securing mere ideal advantages, should
we colonists be idiotic enough to yield up actual
advantages by consenting to weaken the full fran-
chise we have, by mixing it with the hybrid thing
which in the old country passes muster for a fran-
chise —a franchise which, out of an adult popula-
tion of 8,000,000 men, all bearing a share in the
taxation of the land, only admits two and a half
millions to the polling booth ?
Frederic Jones, of Pitt-street, Sydney,
wrote, in October last, to John Bright, asking for
tne advice of that old man eloquent, on the econo-
MORALITY.
“Oh, Mies Smith, Lucy’s told another lie. Isn’t she wicked? She should wait till she’s
grown up, shouldn’t she?”
mical question, would it be wise to impose protec-
tive duties in the hope of thereby establishing
local industries ? John's answer was to the effect
that Protection is the very devil—that any system
of tariff protection is evil in principle, and an evil
which tends to grow, and which in time by combi-
nation defies the efforts of honest men to abolish
it. Yet John thinks that “ without harm and
without the departure from any sound principle ”
the N.S.W. Government might offer some definite
sum of money to establish a certain manufacture
as an example or encouragement to others.
Surely there is considerable inconsistency in this
advice. If the State may legitimately appropriate
public moneys to introduce a new industry, it is
no longer a question of principle, but merely a
question of discretion whether it is more expe-
dient to proceed by bonus or by duty. Bright's
answer to Jones somewhat reminds us of that of
Pantagruel to Panurge’s query: “Do you advise
me to marry ? ” a reply which (as our readers will
doubtless remember) left the latter’s doubts un-
solved.
A London paper humorously remarks :
“ When we contemplate the round figure of this
royal field-marshal (the ‘Hope of the Empire’),
when we look for scars and find none, when we
inquire for missing limbs and find they are all
complete, when we discover that he has never
smelt powder burnt in deadly earnest, has never
seen a bullet Hying to its human billet, the wonder
is how H.R.H. rose to such military rank. The
warlike career of the Prince of Wales may be
summed up in the ‘sad words’ of Whittier: ‘lt
might have been.' We are not prepared to deny
that the latent military genius of the Prince is
sufficient to justify his position as a field-marshal;
all that we allege is, that uo to the present time he
has had no opportunity of developing it.” Quite
so. For our own part, we should not have the
slightest objection to Albert Edward being Field-
Marshal-Generalissimo, so long as the appointment
was purely honorary. It’s the making of the
people pay him a monstrous big screw as the salary
of an office, the duties of which he is notoriously
incompetent to fulfil, that raises our dander. We
haven’t the least objection to our friend Dobbs
being called the Right Worthy Arch Purple Pur-
suivant. It pleases him, and in no way affects us;
but, only think how we should buck were our
pockets touched to obtain a quota towards a salary
to remunerate him for strutting about in fine
feathers! The pay of latent talent should be nix.
Too much Queensland rum must be what’s
the matter with the Northern Argus, other-
wise how account for such idiotic vapouring as
this:—‘‘Henceforth our Queen will be recognised
as Empress of India, Queen of Egypt, and the
mightiest potentate in Oriental realms. Her
faithful subjects will be found in the cool shades
of the Pyramids—(by the bye, one of her greatest
generals said that her soldiers fight in the cold
shade of the aristocracy)—aud by the waters of
the mighty Nile. ... A country that presents
the imperishable decrees of Magna Charta can as
worthily rule the region of the Nile as it can the
great Canadian or Australian dominions.—(Yes,
‘as worthily,’ seeing that the country that
possesses those ‘imperishable decrees ’ doesn trule
the ‘great Canadian or Australian dominions.)
. . . It has been reserved for the Grand
Old Man ’ to seat the Saxon successor of the Con-
fessor’s crown on the historic throueof the world s
most ancient people. To some the hand of an in-
cognoscible Providence will glimmer in the dis-
posal of these mystic decrees To others the
unapproachable diadem of England will light up a
lustrous future in the semi-barbaric monarchies of
Afric's sable sons.—(To others, possibly, it will
appear evident that Queensland rum must be
confoundedly strong.) Who can rightly esteem the
future of England’s power and dominion? Well,
all we’ve got to say is this, that no fellow can
fetch a right estimation of that future unless he is
willing to allow a precious big discount for the
pauper millions of the Home Islands, for the ‘ m-
cognoscible ” mis-government of Ireland, and for
the fell horrors of outcast London.
Daudet’s “Kings in Exile,” in which that
incisive satirist goes for Bomba, ex-sovereign of
the Two Sicilies, does not please that conservative
tuft-hunter. Mistress Stella (the Paris, vi& Woolloo-
mooloo, correspondent of the Sydney Morning
Herald). Says she (that’s Stella)lt is felt to
have been ungenerous on the part of Daudot to
hold up, or even seem to do so, the exiled King
to contempt in the refuge he has chosen. He is a
man of weak intellect; his private life may not be
all that a Puritan censor might desire it to be; but
the character of the throneless King, as depicted
by the novelist, is altogether inapplicable to the
broken-spirited refugee, living, for many years
past, a perfectly simple, honourable life, accom-
panying his charming wife in their daily visit to
the nearest church The disapprobation
excited by what is regarded by people of all shades
of political colour as an unprovoked wanton in-
sult of misfortune, is proved by the crowds of per-
sons who have been leaving their cards for the ex-
royal couple on their return from their summer
journeying.” Stella has conveniently forgotten
(that is if she ever knew) that Bomba, notwith-
ing the fact that the Univhrs once called him “le
plus diane et le meillcur des Bois ” was, as Gladstone
took the pains to prove to the Commons of Eng-
land in ’6l, the most unprincipled, immoral, cruel,
wicked, perjured, dastard wretch that ever wore a
crown and oppressed a people. No one with the
instincts of a man would leave his card on this
hellish miscreant—and that “crowds of persons”
should have done so only shows to what depths of
degradation an R. B. S. Stellar reverence for
mere rank will reduce a sycophant.
Brother Jonathan is not always as
democratic in his ideas as he would have us to
believe, an*l the American autograph-hunter
appears quite as sensible of the majesty which
doth hedge a king as the most thorough-going
royalist. Thus we read that, at the sale of the
library of the late Joe Cook, of Providence, George
Washington’s autograph commanded the modest
bid of twelve dollars, while that of his contem-
porary, George IV., was knocked down, after a
keen competition, for seventy-two dollars. What
a thing it is to be brrain the purple. On paper,
you see, the name of the polished deceiver, whose
greatest achievement—according to Thackeray—
consisted in inventing a new shoe-buckle, is held
in six times the estimation of that of the Father
of his Country, who “never told a lie.” But this
is a Kepublican’s view of the matter:
THE TWO GEORGE’S.
One George, he never told a lie —
The other, though, told many;
One George did deeds that cannot die—
The other did not any;
One George to not a living soul
Was ever known to truckle—
The other’s best act, on the whole,
Was bringing out a buckle.
One George, however, was a King—
The other’s birth was lowly;
The King was but a worthless “ thing ”
Mean, padded, and unholy.
The autographs of both are sold
(Oh! surely we are snobs)—
The King’s for fifteen pounds in gold,
The Man’s for fifty “ bobs.”
The late Princess Alice was always wonder-
ing (so we learn from her book) how discontented
people could exist in this beautiful world. The
affected ignorance revealed by such a remark is
about on a par with that of Marie Antoinette’s
wonder that the Parisian mob of her day should be
clamouring for bread when such nice cakes were
to be had at the patissier’s. Mrs. John Smith, living
in a London alley, match-box making at 2)4d. per
gross, and working 18 hours out of the 24 to earn
7b. 6d. per week, with a sick husband and four
children (one a cripple) to maintain, can quite
understand how discontented people can exist in
“ this beautiful world.” And there are millions of
Mrs. John -miths to every one Princess Alice in
this beautiful world. In fact, it take< about a
million Mrs. Smiths to produce enough to yield in
taxation sufficient to make the world “ beautiful ”
to one Prinoess Alice producing nothing but mere
mendioant princelets and “lofty examples.” And
of the million Mrs. John Smiths, probably seven
hundred and fifty thousand are endowed by Pro-
vidence with just as good natural qualities and
abilities as Princess Alice—who was a good woman
iu her way—and with the same chances would have
been just as “ lovely in their lives.” The Almighty
no more denies natural graces of mind to the
common people than he denies beauty of face or
form to them. Apropos of Alice, the D.T. has
foraged out the news that “for a time she came
under the influence of Strauss and the German
philosophy, but finding the hollowness of this she
recovered her spiritual equilibrium, and returned
to the only faith in which the heart of man or
woman can rest with comfort.’ Only the D.T.
doesn’t tell us what that faith is which (not to
put too fine a point upon it) is doosldly remiss on
its part.
A SUGGESTION.
“London, January .30—A diabolical plot
has been discovered at St. Petersburg against the
Imperial family of itussia. It was found that the
Palace baker had mixed strychnine with the bread
lor use in the Czar's household.”
One more attempt—a grisly tale
Just wafted from a land of strife—
The cellar will no more avail,
The drain ensure no longer life !
It seems—we write this with a sigh—
That you must slither or must die.
Surrounded by your guards in vain,
Like Cromwell cased with steel about,
The moaning millions in their pain
Seek for your heart-to pluck it out!
Oppressed—not crushed—your people long
For—what, to say the least, is wrong.
Your baker's false, like all the rest—
Yet ’twere unwise to torture him
With crushing weights on limbs and chest,
To list to his confession grim 1
No 1 make him reign a month or so,
And meanwhile you can knead the dough.
“ Lara,” a poet of the people, thus hymns
“ the growing tide of Brunswick’s hybrid brood” :
Hail, princely infants I born of purest love
To ease below and special crowns above—
(For He who gives you coronets on earth
Will scare refuse in heaven your rights of birth)—
Tax-nurtured darlings of a nation’s care,
Dear offspring of each tax-supported pair;
Dear, too, to us who toil that you may taste
The unearned luxuries of royal waste,
How blest a lot is yours when distant viewed
From the mean centre of the multitude I
Born to no cares, nor doomed to toil nor spin,
But just to fatten on what others win;
Clad in the clothes the workers’ pence have bought,
And housed in palaces their hands have wrought.
What though the million’s children want for bread
And starve in gutters, so that you are fed!
Their fathers arc but toilers—let them rot
To fatten children that a prince begot!
This is a very pretty paraphrase of the eternal
verity that “ earth was not made for kings, woman
for lust, the people for the palace.”
The MacljEAy Herald, in a high-falutin
leader headed “ French Infatuation,” asserts,
much as Podsnap would have done, that France’s
“ignoble doings at Tonquin and Madagascar”
spring from “an insane ambition—a lust for more
territory.” “The war at Tonquin,” says old
Dease, “is a mere question of land hunger, unless
pillage is to be added as a factor to the proceed-
ing.” If it were England, now, who was on the
annex, ignoring the rights of Indian princes, or
seizing Chinese territory as part indemnity for the
expenses of a war waged to compel the Chinaman
to turn opium-eater, we should in all likelihood,
find the Macleay Christopher dilating “strenue
et prospere ” upon the advantages of the extension
of British commerce. France is simply doing, on a
small scale, what England for the last two centur-
ies has been doing on a big one, namely, exercising
brute force in a selfish and unprincipled manner.
It is usual with the Podsnaps to pretend that Eng-
land is as successful as France is unsuccessful as a
colonising uower, and the story of Algiers is re-
ferred to by them as an illustration of their
position. And yet the story of Algiers, pro-
perly told, contrasts most favourably with
that of the story of the Capa, the story of
Hongkong, or, for the matter of that, the story of
Ireland. Adam Smith long ago recognised the
aptitude of the French for colonisation, and the
present state ef affairs in Algiers (despite the
story of Algiers as told by Podsnappery) goes far
to show that France is happier than England in her
dealings with a conquered race. Says Leroy-
Beaulieu : “It is incontestable that for twelve
years past Algeria has made considerable progress.
Considering that it is inhabited by a warlike
people, who possess the land and cannot be ousted
by force, this French dependency will bear advan-
tageous comparison with the colonies of any
other power, which are subject to analogous con-
ditions. An impartial observer who had to decide
upon the merits of the colonisation of the Cape of
Good Hope or Natal, and that of Algeria, would,
perhaps, give a judgment not adverse to France.
The French have not more wars with the Arabs
than the English with the Kaffirs and Zulus.
The European population in Algeria, amount-
ing to-day to 400,000 souls, of whom more than
half are French-born, exceeds in number and is
not inferior in wealth to that of the South African
colonies. We have about 1060 miles of railways at
work in our possessions in North Africa, nearly as
much as the railways of Egypt, and about an
eleventh part in length of the iron roads of India,
although the population of the latter country is
sixty times as numerous. The external trade of
Algeria is now little short of £23,000,000, an amount
equal to a sixth or seventh part of the commerce
of India, and equal to two-fifths of that of China.
Agriculture as well as mining has taken a wreat
start during the last five or six years in our African
provinces, which are in a fair way to become one
of the great wine-growing districts of the world.”
It is well that national phariseeism should be
checked and undue national vanity curbed. It
was the latter to which France owed her disaster
in 1870.
• • »
The whole of the first impression of 20,000
copies of Mr. G. R. Sims’s “How the Poor Live,”
with sixty original drawings by Frederick Barnard,
was ordered by the trade in advance of publica-
tion Trials and executions in connection with
the recent insurrection in Servia continue to take
place. A rich merchant of Zaitschar, who partici-
pated in the revolt, has been shot ...M. Rouher,
the ex-Imperlal Premier, is reported to be dying in
his family mansion at the small village of Auvergne.
An effort is being made to bring M. Rouher to
Paris, for, although his mind is failing him, his
name is considered to have sufficient prestige to
rally the Bonapartists round Prince Victor before
the grave closes over the man who was the main-
spring of Bonapartism A St. Petersburg tele-
gram to the Cologne Gazette states that three
young ladies of the Imperial Court, one of whom
is a countess, have been arrested in connection
with the revolutionary party —At the Canton
Regatta, held last December, the struggle of the
day was that between a crew of the French man-
of-war, Lutin, and one from the Chinese gun
vessel, Chen-to. Jean Crapaud won by several
lengths, af ler a desperate struggle.


w
i
356 GEORGE
PALING,
STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIG, ETC.
iSSfel
Spite
Ife'l
MU
IMm
'it *
ittii
sis
MJj;
II
11
*
/:■•
J«1
1
>3^
w
EASY TERMS SYSTEM In? INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY DOW PRICES.
W. XX. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
U ICIER!, and IMRE BERETS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
58 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOE ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
■SSBaSsa'
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Benehes, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
y Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stoeks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters' Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.
397 Georgs Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these syniDtoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set i hia
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.o.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM'S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatnry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftenor
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, and BPIRITB,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. M£J.V jN -And SONS'
UdiDbU'.gii Pale 4 ie.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, *O.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORB’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oiis, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Cuhtis,
TT3n.<a.erta,lcer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
<
m
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
0T THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO E.CLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDB.
The 01 y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
BF' Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sajwell’i Ttliueo Co., Utn.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
own be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
teet the publio against onurktus and worthless
'mifeattoaa.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
vr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
c
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
HAMPION RACE,
1884.
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
Capital £2500, in 5000 shares of 10s. each.
About 150 Prizes—
£l226 for Horses, and £1275 for Stars, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
First Horse (winner of
Champion Race).. £5OO
Second Horse .. 250
Third Horse .. .. 125
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £3OO
First star .. .. 400
Second do 300
Third do ISO
Fourth do 100
Five stars of £2O each, £100; 12 stars of £lO each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £2OO.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programme similar to that of last year’s
Champion Meeting. A ll parties are requested to
forward draft, P.O. orders, or cheques; if cheques,
exchange must be added, and in all cases postage
fees; registered letters only received. Applica-
tion. by letter only, addressed “Adamastor, earn
of L. A. Pereira, Edgcumbe’s Hotel, Dean-street,
Albury, N.S.W. P.B.—Results sent to every share-
holder. Sydney agency discontinued.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS;
CHARLES HOESOI ui CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
tsr TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
NoukToirs
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
HALL
<t
%
Co
\
AA a a a V
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—Thi» favourite brace
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To bo procured everywhor*.
CATTELL & CO.. Bole Agents.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that Bpring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Live and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,
M.P.S., Pnaxmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street,
near Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations
iUieg&L


John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 20 O’Connell-
stbeet, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &e. No
commission charged for buying, '{W Ag- nte for
the sale or purchase) on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,188 S. il
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results:
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. she retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good——aith,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again-
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife ho had no hope of her over being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil —about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we M
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as wellaseveyt
and has been able to do so ever si ace.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. JIATCHER.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Lunatic Lay.
(After “Barren” TENNYSON.)
Where the winkle crawls,
And the wy-wy bawls,
I glode;
Yet the geebung rare,
Was never there,
i’mblowed.
For the sunbeams sigh
In tho emerald sky,
How sad!!
And a buried head
Rose up and said
“Bedad.”!!!
Ah, could I see
The bum ole be®,
I’d die;
For the wy-wy’s fled
Through the dahlias red,
Oh my !
And my love’s blight
feet
Will never meet
Me more;
And her gentle eyes
Are like the skies—
Not sore.
Will the wung-wy creep
In the scarlet deep ?
Ah, no!
For my Lydia’s nose
Is like the rose,
Just so.
I turn the sand
In my slight white hand
And sigh;
And the winkle howls,
And the jum-jum
growls,
Good-bye.
A.K.Z.
The Bells of Sydney.
With rev’rent feeling
I’ve heard the pealing,
By distance mellowed,
Of some village bell;
Of different kidney
The bells of Sydney,
As my ears know well.
When they loudly jangle
From each airy angle.
Where on high they dangle
And the air disturb,
’Stead of feeling holy,
Upon my soul I
Clear out, with curses,
For some still suburb.
Of bells in Sydney
I would be rid—nay
Would gladly hear them
Their own death-knell toll,
From sweet Saint Mary’s,
Whose only care is
To arouse the soul
Of Pat and Biddy,
Serious and giddy,
Maiden and widdy,
In the streets hard by.
To Saints James and Peter,
Who sound no sweeter.
And won’t on Sunday
Let a dreamer lie.;
Sunday morn in Sydney
Can you close eyelid, nay.
Would you dwell in dreamland ?
Early leave the town,
In some hamlet dead calm,
Far from city Bedlam
Lazy low lie down;
There’s no need to grumble
As you toss and tumble
And wish a dumb-bell
Was by churches used;
To wish the lingers
In th’ air were swingers
Hung high like Haman—
By their own ropes noosed!
Love’s Vagaries.
Where the golden wattle’s perfume scents the air
in early Spring,
And the magpies cheerful whistle makes the
woodland echoes ring;
Where the prattling streamlet murmurs, as it
trickles through the glade,
Tumbling bead-like o’er the rock-way—a miniature
.^cascade;
Where the wild bee sips the honey from ail
Nature’s floral wealth,
And tree and flower and wild bird live in blooming
happy health,
Stands a cottage grown with ivy, half hid by
climbing flowers,
Where with love and cream and strawberries I’ve
spent some happy hours.
In that cottage lived a maiden whom I loved with
all my heart,
And oft we’ve vowed that death alone our loving
hearts should part;
We’ve sworn o’er strawberries and cream, ’mid
pie and tears and sighs,
That each one to the other was the light of that
one’s eyes;
And we thought the course of true love would
run smoothly in its groove—
Alas for human frailty and faithless human love! —
I left her for a little space to carve my way to
fame,
En parenthese, I might remark, a mighty troublous
game.
But two short years had perished ere again I
sought the glade,
In hopes to meet and kiss once more my lovely
“ nutt browne mayde;”
I found the glade—’twas much the same, the
cottage, too, was there,
But the maiden never more I’ll meet in this world
of sin and care.
I missed her sunny smiling face—the miss is now
a “missis”—
For a six-foot son of Erin claims her love and
smiles and kisses;
And there on cream and strawberries I never
more shall lunch,
For the Irishman suggested if I did my head he’d
punch,
And I fervently imagine that his threat he’d exe-
cute,
For the husband of my darling wears a number
thirteen boot!
Fate.
She sat in the window and waited his coming,
The birds fluttered up to their nests in the trees;
The flowers stood silent, released from the hum-
ming,
On petal and stem, of the yellow-ringed bees.
He promised to come when the ev’ning would
darken,
And now it had darkened right down to the
ground.
She sat in the window to peer and to harken
For form and for footstep. The universe round
Had only himself as her pride and her lover.
She sat in the window and waited, and lo!
The wind tore away through the blackness above
her,
And frightened stars stared at a picture of woe
He had come, he had come, but with others
around him—
Policemen to ask what his name wasand line;
For dead in the mud op tho plain they had found
him.
As dead as a melt—from colonial wine.
PETER:
HIS BOOK.
All our doubts—if any really ever existed
—as to the sanity of Peter Campbell are now dis-
pelled. He has published a book in Melbourne, in
every page of which the outpourings of a square
and lucid Intellect reign supreme. The title of
this production is on the title page “ Telephonic
Bcoentricities ” ; on the second page, “ Telephonic
Echoes,” and on the outside page “Telephonic
Tattle.” Tho pamphlet purports—modestly pur-
ports—to contain “ Crisp, Comic, and Original Wit,
Fun, Mirth, and, Humor ! Jokes by the Yard !
Grins by the Ton ! Whimsicalities, Quizzi-
calities (sic), Creamicalities (sic), and Jovialities.”
The preface at once entitles the reverend author
to the respect, if not the admiration, of his readers.
It is so sublimely, so excruciatingly modest. “ The
following pages,” writes Peter, “ were ‘ run up ’
pretty rapidly by the author at a time when he
was suffering from great mental depression,
domestic suffering and trials. To humour, conse-
quently, he flew to dissipate the monotony of sad-
ness and gloom. . .” And he concludes by in-
forming us that his address is “Box 31, G.P.O
Melbourne.” We are glad, of course, that Pete
has given us a preface, because we are always
charmed to read anything he writes; but, still, to
a certain extent, his preamble is unnecessary, for
a casual glance at the contents of his brochure at
one® reveals the fact that he must have been
suffering severely from “ sadness and gloom ” |
when he wrote them. Indeed, as a sombre, grisly, I
Our illustration shows a few nice toilettes for concerts or theatres. The central figure wears a dress of pale green ottoman silk with
handsome lace trimmings. A large bouquet of pinks, held on the shoulder by long loops and ends, completes the ornamentation’ The
upper figures show two different styles of shoulder coverings. The one on the left is a pelerine composed of three rows of lace sewn
together. The neck opening is gathered and drawn in to suit the figure, and trimmed with narrow lace. Bows of coloured ribbon hide
the close in front and catch up the lace on the shoulders. To the right is a handsome scarf of coloured silk and lace to match The
figure under this, shows a fichu of black tulle, edged with pearl lace and pearl applique, on each lappet. Strings of pearls round the
neck and carried down the front of the bodice, put a nice finish to this elegant costume. The remaining figure displays a blouse bodice
with Swiss belt. The costume is composed of three different materials, cashmere, corded silk and velvet. The belt (of velvet) is
trimmed below with two pleated frills of silk each 356 inches in width. Ornament pendants with pompons.
and spectral humourist, we consider that Peter—
now that the Stoke Pogis sexton is dead, is prac-
tically without a rival. His wit is pregnant with
the merriment of the morgue, his jokes have that
corpse-light brilliancy which would ensure their
popularity in any respectable graveyard; while the
oharnelhouse-like gloom of his verse would com-
mend it to the attention of any suicide.
• •
Mr. Campbell has had, we understand,
some experience in widows. He will not, so the
Age told us, “be responsible for any debts in-
curred by them” (or one of them) “after this
date.” We are not surprised, therefore, to see
Peter tiltiDg his satiric lance against the ladies.
A widow, it seems, was “grumbling about the
selfishness of men,” saying that they are “always
looking out for No. 1.” “We reminded her,” says
the brilliant wit, “ that there was only one excep-
tion to the general rule, and with feminine and
characteristic curiosity, she instantly demanded
the name of the exception. We whispered,
“Widows.” “Why so?” she asked. “Because
they soon cease to think of No 1, and devote their
entire looking out for, also hopefulness and atten-
tion, to No. 2.”
* TZ *
“ The bush barmaid,” says this rev. jester,
when on another topic, “ takes no offence at almost
anything,” which is rather a brilliaut flight; but
even this sparkle pales before an item labelled
“ A Jocular Bushman.” Here it is “ A rich
young fop, resting for a few days at a station, mis-
laid some of his petty personal property, and on
discovering this at once rushed into the kitchen
and said to the man-cook, ‘ Oh! have you seen my
spu—h—s ?’ (spurs). ‘ No,’ said the cook, 4 but wait
a minute and I will ask the housemaid.’ The fop
smiled faintly and vanished.” But, further on, are
more prismatic flights. Peter considers that a
“coffin ” is an appropriate name for a doctor and
gross ” for a grocer. Managers of Coffee Palaces
tins scintillating humourist considers should be
'tolL'M “ Siops.” There is humour in this! Peter’s
poetry is affecting. This, for instance,
“Farewell! King William’s wife!
Is our sad wail.
Sweet Lalla Rookh!
Poor Trucanini!”
But there is a sparkle in what follows:—The rev.
gentleman once went into a shop in Collins-street
(Melbourne), and the shopman asked him, after he
had made a purchase, the extraordinary and auda-
cious question, “What next?” Now we quote
him:—“ln a theatrical tone (worthy of G. V.
Brooke), we fairly yelled out in reply, ‘ What next,
indeed? Why the next thing is my change, of
course!’ The shopman was baffled.” [!!!] After
ail, however, this is nothing to the crushing reply
of the “gentjeman” to the Coffee Palace wait-
ress. “Coffee Palace Converse.— Waitress to
gentleman (whom she has kept waiting an unrea-
sonable time): * What will you take, sir ?’ Gentle-
man : ‘ Whatever I can get, and whenever I can
get it!’ ” As we said higher up, all doubts in our
mind as to Peter’s sanity are now cleared up.
Still, if he came to stay with us, for his own pro-
tection against the madmen who write this paper,
we should knock him on the head and lock him in
the coal-cellar.
VANITY FAIR.
The rapidity with which American women
lose their freshness has been remarked. A recent
traveller says “ The lovely brides of a season or
two back look coarse and middle-aged ; and tho
unmarried girls whom I left in the perfection of
beauty are shrunken, livid, or bulky.” Artifici-
ality might explaiu the changes,.. .John Brown’s
rooms at Windsor are kept locked, and not used
by his successor—lt was a Sunday-school teach-
ing: youth up the line who wrote to his chief girl
thus :—“ My dear Julia, I intend to lead a good
life, and whenever I am tempted to do wrong I
think of you, and say: ‘Get thee behind me,
Satan.’ ” —Tommy having put red pepper in the
fire, papa requested the favour of Tommy’s com-
pany in the spare room to receive a present.
‘‘Thanks, dear father,” said the intelligent boy,
“but before I accompany you, shail 1 not tell
mamma to spread my meals on the mantelpiece
for a day or two?” The most distressing thing
about being near-sighted is, that a girt may go to
fhe Zoo, and bow to the large monkey, thinking
he is the dude she danced with last night
Formerly, the Queen generally signed State papers
with a quill pen; but during the last, five years she
has used a stamping machine, with a fac simile
signature. She signs very few documents manu-
ally. All her private correspondence is written on
large letter (post) paper, with narrow black bor-
der; and the envelopes are sealed in black wax,
with a ring Prince Albert wore as a youth
Square dinner plates have been introduced. Square
meals have been popular for sometime It was
mother and daughter, from far inland, visiting the
Art Gallery when the younger lady suddenly starte i
back from the door of the room containing Venus,
the Dying Gladiator, &c., and began blushing vio-
lently. “Don’t be a fool, Hannah,” said the eider;
why don’t you go in?” “Oh, we can’t, mother;
we’re too early. They haven’t dressed the statues
yet.” Miss Ellen Terry abjures crinolettes and
underskirts, both on and off the stage. In Portia,
she wears a clinging black gown, with nothing to
show where it fits and where it doesn’t. In Charles
1., she “appears in a robe of soft white satin, cut
d6shabill6, and revealing faithfully the entire
contour of her graceful and girlish figure.”
The clock had just struck midnight, and, looking
out as she opened the front door, she observed,
" I think it’s going to clear.” “ Why I” he ex-
claimed, “ there’s been no rain, has there ?” “ No,”
she replied, absently, “ but it’s time to clear, any-
how.” He cleared; and Agonisa stole softly down
and began on the cold pie A big boy in a State
school up North, having behaved badly, the rather
attractive teacher decided to keep him in. So she
sat with grim determination till dusk and then let
him out. At the gate the precocious youth met her,
and, bowing politely, said: “It’s too dark for a
young lady to be alone in the streets. Will you
allow me to see you home?” A complete suite
of glass furniture, made for a wealthy Spaniard,
has been on view in London. Couches, cabinets,
tables and > hairs, all are glass, coloured or white.
A bedstead is of massive white cut glass, the
valance being all crystal pendants. Verre-y nice.
—ln the United States there are, out of oyer
1200 journalists, about 300 of them women. Women
in America have invaded almost every branch of
labour. But there are no female blacksmiths or
masons—women can’t work muoh on. iron or
stone. As, however, there are just 150,000 of theifl
school teachers, it seems they’re pretty compete tit
to work on wood An American girl, suing for
breach of promise damageß, swore her sweetheart
had given her «25 kiSses altogether by actual
count. The Court came to the conclusion that
the young man had suffered quite enough....
Times have Changed with Mrs. A. A. Ayer, til
1881, her husband was a Chicago millionaire. la
1882, he failed. And now Mrs. Ayer is a clerk in a
New York house, at which, at different times, she
has purchased more than £BOOO worth of,fancy
knick-knacks The idea of a World’s Fair has
been started at San Francisco. Geographically, no
city is better situated for gathering the goods of
all the globe. The grounds of Golden Gate Park
are ample and accessible for the purpose. Mten of
enterprise and substantial wealth atb in favour of
it—According to the last census returns, there
are 16,216 old bachelors (above 50 years old) in the
Cblony, and 420?) old maids (above 40).


Foster s Bugle Brand.
&ENVENE EXTRA STOUT
BASS PALE ALE.
Thfe BESt 1 ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMVEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
jMARS’j
(10LLIE BLEND WHISKY.—Thia is a BLEND
.J of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining- fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
m
Etlilliiliiiiii!
170! r tail<?r. 1170
IST VISIT R. BURGHS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIPJB
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
'^^TLCOX
ANB
GIBBS
Automatie
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUBNS,
Corn shelleni
TOBACCO
CCTTEKS,
Waxntjt
Wood,
Sec. Sec. Sec.
hebblewhite & CO,
413 GEORGE STREET.
bvar Complaints I
vLv MARSHALL BRC
CHEMISTS, MARKET STRET
Y’S SILVBRSTOEAM schnapps.
Gilbey s Old White Jamaica Hum,
recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TU€|££B CO., Sole Agents,
3'i6 Georg e-street,, Sydney.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tlnee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and lied Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 23% CfttfoxsLgbreet, London."
ASTHMA,GOUGH, BRONCHITIS';
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 389 Oxford-street. London.”
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
Bwallow & Ariell’s prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 13 kinds—Canterbury, Normanby,
and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infant’s Food. Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottles....
Excelsior Mills.—Superior Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Burrows & Co’s prize assorted Confec-
tionery... A. M. Hunt & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, in 14, Vi, and lib tins.. R. Whittington and Co’s
prime York Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
General Provisions.... Victoria Lion Preserving
Company’s superior assorted .Tams. .Scandinavian
Condensed Milk—Gold Medal Brand,
343 & 345 KENT-STREET, near King-st., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
/rs
First Prizes and Exhibition.
ME. F. WAEE,
SURGEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILD- NGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Hours, 9 till 5.
KIR. WM. RUSSELL,
Surgical and Mechanical Dentist
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney. ’
M ? l ! or S. ations , ai ? d accidental deformities of the
J a ,Y s ’ teeth, or palate, treated. Kiiyr-st. entrance 3
All work auaranteed. “ entrance.;
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and 6hould be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cared,
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough,and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of mv strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. lam now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt,, July 15, 1882.
1 Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“ While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.’*
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
hut for its use I should longsince have died
from lung troubles. E. BRACDON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22,1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO., -
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
W THE PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’B
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO/S DUBLIN WHISKEY $
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Exv crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ ! hiskey Doctors.’*
When you ask for it, see that you get it,look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
XW 308 GEORGE STREET.
If ft 11
///, Ii'KII 1 I.
°^9cotfW!i iB^l
i-Mt
II fl
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT,
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPB.
. LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
I WT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTcn oefobs iIOUSTACHS andWHISSEES. befo? 3 afte "
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
vriU do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Jfons
tache in from 2to 4 weeks and tv ver
fails , 2U.000 young men already
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used lto Copyrighted .
3 pTcta. No injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect. Packets Ib. ftf. »
each, 3 for 3a. 6 <t.,post paid, sent under cover-, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney, N.B. W»
Singer’s Sewing Mashka ss.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING 00.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2a. 6d. per week—2b. od. per week— 2s. 6A. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
VT BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,*'
TURNER & COMPANY,
578 Geor«re-6treet
3 doors past Bathurei-street
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET
3 doors past Batburst-street.
JL COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Mont EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMER FI ELB & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 81 & 58
LEADENH ALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter In
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
BIIiEEFIEiM,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
Artificial teeth
Warranted first quality
v Cliai gesstrictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
HON
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttracted Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcohotio beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonto
to the system.
•> .. .» 6 „ 1 „ .. 34/.
Price per cas'.'containing 10 dozen % pints ...31/.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney,
PAINTS. A
WALL
PAPERS
0
Office : 330 George-streets
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
I GST TJ.B. Pattern* and Prices sent.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
C< t UDY economy,
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasolß re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641_ George Street,
Brickfield
between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
Parasols made tio match cos-
tume*. Repair* neatly exe-
cuted


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being- the greatest,
4 Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
4 earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
‘‘To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
4 Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
4 irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
4 Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
4 highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
4 without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
4 wait until you are sick, but if you only
4 feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
-4 dreds have been saved by so doing, at
4 a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge them to
4 use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
* without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO„
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
548, late 631, George-street, Bydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring:
under your notice the superior style and flt of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerrinjr
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, ridinsr
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor brace*
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to flt the oorpulent as well I •
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Fourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
wmsmrsiSL
NESS, &c.
PRICE..
28. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, CHEMJSI. **
. 48 ERSKINE STREET.
w u «OTTT, oil
Printed and Published by The Bulletin If®** 1
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-at., Sydney, N.S.^
Biz.
Starkey’s Erated Cordial Works, Phillip-
street, Sydney.
We give in this issue two sketches of Starkey’s
aerated cordial works, Phillip-street, in this city-
one of the most extensive factories of the kind in
Australia. And, if these works have been pro-
minent for their extent, they have certainly not
been surpassed for unvarying excellence of manu-
facture. The name of Starkey has been identified
for over a quarter of a century with the very best
discription of cordials—in fact, with that name is
associated the record in this colony of the intro-
duction of most of the novelties or inventions
in this important line of trade. The business was
established thirty years ago by Mr. John Starkey,
different premisosjbeing used during that period as
the requirements of trade demanded. In Castle-
reagh-street Mr. Starkey had very extensive
works specially built for the purposes of a factory,
but, during the last few years, even these became
inadequate, and premises in Phillip-street
had to be secured. Then, when these were
found inadequate, the commodious site now
illustrated was taken, and new works erected.
These are certainly the best designed and most
commodious in the colonies, and in every part
bear the stamp of great strength and permanency.
They have been specially built from Mr. Starkey’s
own designs, and nothing but a thoroughly practi-
cal experience of what was required could have so
well worked out the plan. On one portion of the
ground stands a first-class residence, which, while
being entirely separate from the works, is
so connected at the southern end as to allow
of entry to the main gallery of the factory,
from whence a view can bo obtained of
the operations in every branc 1 ). The entrance
to the factory is through a spacious archway,
which opens into a wide, expanding court-yard,
asphalted throughout, with stone guttering and
other similar conveniences, the natural fall giving
means for first-class drainage. To the left, on
entering, are the offices, and at the rear rises a
three-storey stoutly-built store, with patent hoisfs,
&e., for receipt and removal of goods. The base-
ment is clear, as the first floor rests on stout stone
pillars, and the upper floors are used for storage
Iturposes, and likewise for the private cordial
aboratories, whence supplies are obtained for the
various descriptions of cordials manufactured
below. There is here an extensive first-class cor-
dial bin, kept separate from the other branches,
and here, likewise, supplies are obtained, as re-
quired for the trade. Overhead are the boiling
and syrup floors, where there are all the latest ap-
pliances, and it is so arranged that the
workmen below obtain their supplies without
ever once entering the department. Off this
store there extends a spacious gallery sup-
ported on strong pillars, the gallery having a
depth of about 35 feet, and a length of not less
than about 180 feet. It is used in the upper floor
for a variety of manufacturing purposes, as well
as for the storage of bottles, casks, and other
goods. The space below forms an extensive
eovered factory, where there is an eternally
busy scene, upwards of fifty hands being engaged
in one capacity or another. At the Northern end
is to be found a splendid 10-h.p. gas-engine, the
latest patent, the prettiest bit of mechanism that
can probably be found in Sydney. This engine
gives power to all parts of the works, and oper-
ates as required in the filling, bottling, and wash-
ing departments. There are twelve washing or
cleaning appliances, and a large number of Codd’s
and other patent fillers. There are five large
cylinders for the terated waters, these being
supplied from overhead, without reference
in any way to the workmen below. The style in
which the arrangements for work are here found
in operation at onoe proves that, for cleanliness
and quality of material, no similar factory in these
colonies can be found to surpass it. At the
southern end of this extensive department, the
floor is raised three feet, and from here all the
vehicles are expeditiously loaded, operations
proceeding in all weathers without the slightest
cessation. And as in other respects Mr. Starkey
has adopted a liberal plan, so, in respect of the
stabling accommodation for his horses, does his
establishment do him great credit. The stabling
here is as good as is to be found anywhere in
Sydney. Fine wide boxes run from end to end of
the stabling, the front being entirely open, the
hay and chaff-cutting loft overhead being sup-
ported by stout stone pillars nearly two feet thick.
All this stabling is commanded by water jets, and
the fall is such as to secure effective drainage.
There is every convenience in this respect. In
fact, to the smallest detail, the greatest considera-
tion appears to have been given; so that, the more
minute the inspection of a visitor, the more
thorough the satisfaction. It is almost unneces-
sary, in.conclusion, to refer to the fact that Mr.
Starkey has won the highest prizes in all the
colonial exhibitions.
H. Goodwin’s Waggon and Dray Building
Works.
For some months past-the attention of the public
has been attracted to the splendid display of
waggons and other strong vehicles of that clas •,
which have been on exhibition in George-street,
opposite Christ Church. These manufactures are
there as trophies of the success won at the last
Sydney Show by the establishment of Mr. Henry
Goodwin (late Bull and Son), Valentine Lane.
These works, which were originally in Bathurst-
street, were founded over thirty years back, and
there is hardly a road or track In this colony,
Queensland, or New Zealand, that hasn.’t been tra-
versed by a Vehicle of sortie kind or other from
these oelebrated works. In the old days, before
tb* railways stretched beyond Liverpool and Afttit-
land, the famous strong waggons from Goodwin’s
yards war* everywhere la use, taking teas ef geeds
away over the Moonbies on the one side and the
Blue Mountains and Razorback on the other. And
it shows the thoroughness of the whole work
execute to find the firm still enjoying the same
wide public patronage. The splendid ten-ton
waggons for which Mr. Goodwin won the first
prize have gone to Messrs. Richardson, Little, and
Kerr’s station, Austral Downs, North Queensland
all over which colony other similar orders are like-
wise found executed. The dobbins and tip-carts
for which prizes were also won were quickly taken
by Western, Northern, and Coast railway con-
tractors, for whom additional orders on an exten-
sive scale are now being carried out. The works
in Valentine Lane are well worth a visit any day
during the year. At the present moment there
are several station waggons on the stocks, so to
sp*ak, 'and about forty dobbins and tip-carts in
course of construction for the Homebush-Waratah
raiiway.eontraot, for the Nyngan works and those
of the Wollongong extension. The new lines
■oolude a first-class description of sugar-dray for
the Queensland and Fiji plantations, and surveyors’
carts, which are really first-class vehicles. All kinds
of turn carts are likewise on the stocks in process
of huhding. The firm are determined to retain
their name and fame for lirst-class work, the yards
being s t° c ked with great quantities of irmi-baik
and other hard woods, dressed and undressed,
undergoing the process of seasoning, and only the
best ironwork is imported, the principal item being
Gilpin’s celebrated English axles. Added to this
is the fact that only the best workmen are em-
ployed—several of them having been in the em-
ployment of the firm for over fifteen years. The
management of the whole business has devolved
on Mr. Henry Goodwin, now sole proprietor, son
of the founder, who has infused great activity into
every branch of the works, with the result of
wider and increased trade.


<5
W,
0
7
>
2Ss@!
i
339&5 4 £g>€QM£^
r
OPPOSITE POSTOFHCe;
JvliATeor ©eoi»6e srrceT
r/ss
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 G eorge-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton (Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
* STANDARD" CLOTHING.
Wjs have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
355., 435., 455., 5&5., 555.
for garden or oflice.
6d.
.PEAPES & SHAW’S
standard CLOTHING
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
“ STAND ARD ” TWEED SUITS,” 335. 6d.,
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable
TWEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, Ids. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 80s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
LIGHT TWEED OVERCOATS, 425., 505., 555.
SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
CHRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
BOYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
HELIABLB Om M ACINTOSH CL O T HIN G.-All
descriptions made to our special order.
boating, cricketing, and lawn-tennis
JH &.TS.
WHITE FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing, 235. 6d.
TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED . LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 lor 275.
WHITE and COLOURED/ DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., /'los. 6d., 13s. 6d , 14s. 6d„
18s. 6d., 31s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 33a. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 31s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, lOe. 6d., 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 31s.
PEAPES and SHAW, G-eorge-streec.
GUr MERCERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
DENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALE-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
stripes, from 12s. per dozen. .
DENT’S UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
„ Anglo-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
DENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or JJ.B., 80s., 405., 60s. half-dozen.
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached/305., 405., 425. the half-dozen.
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
„ side tabs for holding scarf in position.
“CARES in all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Mashes, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Four-in-Hand.
UMBRELLAS, 8. -10,12, .14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 1 Os. 6d. to 355.
IHE NEW TITAN IA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any u mbrella, 1 guinea each.
THE new COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
WLK HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-streot.
EL "Wolff Sz, Son.’©
be bad from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Rent on Hire.
T_ AA.
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Royal Arcaae, Sydney.
&
"I fe
THE ONLY GENUINE TINT,AG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, b nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the* leaf imported
p, into N.S. Wales, therefore tJheir Twist and
Tobaccos stand FIRST in the estimation of ju< Iges of Tobacco.
a Qkee Dopdie, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thiek twist), Cut R.C. Ruby. * Oriental Mixture
CIGARETTES.— CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a b ligh position.
Importers of Pipes Cigars, and all Tobacconist*’ Sundrl w.
“CONQUEROR” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PAR R, SYDNEY.
C. B. MODII9I,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
fJSt TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, CriAS. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises). 3
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED ;
will be found to contain a superior assort f
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,j
Terra Cotta, China-war®, &c.,
Tricycles, Trench and ‘German
Model Dolls, Count HLrrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
• Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS ANDfI’OYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Sols.© Bazsa,ar
352 George Street.
Haymarket Atsasfson l Rooms
AND
FUKNITUHE BAZA A!R
COIIN EXCHANGE BUI LDINGS,
724 GEORGE ST It EE T.
The cheapest place in Sydney to pui phase every
description of Household Furn &ure.
i
tar- HOUSES FURNISHED on theTi a»3-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalme) iti i taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesd ayjs, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER,, Proprietor.
BT THE NEW SOUTH WALFIS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY ( LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.,
Allow Interest as follows :-SEV EN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; ] HVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter per tods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in . the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. C/flices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WARE! JAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS FUIIE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city wntamii lations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
, £26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Miuit) in Stock.
J. MASSEY & 80* r, 4
10 PARK STREET, SIDNEY, w*
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1813
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
£300,000
£132,500
Directors »
The Hon. Sir John Kay, K.C.M.G., Cnairmau
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
AuXJDITORB I
Jag. Seroggie, Esq. 1 Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Alleu.
Branches in New South Wades :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosl'ord, Nyng-an, and Bourlce.
London Branch : 153 LGadenliaU-slre©t.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers: .
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. , . .„ r ,
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
•and other produce shipped to England tor sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker'
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
I"|~AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-544 GEORGE STREET.
“Saslif,
(TEMPORARY PREMISES:
110 §Cing.stre@t ? Sydney.
“ GUNSLER, THE
CATEHER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the cax-e and attention which
has made “Guns) er the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring- colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks arid Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the, colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modotato
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate' he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year-
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for 1 lie
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which lie is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normandy;
and V.K. Club.
Is the leuding Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
£IHOOSE YOUR PIANO
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
REST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES !
N ERVOU S DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
HERV
TREAT MFNT
Dr. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness,’ con-
vulsions, lits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
-wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old ago, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt ol’ price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case, with each’order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee tQ refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a eure
Guarantee* issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia*


O-old.
T eiwellery!
ISTEH.ED.)
nr
&
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
Ill
J
, 8c,
LATEST FASHIONS.'
WATCHES, PEO!£ 30s. EACH.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to^
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
I S and , fc k e business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. U. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other GaUery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
.A. ©•XS.A.IfcTEi SSXSFX.-A.'S''
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choiee agd Tashionable MEN’S,' BOYS , and YO
SUITS, TROUS?iRS and VESTS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS HARD and SOFT IS
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERS. Eveiy arucie
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. . , n «
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in hot 1 s
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to oJom»
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRI
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY,
m
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellentaccommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, whieh combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YOKK STREET. SYDNEY.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATEIt, LEMONADE, OTNGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHTA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
68 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
SEARL & SONS,
NITBSER¥MEN, seedsmen, bouquetists
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
per* Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGE STREET WEI ST-
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
[ Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
w
H(ST-VVATeR BATHS K
HAKT.PSES ?,i Mq .SWS'I&I.NC; ‘-£ST/J'£ LtSHjtENT I ,
■•, '• - i 37. 139 * 1 4f GXKORO.:,.£ r
///U f holvo/jycvefetTfru#soay ■■<:*
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural A ppearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Sealing, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
HIGGm’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORSC STREET.
M
Ingham’s
£UPHOF\BIA^
iPILtILIFERA
CURE
l Coughs, --
PREPARED OMUY
Thomas Ingham *
&
ROCKHAMPTON
VSi’Eai
ss.
BULL-DOG ALE.-!! is not the e’.earnese
or condition alone in BULL-DO G AL-E
that preserves this brand first ir A publics
estimation. Common bitter crude 'peers are
made very fine, but no other brar id has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on.
the palate, and the great 1* eeping qy a nties of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are 7 therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for fp e sake of an
extra profit represent the common . beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-. 7 jOG CATTELL
Irnghrarffoß. NewGastto ' wooß
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctio iieersp
Stock, Station, c m d General Com -
missio n Agents,
114 and 143 SUSS ex STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds' of Foreign & Colonial Produce,
GLASGOW F'JRNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNEjK'C/F PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEA StSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generall y that he has a large assortment of
rawing, Dinir tg, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Fumitur «e, all of good quality and reason-
able in price.' 1 nspection solicited-
W. M. WALLACE
Importer of every description of .
Literature, Law, Mercantile
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines receO' e<(
every MalL
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORG R S'R.
WRIGHT, HEATON S GO
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS'
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom h ol>
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Syd»^
fllTMtTWrta TO THE GOVERNMENT 0*
SOUTH WALES.!
■RANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.s
Gtmlt>urn
Y ass
B owning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Wbstbrn District, N.S.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
N overtire
INyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.s
Morpoth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tanmorth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES'
SOUTHBRW AND SOHTH-W ESTKBN
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
feulba
J&mbooyft
Cwrnux Lin®:
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Line:
Eavenawood J u °
Townsville
Charters Towers
Agent* in Victoria and South Austr
WM. M'CITLLOCH & 00.,
IST Agencies in all parts of the
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,.
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitter rs, -and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at •
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
