

K.iversal ZPr oTrld.ers
FOR
1
:J~V’4 8
1112“
The Prettiest Hlanties and the Most Charming Costumes in this Australian Colonies.
§ Novel and Eashionable in Millinery, Laces, Eibbons, Erillings, Gloves, Lace Collars, Ties, Prints and Sateens;
and a multitude of pretty little accessories to ladies’ fashionable attire.
CHARACTER
os* oua
°f Bedsteads
V 1
belted f
cla t 0 le wants of every
ass of buyers.
* ° M^V Very Best Makes.
b U |j . 0 end of the newest registered design in Black and Brass Bedsteads, 6ft. 6in. x 3ft., 39/6-; 6ft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in., 42/.
Double Bed, or 6ft, Gin. x 4ft. Gin., 51/6. 45/6. Bowcliffe’s Spring Mattress 45/6.
lr Bedding is all Our Own Manufacture, and we can guarantee its absolute purity and cleanness.
AND SONS.
Emporium* Kiijroartet, Only.
Q
3»
§•
THE ENGRAVING IS A PART REPRESENTATION
Off ONE Off THE
aay Dnjjiitis of Ssistds
SOLD I)Y
We Sell at the Very Lowest Prices.
The Bulletin


(LIMITED),
BEDFERN WORMS,
SYDNEY.
mr UNEQUALLED SAFETY, tST“ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. iW“ GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
m~ LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
■ >
••
v-Ih
ITf]
rsr
i**;
8
y»@
m
avsj£
R\si
SIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. &T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OP MOTION. iSF” FREEDOM
PROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c„ to fee obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Rertfern,
Solo f m
The Otis Hydraulic Eiewatars,
MJLm A. MARSHALL and CO..
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GE&R, Brass & NickuS-plated SHOP PROMTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
s and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
1 lumping, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” CLOSETS, “YACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents fop Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, £kc,
BOH ACOOHO VSf.ORKS, 8 & 0 Hacggiari© Place, Sysfn©y.
_____ Full particulars and price on application.
BOURSE,
18 cann^ r f^^s ß «TJr ai ? lly Hotel in tbo Western strict. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HtJCsBiHS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed? that this Studio is carried on io r the benefit of. the late Mr.
Boyd s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd s New Palace of Art, 3of and 356 George-street, Sydney.
— : . , ALFRED WILLIAMS. Manager..
YANKEE DOODLE
s
m
SO
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
v
■s
m
roS
TOBACCO
,h, Scutlwro «* to
MEMO, to you from
m 1
for
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us -
whenever you want something nice and tasty,
from what you can get in the country stores.
Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide s
You will not be disappointed.
andni° e! '
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYD^'
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & <%.
11. HU ai EUUffin MEP
9
ZB7 @EOH£3E STHEETp
58 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDN® y ’
AND AS
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
JjA*’
SOLE AO ENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENBLAO'
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers 3 Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag r
Implements.
iiNGINISV
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
MACHINERY. g
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, 1
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hsffi® 61
, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. t
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines-
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and stea***
English and American Agricultural impleW® B1 *'
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cul
Bakes, Keapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize
cultural impte»» v "
Cultivators, Ho/se A
lize Crushers and Shell
COACH
A
Hallway Contractors’ Material and Plant-
BUILDERS’ Sundries.— Axi es, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and l ur ,
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. _
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; j
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled S Joists. Jr
Squatters’ Supplies. -
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddl®, Twine, Fencing- Wire, Sheep '^ aS 1
Machinery.
Guilders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application t° _
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE A# 1 *
387 Saorgii Strari, Sydney
w. W. CATES, Importer, 193 &
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PBICE s<
/WATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and JfHr tn 1 '
1 j nriojw. )*' hftinsr t.horoue-hly appreciated, as shown bv ourlararelv-increa® 1
f./
t i prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-inereasm»
— j. LACf **
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, h%g.
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PR* O#P
A
J
tST Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, lS
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
~ <#&
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
f&0&‘
■w. w.
19 3 and. 195 PITT
wTshearsby &
Merchant Tailors, Habits and Bn& 0
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
/
&
, v at P 1
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD
c Co** u
W. SheaPvSßY & Co., Albert House., Temple


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 79.—New Series.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 15, 1884.
Prioe—6d.
The Ideal Man.
The Bulletin.
[SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.
Mary followed in her father’s footsteps, and
converted a number of people by the method
so seldom found to fail—the application of
the warm end of a ftrestick to the abdomen.
Her s'.ster, by another mother (there were
many mothers in the family) improved upon
both. She was a virgin. Russian Catherine
and Spanish Isabella were also virgins.
This, however, by the way. James followed.
He was talented, learned, and conscientious.
He succeeded the woman who murdered
his mother. He himself murdered Raleigh.
But it would be absurd to judge the “ ideal
man” by rules of conduct and morality in-
tended for meaner mortals only. He slob-
bered ;he lied. Each chamber he occupied
proved that, like Russian Peter, the
“Lord’s anointed” could behave like a
savage. But what of that? Then came
We have often been at variance vilh our
contemporaries in our views on social and
political matters. But this does not pre-
vent our recognising merit in our
opponents. Saturday’s Echo contains a
thoughtful “leader,” evoked by the Pre-
sidential contest in America. According to
the journal named, that contest proved the
superiority of Monarchical over Republican
institutions. The wire-pullers published
the most scandalous tales of their oppo-
nents’ candidate; showed how humiliating
it would be to place at the head of affairs—
to make Chief Magistrate of 60,000,000 of free-
men—one who had cheated at school, at the
workshop, and at the bar during his youth
and prime, and was open to cheat the nation
during his decline. It is a dreary record.
It shows the would-be leaders of humanity
at their worst. It is just at this point that
the Echo, with customary astuteness, sweeps
into the arena, and explains how all these
evils can be remedied by the simple ex-
pedient of “Monarchy,” where the Chief
Magistrate is raised above such unseemly
struggles, and guides his or her people by
the “grace of God.” There is thought in
this. The Echo says justly: “And, when
all is over, what is the gain ? Has the nation
been sifted, and is the best man retained ?”
Ho, he has not, we answer unhesitatingly.
There are thousands of studious, large-
minded, decent men in the United
States to-day who have put forward
no claim for the Presidency, and who
would have had no chance had they
done so—whose claims would be looked on
coldly, if not with ridicule. And thus, ac-
cording to the Echo, the superiority of here-
dity is too obvious to be challenged. In the
Great Republic, where every adult male has
a vote, and where, owing to the curse pro-
nounced on our race by an outraged Crea-
tor, the great mass of men must necessarily
be condemned to the plough, the workshop,
or the shovel, it is little less than stupid to
assert that such people could choose the
man who would do their nation most honour
as Chief. Their lives are mainly given up to
provide bread for themselves and their fami-
lies. They are swayed this way and that by
unscrupulous men—by men who climb to
prominence on ladders, the steps of which
are oomposed of the prejudice, the ignor-
anoe, and the shortsightedness of their fel-
lows. How different with Monarohy !
There “ the nation is sifted and the best man
is retained.”
* * *
This will be become apparent if we glance
over the history of the United Kingdom—
the Mother of Nations—for a few hundred
years. The advantage of our method of
securing the ideal man “ d warfs into insigni-
ficance (the Echo speaks) all risks, costs, and
eumbersomeness of Limited Monarchy.’’
Let us glance at it. Henry VIII. was a
Chi6f who had his people’s welfare at heart.
He showed this by marrying women and
chopping their heads off when they became
disagreeable. Unlike Republican Magis-
trates who, foolishly enough, stoop to argue
with their opponents, he overcame all fri-
volous objections by means of bonfires in
Smithfteld. There were mounds of green
wood about with stakes in the centre, and
those who considered the Monarch’s vie ws
faulty, had a chance given them of standing
by those stakes and frankly stating their
objections before a crowded assembly. We
skip Edward out of compliment to our own
“ideal” Prince, who (D.V.) may be long be-
fore he comes to bis own. Hal’s daughter
THE HON. MR. LEVIEN, M.L.A., VICTORIA.
Charles, who thought, with justice, that he
had as much right as his predecessors to pul
off his subjec ts’ toe-nails and drive steel
spikes into their boots. The mulish English
thought otherwise, and so, one cold January
morning, this “ideal” man found himself
endeavouring to address a cultivated British
audience, The impression he made was
favourable, until it struck him that there
was something wrong with his head. Then
he said no more. His son had the [pleasure
of seeing a foreign fleet make bonfires of his
dock-yards. He had other pleasures. His
blood flows through the proudest aris-
tocracy in Europe. This is another of the
advantages possessed by Monarchy from the
earliest times—an advantage which shows
no sign of curtailment. His brother then
appeared, called to the Chief Magistracy*
not by the vulgar voice of the canaille, but
by the “grace of God.” He endeared him-
self to his Scottish covenanting subjects by
putting steel nuts upon their Angers and
toes and tightening them till the bones were
crunched, and the foolish people became
uncomfortable and demonstrative. To his
Irish subjects he made himself agreeable by
running away from battles which he might
have won, and by always protesting his de-
sire, like the warlike Napoleon 111., to die
at the head of his brave troops. The desires
of both Monarcbs were somehow frustrated
by causes over which they had no control.
• * ■
Of William, Anne, and three of the
Georges, we need say little. Being God’s
vicegerents, they t took advantage of all the
privileges of their position. They had their
courts, favourites (there is no proper
synonym for this), and harlots. Their
blood, like that of Charles 11., has been
circulated by means of waiting-maids and
lacqueys through some of our best houses.
Under them nourished a literature of match-
less splendour, which they did not under-
stand. Could they have comprehended it,
they would have attributed its luxuriance
to their benignity and far-sightedness. 80
we come to George IV., William, and our
present gracious Sovereign. Of George, we
can now say with certainty that he was the
first bl—gentleman, of course, we mean—in
Europe. He invented a shoe-buckle, said
he had led the Guards at Waterloo, and, like
his father, would lay his head on the block
rather than concede the Catholic claims.
He did not charge at Waterloo. He did not
lay his head on the block. He granted the
Catholio claims, and lived to a good age—the
rottenness of his body keeping pace with the
rottenness of his mind. His father was, pro-
bably, the Echo’s “ ideal man.” He had at
least the courage of his opinions. He con-
quered the Americans in many battles—a
faot that uneducated Americans deny to
this day—and wound up by wiping his hands
of such vulgar people. His son, William
IV., a Sailor Prince (we have had Sailor
Princes in Australia, and loved them), was
known amongst the initiated as “Silly
Billy.” He had a head closely resembling a
pine-apple. From his mouth ran bawdry and
saliva in equal portions. “ Bleu rcmarq-
able" said the impassive Talletrand at a
State dinner, when the ladies had retired
aud our late Lord’s Anointed stood up to
propose a smutty toast. At last we come
to our present First Magistrate, Victoria.
She has been an admirable Chief—a little
lavish, perhaps, but one whose lavishness
was entirely eclipsed by her virtues. She
went down into the literary arena, and
proved to all her superiority over Marti-
neau, Somerville, Eliot and other English-
women. Of her apparent sucoessor, it is
not necessary to speak, further.than to say
he is a middle-aged man, who, by hereditary
talents, has done a good deal to place the
English nation in the van of progress. He
may not have the same reverence for the
“bulwark of England’s greatness” as his
Sovereign has, but that will come in time.
• * •
We see by this rapid glance how futile
all the efforts of Republicanism must
necessarily be when compared with those
of Monarchy in placing the “ideal man”
at the helm. We have said enough to
hint where Republicanism fails. Of course
we have notj said all. It would require a
volume. And so the following might be said
to be a political axiom. Leaving out the
multitudinous ways in which Republicanism
falls short, its great.and patent error is in
seldom being able to choose the right head,
like Monarchy. There have, no doubt, been
passably decent men—such as Washington,
Jefferson, Lincoln,! and Garfield— who
have by ohanee been seleoted for the fore-
most place in the American Republic. But
their private lives, unlike those of our own
Magistrates, will not bear close examination.
It is well to draw a veil over them. They
were good men after their kind,and, posoibly»
tried for the commonweal after their lights.
But this is saying little. It is when compared
with our Chiefs, whether morally or intel-
lectually, that their inferiority is so striking.
Perhaps they themselves were not so much
to blame. They were the creatures of a
vicious system. To give every citizen of a
State a voice in saying who shall guide the
destinies of that State is fundamentally
wrong. They may choose the right man,
and they may not. They may choose a fool
ora fribble. But with “Limited Monarchy ’
it is otherwise. With us no election “ shaki s
the whole people as an attack of fever shakes a
man, paralyses business, galvanises unheal-
thy sentiment into dangerous activity, aDd
sows seeds of possible corruption broadcast.’
It is only necessary to think for a moment
what might be the result if England to-day
were a Republic. Why Gladstone or Ten-
nyson, Carlyle or Stuart Mill (if the last
named were alive) might become Chief
Magistrate. Think of it! But we will not
think of it!—we cannot. Imagine Glad-
stone, an old man who chops wood and writes
Italian lyrics; the author of “In Memoriam;”
the writer of “Sartor Resartus,” or him
who foolishly signed his name to the “ Essay
on Liberty,” becoming the Chief of a Great
Nation, while the talented person who knew
Lily Langtry and speared pigs in India
was looking for a job. This train of thought
is not pleasant to follow. Why, if Chaucer
or Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden, Addi-
son, Johnson, Gibbon, Buckle, or D’lpbasw


We have just received Gilbert’s New
South Wales Sporting Annual for 1884. A cursory
glance through it is sufficient to show that, to be
original for once, it will supply a long felt want.
It is an unassuming volume, but the information
it contains regarding out-door sports will be found
invaluable. The synopsis alone of the season s
matches will be ot the greatest service to the
sporting confraternity.
The Katks or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For on© year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Kates are ss. per lnoh!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be soot, it more convenient.
*
POFUIAH I
mmm
lAN BORU
"VTOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefor® cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
.
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
1 MI WD
when matured by age, Is
lOTT LED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
T HB
Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
ttr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single little Department,
MARKET BTBHBT.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTB’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
where you can obtain for
6d.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
f such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
[ONE but WINK the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Tha most Whouksomb or ali, bbvbhagbs.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
Is. fid. per bottle.
OLYNBLIBH WHISKY
6a. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. fid. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
flarket Street, Sydney
were alive to-day one of them might be
chosen as the “ ideal man ” in opposition to
Albert Edward (God bless him)! The
thought, as we said, is not reassuring. We
might be led further—and suppose —purely
for the sake of illustration—that the able
person who wrote the Echo artiole might
be chosen. But enough. Even in specula-
tion, however free, there should be a well-
defined limit.
• ■ »
This is the reason why Monarchy is making
its way in the world and Republicanism and
Democracy declining. The two latter have
had afair trial—a trial of over 100 years—and
their weak point to-day is just the same as
it was a century ago—the uncertainty*
unlike Monarohy, of finding the “ideal
man.”
A Nut Cracked.
It is very gratifying to know that an intelli-
gent interest in sooial problems is increasing
throughout Australia. Scaroely a mail ar-
rives without bringing us notes of encourage-
ment, of inquiry, or of challenge—all wel-
come, as showing that people’s minds are
awakened. To answer or even notice all
would equally exceed our industry and our
space. However, here is a speoimen letter
"Inre, your article, ‘The Duke and the Printer,’
will you please answer the following questions, if
possible, in your next:—lst, Is Henry George rich
or poor ? 2nd, Who gets the money for the sale of
the books,; ‘Progress and Poverty’? 3rd, If he
makes a fortune by the sale of his books, is he
ready to distribute it ? 4th, Is it not a paradox for
a man to write in his style and at the same time to
try to make money for other poor mea to spend,
if ne believes no one man should hold what h§ has
received by work and brains 1 My opinion. Mr.
Editor, although I am a 1 Democrat ’ myself, if4hat
Mr. George would be a Duke of Argyll to-morrow
if he could exchange places, but the change of
blood would reverse the ability.—Yours, &c., C.A.”
We are unable to satisfy our correspondent’s
curiosity as to Mr. George’s circumstances.
We should think he must have made a good
deal of money by his books and other writ-
ings ; but we are not sure. As the enormous
success of his great work, “Progress and
Poverty,” was not foreseen, and it was pub-
lished in the United States, which have no
reciprocity of copyright with European
countries, it is quite likely that Mr. George
derived no benefit from the millions of copies
published in England and other European
countries. This is all we can say about the
questions I and 2, save that a “ biographical
sketoh” of Henry George has just been
issued. *
• • **
With regard to the remaining questions,
our correspondent unoonsciously plays the
role of “the intelligent Zulu.” Like the
native whose simple honest criticisms set
Bishop Colenso’s intellect to work to re-
solve problems which, in various forms,
had long exercised the reason of mankind,
“C.A.” propounds queries whioh have al-
ready engaged attention and whioh await
definite solution. Our correspondent will,
perhaps, be surprised to be told that his
questions indicate a Socialistic frame of
mind. That is to say that the English
Socialist organs’deal didaotioally with what
he puts interrogatively. We referred to
this very matter in our first article, “ What
is Socialism ?” in The Bulletin of August
30. The following is the passage :
R“ln a recent English publication, we observe a
Socialist writer remarks:—‘l object to Henry
George, not because he la a Socialist, but because
he Is not a Socialist.’ The objection to George
seems to be that he halts on the threshold of neces-
sary reform, and, while offering a genuine remedy
for some of the evils of existing society in his
Elan for national appropriation of all land rentals,
e errs in insisting that his remedy is a panacea—a
cure for all social evils. The thorough-going
Socialist contends that, while George's remedy
for the evils of landlordism is effectual for those
evils, there remain unhealty relations between
Capital ami Labour which would still disorder the
entire body politic, even with the cancer of land-
monopoly extirpated.”
. * •
Our correspondent appears not to have
observed this distinction. George draws a
Bharp distinction between property in land,
and all other kinds of property. Even the
Socialist writers do not argue that a man
may not hold what he has earned by work
and brains, provided always that he
has not used his brains to take unfair
advantage of other men, so as to
compel them to contribute to his purse
from what their labour produces. There is
no inconsistency, therefore, between Mr.
George’s theory and his practice, even
though he make a fortune by his book. A
fortune derived from a book is certainly
the most defensible sort of fortune, because
no one can positively fix the value received
by each reader. Wisdom is beyond price m
The loftiest ideal of the Socialists is touched
in this very matter. It is that the greatness
of soul which should accompany great in-
tellectual qualities should indispose a man
to desire more than his necessary share of
the means of subsistance in return for his
teachings of philosophy or his creations of
beauty. The author, the artist, the inventor,
are the hardest nuts that Socialist theorists
have to crack.
* " Henry George,” a biographical, anecdotal and
critical sketch, by Henry Rose; accompanied
by a well-executed portrait of Mr. George.
Price, Is. London: William Reeves, 185 Fleet-
street.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Ministerial Responsibility.
When the people get a good law on the Statute
Book, they appear to think that good consequences
will follow without any further exertion. The
energy and watchfulness which characterised their
attitude while the question was under discussion
pass away when the legislative settlement arrives.
But the good administration of a law with faults
is better than the indifferent administration of a
perfect law. As a rule, it is not bad laws so much
as moderately good laws badly administered the
people have now-adays to fear. Energy and
watchfulness should therefore be directed upon
the methods of administration just as much as
upon legislation itself. If the Education Act be
regarded, it would be interesting to discover how
many out of the community know how some of
its most essential principles are worked. Although
there is more talk about other [clauses of the Act,
those bearing upon the intellectual condition of
the pupils are of the most importance to all out-
side party camps. To whom shall we go for an
authoritative answer to any question on this head ?
Is there in the Department an administrative mind
capable of directing a uniform measure of scrutiny
and of assimilating and reproducing for the public,
judgments worth the paper they are printed on ?
In theory, some such duty as that falls to the Minis-
ter. In practice, the Minister lets it slide. In this
colony, the Minister for Public Instruction makes
no pretensions to hold in hand the administration
of the system. In Victoria, the portfolio is hustled
into the hands of any member of the Cabinet not
otherwise full up; and when he gets tired, he drops
it into the desk of some other colleague. In
Queensland, the Minister began the report of last
year’s proceedings by observing that he knew
nothing about the workings of the system, but he
was sure his competent under-secretary did. In
New South Wales there has not been even an
under-secretary for the last twelve months. Is
there not humbug somewhere in this! state of
things ? It is a fact that the school inspectors have
the essential part of the Act wholly in their own
hands. For his district, each inspector is in this
essential the Minister. In this essential, there are
as many Ministers as inspectors. Their methods
are unlike, and who is there to prune and put to-
gether ? Their judgments vary, and who is there
to compare and oombine ? The Australian public
should note well the revelations that have come
out under tho London School Board. Inspectors
were entrusted with large powers, and the report
of last year’s work shows that these gentlemen were
conspicuously unreliable in as far as enabling the
Board to form a judgment on the intellectual
condition of the children under their control. For
Borne time the Board thought it would come to be
necessary to dispense with inspectors altogether.
The work of the inspectors during tho latter
half of last year, especially, is likely to
bring that point up for reconsideration. Pay-
ment by results is an important feature under
the Board, and it is found that the recommenda-
tions of the inspectors are unintelligible on any
basis of common-sense. If they threw dice as to
what marks to dispense, the result oould not have
been more whimsical. Some members of the
Board call the recommendations idiotic, while
others trace them to “ individual idiosyncracies.’’
The fact is that there should be an active guiding
spirit to superintend inspectoral work. There is
not that in Australia. The general inspector is no
more than a summariser or recorder of the
opinions of his subordinates, the under-secretary
is no more than a registrar of this record, and the
Minister is no more than a reciter of a few words
written on a piece of paper. The only people in
the Department who work educationally are the
teachers. Right up from the teachers, if we ex-
clude the jumbling work of the inspectors, the
work could be performed by boys. Never-
theless, the farce is annually gone through
of issuing a report of the results of edu-
cation each year, the report being signed
by a Minister, who knows nothing except
through his under-secretary, who knows nothing
except through his inspector-general, who know 8
nothing oxcept through his district-inspectors,
who, on a not unfavourable sample, are pro-
nounced idiotic or endowed with a plenitude of
idiosyncrasies. The Minister for Public Instruc-
tion should be a reality. He alone is responsible
for the conduct of the Department. He dis-
honours himself by being the tool of his under-
secretary, or of any other subordinate. The public
don’t know his under-secretary or the others, and
don’t want to know them. But they know that
an intelligent Minister, with capacity for his office
and a determination to discharge thoroughly the
duty he assumes, will permeate his subordinates
with a healthy vigour which will elicit sympathy
in every part of the system. They know, too, that
a Ministei who will let himself be worked by those
below him is the worst kind of a humbug with
which the education of the country can be ridden*
So Simple!
Much clamour continues to be made about the
necessity for religious instruction in the Public
Schools of tho colony. We conceive that the con-
tention which is going on regarding this might be
put an end to, could the opposing parties but
agree to a definition of what is essentially religious
instruction. There really exists common ground*
ample to accomodate all parties. It will be uni-
versally conceded that whatever instruction
trains the young to practice truthfulness, pitiful-
ness, and integrity is distinctly religious. And
if a National system could but successfully
train the young to adopt these virtues as their
rule through life, it will have accomplished
wbat every system, by whoever conducted, and
by whatever sect adopted, has hitherto failed—
notoriously failed—to do. Now, it requires no
revelation from Heaven to convince me uncor-
rupted mind of childhood that truthfulness is
noble, that charity is elevating, and that integrity
is splendid. These are all natural truths, to which
every sound mind—not corrupted by evil habits —
responds instinctively. There needs neither the
sanction of supernatural revelation, nor the
lurid terrors of a horrible Hell, to induce young
people to believe to the very bottom of their
hearts, that these things are of eternal verity, and
that to neglect them to qqqrt self-coptempt and
deformity of soul.
Human Flesh, and Human Spirit.
“ Where,” asks a lady writing to a London paper,
“is that old English heroism gone, which used to
teach our sons to die like men ? In the crew of
the Mignonette we see a fearful picture of civili-
sation, Christianity, humanity, all going down
before the instincts of the savage.” The lines
quoted suggest a train of thought which seems to
have been little noticed in the present contro-
versy. Given the pressing physical necessity of
the period, where among the yacht’s crew was
the noble emulation of old Rome or old England
to be the one to be sacrificed for the rest ? Perhaps
the law does not make a crime of the act of that
captain who, while still sane, appealed to the gods
ere he wolfishly stole the life-blood of his dying
boy; but we should be glad to see that public
opinion knew well how to distinguish such a deed
from virtue. In days of old, the captain “ left the
ship last,” and perhaps died for his men; and such
brave deeds have been done by modern captains
too, whose children were left a priceless legacy of
valour, and whose lamenting wives gloried in the
heroism of the dead. It is not given to all men to
be heroes, nor yet to every woman has there been
given the spirit of that Spartan mother who, as
she buokled the sword on her last remaining son,
adjured him to “face the foe and never turn in
flight.” But, while we extend to Captain Dudley
that mercy which, had we been in his awful posi-
tion, most of us might have had to demand for
ourselves, let us, even if we overlook the long list
of real and fictitious human heroes, from Roman
Horatius who “ kept the bridge,” to the English
Sydney Carton who died for his friend, and in the
tumbril on his way to the guillotine took the
hand of the poor little sewing-girl, and told her
“to be not afraid ” —let us not forget the sublime
conception of the God who gave up His life for
the Redemption of the world. Let us, while ex
cusing the Mignonetie’s captain because he was
weak, never forget that he took a life committed
to his care—a life for which he might have poured
forth his own blood, and, in so doing, have left a
name unsurpassed in heroism by any of the men
who in modern days, or in days of yore, have died
under the brave old British flag. That is the ideal.
We believe that England yet has sons, who, to
save their comrades, would willingly volunteer to
“ walk the plank ” or cut an artery, just as for the
love of country they would die in “ the red
squares ” or rush towards the muzzles of the guns.
Let us pardon Captain Dudley. But let us re-
member that Dudley is a proud English name,
and that its bearer should, when facing death,
try to emulate the gods, not sink into a vulture.
The diseussion on the subject of the recent
seizure of books, including some philosophical
treatises, as immoral and obscene, has been illu-
minated by a contribution to the Dubbo Dispatch
from a Mr. H. L. C. Scotson, of Marebone. We find
much pleasure in giving additional currency to
this emanation from Mr. Scotson's pen, were it
only because the talented author affords evidence
of an acquaintance with the English language
which places him quite on an equality with that
distinguished C.M.G. and litt&ralcur, Jannery
John. Mr. Scotson observes:— “Sir, lam (asl
feel will all right-minded neoplo be) delighted a
raid has been made on these Augean stables of
filth—these cesspits of impurities coming to our
eyes as ‘something lively’ ad infinitum," and
the chip of Latin proves that ho is as much a classic
as an English scholar. The sentence leaves a
pleasing dsubt as to what “ad infinitum” (to
inflnity) applies-the raid or cesspits. But it is
perhaps chiefly in command of the English lan-
guage that Mr. Ecotson shines. He remarks:—
“I do not think thete is a more parallel vice
—I do not think there is a more baneful influ-
ence to the minds of young people than the read-
ing a olass of literature vicious and disgusting.”
A “ parallel vice ” is, indeed, to be shunned. We
don’t know exactly what a parallel vice may be,
but we presume it is..the opposite of an unparal-
leled vice. We trust, therefore, that every reader
of Mr. Scotson’s plain words of warning will shun
parallel vices and be careful to stick to unparal-
leled ones. As Mr. Scotson goes on to demon-
strate:—” We cannot be too careful to stop, at its
commencement, the spread of any infectious
disease, to nip at the root, and to nip so soundly
that the cancer of corruption—the stink of dead
bodies-be entirely removed.” There is true wis-
dom in this monition. If there be one thing which
tho rising generation should, more than another,
be trained to practice, it is to nip a stink at the
root. It is a difficult art, but evidently Mr. Scot-
son would not recommend it unless he were him-
self an expert at it. Ard that proves that it is
easier to acquire than a knowledge of grammar
and composition— arts which apparently have de-
fied the genius of the accomplished Scotson.
♦
TnK Mudir of Dongola has been made a Knight of
the order of St. Michael and St. George as a re-
ward for his loyalty. This is much as though
George 111 had knighted General Arnold for his
loyalty when during the American War of In-
dependence he betrayed and deserted the national
cause. The Mudir of Dongola was, during the
earlier period of the Soudan trouble, seriously
suspected of patriotism. Later, however, he
elected to side with the foreign invaders, and has
done the British as good service as Baliol
[rendered the English when they over-ran Scot-
land. This ill-starred Order of SS. Michael and
George sinks steadily into deeper contempt.
It seems to be regarded as the refuse-box of de-
coration dispensers, whence gilded offal is thrown
to dirty dogs. Having bestowed an order upon
the most distinguished traitor to his country in
Effypt, always excepting that cur the Khedive,
wno is also gnawing a Michael and George bone,
the next natural progression will be to bestow
Companionships of the debased order upon our
most effective native spies and most influential
deserters. The Englishmen wh:, hereafter accepts
a decoration of this order, will trumpet .forth his
own lack of self-respect. It is no longer a distinc-
tion—it is a degradation. Itsstaristhe broad-arrow
among deoorations.


Said a Kentish clergyman from the pulpit
on a recent Sunday“ There are complaints in
this parish of the smallness of the hop crop. We
need not go far for the reason. It is through
farmers absenting themselves from this church.
There are only three farmers to-day amongst my
congregation/’ The three farmers who attended
considered they were rather hardly dealt with, as
their crnpß of hops were no better than those of
their neighbours who frequent the Nonconformist
place of worship. Several hop-growers left the
parish church on account, of the obnoxious extra-
ordinary tithe of 16s. per acre levied on their hop
plantations.
VANITY FAIN.
The way London mobs crowded them,
convinced Tawhaio and his suite that they were iu
a highlv civilised country. One -lay the King’s
cousin To Tubi, noticed that actors look different
when off and on the t tage. “ Ah,” he said, “they
disguise. Let us.” So Te Tuhi got cosmetics,
tilled up the tatoo furrows, and put the tint of the
rose on his delicate cheeks. His first appearance
in th° streets afterwards, however, proved that
he hadn’t quite mastered the art ot disguise. So
Te Tuhi is fetching the cosmetic apparatus out for
Mrs T.T., who will no doubt manage better ...The
champion verdict has just been delivered by a
coroner’s jury m Tennessee: “That the said infant,
child came to his death from premature birth!”
When the Tennessee jurymen get a little cider,
they vill probably come over to New South
Wales, and be appointed libel judges —Lieut.
The head of a family starts out in the morning, with bio
heart running over with loyalty to his Prince. . . . But,
before the day is over, he will wish that H.B.H. had never
been bora.
.First Gunner : ° I say, Bill, ’ose bloomin’ birthday is it we re a oelebratin’ of ?”
Second G. ; “ I’m blest if I know, there’s so many of ’em. f ßre she goes, any’ow I" 'Bang Q
" 1 jist come to tell yea, Missis, as how, this bein’ the
Prince’s birthday, yea cud hairdly be expectin’ a loyal
Irishwoman to do yer washin’ the day ! Me ould min
is a-goin’ to take us fur a dhrive to Botany; and, be
the bye, oudn’t yez lind me the loan of a pound to pay
the kerridge. and I’ll wash it out nixt week, I wifi r*
The Prince's first birthday.
Mr Sweedlepipe rather enjoys holidays fn
general. Can always, on such occasions, walk past
hie tailors with impunity.
How the Missis celebrated, while Bridget,
with trne loyalty, kept the day saored at
Olontarf.
A capsize in honour of H.R.H.
How our comic Artist celebrated. Unfortunately for
him, H.B.H. had the bad taste to be bom upon one Ot bin
(the artist's) very busiest days.
The Prince of Wales’ Birthday.
SOME HOLIDAY SKETCHES.
Greeley is 39 years old, tall, thin, and dark, but
with .blue eyes and rather handsome His wife is
30, and in face and figure one of the most beautiful
women in the States. During the last few months
of his three years’ absence, she wore mourning for
him, but yet never believed him dead—ln
Washington, numbers of lady clerks and busi-
ness women use the tricycle as an ordinary thing
every day; and two ladies sido by side ou a sociable
is a common sight in the streets.. .Silk is little
worn in Paris, wool having mostly displaced it. At
the Grand Prix, nearly all the lovely dresses were
woollen. Merino is now made in such lovely
colours and quality that aristocrats wear it even
on dressy occasions. On the afternoon promenade,
women walk in very short dresses with immense
bustles, and with very pretty clocked stockings of
a colour unlike the dress. They drive in short
dresses, and show the feet very much. It is doubt-
ful whether this is a pretty fashion, as a short
drees never looks well when a woman sits down.
French women wear their bats at the theatre ..
They were conducting that formal talk which
strangers treat one another to during heavy
dinners, when seeing a freckled face, he observed:
“ Look at that spotted man: did you ever see such
a face ? ’ The ladv coldly made reply: " Yes; that
is my husband.” And the wretch said: “ Oh, how
joliy, you know, because you can tell me—is he
really spotted all over ?’ ... Lulu Hurst, the strong
girl of Georgia, is engaged to marry her manager.
He’d better behave.. Christine Nilsson has reached a
higher social position than any other prima donna...
Says the AitGONAOT: —" New York and Boston are
full of Americau dudes, who dress in the English
style, speak as if they had hot potatoes in their
mouths, wear a glass in one eye, part their hair in
tne middle, wear bob-tailed coats indelicately
short behind, and imitate the English in all their
puppy airs.” Rather a rasp for the lovely beings
who pride themselves on representing “the pro-
duct of 700 years of civilisation.”....Going througn
a warehouse the other day, she exclaimed: “Oh,
do weigh me, please,” and, as she stepped ou the
platform and shook out her Mother Hubbard skirt
—all flounced and puffy, you know, and utterly
misleading—the storeman glanced at her general
outline and put 10 stone on the lever. The weivht
came down with a suddenness that scared him.
Then he tried a cwt. “ Must be something wrong,"
he observed, as it went down plop. Finally he
got her balanced, and, as she tripned off, with her
total avoirdupois registered at 781 b., he looked
after her full and finely-rounded figure, and
muttered dubiously: “ Some young feller will get
awfully taken in with that Mother Hubbard
dress.” There are regular female bookmakers
on the Longchamps and other French racecourses...
A young wife, tax' d by her husband with forget-
ting the “obey” she had uttered in the marriage
service, protested t hat she was in such a daze at
the time that she couldn’t remember a word she
had said. And mentioning this peculiar circum-
stance to several of his married friends, he found,
curiously enough, that all their wives had suffered
from exactly the same kind of nervousness .A
telegraph company at Washington has prohibited
its girl clerks from wearing Mother Hubbard
dresses under threat of dismissal. The sack
couldn’t be much worse than those baggy things.
The youthful heir to much property, on hear-
ing of the death of his chum’s father, began to
mop his eyes. “ Yes, I know you sympathise ’’
observed his friend. “Oh, no, it's not that,” re-
plied the affected youth; “only—only, you know
—everybody's father seems to die but mine!” ...
Theo, the beautifullactress, when the has dressed,
takes delight in viewing herself in a mirror. Some
ladies delight to practise the mirror viewing with-
out tin preliminary trouble... Only last month,
the first lawn tennis club was started in ’Frisco—
Long Branch is the scene of the American beauty
show every summer—the happy hunting ground
of the single girls. In the mornings, dowagers
roll by in the landaus and broughams, rejuvenating
in the fresh country air. But it is in the after-
noon those bits of bric-a-brac, their daughters,
come out to carry on their campaign, and show
their symmetry at the popular lawn-tennis, done
up in some dainty marvel of the latest style of
frocks It is a mistake to suppose that Mrs.
Maekay is always very richly dressed. It is only
on State occasions she is elaborate. At her own
home, she prefers black, and Is often without
even diamonds A few English girls have tried
the divided skirt for lawn tennis, but as they wear
an overskirt nearly to its hem. it's difficult to see
where they gain anything. But, then, there are a
lot of things you can’t see—He had just had a
close crop, and visiting his best suburban girl that
evening, he observed pleasantly : “Now, I s’pose,
you’ll call attention to the size of my ears ?” “ Oh,
nu,” she replied with cheerful smile, “there’s no
need to do that, Doif.” Why a woman can’t
bathe in anything less than thick heavy folds
of unsightly flannel, while she can attend opera in
a gauze bodice that seems afraid to go near her
shoulders—is one of those mysteries that man
quails to investigate. Now, what's the matter?
In Washington, two men go about on bicycles,
with parasols to shade them from the sun A
clock has been made in Moscow to run 400 days —
Mrs. Langtry’s power lies mainly in the fact that
she is well sexed—that is to say, Bho is very much
of a woman. She is thoroughly feminine, on a
large scale; she is possessed of a lithe, flexible
Hgure, a fine constitution, good health, which she
wisely retains by long walks in the open air. Her
skin is fair, but not thin nor even sensitive.. Ihe
last venture in journalism is Orange Blossoms,
devoted entirely to ohronioling mari’iages...
Beneath a shady tree they sat,
He held her hand, she held his hat,
I held ray breath and lay right flat;
They kiss Jd—l saw them do it.
He held that Kissing was no crime,
She held her head up every time.
I held mv pence, and wrote this rhyme,
While they thought no one knew it.
A. curious monthly magazine is the “Shut in
Visitor.” It is published entirely for sick people,
and circulates among those who can never go out
to see one another and the world Recently, the
first sale at Adelaide was held of ostrich feathers
grown in the colony, some fetching 15s. each. The
leathers are not the only things grown there—the
husbands groan, too A girl wanted by the
police was arrested in Melbourne, disguised as an
old woman. But old women disguised as girls are
still going about.


Personal
Items
The Duke of Connaught is to succeed the
Duke of Cam bridge as Commander-in-Chier ot the
British army!
Mr. Walter Soott, of Merton, who succeeds
the late Professor Badham as professor of class cs
at Sydney University, “ das hardly the reputation
of his predecessor, but he has a di l ( m-
versify record, having’ won the Ireland, CraA en,
and Derby scholarships.”
Mr. Quartermaine East is determined that
there shall be another Tichborne trial. He writes:
—“ Our arrangements are ail made, ana at tne
fitting time this notorious Jesuit conspiracy will
be exposed to the nation, and I have little doubt
of its result upon the minds of the People. Nor
have we any. But we don’t mean what Q. East
means.
Thus a powerful English
Radical journal“ Englishmen
know, by name, a certain ex-
Colonel Valentine Baker, a
cashiered officer, convicted by a
legal tribunal of a dastardly
offenoe against the honour of an
unprotected girl. There can be
no doubt that the ‘General’
and the cashiered ex-Colonel are
one and the same man. The
question, therefore, is how the
person who was drummed from
the army got back again ? How
is it, too, that Valentine Baker
is called a ‘General. English
army rules are most punctilious
in this respect. A soldier serving
the Btate cannot accept even a
twopenny bronze medal from
a foreign Power without express
permission to do so. Here, how-
ever, we have the anomalous
state of affairs that a man who
was, as the service phrase goes,
»broken,’ who was dismissed
the servioe of 4 his Queen and
his country,’ not only serving
under the colours again, but
mentioned with foreign rank,
for the 4 General ’ rank worn
by Baker is Turkish, and not
English. Had Valentine Baker
been a poor infantry Captain,
he would never have been
heard of again. He, h ( ? w ® r X?S;
belongs to a so-called influential
•set.’ He is a boon companion
of the Prince of Wales. He is
known by men whose titles are
by no means the brightest or
least tarnished in the English
peerage. For this —and no other
reason can be alleged—he is
being shoved forward, and it
remains for the people of Eng-
land to protest against any fol-
low of his known and convicted
obaraoter having anything to do
with our troops. The sentence
which Valentine Baker served
was a heavy one as it stood,
but in reality it was light. He
could order what food, what
wines, and what books he liked.
His cell was a library and dining-
room in reality, and it is little
less than monstrous that, incap-
able of feeling shame himself,
he should now thrust himself to
the front, thereby displacing
soores of men of brave and
perfectly unsullied lives. We
should like to know the preoise
steps by which Valentine Baker
has been attaohed to tbe expedi-
tion. As a disgraoed and cash-
iered officer, he cannot legally
serve again* unless the Queen
removes her interdict. This has
not been done ; and, further-
more, it could not have been
done without being Gazetted in
due form. How, then, does it
come about that Baker is 4 ap-
Sointed ’ to the Intelligence
lepartment of the Nile Expedi-
tion? If by fluke or by flaw,
the job is alike disgraceful, re-
prehensible, and likely to dam-
age the morale of the army. It
is the most asinine folly to
punish Bob Acres or Dick
Brown, privates in the Guards,
for outrages on women in the
Birdcage-walk, when Valentine
Baker, an offloer convicted of an
Infamous attack on a girl in a
railway carriage, and a man who
for a certain period was in gaol,
is lifted over precedent and
martial usage. He might be
invitea to an ‘august garden
party.’ That was bad enough.
But the 4 function ’ was merely
a private affair. It did not
concern the nation. When,
however, Baker is made an
officer in an English army,
which, however small, is still
an army, a disgraceful job looks
still blacker. In Germany, much
as we detest its autocratic mili-
tary system, a stainless character
in an officer is indispensable. As
a German, Valentine Baker
would have been drummed out
of his regiment, and branded
with a social disgrace which
must for all life have clung even
to his shadow.”
The indignation of the Queen and others
in England at the Grand Duke of Hesse’s marriage
with Madame de Kalomine “is regarded in Ger-
many as all the more absurd as, according to Ger-
man law, the marriage of the Princess Louise with
Lord Lome is a morganatic union.”
The Parliament is now to be asked to make
provision for Prince Edward of Wales. Next year
be will go for an extensive toui\ which will most
likely include a visit to the United States and
Canada. When Prince George has finished study-
ing at the R. N. College he will be attached to the
Mediterranean Fleet.
At a reoent political meeting the Hon. and
Rev. L. Irby said his nephew. Lord Boston, was
“a very promising pup.” He stated that the
Gladstone Government got into office by “evil
■peaking, lying, and slandering,” and that that
grand old artful dodger, Gladstone, wore high
shirt-collars to *, hide his infernal cheek.”
A well-dressed humbug called at a London
workhouse and was shown over it by the officials.
He expressed himself as delighted with what he
saw, and on leaving he signed the book 44 Teck.”
Now, it happened that Prince Teck at the time was
on the Continent. But the well-dressed fraud had
a sense of the eternal fitness of things. Prince
Teck (alias Prince “ Tick ”) is just now in quite a
fit condition to go to the workhouse.
The Postmaster-General of Victoria was in
a jocose vein lately, and, looking about for a vent,
be conferred the name of Massey upon a little
village hitherto known as Watchem West. The
poet to whom a photograph of the village was
shown, and the villagers to whom a photograph of
the poet was shown, are both equally disgusted
with Mr. Campbell’s exploit. That is nearly always
the fate of the humorous Scotchman.
Alfred was not at all sure that his funny
man had genuine humour, because he frequently
guessed what the point of the joke was. Noticing
the wag a bit pale one day, and cheering up a bit
on seeing he was losing ilesh like the rest of the
staff, he asked what was the matter. The poor
fellow oomplained of loss of appetite Where-
upon Alfred's doubts were set at rest; and he
raised his salary straight away to thirty shillings a
week.
Tho World says: “ Had Sir Robert Morier
been appointed to succeed Lord Ampthiil at
Berlin, nis experience would have been that, of
Lord Augustus Loftus, who, after he had bored
Bismarck to such an extent that the latter bluntly
refused to see him, had to be withdrawn.’ we
believe this to be a fowl libel. Ves. It was Lord
Augustus who refused to see Bismarck. How-
ever, any sort of an old gentleman does to govern
an Australian colony.
Hon. Francis George Hay, just dead, had
served before the mast in the navy, and at the
time of his death was an officer in the service of
the British-India Co. He had had varied experi-
ences of life. One night off Aden he, while on
watch, fancied he saw a boat drift by, and heard a
faint scream. He stopped tho ship, lowered a
boat, and found the dead body of a lady and a liv-
ing child tied together in a boat half-full of water.
The child he adopted, and she is now in the charge
TK.it vs a. dog wko misttK kis
|or a chance. lo -malu Cf u.p.
HeiKtl/JS Kimse/f lo A«lua, ImxI" U Seen k y Jfie
eve.r-iAra.fch.fuL IrujLhzr , arfio j?u.r side's.
A? /ke, bu-lchtr urge.** on Jus uri/cl ca. re.e.r t
Kt is stepped. by an eldtr/y
at/io rc^u< 3/5 Aim to CQTnccm. *
ht 7/ sAoiat A/m”
du-t a ‘neusch.u'nx pofue'ma.n (ur/io Us <no!
171 1h.6. Colon/is /ono «7i«w.o A /6 dts <over "Ao w not
l» do proittpliy does his du/y-
And the doy - —WkU Jffe. days
Cup ay is as fu.U.
us h a —rtcep/cic/e. for iood.
DOGGED BY ILL-LUCK.
of his family. He was never able to discover her
birth or parentage, or even the name of the vessel
on which she had been a passenger. This sounds
like a chapter from a sensational romance; but
yet it is true.
William Dowell, ex-alderman of Tam-
worth, and future Premier of the Federated
States of Australasia, has shown by pure arith-
metic and native eloquence that four and a half
millions of the railway loan would be profitably
spent in making his house in Peel-street the centre
of a network of railways extending in all direc-
tions from the north pole to the south. By this
means, nearly half a million would be set free to
develope such districts as were likely to become
tributary to Tamworth in the course of time. In
the meantime, William, who is a contractor, would
do his best to build culverts and stations that
would reflect honour on the country, and, what is
no object—a few pounds on himself. What says
Alderman Vett ?
It is not generally known that the eldest
son of the late John Mitchel (the celebrated Irish
nationalist who was .transported to Tasmania in
1848, with Dr. O’Doherty, of Brisbane, and others)
was killed by a shell from a Federal war-shio,
among the battered ruins of Fort Sumter,
whose defence had been entrusted to the young
captain of Confederate artillery ? With a handful
of brave men he held and fought the crumbling
batteries of tho fort during thirteen days of in-
cessant bombardment; and the memory of his
stubborn defence and heroic acts is yet green
among the people of Charleston, in the beautiful
cemetery of which quqipt Southern city he lies
buried under a weeping willow, at his head a
monument commemorating how he fought and
died for the “ lost cause.”
Vanity Fair has a cartoon of the Hon.
Alfred Lyttleton, the cricketer. He is the eighth
son of the late Lord Lyttleton. The Hon. Alfred
is crioket mad: the late Lord L. was mad, without
the cncket, and it was rumoured that in the hot
weather he used to kill as many as two valets a
quarter. Lord Lyttleton's end was compassed with
a razor, and “ he died much regretted in diplomatic
circles ” The present portrait is by Pelligrini
(“Ape”), and is merely a broad and long caricature.
“Jehu Junior” concludes an eleven-line par. re-
specting him (and are not eleven lines enough for
any cricketer d aette heureb with the following
characteristic touch:—“lt is as one of the lights
of English cricket that he is best known, and espe-
cially as a wicket-keeper. He is considered one of
thebest of the amateur players. He is very popular.
He recently lost his overcoat.”
Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, in replying to
the congratulations of many friend*, published in
the Critic on his 75th birthday, said, amongst
other things: “Speak as indulgently as you may
to one who has crossed the dead line of the
Psalmist’s reckoning, he cannot forget that he is
sitting amid the ruins of the generation to which
he belongs—himself a monument, if not a ruin,
on which all but himself can read the inscription.
Let not the critic weigh too nieeiy the value of
the praise bestowed upon him. A few year* will
ohill and quiet all the excited superlatives which
overweening fondness has lavished in his honour.
In the meantime, a little overpraise comes too late
to do him any great harm. The breath that stirs
his slumbering vanity brightens the fire upon his
hearth, but fans no dangerous tiame of self-love,
as it might have done in earlier years. And even
the shrivelled centenarian loves a word of praise—
it is the sweetmeat of his second infancy.”
M. Louis Ducrot, M.D., of West Maitland,
has published a Proclamation (his own phrase) in
the focal paper, to the effect, that it is his “ firm
opinion that Cordini, lately executed for murder
at Deniliquin, was innocent of the crime for which
he suffered, and therefore died a judicial martyr.”
This is a very grave charge—all the more so that
it is made by M. Ducrot, whose reputation for
logical acumen and clear-sighted sagacity has
passed into a proverb in the district in which he
dwells. M. Ducrot is naturally sad at the fate of
his departed countryman, but he has taken a
serious responsibility in making his opinion public,
and plunging the jury who tried, and the judge
who condemned, that unfortunate man into the
gloomy gulf of remorse, and maybe into untimely
and ill-constructed coffins. But if .it were neces-
sary to the peace of mind of M. Ducrot to do so we
have nothing to say. The world would lose too
much by his mind not being at peace to let any
consideration stand in the way of such a consum-
mation. And if this could not be effected without
the warning that wound up his proclamation—
“ French colonists should take notice that their
lives are hourly in danger ’’-we accept this, too,
with the rest. But we think M. Ducrot should
have specified that the warning was not intended
for his patients. People are so apt to misunder-
stand,
It appears that at last one Australian is
becoming celebrated, and has attained a celebrity
which has reached even America. Sir Henry
Parkes, of course ? Not a bit of it; when Sir Henry
travelled through America, tho N. Y. Chamber of
Commerce was moved by some busybodies to
give him a dinner, and the members as a body
took no notice. Marcus Clarke? Pshaw! Marcus had
only genius, and owed Aaron Waxman money.
Sir Dan Cooper ? Not at all. Nobody out of Aus-
tralia ever heard of Sir Dan. See here, now:—
An American newspaper says that “ Lord Ruperts-
wood, of Victoria, is reported to be richer than
W. H. Vanderbilt. He is worth more than
£40,000,000, and his wealth is rapidly increasing
He inherited a great estate from his father
including millions of cattle and sheep in Au-
stralia. His residence in Melbourne is said to
be the most magnificent in the world. It cost
£800,000.” “Lord Rupertswood” is Sir William
John Clarke, of Rupertswood, the first resident
Australian Baronet, whose father, “ Big Clarke ”
started as a cattle-dealer in Tasmania, then bought
largely in Victoria, and made great sums by
advances on station property to needy squatters
“ Big Clarke ” was undoubtedly far and away
Australia’s wealthiest son, and lived on about a
fortieth of his income. Sir W. J. Clarke is tre-
mendously rich, and Rupertswood cost a pot of
money; but he is as a minnow to a Triton as
compared financially with “The People b e
damned” Vanderbilt.
In England, a woman upon
the death of her husband co-
habited with the husband’s
brother—whom according to
British law she could not
marry—and a son was bern to
the parties. Upon the death of
the natural lather the son
actually went through the legal
process of marrying the mother,
and in the eye of the law became
to all intents and purposes the
legal husband of his own mother.
Three m onths after the marriage
the mother died, leaving all her
belongings to her legal husband,
thereby avoiding the 10 per cent,
legacy duty which would have
been chargeable had she be-
queathed them to the same man
in the person of her illegitimate
son.
Avondale, the home of Mr.
the Irish leader, an unpreten-
tious-looking roomy stone home
of two and a half stories, ig
situated on a gentle slope of the
River Avonmore, in Wicklow.
The large hall, unlike that of
the “ fine old English gentleman,
all of the olden time,” is hung
around not with pikes, and guns,
and bows, but with odds and
ends of ail kinds, immense ant-
lers of the now extinct Irish elk,
ancient spears, shield and arm-
our; Canadian snow shoes, and
addresses innumerable from
every city, town, and county in
Ireland. A massive old billiard
table, on which are thrown in a
careless heap several skins of
different animals, one of a Polar
bear brought from America
some years ago, stands in the
middle. The library is particu-
larly interesting with its rare
and goodly collection of old
books; some of them used in
the old Irish House of Commons.
Here, too, may be seen a chest
of polished oak, containing a
complete set of carpenter’s
tools, presented to the Master of
Avondale by the ladies of Rath-
drum, carpentry being one of
his favourite amusements. In
the old-fashioned drawing-room
abundant evidences are found
of the gratitude and affection
of the Irish at home and abroad.
In one corner of the room is
a beautiful crimson plush arm-
-chair (readily adjusted into
a couch), a gift of the ladies of
Cork ; a pretty rosewood music
box, the present of some Dublin
ladies ; an exquisitely-wrought
casket of silver, gold-lined and
egg-shaped, which was sent as
an Easter egg, containing 100
guineas, by some of the people of
Liverpool; an eider down, Rile
green satin quilt with a mono-
gram on its centre (another gift
while imprisoned) from the
generous - hearted Liverpool
ladies ; a solid casket of oak
mounted in silver of peculiar
design, which was given by the
people of Limerick with the
freedom of that city; and lastly,
three great emu eggs, sent from
Australia, one each to Miss
Anna, Mrs. Parnell, and Mr. Par-
nell, in recognition of their
devotion to the cause of Irish
nationality. These eggs are set
on pedestals of silver, richly
carved with raised figures of
the wolf dog; round towers,
and other emblems of national
significance, and were brought
over in the care of the Messrs.
Redmond on their return to Ire-
land a few months ago. i r °J“
the windows everywhere may
be had a glorious view of bill
and dale, mountain and vane),
unsurpassed in grandeur or
beauty. Beautiful drives and
walks are some of the many at-
tractions on this estate or jar.
Parnell, and at one extremi V
where the rivers Avonmore an
Avonbog meet, leaping, bu "
blimr, and rushing m tneir
onward course to the sea, 1s t
grand old tree under who
sheltering boughs Tom Mo
wrote his never-to-be-forgot
exquisite poem, The Meet l g
of the Waters.”
Henry Cocker, of Dunedin, has expenenc
the difference between the law and the gospel,
a moment of abstraction (literaily) h , e t°o* *
a quantity of rings and things froni .ft 1 ® his
jeweller, forgetting to ask for the bill or leave ms
address. But when he recollected himself an
lessons he had learnt at his mother s knee, “
went at once to a Harmy meeting and coni
his indiscretion. We suppose, for thecream g
nature, that he had disposed of the ba o
by that time. He expected, and naturally
too, that after hearing his confession they w
have made him a Colonel at least. A“?
doubt, they would have done if a
had been standing at the door had not o ing
made him a prisoner. Henry Cocker m now 0 .»
his three months and there is no joy to speak e ([
Heaven over his repentance. If this is
of encouragement that is given to contritesine
then we don’t wonder that the Devil is ncaru
worked to death. .
The other day someone wrote to an
paper: “Suppose you did abolish all mu
aristocracy would be as powerful as ever.,, woU id
Percy,” says the author of the suggestion,
have all the social deference of the Duke °L thin g
umberland.” There is some truth in this. « the
is so really aristocratic as an ancient surna q{
truest aristocracies, as of old Rome, or v ,? rea liy
Berne, did without titles. And no doubt the re r _
ancient pedigrees of many of our 1 ®®„ ame f r om
gotten through the separation of the surna Cut
the title and the constant changes of the K
the particular illustration selected is dec l rr-he du.ll
fortunate. There is no “ Percy VortbuO'*
historic truth is that-first, the Duke of Rorunuu


Useful Tonic for Digestive Organs.
93 Collins-street Bast, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l have carefully examined the
samples of Bavarian Hop Bitters which yon
sent to me. They contain some useful tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
be quite free from any deleterious ingredients.
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a fine aroma, their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already reoommended
them to several of ray patients. Wishing you tbo
success you deserve,—l remain yours truly,
GEO. LB FEVRE, M.D.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Obstructions of the kidneys and attend-
ant organs will prove fatal if not removed by Hop
Bitters. Read.
The free use of pure perfumes acts as a
safe-guard against all infectious diseases; thus it
is that in those sick rooms where MURRAY and
LANMAN’S FLORIDA WATER is constantly
sprinkled, perfect safety is Insured to every mem*
ber of the household.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone OHAJfr
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. 0T Agents fof
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplier
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements!
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged tot
buying. 10T* Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stoek.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ere#
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stook-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrie
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Ser package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O-
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c., &0., by return post.*
FIRE!
FIRE r. FIRE-PROOF PAINTS.
BY permission of His Worship the Mayor and
Aldermen,
A GRAND DISPLAY
will be given of the
WORLD-RENOWNED FIRE -PROOF PAINTS
(manufactured by the United Asbestos Co.*
Limited, London, only),
MOORE PARK,
Monday, November 17th t
at 2.30 p.m.
A SMALL WOODEN VILLAGE will be ereotedi
part of which will be COATED with the
above PAINTS. Each house will be partly filled
with COMBUSTIBLES, and FIRED. This will
DEMONSTRATE the FIRE-RESISTING QUALI-
TIES and GENUINE VALUE of the PAINTS.
Had the Health Exhibition, London, not been
painted with these paints when the recent fire
broke out, it would undoubtedly have been de.
stroyed with all its valuable contents. Seventy
tons used on Fisheries Exhibition. w
Special Tra’cs will leave Bridge-street soon after
2 o’clock, stopping at usual stations in Elizabeth,
street.
Tickets for enclosure can be obtained at
T. R. HOGG & CO.’S,
71 Clarence-street,
_ , . Bydney,
Sole Agents for Australasias
P.S.—These are the only FIRE-PROOF PAINT*
which proved their qualities at PUBLIC TESTS in
all parts of the world, and can only be
from the Bole Agents, stained
;t. R. HOGG & co.
berland represents only Sir Hugh Smithson, who
called himself Percy after his wife’s grandmother
or greatgrandmother; and, while the Percies were
satisfied with being Karls, Smithson got George 111.
to make him a Duke. Thereisin the Anti-Jacobin
a parody of “ Chevy-Chase ” beginning—
“ Duke Smithson of Northumberland.”
Mr. William Neil, who was mulcted in £6OO
nnd afterwards committed for perjury, is agentle-
mun towards whom, if we feel ajy sympathy, it
cannot be said to resemble, to any large extent,
the “quality of mercy.” What we like is chivalry.
We inherited this adoration of the knightly from
G p. R. James, and, we cannot but think, in call-
ing the young lady a story-teller, William’s con-
duct (independent of his other actions) verges
very closely on the brusque But, in denying the
evidence in toto, Mr. Neil has only followed the
ordinary precedent despite the somewhat singular
fact that “on April 21 she (Mary Ann) was con-
fined of a female child, which was taken care of
by the aunt of the defendant.” So far as we are
concerned we have not been in the habit of taking
our aunt into our confidence respecting little mat-
ters of this sort—one reason, probably, being the
dexterity she has acquired in the art of heaving a
saucepan-lid; but, we must proffer in a mild way
a deprecatory protest against the Judge’s ruling.
Why if this sort of thing is to be the order of the
day we shall have no further use for half our pic-
nic tickets.
“Henry Nightingale, or Lord of Himself,”
a novel just published by Chapman and Hall, is a
charming book. The stage is crowded with charac-
ters, who move about in a delightfully unconven-
tional manner. The lawyer kisses his client and
calls her “old girl,” at which point the author
allows that “ there is a tinge of ’ Arry in his na-
ture.” Another follower of the legal profession
masquerades about Leicester-square with hooded
cloak, spectacles, false beard, and fez. The
doctor’s wife addresses her husband with “ Hush,
viper, hush!” Another of the fair sex, in whom
the author can see no vulgarity, “as the word
ought properly to be used,” smokes, drinks un-
limited brandy and soda, and tells her suitor,
“Bertie you are like an awkward waiter; you
cannot manage to get the cork out.” Besides
these, there are some characters of greater refine-
ment who now and then stop at a critical moment
to air a few lines of Alfred de Musset or Heinrich
Heine. Poor Henry Nightingale has many ups
and downs in life, but he comes out of them
victorious as Governor of the Island of Triple
Peaks, and—horrible to relate!—Knight of the
Order of St. Michael and St. George.
Mr. Dale, the well-known aeronaut, ac-
companied by his wife and a gentleman, has just
had a marrow-freezing balloon adventure. The
party ascended at Edinburgh on September 20.
The day was misty, and soon after hi# ascent Dale
found they were steadily sailing along, the party
being scarcely able to recognise each other, owing
to the density of the fog. When it became clear
that they were drifting towards the German Ocean,
he lowered the balloon 1000 feet. It then seemed
certain that a descent must be made on the water.
A steamer was seen, but it took no notice of the
mronauts, and a sailing vessel also passed without
attempting any assistance. Ultimately a steamer,
four miles off, was seen making for the endangered
balloonists. The balloon was now kept close to the
water, but it was driven faster than the steamer,
and the car struck the water with great force, and
beeame nearly submerged. The occupants were
drenched by being dragged after the balloon,
which rolled very much. Ultimately the steamer
got near to the balloon, and a boat was lowered—
the most welcome sight, Dale says, he had seen for
years. The party are little the worse, but the bal-
loon was seriously damaged.
The following is the grog score of an un-
lucky navy lieutenant recently court-martialled
In England for “drunkenness:”—“Aug. 13, Three
and a half glasses of brandy, one bottle of ale, and
five minerals; 14, five and a half glasses of brandy,
one bottle of ale, and six mineral waters; 15. one
glass of sherry, ten glasses of brandy, one bottle of
ale, and nine mineral waters; 16, one glass of port,
ten and a half glasses of brandy, and eleven mine-
ral waters; 17, one glass of sherry, two of port,
nine and a half of brandy, and nine mineral waters;
18 one and a half of brandy, two bottles of ale, and
three mineral waters.” The lieutenant was found
guilty, and dismissed his ship. The English race
must surely be degenerating in the auid countree,
for up north of this continent there are lots of
people who would consider the foregoing just
about half enough to begin the day on. Here is an
episode from a recent naval court martial. Prisoner
called his servant, an ancient mariner, for the de-
fence-—“Did you see me in my cabin at about a
quarter to eleven on the night of the 23rd ?—I did.
Was I drunk or sober ?—You was sober. A pause.
Then a member of the court: Are you quite sure
he was sober ?—Yes, sir, he was puffectly sober,
and left orders to be called early in the morning.
Another pause. Then the president of the court:
Did he assign any reason for wishing to be called
early ?—Yes, sir; he said he was to be Queen of the
May.” The oflicer was not acquitted.
Thomas Jones is the rather unpretentious
professional name of the new tight-rope performer
wbo made such a successful debut and created
such a furore by his scientific and dexterous
strangling of the late Mr. William O’Brien in Mel-
bourne Gaol on the 27th ult. Mr. Jones is a man
of about fifty years of age, strong and tall, wears
his whiskers d la Imperial, and taking him on the
whole—or the drop-is altogether a far superior
man to his predecessor, Mr. Upjohn. He was
taken from his home at Pentndge (where he has
resided for many years) on trial, solely for the
purpose of giving Mr. O’Brien a really good and
comfortable send-off to the land of the Great Un-
known. O’Brien made no statement as he stepped
along, merely taking a bushman’s look at the sky,
and remarking that he “thought we d have ram
before night,” and in less than half a minute from
the time he emerged from his cell he was dangling
(as the Nooze carefully tells us) a lifeless corpse.
We are not well posted in the usual business of
executions, but we notice that considerable stress
is laid on the fact that on the occasion of Mr.
O’Brien’s abrupt departure, Mr. Jones thought-
fully “soaped the rope.” This, we believe, is a
luxury not usually allowed to the gentleman on
the drop; and, therefore, Mr. Jones s little atten-
tion shows that he possesses a kind and feeling
heart. We wish him every success in his new
career, and are pleased to find he takes such an in-
terest in his new profession. As Cicero once re-
marked, “No office can give dignity to a man; but
it is in the power of a man to give dignity to any
office.” Mr. Upjohn has got the bullet, and in
all probability will now enlist in the Salvation
Army or cross over to this colony and glide into
the world of politics.
James Brennen, of Anvil Creek, has been
hammering out a chant for the Coalopolitan
Hanby, about the kid who was recently lost in
the bush at Minmi, and discovered (per favour of
a dream that God vouchsafed to a local maiden)
near dark Dog Hole, encamped in a hollow log.
•fames is pretty fair at description, but tis when
he hymns the moral or wakes the religious senti-
ment that he deserves the bun. Here is the gem
of the pome—
•“ At length all hopes were beginning to die,
As do one thought he could live so long;
.But o’er him still was the watchful Eye
Of Him who shieldeth the weak and strong.
‘Yes, every moment that Eye was there,
Watching each winding step he trod:
'Charley, whenever you join in prayer,
You should bless the Eye and the Hand of
God! ”
• That “ blessing the eye ” is a pleasant ringing the
■change on a less reverent optical remark. James
winds up with the conundrum “ Was it mother or
child who suffered the most ?”—which, before we
essay to answer, we should like to know the size
of her foot and thickness of her ,slipper. When
the heir was lost (in Hood’s truthful ballad) bis
mama declared, “I’d give the whole wide world,
if the world was m ne, to clap my two longin eyes
on his face, for he’s my darlin* cf darlins, and it he
don’t soon come back, you’ll see me drop stone
* dead on the place. I only wish I’d got him sale in
1 hese two motherly arms, and wouldn 11 hug him
and kiss him.” But when the heir was twigged
brought back, the maternal note was changed
to: “But let me get him home, with a good grip
of his hair, and I’m blest if he shall have a whole
bone in his skin 1” Such is life!
Some “ Earthmen,” strange little beings
from the Kalahari Desert, in the African interior,
have arrived in London. These small people pre-
fer to sleep in the sand, regardless how many lions,
tigers, and other beasts of prey may be reposing,
or even restlessly wandering around them. It is
only in the rainy season that they seek shelter, and
then they steal it: for, driving out hordes of ants
from some hill they have made, a whole family
will pack themselves therein. The head of the
family in London is N’co N’qui (captain or chief),
aged 35, and measuring 4ft. 6in. N’arbecy, his
wife, is live years older and half an inch taller.
This worthy and evidently affectionate couple are
said to be a giant and giantess in their own
ountry. The remaining four consist of N’flni
N'fom (the chief’s favourite dancer), aged 34, and
4ft. lin. high ; N’co, a humorous and fearless
youth of similar height; N’icy (whose name is sug-
gestive of burlesque), a pleasing little girl, aged 13;
andN’arki, son of N’oo land N’arbeoy, an infant
with a charmingly-shaped mouth and a fascinating
smile. N’arki, though six years of age, has to be
still nursed by his fond and most attentive mother;
indeed, according to the habits of Earth-infants, it
would seem that N’arki has still two years of his
suckling period to run. Their limited oral con-
versation is of a most unoouth and clicking kind.
The chief describes, by means of appropriate
snorts, shrieks, puffs, and symptoms of nausea,
his rail and ocean journey to London, being really
clever. The “ family ” also show how they “ make
up” as ostriches, and ingeniously imitate the
ways of those birds in order to stalk them success-
fully on their native heath, which is sand. Though
Nature has not been liberal to these little people
in the way of noses, she has given them singularly
lithe and graceful figures, and hands and feet of
exceptional beauty and softness.
George Leybourne— “ old ” George Ley-
bourne—as the motley crew styled by courtesy
“music-hall artists,” reverently called him, has
run his earthly course. The pace has killed, and
the lion comique ” has dropped out of the track.
This item of news will revive memories of youth-
ful giddiness in the breasts of men who are now
almost old colonials, for it’s something like twenty
years ago since the “Great George Leybourne’'
invented a new type of music hall business, and.
dazzled half drunken audiences with the splendid
impudence and audacious inanity of his so-called
MUS. DOC.
LANDLADY (to Lodger): “BEG PARDON, SIR, DID I UNDERSTAND AS YOU WAS A DOC-
TOR OP MUSIC?”
LODGER: “I AM, MA’AM. WHY?”
LANDLADY: “WELL, SIR, MY BULLY ’AVE JUST BIN AND BROKE HIS CONCERTINA,
AND I THAWT AS ’OW I SHOULD BE GLAD TO PUT A HODD JOB IN YER WAY.”
“songs.” More than one respectable Sydney
paterfamilias will heave an Incidental sigh as he
recalls the keen delight with which he listened to
‘Champagne Charlie,’ in his young days “at
home,” and marvel, perhaps, “ that he could ever
have sat out such rot.” But there he does the
defunct cornique an injustice. However mean
may be the music-hall performers craft, there can
be masters of that as of all other crafts, and the
first among the masters was Leybourne. The way in
which he kept going for years after his constitution
was completely broken down by dissipation, was
astoundi g to all who knew [anything >of the man
“ off.” Fellow “ pros,” encountering George at
familiar daytime haunts, looked at his long
emaciated figure, palsied hands, and glazed eyes
with a kind of pitiful awe, and wondered how
such a living; corpse could continue tc> take his
turn at three or four halls nightly. Possibly the
poor beggar himself wondered most of all. At a
supper given in his honour, some three or four
years back, Leybourne made a pathetio little
allusion to his follies—“‘Champagne Charlie’
made me, and Champagne Charlie’s Stilled me,”
said he. That was unfortunately true; but of
other vices, so rife among men of his stamp,—Ley-
bourne had not more than his share, while his
generosity and willingness to do a good turn to
any of his struggling brethren, were proverbial.
Behind the gaudy waistcoat of the Hash music-hall
cad beat a heart which might (be trans planted to
the breast of plenty of men occupying v ery proud
positions, without any detriment to the new
owner.
Mrs. Mackay, wife of the American “ Bo-
nanza King,” is tne daughter of very humble
liarents in a Californian mining village. She got
ittle education, and while very young married a
poor druggist who bequeathed his bad constitution
to their only child -the daughter whose engage-
ment to Prince Colonna was recently annc'unced.
When her husband died, the lady who is now Mrs.
Mackay started a boarding-house in the rough
West. John Mackay, who had recently risen; from
a poor miner to the possession of a rich lead mine,
was told one day that the widow So-and-so was in
very destitute circumstances and that she did not
even have respeotable shoes to wear; and wir.hout
ever having seen her, he had the generosity to eend
her some wood and some flour. She wrote him a
touohing letter of thanks, by which he was made
to feel so much interested in her that he called to
see her. In a short time they were married. He
made money as if by magic, and soon built a
palatial residence. Fortune continued to smile on
him, until he was worth §40,000,000, when he left
Virginia City and went over to Paris, where he
secured a town and a country residence. As soon as
Mrs. Mackay was properly installed, having in the
meantime got a fair knowledge of the French
language, she began that demonstrative career of
which the rejection of her portrait, painted by
Meissonier, was but a single incident. It is easy
enough to see how such a woman might have a
loud and coarse voice, or have some other evi-
dences of a lack of early refinement; and it is from
those of Mrs. Maekay’s tribe that foreign writers
take their cue when they want to say nasty things
about American women. It seems that there is no
immediate prospect of the marriage of the so-
called Miss “ Mackay.” Mrs. Mackay seems to feel
it incumbent on her to have this same information
scattered abroad at regular periods of about six
months. As related above, Miss Eva Mackay is
really an invalid. It is not probable that she will
ever*marry, for that reason, as her malady is of a
very serious character. She is pathetic-looking
and not pretty, and there are few men who would
select so pale and delicate a creature for a wife, if
she did not have millions for a dowry She is of a
most retiring nature, does not “go into society,”
and is an ardent devotee to the R.C. religion. It is
considered more than likely that in the long run
she will enter a convent.
J. Henniker Heaton is now proceeding |
through Europe iu a perfect hurricane of glory. 1
Kings are his ordinary boon companions, and
Crown Princes his cronies. He has shown off be-
fore as many crowned heads as a prestidigitateur,
and, probably, with as much, if not more, ap-
plause. The ordinary ruck of the aristocracy he
does not associate with. One must draw the line
somewhere. With the generosity which has
always characterised him—an invariable attribute
of high breeding and noble blood—he does not for-
get his old friends in the days of his greatness, but
sheds some of his g ory on the humble and home-
staying Alfred, who has never seen a King—
except in a pantomime. To Alfred, then, he
writes from the capital of Denmark, and Alfred
bejewels his columns with the letter. Ho begins
his glittering screed, does Henniker, with the
modest statement that, as he has “ twenty minutes
to spare ” (great creature 1 what a gorgeous popu-
larity he must have, to have so little time on hand 1)
he will devote those golden moments to his old
friend. It seems a small enough concession, con-
sidered in the abstract, but, as coming from Hen-
niker, it is a condescension to be proud of. We
regret and exult in the opening sentence: “The
London season proved too much for perfect
health, and ft was necessary to fly.” We regret
because of his health (that precious life I). and
exult to thinlc what a dazzling series of successes
the admission, implies. “ So,” he goes on to say,
in the gleaming sentences for which he is noted.
“Norway and Sweden were decided upon.”
Happy Norway and Sweden 1 And, beiDg on the
way to Norway and Sweden, he could hardly do
less than call upon his friend the King of Denmark
and the Royal Family. This naturally led to an
invitation to stay and meet the members of the
International Congress then being held in Copen-
hagen, some of whom were almost as illustri-
ous in their way as he—that is Henniker. Of
course he had no sooner made an appearance at
the Congress, than he was promptly and enthusi-
astically elected an honorary member. Professor
Pasteur (the most prominent physicist of the day)
did himself the honour of proposing him. Here
Henniker is kind enough to diverge from his
subject for a moment, and give us some informa-
tion about Pasteur. He says Pasteur has not yet
found a man who will agree to be inoculated with
hydrophobia. Pasleur and he became great pals
Heavens! a horrible thought flashes across us!
What if Pasteur ?—but, no 1 Pasteur has feelings;
Pasteur has sympathies: he could not, dare not,
be so cruelly cold-blooded as to have hydrophobia
designs upon Henniker. He would remember
(Pasteur) that Henniker is the hope of this great
country: that without Henniker we should—ah,
what should we do ? And Alfred—poor Alfred, he
would mildew into the tomb. He would put ashes
upon his head, and once more cut down the salaries
of his reporters. Let us here whisper a prayer
that the heart of Pasteur may be softened, and
that Henniker may be spared to us. ... We have
whispered it, and it has soothed us. We can now
go on to whore he gives us a pleasant synopsis of the
songs of the three Danish poets-laureates - (Three!
what a country it must be for liquor!)- composed
specially in honour of the occasion. The first
song, he says, pleasantly begins “ by asking the
visitors to see Denmark and enjoy her fresh air
playing on their lungs.” There is a lyric rapture
about this conception that marks the author as a
bard who would shed almost at much lustre on the
jERNELashe would receive from that luminary
of literature. We have not space to quote what
Henniker said about the Sagas of the other scalds,
but we have no doubt they will make him the hero
of a new Edda—(oh, a gay old philologic bird are
we!)—if he pushes the wassail-bowl about with a
fairly free hand. We can only find room for an
exulting reference to the refulgence- the steam of
splendour—which enveloped Henniker wLen he
rose majestically up from the prismatic platform.'
and, to use his own memorable words, “found
myself, as an Englishman, far and away the most
popular, particularly when I thanked them for
(riving us the Prinoess of Wales." This delicate
implication of an acquaintance with the daughter
of their King, and intimation that he approved of
her style, must have endeared him to the hearts of
his hearers. No upstart or parvenu— at least, none
that we have ever seen, or heard, or road, or
dreamt of, or desired to see, hear, read, or dream
of—could have made such a courtly speech.
From high-born lips alone could it have come.
The very coronal—the full and splendid flower of
all his glory we have yet to quote. Behold, and
grovel:—“The Russian Ambaisador introduced
me to the King and the Queen and to the Crown
Princess of Denmark, and their Roval Highnesses
shook hands with me most heartily.” And again:
—“ I had the honour of a short conversation with
the Crown Princess, who put a few questions about
Australia, and England afterwards.” This will
have to finish it. More, and you would be intoxi-
cated with magnificence. But we will add that,
if the Royal Family of Denmark—(This is the out-
come of remorse: we have been flagrantly men-
dacious through several inches of type, and we
think it is about time to give our conscience a
chance)—had only had the gloomy experience of
Henniker which we have had, the King would
now be going about with the key of the meat-safe
chained to his girdle and the royal crown nailed on
to his head, and the Lord Chamberlain would
wander about with a countenance of haggard
anxiety, and the regalia—according to instructions
received from his Royal master—painfully and
secretly plugged up in his ear.
* * *
The king of Armidale is much exercised
by the thought that the Government is rushing
headlong into bankruptcy bv voting supplies for
the Glen Innes-Inverell railway route, instead of
taking the TJralla-Inverell scheme, by which a cer-
tain person’s store would be greatly benefltted....
Frank Jackes, of the Free Press mysterious Are
fame, has allied forces with his old antagonist, Mr.
H. C. Antill, of the Armidale Chronicle, and
will take a leading part in the management oi that
luminary.
e e e
Lord Charles Beresford has been appointed
naval aide-de-camp to Lord Wolseley.. .The Roths-
childs have bought two pictures by Rubens from
the Blenheim Gallery for BO.OOOguineas.
stone in one day recently did 20 miles of mountain-
climbing — Lo*-d Ripon, late Viceroy of India, is
to be offered a Dukedom Mr. F. R. Lingham, of
Chicago, is the largest individual shipper of live'
stock in the world. His live exports of cattle to
Great Britain last year from the States and Canada
were more than 50,000 head.. .The Dublin Collector-
General of Rates has been empowered by the
Bankruptcy Court to claim the property at Cape
Town belonging to the noted informer, James
Carey, who was assassinated Fifty years ago, a
negro boy in Africa, who was captured by one
tribe from another, was sold for a cask of rum to
a slave-dealer. The slave ship, on its way to
America, was captured by a British cruiser. The
negro boy was educated, and is now a Bishop id
Africa, employed by the London Missionary
Society....Munkacsy, painter of the great picture
“Christ before Pilate,” is in a Paris madhouse....
Another madman, who is not in the madhouse, but
might bo, is the Duke of Hamilton. A lady having
casually mentioned she would like to see an opera
alone, the Duke bought every seat in the Opera
House at Nice, ana “Sonnambula” was per-
formed to her and him—an audience of tw0....
Lillian Russell, who, just over a year ago, was the
idol of New York and called the “Queen of the
Dudes,” is nearly forgotten. She is living quietly
in a remote part of London, with her husband and
—a baby.


Professional Directory.
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Theatre royal
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Qarnkk and Musgbove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo.L. Goodman
LEGITIMATE SUCCESS of NOTRE DAME,
received every evening with tumultuous applause
by crowded houses.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
UNAPPROACHABLE CAST OF CHARACTERS
The whole produced under the direction of
ALFRED DAMPIBR.
THE AUTHENTIc"aND BEAUTIFUL NEW
SCENERY representing PARIS IN IHE
FIFTEENTH CENTURY, painted by Messrs.
G nOKGK GORDON and J. HENNINGS.
PRICES: Dress Circle, Stalls, 3s.!_ Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house, at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
O
era HOUBE.
Xessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
PERFECT FURORE. CROWNING TRIUMPH
of the world-renowned
REMENYI The King REMENYI
HEMRNVI Of KLMKJNIi
REMENYI Violinists. REMENYI
Under Engagement and Allison.
is a very excellent and appropriate word with
THE
y which to define the playing of
GREAT HUNGARIAN VIOLINIST.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
THE REMENYI CONCERT COMPANY.
The Magnificent Bechstetn Concert Grand is
kindly lent bv Nicholson and Co,, George-street,
where Dress Circle Tickets can be secured.
Stalls and Parquette Tickets at Roberts , Tobac-
conist, adjoining the Theatre. , in
Admission-55.. 35.. and 2s. Carriages at 10.
O. NOBILI, Business Manager.
GAIETY THEATRE.
It Lessee Mr John Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Gigantic Success of Grattan Riggs as Barney
3’Toole in Falconer s Great Drama, I EBP L
day.” Arrangements having been made with
Mr. Charles M’Mahou for the engagement of
Ireland’s Great Comedian and Versatile Actor.
rO-NIGHT. “PEEP O’ DAY.” TO-NIGHT.
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
CADE MY OF MUSIC.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17th.
Re-appearance, after years of absence, of
RAINER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR !
AMERICAN WAR 1
AMERICAN WAR 1
Madame
Clarkml-MiriMi’s
GRAND CONCERT,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, 19TH NOVEMBER,
At the Protestant Hall.
Box Plan at R. Elvy and Co.’s.
Tho following Celebrated Artists have kindly
tendered their valuable.services :
Vocalists:
Signora L. P. M. FABRIS,
Madame ROZALIE MERZ,
Mrs. SPENCER (Lady Amateur),
and
Madame PAULINE RITA.
Instrumentalists:
Mr. JOHN RADCLIFF (the world-renowed
Flautist),
Mons. D® WILLIMOFF (the Distinguished
Violinist),
Mr. CHAS. HUENERBEIN, Conductor,
and
Madame KELLERMANN.
LITTLE ELSIE STANLEY-HALL
Will also appear, and twenty-four others of Madame
Kellermann’s pupils will play
HANDEL’S HALLELUJAH and MEYERBEER’S
CORONATION MARCH
On Eight Pianos.
Prices oe Admission :
Reserved Seats-Party Tickets, admitting Five—
Ope Guinea; Reserved Seats, admitting one, os.;
Unreserved Seats, 3s.
T| A N C I N G .
p5uF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh - street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing roomß, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior In ventilation,
goring floor, &c. No decorations required.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open
19th, 1885.
tlon to
DATE, MONDAY. JANUARY
Bhare or Let, Terms on applica-
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
j have been made to the above Hall, which is
w the most commodious place of entertainment
Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
1s thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
l people, and has a large Stage and Gallery,
nnle means of access and egress have been pro-
led • also thorough ventilation. Travelling
mpanios will find special facilities for giving
tertainments In this Hall. Terms moderate,
rticulars on application to the Secretary.
atik.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
OFFICES: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
8t earn era Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
YEN ETTA WALTZ.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c.
Printing.—lnvoloes, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
JEI upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAB CARDS this year
will be the tinest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere tritie, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming: Baths
(the *nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
0 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 2ls.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August,
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
isuoiua aiysa/ioim.
XT
SUV9I3 JO XOB V
: ALITVIORdS HIIO
•jfnotoo oqj up
sxNHwamn&aH .snaMOKs onv ooovhoi
jo jaom
-jiossy 7898 pan jsaff.iß'i oqj jdaii eq him. exaqM
‘sioqmßqo s.nßßJajjuj, jx9>j
‘q.©©iq.g i©q.imi3[ ©0
‘'ITTM nYJ
jb ‘sosiui9J ( i pajunjis
pun Mofj craNadO ‘suojjßd TAT
snoxamnu jo jsanbax eqj jb ‘seq aMVON "H J/lL
*os> ‘sooovqoj. ‘sjvßiq
ao saxaodwi
‘anYON T
WIZARD
OF
THE
r
♦
THE
NORTH’S
Changeable Pack of Cards.
THE trick is one that Professor Anderson
gained much reputation and money by, and
the wonderful changes made in the cards elicit
exclamations of surprise and wonder from all who
witness them. The changes are made simply by a
second person (chosen hap-hazard from the spec-
tators) breathing upon the back of the cards.
Cards complete, with Full Instructions, Is.
By Post, Is 2d.
I’m a Baddy; I’m in Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder ; and Before and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, fid. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d. „ ,
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. fid.; by post, 2s. fid.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. fid.; by post, 33.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. fid.; New Favourite, Is. fid.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On siDgle
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each. „ .
HORTON and CO., 4CI deorge-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, at 3 p.m.
HILL VIEW, WATERLOO.
COOZFEIR PEEEHOLDS.
Splendid Business and Building Sites, right at the Waterloo
Tram Terminus, nearly opposite the New Public School,
and Adjoining the Beaconsfield Estate.
Frontages to MAIN BOTANY HOAD Frontages to JOHNSON-STREET Frontages to VICTORIA-
STREET Frontages to QUEEN-STREET Frontages to RESERVE-STREET.
224 LOTS to Choose from. 20-FEET LANES to EVERY ALLOTMENT.
Only 10 per cent. DEPOSIT, 10 per cent, in 0 months, balance by 10 half-yearly payments at 6 per
cent. NO INTEREST charged if Whole Amount be paid up during first six mouths.
WITHIN A 2d. RIDE (by tram) OF THE CITY.
BATT, ROOD, & PURVES,
Have received instruitions from Wm. Coooer, Esq., to sell by public auction, on the
GROUND,
Next Saturday Afternoon, 15th November, at 3 p.m.,
PORTION OP THE FAMOUS
Cooper Estate, Waterloo, known as Hill View.
The SUBDIVISION of this valuable Property has been most carefully carried out
by Messrs. REUSS and HALLORAN, Licensed Surveyors, of 100 Pitt-street.
The allotments, 224 in number, have frontages to the main BOTANY-ROAD and
STREETS all ONE CHAIN (66 feet) wide, while every site has a BACK ENTRANCE
from a 20-feet LANE.
tSY“ The EMPRESS OF TNDIA HOTEL is on the Estate. The NEW PUBLIC SCHOOL is
nearly OPPOSITE, and the WATERLOO TRAM TERMINUS is CLOSE BY. The BEST BUILD-
ING LAND around the city. BUILDERS should wait for this sale.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON.
The Title is FREEHOLD, FREEHOLD, and the TERMS EXCEPTIONALLY EASY, viz.,
10 per cent. DEPOSIT, 10 per cent, in 6 months, balance by ten half-yearly instalments. Interest at
6 per cent.
If the wholo amount of the purchase-money be pai l within 6 months from day of sale, NO IN-
TEREST will be charged. PLANS are now ready.
Solicitors for the Estate—Messrs. IJETON and FAITHFULL, 88 Pitt-street.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES, Auctioneers.
G-unsler’s Cafe,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
November, 1884.
BY the present we beg to announce to our Patrons and the Public in general that our
New Premises, situated at 175 PITT-STREET, near tne corner of King-street, have
now been opened under the style of GUNSLER’S CAFE.
Thankful for the liberal support extended to us since commencing business at 110
King-street some nine months ago, we now present to our customers a place which stands
unequalled in the colonies for extension, comfort, and elegance.
GUNSLER’S CAFE will supply a wanr much felt, forming ia the heart of the city a
most convenient resort for Ladies as well as Gentlemen, whose requirements have been
carefully studied in the appointments of the new Establishment.
We simply invite inspection, and hope that the fame and success achieved by Mr.
Gunsler in opening a similar place in Melbourne about live years ago, may repeat itself
hero, and make GUNSLER’S CAFE the general rendezvous of the polite world of Syduey.
Yours, most respectfully,
J. F. GUNSLER & CO.
Purveyors, Caterers, and Confectioners.
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
WILL WAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
w
w
&
%
’ f
IH4 3
fab sA
1!
s£>
T$ ewT 5 JAM
m
h a eccs
fonn
S 5
COSTS 0U T 5°
»ti\ we-tij .» tß.^
mb *
Flcci) o' *2 fOWi-J)
SECURED at LETTER* PATEN*
\»UI Ml Alii N.
k i. *r
fAtf£Hrs v, Ci/*iysz=:
Yi/i/u.r’ ah
COM/nO'S 'll Pot/iTUt
ijitrs tom.-,
to/YOirioff i } '/>f\/ns fiout- mr
me. /host PftD*/ihbo£.
Slui.% Of* trip- //»/J/V7.
TUBTESAttT.SoIe Proprietor.
QUCCCS&OH T 6 CM f. R ALl£N&(* I
Street'
HARTFORD CrU-S.
Price-2oz. packets, 4s. fld. per doz.; single pounds, Is ; 234 His , 45.; fldoz boxes, Bs.;
lOdoz. boxes, 125.; 251 b. kegs, 275. Cd.
Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ & CO., 32 Bridge-st
Sydney,
SOLS AGENTS.


Boyd and King’s sale of land at River-
stone, on Monday, realised up to £1 per foot/
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
*4'
tiSsCl
BT THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention la acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in throe keys, and all the
parts of most difficult musio.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world thiß complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of costand crudeness.
It requires no skill to oxtraot from it any sort of
musio that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect acouraoy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of musio
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little oard-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment 1 han four times the price oan pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Bole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entranco to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
thepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all eduoators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effect for good is
boundlees. The love for musio which musio in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other*
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80s.,
and where good musio oan be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Bole Agents for Australia j
ORIENTAL GOLD COM PANT,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entranoe to Fruit Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “NotreDame” p. 8
Opera House— Remenyi’s Concerts.... ... .. id.
Gaiety Theatre—” Peep-o’-Day Boys id.
GLORY!
Say, what lies in that corner so dim ?
A hind of a singular heap;
Of its hat it wears only the brim—
Is it dead, is it drunk, or asleep ?
“ Oh I that thing,” said a pro., “ I opine,
With a hat that’s all gone but the brim,
Is a super, who got just one line,
And ’twas far too much glory for him.”
Then we answered that pro., ard we cried,
In a manner that really was tart,
“ We trust that the Three Great Allied
Will very soon give you a part! ”
** * *
It was our lot to go to the Gaiety to see
“Peep o’ Day” on Monday night, and we dis-
covered, both in the piece and its entourage, infinite
entertainment. Such a crowd in that theatre was
probably never seen before. It was packed and re-
packed; and, in consequence, the seats of even the
most obliging and aesthetic critics were rushed,
and a modest (but we hope conscientious) reporter
was relegated to a box of which the position was
all the glory-since it is impossible, unless a front
seat is supplied at this particular theatre, to gauge
the merits of the scenic artist. From what we saw,
however, and we endeavoured to see all we could,
the labours of Kinchela are luminous in their pic-
turesqueness. It is without a doubt at all that,
after his “ glen scene ’’—when it is considered he
has no “ scene-dock,” none of the mechanical
accessories so necessary to producing realistic
effect which scenic artists in great theatres can
command—he is a distinct rival of Gordon; and it
would be interesting to know what he could do
with the opportunities afforded by a stage like
that of the Royal.
* * *
“Peep o’ Day ” is a drama that is moder-
ately consistent. The special interest in the piece,
of course, centres in the Barney O’Toole of Mr.
Grattan Riggs. Mr. Riggs is entertaining in this
Eiece; but he would be more entertaining still had
e his company under better control. It is but fair
to state, ho vv ever, that on the night we assisted at
the representation of “Peep o’ Day,” the audience
positively crowed at Grattan, and that his “ God
save the Poor!” melted the house. Every actor
makes mistakes, and, we really think, a lack of
concentration militates, to some extent, against a
performance which has certainly art; even if it
lack repose. Mr. Riggs, however, has knocked the
crowd with his Barney O’Toole, and that’s quite
uflicient for him.
« • *
The cast of the piece ia one that means a
heavy “ treasury.” Mr. Henry Jordan played the
part of Stephen Purcell, the villain, and, in the
first act he was an astounding spectacle. He
appeared in a green velvet highwayman's coat,
violet breeches, and delusive boots. His wig was
an outrage, and his hat an insult. In consequence
of the purse he carried, any man would have been
acquitted with acclamation for assaulting him
with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Have we
to tell Mr. Jordan (and a hundred others) that be-
cause he plays the villain in the piece he
has not to be assertive in his scoundrelism,
but to imply in his interpretation of a part
all that the author wishes to advance. Mr.
Jordan is quite old enough to learn; and
we trust he will do so. Mr. F. C. Appleton
made a good Harry Kavanagh (you all know the
story), but his enunciation, in his endeavours to
make it distinct, became artificial; and thus he
missed some of his best points. Harry Stoneham,
however, made a capital old man as Father Grace,
though his diction, also, was a trifle deliberate.
Harry is rather a hero, by the way. He has the re-
putation of being a kind of homely gourmet, and is
dead mashed on dough-boys. Well, one Sunday,
when Harry was leading man at the Queen’s, he
boiled a batch of dough-boys—intending, of course,
to load up himself and the family. In a moment
of abstraction, however, Harry left the saucepan
in the yard, and while all his family—like that of
Bob cramming spoons into their
mouths so as not to shriek for duff before their
time arrived to be served, a felonious female
neighbour slid in and copped saucepan, dough-
boys, and all. But mark how Nemesis overtook
her:—
Bold Harry quickly lumbered her
(Let him be crowned with bays):
He didn’t get his doughboys, but
He gave her fourteen days.
We feel that some of the foregoing is hardly
dramatic criticism in one of its most distinct
phases—but we excuse ourselves on the ground
that any reminiscence of a distinguished per-
former is of interest to the public. Look, for
instance, at Joseph Hatton’s book about Irving.
* * *
Mr. Hasker made a rather feeble priest,
and his knocking down of Black Mullins was re-
ceived derisively. Mr. Poole, however, was very
funny, and his make-up entirely concealed his
identity. Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield had a good part as
the Captain of the Patrol; but an affectation of a
dialect, which is no doubt popular in the Strand,
completely spoiled an impersonation which
might otherwise have been effective. To pass
(as we are rather in a hurry) a number
of the unknown who figured in the piece,
we will pass on, with a beating heart to the
ladies. Miss Ethel Adele enacted Kathleen
Kavanagh, and her appearance was surprisingly
attractive—the more especially alter the first
act, when she appears in a garb of black, which is
contrived with much cunning. But it is not be-
cause Miss AdMe is attractive and we are sus-
ceptible that we can extend to her any special
favour. Indeed, we don’t feel much like it, be-
cause our susceptibility has brought for us a
splendid impression of a flat-iro i on the back of
our head, and is invariably conducive to derisive
queries on the part of an estimable person (in
S' ns) as to when we intend to purchase new
for the children.
m * *
Miss Adele, then, to break a par., stands
out in contradistinction to Mr. Riggs. She doesn t
lack repose, but overflows with it. And she
sings, too ! "Savourneen lleelish, and sings ali o/
it We have no doubt, whatever, that Miss AdMe
could sing charmingly in a nice snug little parlour,
14ft. x 9ft.; and though we don't say—we are too
polite to do so-that her voice (a pretty voice) is
not powerful enough t.o fill the Gaiety we might
suggest that in future performances she should
not sing quite all of it. That gushing young thing
—she is getting more juvenile daily—played Mol-
shee, and had to make up ugly (which wo were
grieved to see); and had, in the course of her im-
personation, to sing a song ( Shan Van Voght )
which we were grieved to hear. Miss Oliver hadn t
much to do, and what she had t?. do curiously
conventional. Miss M. A. Melville (the Mary Ann
of our souls) played two parts. She was very sick
in the first act, and was supported (in a double
sense) by the whole strength of the company. She
afterwards rallied wonderfully; and, in.the Fair
Scene danced a jig with great spirit. Miss Emma
Fischer evinced intelligence in her interpretation
of the nart, of Mary Grace, and, she has a wav of
always pointing one toe d la Columbine, in the love
scenes, which is charming. It makes you almost
wish you were a harlequin.
• • •
It is estimated that “Peep o’ Day” will
run for some time, and Charley M Mahon is un-
decided whether "Arrah-na-Pogue or The Fairy
Circle ”is to succeed it. The season will last three
•weeks longer, when Grattan goes to Parramatta,
prior to opening at Sandhurst (V.) under Charley s
management. And Charles is especially anxious
that we should state that for his Sandhurst and
Hobart seasons he has engaged Maggie Knight as
leading lady; and that, at Hobart, Signor Majeroni
is one of his stars, and ” Fedora “is to be the piece
de resistance. In connection with the Gaiety, it
may be lemarked that Georg© Coleman, manager
for Mr. Reeve, has nothing to do now but keep
guard over the safe in the office, and flout impe-
cunious literary men who come there to sell critical
marmalade for shillings—or sausages. Charles—
we seem to be writing a deuce of a lot about this
gentleman lately—has purchased for lawful cur-
rency “The Wages of Sin” and “The Lights of
London.” This man will stick at nothing. He’ll
be for buying Dampier and his two kids next.
** * *
Talking of Dampier reminds us of “ Notre
Dame,” of course; of the gay Phoebus who makes
such unblushing proposals to Esmeralda, who,
while she says “ I will not consent,” consented; of
(it’s rhythmic to roll on with semi-colons) the
vicious Claude Froiio, who first smites Phoebus
under the fifth rib and then, (which we must ever
deplore) evinces conduct of an ultra-giddy nature
with regard to Esmeralda: of Quasimodo, who
strives to be guttural, but whose voice is always
(he can’t help it!) so singularly rhythmic; of Simp-
son, who is what Harwood used to call a sarsapa-
rilla troupe all to himself; and of,a host of things,
and of people who are all (Dr. Neild) “pleasant,”
if not exceptionally artistic. We don’t know what
is coming next, but a creeping thought dawns
upon us that it is “ The Workman.” if that be the
case, Dampier is “ no more officer of ours.”
Notwithstanding the extreme—indeed, al-
most sickly—courtesy which this journal invari-
ably extends towards jadies (both plain and
picturesque) of the dramatic profession, we con-
fess that we are well content to part with the
sisters Lanyon; that we must own that it is not
without a sigh we part from their manager, the
ancient Warburton. This is principally because
the “Aged P.” —we quote Mr. Wemmick —is
Eossessed of a strong, if not consistent, sense of
umour. As a matter of fact, he has, in bringing
out the ladies Lanyon, proved himself to be of
facetiousness a master, and we have much pleasure
in glorifying Mr. W. in consequence.
* * *
It seems that the ladies in question are
pupils of Mr. Hoskins, and very fine buxom-look-
ing young people they are. They are about to
UNDRESS UNIEORM.
MRS. BUCKSOME: “ARE YOU READY TO START, DEAR?”
MR. B.: “YES; BEEN WAITING FOR YOU THE LAST TEN MINUTES. WHAT A TIME
YOU TAKE! WHY DON’T YOU PUT ON YOUR DRESS, OR SOMETHING? SOMEONE
MAY SEE YOU THROUGH THE WINDOW!”
MRS. B.: “NONSENSEI HOW NEAR SIGHTED YOU ARE BECOMING. MY DRESS IS ON.”
tour the colonies, and it is needless to state that
they “ put up the stuff ” themselves. They com-
menced their rustic campaign on Monday last at
Parramatta; and, indeed, we are really glad the
Lanyon ladies commenced at Parramatta, because
their experience of that place would probably
cause them to yearn rather less after acting than
before ; and they would, in consequence, be
enabled to bestow more in charity. Mr. Hos-
kins, however, has evidently bestowed some
paiDS upon these young people, and he has
succeeded in teaching them to act a very
great deal. It is a matter of opinion, of course,
whether acting a great deal is a blemish or
otherwise; but we believe, if we could act in such
a great degree as these ladies, and journalism were
no longer available, we should return to our old
love—the ice-cream cart. But granting, for the
Bake of argument, that Mr. Hoskins had taught
these ladies to perform artistically, it would
be too much to suppose that he would be
able to instruct them in the business of select-
ing a company. The crowd these ladies have
gathered around them are so ill-balanced that
they are picturesque in their unfitness to
interpret, according to our lights, such a play, for
instance, as Knowles’ “Hunohback.” Mr. J. B.
Steele is certainly capable of rendering Master
Walter in a manner which, if it be not artistic, is,
at least, satisfactory. But, on this occasion, the
depressing influences of his surroundings were
evidently too much for him, and his performance
was (to us) a source of silent sorrow. The two
sisters, Gwen and Marie, respectively played Helen
and Julia with an amount of aplomb that was sur-
prising. It was plain to see that they enjoyed
themselves .very much ; and that they didn’t care
twopence what the rest did, so long as they
could give it straight to the pit for three solid
hours. It would be unavailing to speak of the in-
dividual efforts of the other performers in this
“very tragical mirth,” since they were all so
heavily handicapped for want of rehearsals and—
everything. The entertainment, in a word, though
sad enough to be depressing, was not grotesque
enough to be amusing. Sincerely—though not
sternly orthodox in our religious opinions—we
feelingly advise the Miss Lanyons to ohange their
minds, and “ put it in the plate.” But they won’t.
They know what the love of acting is. ‘Tis not'a
“ fad:” it’s a disease.
*# * *
Madame] Charbonnet-Kellermann gives a
grand concert on Wednesday evening at the Pro-
testant Hall, and has the assistance of such an
array of talent as should ensure an attendance of
social evening dimensions. The ladies are Rita,
Fabris, Merz, and Mrs. Palmer, besides little Elsie
Stanley-Hall, a musical child-wonder whose
parents have to lock the piano to restrain her
passion for practising. Radcliff, Willimoff, and
Charles Huenerbein also play, and Madame Keller-
mann herself will also perform. By the way,
Kowalski, now resident in Paris, where he is much
more thought of than ha seemed to be by Sydney
folks, told a friend of ours there that, in certain
features of her playing, Madame Keliermann can
compare favourably with even the tremendous
Rubenstein. The particular feature referred to
is the production of “singing” effects on the
pianoforte.
** * *
Mr. Rainer (who, by the way, is worth
£30,000) opens with his diorama next Monday, the
17th, and he has requested us to state that he will
give away presents to the value of £3OO a week.
We complimented Mr. Rainer on his prospects,
when he replied that he considered it season-
able weather for the time of yeir. We taen
enquired if he had heard Remenyi, when the old
gentleman replied that he didn’t consider £4 a foot
dear for it, considering the position and its near
approach to the sea-board. Lieutenant Hermann,
the ventriloquist, who is his business-manager,
then screamed—” What is it you call your mansion
in Melbourne ?” And he replied, with a smile—
“ Yes ; I think sausages and mashed potatoes as
good a thing as we can have for supper.” And
talking of—dioramas, Thompson has returned from
the Cape one blaze of brilliants, as usual; and
having won £2OOO on the Melbourne Cup, intends
resting.
** * *
At the Academy, Mr. Fleming Norton
continues his phenomenal success. His illness has
almost entirely disappeared. It is the audiences
who are now poorly.
The Town and Country Journal of
Saturday last (November Bth) gave a highly artis.
tic and commendatory criticism of Madame Char-
bonnet-Kellermann’s concert held at the Protestant
Hall on the Wednesday preceding (the sth Novem-
ber). According to - the Jernau the performance
by Madame’s pupils of “ Handel’s * Hallelujah
and Meyerber's (sic) ‘ Coronation March ’ on eight
grand pianos was a remarkable feature in
the programme,” the proficiency attained by
the girls reflecting “the utmost credit on
themselves and their gifted teacher. Mr.
John Radoliff “ discovered exquisite melody
on the flute,” while Messrs, de Willimoif and
Huenerbein showed their usuai proficiency.
“ The vocal part of the concert was sustained by
Signora D. P. M. Fabris, Madame Rozaliu, Mrs.
Spencer (a lady amateur), and Madame Pauline
Rita. Nor must the praiseworthy efforts of a
chorus of Signora Fabris’B pupils be forgotten,
and a special tribute is due to the merits of little
Elsie Stanley Hall, who is certainly the most pre-
cocious of Madame Kellerman’s many promising
juveniles.” There was a ring of originality about
all this that led us to believe Alfred had secured
a new musical “ cricket.” And when we whisper
that no (such concert took place in the Protestant
or any other hall, that Charbonnet-Kellerman, the
melodious Radcliff, the proficient Willimoff, the
effective Huenerbein, and the musical Mesdames
Fabris, Rozalle, Spencer, and Rita, do not appear
till Wednesday, the 19th November, it will be seen
how the enterprise of the Jernau oan dis-
tance all competitors. On the night when the
gifted virtuoso of the Town and Country heard
Radcliff and Rita warbling at the Protestant
Hall those artists were in Queensland, drinking
iced water and bashing the first mosquitoes of
the season. We never knew before why the
leaders of the “ perfesb,” who visited us were so
anxious to get a good word from Alfred. We
know now. A “send along” from one who can
write with such esprit of a performance that
never took place, opens up a new department of
criticism.


PEPPER AND SALT.
We have frequently had occasion to re-
mark that existence must be an exceptionally gay
thing in Tumut, And the following quotation
ftom the letter of a Cbidowla correspondent of
the TtrMtJT TiMteS rather Confirms our opinion
than otherwise. Here it is “ The body of a man
Was found stretched across a log in the river close
by hete bn Monday morning, the 13th inst., and
thobgh notice was at once sent off to the police the
body lies there still. The man is supposed to have
been drowned three or four months ago. Besides
this, persons have been shot at fiookham, and the
public school set fire to. This is a nice state of
affairs.” We should say it was. Quite a merry and
convivial state of affairs, in fact. It was only a few
days ago that the body of Susan Knapp, the ser-
vant girl who drowned herself for love of a police-
man-merciful Powers I—was found, after being
The
manner in whicu Cupid Bmitb will spand
his vacation.
Speaker Barton will seek a r complete
change.
S»r H Par kef has re- y
signed, aad will spend his \
declining years in declining \
further public honours,
Hon. Mr. Dailey will improve
the opportunity for cultivating 9
flowers enough to supply him |
with button-hole bouquets to last i
through the next session.
1 ftePAIRS NtSTIY f«ECUTfD
Our modern Cicero will fill his mouth
with pebbles, and practice speeches about
"repudiation ” on the sea-shore.
Mr. O’Connor will with-
draw " behind the ourtain.’'
Mr. Melville will now be able to attend to his
I'eg'lar business—which has, no doubt, missed him.
Several regular costomers await him.
Mr- Triokotfc will rt be present 11
at meetings of societies for the
promotion of everything, Pro-
bably the amateur photographers
will have him uext.
Mr. Taylor, still in the
spring-time of his career,
will wander amid the
eoenee of his childhood,
; reflecting upon the great
! future that is before him
—" If he takes care of
hhaaeil."
Messrs. Wisdom and Buchanan will spend
their vauation strolling through the Botanical
Gardens to study the statuary.
Mr. B. Combes, C.M.G., will join the Great United Anstralasian (Sky-blue
Out-dour Sketching Association, Limited. Mr. Combes does not recommend the
yolks of eggs for toning down sun-set effects; and has Long since discarded the
use of axle-grease as a vehicle for painting in oils.
In Recess.
five weeks in the river. They don’t mind such a
trifle as a man or woman disappearing up there.
What is the use of looking for them ? If they are
in the river, they will drift ashore some day; and if
not, why that is all the worse for the coroner. As
for complaining about J;he neglect of the police in
such cases, the thing is manifestly absurd. Is a
constable supposed to go and soil his clothes
dragging a river for a body, which in all pro-
bability will have nothing on it worth keeping
even when it is found, while there are drunken
men in the land ? The idea is preposterous. The
Government doesn't go to the trouble of provid-
ing men with long beards and large feet for work
ofthiskind. It provides them for-ah, what does
It provide them for ? Perhaps to play dominoes
and drink surreptitious beer for a lew years, and
then get the gout and the usual terrace of houses.
It is a gay existence anywhere; butinTumut—
in the midst of drowning and shooting and incen-
diarism— it must be a career of exalted glee. The
man in these days who would be a burglar when
he might be a policeman, is an idiot of the most
expensive type.
* * *
You must go to the North for hospitality.
There is none of the niggardliness of the city out
on the great free downs. We quote an instance of
this prodigal profusenees from the Daily North-
ern Standard:— “ A buyer on a station out West
a few weeks ago concluded a bargain for some
5000 fat wethers, and forthwith struck his camp in
the vicinity of the station (not being pressed to
accept of anything in the shape of hospitality)
While waiting for the muster, his party ran short
of rations and sent up to the station for a quarter
of mutton, which was duly supplied. The bill
was subsequently duly presented for the whole
flock purchased, and at the foot of the account
was the item, ‘ Qr. mutton 91b at 3d., 3s. 3d.’ The
original transaction, it may be mentioned
amounted to over £2000.” There you have it now!
The squatter might have taken advantage of the
position of the buyer, but he didn’t He gener-
ously let him have the mutton at city rates. We
suppose if the Dook of Manchester called at that
station he might get the mutton at half-price.
But he would have to cook it in his coronet. This
kind of squatter is no respecter of persons.
• . •
This item is a free gift to the temperance
lecturers:—“ Of ninety-two samples of water ex-
amined in one year by the Municipal Laboratory
of Paris, sixty-three were pronounced dangerous.”
We do not—though they might suspect so at first
—use this as an argument against the advocates of
temperance. On the contrary, we use it against
the publicans. It is fatal evidence against them.
It proves that the liquor they sell is harmless until
adulterated—with water! Then it is a deadly
poison. The moral of this paragraph is plain. Let
every good Christian and father of a family take
his liquor straight, and the world wilA become a
healthy and a happy place, and the undertakers
will be reduced to burying each other.
* *
If Shakspeare or Milton lived in these days,
they would probably be in the poetical advertising
line. There is more poetry nowadays in descrip-
tions of building allotments and paragraphs about
soothing syrups and sauces than is to be found in
all the books of song. Whenever you open a
country paper and wish to see the editor at his
best—in the full flower of his fancy and play of his
genius—look for the notice about the arrival of
the dentist, or the paragraph heralding the coming
circus. It will not do to judge by the paragraph
written after the circus has gone. We take one
sentence from an advertisement about pictures,
which it seems can be made from “any small gem
picture, old card,” or—if it came to a push—we
suppose, old shoe-sole. Says the advertiser “ To
keep fresh the memory of a deceased or absent
friend, nothing can be more suitable than to have
one of these Life Sized Enlargements to ornament
your parlour.” There is a blending of pathos,
delicacy, and business about this which is inimit-
able. There is pathos for the deceased friend,
delicacy for the absent friend, and business for the
Life Sized Enlargement. There must be little
taste for the beautiful In the breasts of those who
could not be “ touched ” for the price of a picture
by such touching words. Yes, on the whole, we
have no hesitation in stating that! the poetry of
the future will be chiefly published by the bill-
sticker.
* * *
Mr. Johnson, the brand new Viotorian
hangman, has earned golden opinions from the
Press by the neatness, smartntss, and general
business ability with which he carried out his first
gruesome job and made-to speak all iteratively—
his death-dealing debut. The morning dailies
across the border vied with ono another In ex-
pressing their appreciation of this heaven-born
artist, but the evening dittos went a little further.
They went almost into hysterics. Thus we gather
from the Melbourne Herald that “the execution
of is understood to be hia (the party by
the name of Johnson’s) first experiment In that
particular line, and it must be said that it was
carried out with commendable dexterity.” In
another column we learn that the commendable
dexterity mainly consisted in “ dislocating the
spine ” of the gentleman experimentalised upon,
so we cannot but consider that the liberal en-
comiums bestowed upon Mr. Johnson are tho-
roughly well deserved. Reverentially we quote
the words of our friend Rip Van Winkle, “May he
live long, and prosper.”—
GOOD NOOSE.
(Dedicated to Heavy Villains )
Oh, murderers of Victoria!
What comfort for ye herel
In future ye’ve but little need
The felon’s death to fear;
For ye no cruel ling’ring pangs,
When downwards ye depart
The papers state that Johnson hang#
With such consummate art.
So, murderers of Victoria,
Go blithely on your ways—
Reflect upon the pleasing end
That now awaits your days;
Since dislocation ol’ the spine
Is paiQless (Science says),
All peoole in your “ special line ”
Should Bing the praise of J.’s.
In Japan rich persons have a h’gh respect
for dead catf. The report of a regal cat's funeral
com6B from Yedo. The coffin was covered with a
white s lk pall, and a body of chantlog priesta
followed the cortege to the grave. Later on a
handsome monument was erected, onwhicn wa»
inscribed the many virtues of the cat. Wed rattier
attend a cat's funeral by day than hear it slDg
night.


BRIEF MENTION.
The last friend of the Australian man of
;etters: The coroner.
Journalistic item. The sharpest articles
in the Echo are written by—the scissors.
Parliament is pro-rogued. Yet Parkes re-
signs his seat. But Parliament is also pro-Stuart.
The Conservatives -will (when they get in)
make Salmon Wilson a Peer. Caligula made his
horse a Consul.
The time was—the man got on a bust and
lost his balance. The time is—the bank gets on a
hust and the man loses his balance.
The Manning River Times says “ the tick
is a dangerous insect.” This flash of wit, we pre-
sume, goes out with the quarterly accounts.
The adaptation to environment which the
Darwinians speak of has at last reached the press.
The proprietor of the Bowral paper is called Beerl
The Mudir of Dongola made a K.C.M.G.
for his eminent betrayal of his country. The
order was always a dirty one: now it’s mudir than
ever.
Says the Armidale Chronicle man:—
“Plenty of evil-speaking, lying, and slandering
going on in Armidale.” Well, why doesn’t he stop
it ? We mean his paper.
A Wilcannia magistrate lately stated from
toe Bench that the pena'ty for conviction of
habitual drunkenness was six months. This is the
way towns are depopulated.
Braidwood Minstrels gave a show a few
nights since. ’Tis said the public recognised in
one of the corner-men Creswell. Just because the
latter is a lunatic, we suppose.
They say the valet of the Duke of Man-
chester is a greater swell than his master. We do
not wonder at this. He could hardly help being
so—he is so often taken for the Duke.
The days of miracles are not past. A
sailor nearly “ kieked the cheek off ” an apprentice
at Newcastle the other day. You can see it in the
local papers, if you won’t believe us.
The Casino brass band played for two
hours when the railway news came to hand, so the
residents packed up beer and sandwiches and went
out into the wilderness to give vent to their joy.
Junee Junction is now called “Loftus.”
The inhabitants are never tired crowing about the
change. We candidly confess this is the meanest
joke [ls it a joke ?— Ed. B.] we have ever written.
Lord Wolseley takes with him £3OOO worth
of angling tackle to catch fish in the Nile, where
the only fish are crocodiles. He also takes fifty
Iroquois Indians to scalp the Mahdi, whose hair is
shorn close.
There was a great storm m Penrith lately.
It uprooted the little glory shop of the Harmy and
blew it away—ah, yes—to blazes. There is some
comfort in knowing that the Harmy will be aole
to find it again.
“Confound that band!” cried Smith on
the excursion steamer on the Prince of Wales’
Birthday. “ What’s your objection to the band ?”
asked Jones. “Objection!” retorted Smith; “why,
because I’m fond of music.”
From an esteemed contemporary:—“ The
Principal of a high-class school would be pleased
to receive a young lady, for one, two, or more
years, in exchange for piano.” We have a cart-
load of pianos to exchange at this rate.
“Hallo,” said the room mate of a Rum re-
porter, the other night, “ what in blazes d’ye mean
by going to bed with your boots on ? ’ Then he
caught him by the heel to drag him out. But he
had not his boots on: it was oniy his feet.
There is one saloon in Hamburg for every
seventy-one inhabitants. Happy Hamburg I As
all good Americans when they die are said to go
to Paris, we suppose all good journalists when they
spontaneously combust will go Hamburg.
A canvasser for a country paper got
bushed a few weeks ago. He was discovered
afterwards on|an ant-heap. “ Eaten by ants?” you
say. No such thing. He was only asleep. The
ants had not eaten him— but he had eaten the ants!
We gather from the Gundagai Herald
that the Adeloxg Miner has no fixed policy. We
are grateful for this information. This is no time
for a young natioa to have its judgment warped.
Be one thing or another. At present the Miner
is another.
The fat and leisurely old ladies and gentle-
men who are in the habit of prodding tram-con-
ductors with umbrellas &0., when they want to
get out, needn’t be afraid of hurting the officials,
who now, in view of this popular signal to wait,
wear pads.
The burial expenses of the Duke of Albany
were £2750. This was paid by the taxpayers of
Great Britain. Well, we think they had the worth
of their money. If (Before saying any more,
we shall have to look up the present penalty for
high treason.)
“ Is it wise to kill him ?” is a question that
headed an article in a late Echo. We did not read
the article, but we presume the question had
reference to the “Pith and Point” man. And we
answer certainly it is wise. Everything is wise
that is necessary.
A Southern reporter lost his note-book,
and in advertising for it said it contained valuable
articles. The opposition scribbler found it, and
out of curiosity looked the “valuable articles”
over. They consisted of a penny with two heads,
four aces, three loaded dice, and the leaf of a
prayer-book.
An old man kangaroo went to pay a visit
lately to an Adelong lady while her husband was
away. She shot him (the kangaroo) with a revolver.
Kangaroos are like men. The older they become
the less morals they have. Unfortunately it is not
yet lawful to deal with the men as with the
kangaroos.
A visitor to Melbourne draws the atten-
tion of the authorities to one great deficiency in
the civic get-up. He complains that the tops of
the buildings are not furnished with weather-
cocks. The complaint has excited indignation.
Leading men ask: Which of us does he want to
mount the roofs ?
The Comte de Paris having informed the
Pope that he had had a son born to him, the Pope
sent back his benediction. Then the Comte re-
mitted to His Holiness 10,000 francs. Our bene-
diction is obtainable on such occasions by payment
(strictly in advance) of 5000 francs. On other occa-
sions, we charge even less.
The Echo, in its report of the proceedings
at the prorogation of Parliament, observed that
“they were shorn of some of their usual grandeur,
the attendance of ladies being rather small.” We
highly approve of the term “grandeur” in this
connection. The women who usually attend on
such occasions have so much grandeur—of foot.
The latest Salvationist freak is to carry a
black coffin in procession through the streets, the
bearer singing—
“ Death is coming, and the Judgment Day;
Hasten sinner, hasten sinner;
Seek the narrow way.”
The next sensation is to be a big bonfire, repre-
senting hell.
We were turning an old file of the Alfred
the other day, and we saw this advertisement:—
“Loßt, a Football Boot, left boot; reward.” We
believe we have found this boot. We regret to
say though, that that we have made up a bed for
our dog in it every night sluce we found it. But
the owner can have it on application. He will
have t@ dispossess the dog first; but that is a trifling
matter. He is a gentle animal—a cross between a
bulldog and a bloodhound.
The newspapers published in that palmy
village complain that, although there.are ten or
twelve pressmen in Parramatta, there is only ac-
commodation in the Court House for three. But
then they should oonslder the spaoe taken up by
their lunches—and their boots—and their ears.
They oan hardly expect to have a oorridor all to
themselves.
The Thargomindah Herald (a Queens-
land paper) says, in puffing a travelling photo-
grapher:—” He is so well known here as a capable
artist that it is unnecessary for us to sound his
praises. Of course we will get the whole of our
staff photographed.” This will be a lift to the
photographer. And what a group it will be—the
editor and his keg I
Bierce, the clever prattler in the ’Frisoo
Wasp, says: “It is not known how the custom
arose of expressing a higher degree of reverence
by putting an ‘l’m the word ‘God.’” Bierce is
all right so far, but he might have explained that
it must have been a priest who conceived the idea
of expressing a higher love by adding a “ hell ” to
the idea of a God.
It is stated that if the Imperial Govern-
ment are promised the Irish vote on the Franchise
Bill, they have arranged with Mr. Parnell to dis-
miss Mr. Otto Trevelyan and “shift” Lord Spen-
cer. Our troubles, anyhow. All we want to know
is when G. R. Maclean and Mr. Riohardson are
going to be nominated for Carcoar. We have a
mind, now, above trifles.
The Camden Times man gave expression
the other day to the wild hope that his words
“would have the small effect of awakening people.”
Well, it is time. His words have put them to sleep
long enough. But, if he will take any advice from
us, we would suggest to him not to awaken his
subscribers too suddenly. If he does, they will
surely make a holocaust of him,
Sir Henry Parkes bragged of having made
the acquaintance in America of Jay Gould, and
has hinted about some big scheme in which Ame-
rican capital is to be employed here. London
Vanity Fair of September 13 remarks: “ Experi-
ence of the past has shown that anything with
which Jay Gould is connected is usually unworthy
of British confidence.” Verb. sap.
Says the Rum:—“The most attractive
sight on this earth is a beautiful woman, beauti-
fully clothed.” When that leader was first put in
type the last two words were not in the sentenoe
quoted. They were added by the moral editors in
council assembled. They feared that the public
might have thought that their fancy was a beauti-
ful woman without her—[Yes, yes.—Ed. B.]
“Well,” said Joseph, as he stared at
Parkes’s purchases in the Art Gallery, “they can
say what they like about Henery, but at getting
vorses and goblings for his sufferin’ country, you
can’t lick him. That there poreslum bole now is a
shade over. It might be real chaney for all you can
tell to the contrary.” Then he passed on to look
at the plaster cast of the “ Venus de Medicine.”
Here is an Australian reversible syllogism
which will be peculiarly appreciated in those
halcyon tundras through which the mad Murrum-
bidgee raves. Amantases to drink. He edits a
paper. He dies. A man dies. His oorpse takes to
drink. It edits a paper. And then the cruel
corollary :—The traveller passes by in a few years,
and weeps. “ Ah,” he sobbingly soliloquises, “ a
cemetery.”
The presiding magistrate at the Towns-
ville police court was presented, the week before
last, with a pair of white kid gloves. There were
no oases—not even one poor “ drunk.” The decs ’
denoe of Townsville has set in. Many people are
seriously thinking of selling out and removing
to Cooktown. There the copulation still get
drunk. They have to: the Independent is pub-
lished there.
There is a Messiah up North. He is an
informer. They wanted him to ebango his name,
but he refused. He is determined to get the benefit
of whatever is in it. Perhaps he will get more than
he bargains for. He might get crucified. But we
would hardly go the length of crucifixion in these
days. We are too civilized. If Christianity were
preached afresh, and it looked a payable thing,
R. 8. Smythe or Jim Allison would run it as a
show.
This is both for publication and as a guar-
antee of good faith. One of Alfred’s "crickets”
has been suspected lately of inheriting several
shillings, and was accordingly accosted the other
day by a brother genius, who said, “Lookhere,
old man, the fact is .” “He who steals my
purse, steals trash,” murmured the “cricket.”
“ Then, jam it,” returned the other, “give me your
good name. I must eat; and hominy’s better than
nothing.”
“I should like to know how to increase
my circulation,” said Fergy (how are you, Fergy ?)
to a friend the other day. The friend mused for a
moment, and then remarked, “ I could tell you
how to do it only you will scorn the suggestion.”
“ Let us hear it,” said Fergy impatiently. “ Well,
don’t write anything in the paper yourself I” The
seasons may come and go, and year fade into year,
but that man, though he live till the Judgment
Day, will never offer advice to an editor again.
We did not think there was such guile in
the world as seems to exist among the native
journalists of China. Here is what the North
China Mail says of them:—“They exhibit the
worst features of the Chinese character. So far
are deceit and dishonesty practised in the native
papers that, although their news is largely ‘ dished
up ’ from the foreign journals, yet they seldom
acknowledge the source from whicb they obtain
it.” This is shocking depravity, indeed. And yet
we would be sorry to say that Alfred’s paper was
run by Chinese.
A ourious old brass cannon was discovered
on Jones’ Island, north of Port Darwin, lately.
It was loaded. The question as to who left it
there is—says the Northern Territory Times—
a mystery. We see no mystery. Noah jeft
it there. He was afraid to discharge it openly,
so he marooned it. Tubal Cain used to make
cannons of this description in great quantities.
He was also the inventor of the pea-shooter.
Noah had a battery of those cannons i o keep the
elephants out of his state-room. He sold most of
them (the cannons) afterwards to the American
navy.
The Adelong Miner has a Paris corre-
spondent. He is said to be one of the best men
with the pick and gad between Tumut and
Tarcutta. But when he talks of “Sardue’s” new
play he is in the wrong drive. We wonder he did
not call him Sardine! Perhaps it is as well, under
certain circumstances, to stick to the pick and
gad. Still it is only natural the people of Adelong
should like to know something about the gay
doings in Paris, and have some light thrown on
the machinations of Bismarck and the dark ways
of European diplomacy. What is life without
news?
A gentleman in Carcoar—a gentleman
against whom, we confess it with shame, we long
entertained feelings of envy, he having reft from
us that Mary who was the idol of our souls—says
in the local paper that we “ published with hungry
avidity” all his copy till he “began to fix the
price.’’ It is too true. We own it. We published
it with a free and unhesitating hand—in the dust-
bin. He also adds that if he were writing for us
he would starve. This, too, is grimly correct. He
would starve to a spectre—unless, ah, yes, indeed
—unless he ate his copy.
The Cooma Miller—a little paper which,
comes out perseverlngly two or three times a
week with two or three dim old stories in faded
print—says, while writing some rather ill-natured
things of us, that he does not descend to the con-
duct of some newspaper men who “engage pho-
tographers to take iife sketches of the lower limbs
of their fair relatives.” What is all this to us ?
And even if he doesn’t, we daresay there are
reasons—either his “fair relatives” can’t be kept
still long enough, or the photographer refuses to
take their hind-legs unless guaranteed from in-
jury. We see no virtue in abstinence like this.
You have seen the gorgeous New Jeru-
salem pictures of townships of the future on
hoardings around the city ? Good. Here is a
figure from one of them. It represents a sale of
a township site in the country. We quote from
the local paper:—“An aged party in the fore-
ground is having a ehat with some young people,
and evidently in reply to a question from one or
the young ladies, he says, ‘ Ahl my dear girls, I
would not be begging to-day had my old man only
bought an allotment of this land when it was sold
so very cheap—oh, so very cheap!—just one hun-
dred years ago to-day!’ ” In such a case he would
certainly not have been begging. He would not
have been born. But his father would have been
begging!
SKETCHES CAUGHT ON THE PLY.
IN THE MORNING.
AT NOON.
AT NIGHT.
DURING BUSINESS HOURS.
AT CHURCH,
AT LEISURE.
Woman Items
The war between France and China will,
no doubt, soon cease, for false hair has almost
doubled in price, In 1882, 70,758 kilos, of hair were
Imported to France. The quantity in 1883 had in-
creased to 124,715 kilos., the bulk of which was
from China.
There are no less than three matrimonial
agencies and papers being run in London, and yet
the people are not happy. What we want to hear
is that the boys are running about selling the
Divorce News and the Co-Respondents' Her-
ald. Why should so large a section of the com-
munity be utterly unrepresented ?
There are no limits to romance. In a new
novel, “Her Irish Lover,” by Mr.;Alec Roy, the
heroine is represented as kneeling outside a gaol
while “her Irish lover,” an enthusiastic young
poet, is hanged; at the same time she is receiving
the attentions of an English substitute, who ulti-
mately marries her. Yes, some girls would flirt
with a mummy and make eyes even at the sheriff ’a
deputy.
The Bombay staff officers occasionally
want to know too much. A list of women and
children requiring passage home in a troop-ship
included two babies, with an explanation that, al-
though not yet come into the world, they were
shortly expected to do so. Whereupon a galiant
Brigade-Major sent back the list to the officer who
compiled it, directing him to have the sex of these
infants put in.
“ There is something about your daugh-
ter,” said the young man reflectively; “there is
something about your daughter ” “Yes,”
said her fond father, “there is; I have noticed it
myself. It comes every night about eight o’clock,
and it doesn’t go away usually till about eleven
o’clock. And some of these evenings I’m going
to kick it all the way from the landing to the
front door, and see what there is in it.”
A curious case of abduction—or elope-
ment—has happened in Paris. A gentleman went
with his two daughters, aged respectively 17 and 18,
to the Opera. There being no room for all three
in the same box, the two young ladies were ac-
commodated in one, the father in another, next to
it. During the intervals he saw and conversed
with his daughters, but at the end of the perform-
ance the party got separated going down the
grand staircase, and the girls have not been heard
of since.
The editor wrote: “Mi s. possessed a
form that a Juno might envy.” Next morning he
read in his paper that “ Mrs. possessed a form
chat Jumbo might envy.” He knew that there
would be trouble as soon as the lady’s husband and
her four brothers saw the article; and noticing
that there was a commotion about the house of
the lady who had such a magnificent form, he put
some biscuits L> a bag, bade his family good-bye,
and started off at a hand-gallop. He telegraphed
back, offering a reward for the scalp of the proof-
reader.
Fashion, says G. A. Sala, is, and has been
in all ages, a mystery. It is like Fancy. No one
oan tell with precision whether it is bred in the
aeart or in the head. It comes no man knows
whence, and departs no man oan tell why or
whither. The only certainty about Fashion is that
so long as communities are wealthy, the dress of
women will be exceedingly costly. Ido not pre-
tend to determine how expensive may be a lady’s
oall or dinner dress, but 1 maintain that it would
be with extreme difficulty that a gentleman could
put as much as twenty pounds’ worth of clothes
on his back.
A visitor to Quebeo says “ There are few
homely girls here. I don't claim they are all
beautiful, but I have seen none ugly. There is
something in the invigorating air and hilly walks
that gives them sparkling eyes, rosy complexions,
and elastic step, when they are asconding a steep
hill they don’t seem to mind; they don’t lag or get
out of breath; they don’t stagger or wobble, but
just go up as lightly as a lady across a parlour
floor. You can’t keep pace with them, unless
you’ve been brought up here. Steep streets, vita-
lising air, and plenty of exercise, form the secret
of the girls’beauty in Quebec." It’s ureatfunto
see a Sydney girl climb up a little bit of hill.
In|Dr. Crichton-Browne’s report on “ over-
pressure” in English schools, it is stated that one
official found, on the day of his annual inspection,
that “36 per cent, of the parents of the children at
the school were out of employment, that 40 per
cent, of the children came to school sometimes
without a breakfast, and that 28 per cent, some-
times came to afternoon school without a dinner.
In one school in which starvation abounded, it was
no uncommon thing for a poverty-stricken
mother, perhaps a char-woman or a flower-seller,
who had had to send her child to school without
food because there was neither food, money, nor
money’s worth in the house, to arrive at the
school-house in the forenoon, after she had been
out and had earned a few pence, and ask to be al-
lowed to hand in a piece of bread to her starving
child. These children,” continues the dootor,
“want blood, and we offer them a little brain-
polish; they ask for bread, and receive a problem!
for milk, and the tonic sol-fa system is introduced
to them.” Dr. Browne finds, in the deplorable
condition of thousands of school-children, the
origin of much of the craving for stimulants in
after life—the origin of many of the Buicldes, and
of much of the insanity and crime.


To the few yet unacquainted with the
fact, we would gently suggest that a profltable
hour might be consumed iu wandering over the
establishment of Bray Bros., 402 George-street,
where are now on exhibition a choice lot of elec-
tro plated ware, biscuit jars, &c., of iDgenlous de-
sign aud attractive pattern.*
It is still an open question whether the
people enjoyed the sports on Monday as much as
those favoured one’s enjoy the display of charm-
ing new Breakfast and Tea Bets that has beeft
attracting so much attention of late at the estab-
lishment of Bray Bros., 4052 and 404 George-street.*
Department of Publie Works,
Sydney. 11th November, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this offloe.
Additions, &c., Assistant Har-
bourmaster’s Residence, New-
CftStlO
rection of Police Barracks and
Officers’ Quarters, Young 1
Erection of Courthouse, Inver-
ell
Supply and Erection of an Iron
Bridge over the Murrumbid-
gee River at Comins Crossing
I®
(Toomas)
Additions to Shed, Newcastle
Wharf
Erection of Tank and Making
Dam, Cobar Water Supply
Collection and Delivery of Par-
cels in connection with the
Railway at Bathurst
Two Penstooksand Gear, Walka
Reservoir, Hunter River Dis-
trict Water Supply
Tuesday,
18th November,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Police Barracks, I
Deniliquin
Annual Contracts—Colonial Ar- I
chitect’s Department, 1885 I
Supply of Drain Pipes, Roads
Department, 1885
Supply of Quarry Tools, Rakes,
&c., Roads Department 1885
Supply of Blue Metal, Roads
Department, 1885
Supply of Timber Boats (clinker
and cervel built) for Roads
Department, 1885
Ironmongery, Roads Depart-
ment, 1885
Shipchandlery, Roads Depart-
ment, 1885
Bridge over Meregoen Creek at
Mundooran
Tank, Fencing, &c., Post and
Telegraph Office and Court-
house, Canonbar
Suppply of Engine Coal, 1885
Leasing,Working, and Maintain-
ing Shipping Appliances, New-
castle
Erection of Porch, Leading
Towers, Sydney Harbour
Supply of Building Stone, &c.,
during 1885
Additions to Free Public Li-
brary, Sydney
Bridge over Chain of Ponds
Creek, on Road Richmond to
Penrith
Tuesday,
25th November,
at 11 o’clock,
Additions to Police Barracks,
Wilcannia
Additions, &c., Police Police
Barracks, Walgett
Additions, &c., Courthouse, G os-
ford
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Offioe, Tarcutta
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house. Wilcannia
Bridge over Greg Greg River at
Island Crossing
Erection of Ladies’ Refresh-
ment-room, Botanic Gardens
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Urana
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Dubbo
Ereotion of Courthouse, Dubbo
Repairs, &c., old Lands Office
Buildings
Painting, &c., Boatman’s Quart-
ers, Newcastle
Tuesday,
2nd December,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
9th December,
at 11 o'clock.
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Repairs, &c.. Courthouse, Mer-
riwa
Erection of Gasworks Buildings,
£Lunatio Asylum, Gladesville
Tuesday,
16th December
at 11 o’clook.
Construction of Seotion 3, Mur-
rumburrah-Blayney Railway
Tuesday,
23rd December,
at 11 o’clook.
Manufacture and Supply
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
of I
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o’clock
F. A. WRIGHT.
T
ALL
WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
85F“ TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DIBCOYERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
8=2?“ Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
*
rf
&
£ AS
£
©
o
Sydney & fto/al Arcades
o
6
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited J from members of the
Theatrical Profession.']
This is written at a time when the world
seethes with amusements ; when every little hall
and “.converted” chapel resounds with the strains
of cat-gut; and when the sallow-cheeked'artist,
the black-flecked minstrel, and the assertive circus
man more than usually pervade the street corners;
a circumstance which more than usually adds to
the embarrasment of the lady promenader. But,
in all this wondrous wave of amusement, there
are here and elsewhere but few novelties properly
so-called.. Of “Romeo and Juliot.” in Adelaide, we
learn that it is drawing payable business And
Wybert Reeve is still at It at the Aca-
demy “The Squire,’’ the “Crushed Tragedian,”
and probably Count Fosco, and other novel trifles
to follow. Dunning’s crowd succeeds Wybert and
Christmas there; and Dave Clinton and Jessie Grey
and the “Vivian Company” are busking about
South-east and North respectively. A note from
one of Arthur’s company doesn’t seem to indicate
that he has been making over seventy million, but
there’s no knowing. And, to jog along, “ Professor
Anderson” is at Garner’s Rooms (or theatre ?) with
a new “World of Magic.” Everything in Mel-
bourne is in full blast, not a single cabotin being
without his little engagement, with the off chance
of the “ ghost ” wal king. Hiscocks, with the same
old mob, is at the Victoria Hall, and Dr. Njeild says,
grimly: “The list now includes Mr. Carroll, who
is not unknown to us.” The same authority, despite
his unfavourable notice of “ In the Ranks ” at the
Opera House, writes that “ it continues to enjoy
a large measure of success.” till] He also says—
in reference to the same piece— 1 * Miss Bishop’s
Ruth Herrick takes away, for a time, the rniso-
gynical which sometimes darkens our eyes, that
the race of good women threatens to be extinct.”
He then remarks on Miss de Grey’s ‘‘artistic taste, ”
and further states that she made “ quite clear ” the
“passion conflict” in “Moths.” Then we hear
about “ the light gracefulness ” of Maggie Stewart!
r 111 This is the very wheezing of the critical
“ lean and slippered pantaloon.” But come along!
Just a few simple rhymes. Allons!
TO “TAHITE.”
What is the screed, oh, answer, man—
What is the kind of stuff
That Bavours of the warming-pan,
That smells so strong of snuff ?
This is the vaoant kind of prose,
Though pleasing to each charmer,
That smacks of tallow on the nose,
A crutch, and a foot-warmer.
But we’ll forgive your want of wit,
That blank behind your forehead—
For we know well the cause of it,
The fascination’s horrid.
.. Let’s consider I Yes; Ned Millis is at Paliner-
Bton, N.Z., with the Girola yacht party ...And
poor old Dick Kohler, who used to play on so many
instruments, is said to have gone stark, staring
mad in ’Frisco. We hope this isn’t the case.
Kohler was a kindly fellow, besides being a clover
musician.... Liddy, another friend, has left Jennie
Lee (who has sold her wardrobe, and goes to New
York), and is now manager for Genevieve Ward,
in Christchurch... And, by the way, Mrs. H. R.
Harwood poisoned her foot the other week, and is
lust getting ill as the old man is getting better.
And nothing can stop Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis,
who is playing-think of thatl-Fatiraa in “ Blue
Beard, ,r at Timaru ...And, once more, some
journalistic ass puts forth that Patti contemplates
visiting Australia before retiring. Adelina wants
£BOO a night, and there is tno Australian manager
who could afford to give her £BOO in a fortnight.—
A truce to this, ye scrawlers, come 1
Ye are a sorry band;
Just tell us of (Bay) beer or rum,
For that you’ll understand.
And poor Georgie Smithson, who fractured
her arm in a coach accident at Arrowtown (N.Z ),
is progressing all right. The lady, however, fell
upon a Mr. Hennesy, “who was severely bruised.”
Oh, and the “vhic” company recently adver-
tised a “ben.” lor the Wanganui Poor-house, had
£2ti in, and nobly lavished a “ couple of quid ” on
the institution. The directors, indignant, at this,
wanted to pfiv© the 44 Gtaics M tb© bACk 5 but it
was discovered that only one “Chic” then re-
mained in Wanganui—who, however,’.was perfectly
ready to receive it.... Clarke and Ryman are still
in Auckland—catch them going back to Limburger
cheese again in a hurry!—and playing “ Under the
Gaslight,” and other jovial pieces. Well, perhaps
they are right; their humour was always lees
funny than their pathos.... We see that J. P. Mae
donald pilots the “ Fun on the Bristol ” company
to Dunedin, where they open on Boxing-night.
There was a funny story told of J.P. and tho
resthetic James recently. However... .But, talk-
ing of Melbourne. “The Merry Duchess,” even
with Emma Chambers, has turned out a complete
frost. Miss Emma first made a hit at the St.
James' Theatre in a not very bright burlesque by
Burnand called “Poll and My Partner Jo,’\ in
which she was the tiniest admiral you.could
imagine, and used to sing-*-
“ I’m an admiral, and so I shall
Do just whate’er I please,
And take a boat and get afloat,
And sail across the seas.”
And a lot more. This was fifteen years ago; so we
suppose Miss Chambers has quite cut her eye-teeth
bv this time.... And, hold 1 The Bell-ringers
(Lynch’s) are bearing slowly down upon us. They
were last heard of amongst the alligators. There
has evidently been some difference in the critical
poliev of the papers in Cooktown, for the Wonder-
ful Fowi.,eh says:—“Our blatant contemporary
might insult the company if his circulation extend-
ed beyond the line (sic) and a few pub 3. . . His
allusions to tho Vagrant Act (sic) were only a
muddled attempt to be witty.”... Jou must know,
too. the Victoria Amateur Dramatic Club is in full
blast at Temora, and the name of Edward Solo-
mon's new opera is “ Pocohontas, in which Lilian
Russell is to fulfil the title role ... Dismal accounts
reach us of Ada Ward in the “ Honeymoon,”
“ supported ” by Captain Disney Roebuck, who lor
a lot of years had the theatre at the Cape (and is a
military masher of “professional proclivities);
and “Called Back,” which we are soon to have
here if a rank failure in New York.... But little
“Lvt ” Sothern seems to be a good deal more in it
in New York than he was here, where the Union
Club and the Barracks settled his little hash. He
made a little money when he first arrived with Ada
Ward to do “ Les Danicheff ” (it was always Dam-
phpffs in the papers here), but he had letters or
introduction from Lord Lytton (his gx)d father),
which effectually “cruelled” him. The swells,
however, in order to get rid ot him (for he was
[retting a bit seedy and had a thirst for tenners),
give iothern a ben. at the Guildhall, and he Just
Sot awav. The old man was alive tnen, and was
written to, on dit by Vice-royalty, but the answer
came back from Lord Dundreary that he could
mA spare any of his hard earnings for his son s
minus vlaisirs. Lytton was a mce-look ng boy,
but quite devoid of intelligence, learning all his rdles
by note, and rather boring you than otherwise....
And did we tell you that Lewis and Davies’ circus
has been at 1 nverell ? No? Well, it’s a fact..... And
stiver King Jones’ new play “ Saints and Sinners”
was whistlld off .the stage of the London Vaude-
ville It will be remembered that we stated Mr.
Goodman, the treasurer of the Royal, had been ill,
but not dangerously so. We are sorry to state
that Goodie has been very bad, indeed, but con-
trived the other morning to crawl round to the
Royal, where Bill Seagrave is at present (heavy,
thbl) fulfilling this functions. Goodman is still
very bad;and his friends all told him that, if he
crawls round to the theatre much before he
braces up a bit, he will crawl up to heaven.
“ Churchman ” sends along the following
clip from the religious bill of fare published in
Saturday’s Morning Muffin, and indignantly asks
“ What next, and next ?” “ New Church, Sydney
Society. Subject, to-morrow evening, ‘Joseph’s
Coat: Was it of many colours, or many pieces, or
a long coat, or all three, or neither of them ?’ By
Dr. A. B. Walker.” Honestly speaking, that let’s
us out completely, and we frankly admit we do
not know what comes after Joseph’s Paget, be-
cause there is no evidence to prove he ever wore
eitner a shirt or a waistcoat. All that we learn
from “ Britain’s bulwark ” is that on a certain
eventful morn when the giddy old Mother Poti-
phar warbled into her male slavey’s ear [he was a
coachman, beyond a doubt] “You may ki-is me
and caress me and I won’t tell Dad-da,” and the
virtuous youth immediately skipped the premises,
the first thing that came after the collar of his
coat was the prize-ham like list of the baffled
missus, and the next thing that caught the tail
end of the garment—and caught it good, too—was
the copper-topped toe of the old man’s boot; but,
anyway, the New Church sermon looks remark-
ably like a cheap ad. for some of our master tailor’s
Spring goods. And this being so, Dr. Walker’s
next oration will probably be labelled “ The Chaste
Susanna. Did she patronise the Turkish Bath, or
Wigzell’s ? And secondly, did she use Bear’s
Scented Soap [patronised on the usual “ comish ”
by Lilv Langtry] Old Brown Windsor, or Rottie’s
Jelly Paste, sold in Is. tins and warranted to check
the ravages of Dandruff, Boils and Freckles?”
The idea's good, and opens up a new advertising
Held that is simply inexhaustible.
There is a plutocrat out towards German-
town who writes to the local press about the kind
of houses bank managers live in. in the bush. The
plutocrat describes some colossal structures in his
vicinity, and says roundly that the manager who
is sent to live in one of them, on the average
managerial screw, will not be able to furnish the
inside in keeping with the outside, and possess a
pure and undeflled soul at tbe same time. The
opinion may be right or wrong, but it reminds the
present writer of some bankers’ houses which he
knew in the bush, and, among them, of one, the
sumptuous elegance of which, externally and in-
ternally, a short anecdote will lay bare. Four of
us were enjoying a game of whist coming on mid-
night. It was in the consulting-room, and the
tables, chairs, and sofa were the property of the
Company, the manager supplying his own lights,
glass, and crockery-ware. The manager and teller
were bachelors, and they “ batched’’—that is, did
tneir own cooking on the premises. It was rather
a breezy night. The wind, coming through chinks,
made the candles run all to one side. There were
three of them on the table, and, as the Company
supplied only two candlesticks, the third candle
had been put standing iu the neck ul a boUlc.
This third candle was farthest from the teller, and
was burned down to within an eighth of an inch
of the bottle. Coming |to the close of a rubber,
the teller was noticed to be very fldgetty. He
would look at the bottle, and then behind at the
door, and then fall into a meditation. He was
asked to explain. “Well,” he said, “I was in a
hurry going out to shoot the other day: and as
there was a hole in the canister, I poured the
powder into that bottle, and hanged but the boss
has stuck the candle in the neck of it. It’s full.
Any fear of the lLht getting down ?” Oh, there
are some sumptuous bankers’-houses in the bush.
To behold them would raise beads of thanksgiving
on the brow of the Germantown plutocrat.
Judge Innes will have his little judicial joke,
even if it bursts him wide open to fire it off. At
the recent Hay Circuit Court, an impertinently-
curious young fellow named John Watson was
charged with feloniously entering the girls’ bed-
room at the Caledonian Hotel. There was no
evidence to prove that John went to do any par-
ticular deed that would disturb the peace ox his
Sovereign Lady the Queen or the Caledonian girls
either; and, in fact, the worthy Judge's sympathies
seem to have been with the prisoner from the
start, as the local paper tells us he “looked upon
the charge as incapable of being sustained, and
accordingly indulged in a running tire of merri-
ment all through the case.” And then we get
quite a tizzy little squib out of the “runningjflre,”
wnich says “ the question was how Watson got
into the bedroom, and that was left unsolved. It
was simply a mystery, and, as His Honor declared,
as great a problem to him as bow the apples
got into the dumplings was to George III.” Our
own humble opinion is that John tunnelled along
underneath the pathway and then came up through
the cellar; but, perhaps, the apple-and-dumpling
anecdote affords the best due, after all—the girls
simply laid John Watson on the floor and wrapped
the bedroom round him. Anyway, we are right
glad to find that the “ corner men ’’ of our travel-
ling nigger shows are not to have all the hilarity
to themselves in future, and that the usual mono-
tony of our Circuit Courts will occasionally be
relieved by the ‘’wholesome fun” of His Honor
Mr. Justice Innes.
The ‘ Polish ladies” sent as a deputation
to receive the Czar were all the wives of Kussian
officers and officials. David Buchanan’s old friend
Rochefort writes that (heir “tournures” were
carefully searched for dynamite.
A HALLELUJAH INCIDENT.
MAJOR CAESAR SMITH, S.A. Coloured): “YES, BREDDREN, ALL MAY BE SAVED. ALL,
MY BREDDREN. THERE ISN’T NO EXCEPTION. THERE’S SALVATION EVEN FOR
THE POOR IGNORANT TRISHMA."
A HALLELUJAH INCIDENT,
HEATHEN (furiously raging): “YE CONTIMPIBLE BLAGGYARD! INSOOLTIN’ ME
COUNTHRY, AND HAVIN’ THE MANENESS TO PAD THE IND OF THE ONLY BIT OF
A STHICK LEFT HANDY!”


A long-felt want has at last been supplied
to the votaries of the “fragrant weed,” by the
establishment of the Pall Mall “ Single Box ”
Depot, by that enterprising tobaceonist, Mr. J.
Noake, who has had over 20 years’ experience in
the business. The establishment, as its name
implies, is founded principally to supply our
smokers with a box of first-class cigars at whole-
sale price. As Mr. Noake imports direct from the
manufacturer, be is in an undoubted position to
supply smokers’ requirements. It is proposed to
carry on the establishment on the lines of the
famous Pall Mall Emporium of London, and with
the able management of Mr. Joseph L. Goodman,
the success of the venture is beyond doubt. *
One of the principal and most satisfactory-
signs of the position of Sydney among the great
cities of the world is the gradual disappearance
of the “general stores,” incidental to small com-
munities, to be superseded by first-class speciality
establishments under the management of men
who, devoting their exclusive time to perfecting
one article or branch, are able to supply the public
with the best value in that article. A leading ex-
ample of this truth is the old-established firm of
C. F. Priddy and Co., hatters, of 438 George-street.
This well-known firm has just finished some con-
siderable improvements, not only in their shop,
but also in their extensive factory; and the con-
tractors, Messrs. Milhs and Harder of Market-
street, having just finished their work, Messrs.
Priddy and Co. can now claim to have one of the
best appointed shops in Sydney, the whole of the
interior being now one magnificent display of hats
of every conceivable variety and shape—making
special mention of the case of their own unrivalled
productions, their hatshaving gained prize medals
at every exhibition at which they have been shown.
It is a substantial and gratifying proof of the ad-
mitted excellence of their hats that their trade is
gradually increasing both at home and abroad,
the latter being shown by their recent shipments
to Ceylon of their hats specially manufactured for
the Indian climate,*
Valuable Water.— The West of England
is favoured with riveis and streams, the waters of
which have certain remarkable qualities that
operate wonderfully to the advantage of the
numerous brewerß and woollen manufacturers
All the favourite sparkling ales that delight the
Britisher; owe their qualities to the pure, clear
waters; and West of England tweeds are world
famous. These woollen goods, on account of
their elastic warps, are particularly adapted for
boys’clothing; and, recently paying a visit to H.
L. Summerfield and Co., the Great Juvenile Out-
fitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-strer-t, Sydney, we were
shown various samples from their huge stock (the
largest in Australia), nearly all of which were
made from pure tweeds from the mills of Bliss,
Marling, Brown and Palmer, and other makers of
note. Messrs. Summerfield and Co. make a
speciality of a good, strong school suit at 10s. 6d.,
in sizes 000 to 6; and in long trouser suits for boys
of nine to sixteen, at 2ls., 25s., 30s. The goods are
manufactured and designed by their London
house, 51 and 53 Leadenhall-street, E.C.;
and those opened for the coming busy sea-
son consist of very pretty and neat designs
in the Lome, Greenwich, and Suetau styles.
A big job line in these shapes at 8s. lid.,
with some pure worsteds at 12s. 6d. and 15s. 6d., are
real “ eye-openera.” The fit is superb, and great
attention is paid to the making and trimming. Mo
rubbish is sold; each garment is stamped with the
firm’s brand—with the result the house does the
biggest trade in New South Wales. Saiior suits,
from pure Indigo navy serge, with llannel, lan-
yard, aHd gold badge complete, at 15s. (id., 21s., and
25s, in any size. In the order department, eight
high-class cutters are employed, and a very beau-
tiful stock of woollen goods is displayed. Gentle-
men can secure a suit in the latest West End mode
from the new masher Scotch checks or the fashion-
able coloured worsteds for £3 3s. For Ids. (id. the
firm supply a perfect fitting trouser, and recom-
mend the new West of F,ng)and stripes. Country
residents are promptly attended to; patterns, tape,
and self-measurement forms, sent post free on ap-
plication. Ladies residing away from town should
not fail to send for the Boy s Illustrated Cata-
logue, containing every information. Kemember
the address: H. L. Summerfield and Co., Merchant
Tailors and Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 237
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
PfIAMHOOP RESTORED I
A Ciergjman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure ot Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has ot last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will seDd FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addresseu
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P'o. Box 898, Sydney,
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Simon Pure”: Needs re-writing. How-
ever, keep on. We will see to that ‘‘A.E.W.”
(Maryborough, Q.): Shall endeavour tosuppy the
information. Thanks for encouraging remarks.
“Didymus” (Cobar): Certainly. Bolon him-
self would doubtless decide that a person is not
guilty of indecent exposure unless ne or she ex-
posed him or her self. Thehnagistrate who ruled
that a tipsy woman, exposed on the public street,
by a tipsy male friend, was not guilty, was un-
doubtedly a Cobar variety of Solon or of Solomon.
It is as clear as mud that if a fuddled pair choose
to be also a cuddled pair, the man may expose the
woman in the public street, and the woman expose
the’.lman.d yet neither be£guilty“of!iindecent ex-
posure, and no offence against public morals be
disclosed, whatever else may be. ..“ Ferd. Schlie-
mann ”: Rather long for our usual style, but under
consideration—“ F.H.” (Ullamulla) : Your long
letter of 9th Oct. duly received, read, and digested.
We shall be always glad to hear from you
“W.F.G.0.”: Certainly, send along. If suitable
we will supply. Present sketch has hardly point
enough “ C.W.8.”: Mr. W. Johnston, Deputy S.
Magistrate, sat alone in the Indecent Literature
case. Before, as you propose, his name be “ in-
scribed ©n a monument as the champion numb-
skull of the colony,” it will be necessary to bear
in mind that some of the books seized were really
indecent. The idiocy was in the charge including
other works which were only indecent in the
same sense as medical treatises or the Bible
“Subscriber”: Much obliged. ~.“A.S.” (Welling-
ton) : Thanks. Your items are interesting. We
have used them. Shall always be glad to hear
from you ...“A.J.L.” (Cloncurry): Your previous
letter was mislaid. We gave it to one of our
humourists, who put it into the lining of his hat.
The hat disappeared from public gaze for a time.
He has since redeemed it, Your letter has, there-
fore, again come to light. We publish the infor-
mation it contains in this issue. If you have any
more items of the kind on hand, send them gaily
along “Critic”: Oh, go and sleep it off
“ W.P.” (Bourke): You have given us a new lease
of life I You have, indeed. We were depressed
and; moody, drank our rum straight, and cursed
the world, when we received your letter. It acted
like magic. The assurance given;therein that our
GROVER CLEVELAND, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES.
THOMAS A. HENDRICKS, VICE-PRESIDENT-ELECT.
paper Is “ to be found In most tank-sinkers’ and
fencers camps in this district ” made new men of
us. We feel we can face the world again. We
have a respect for tank-sinkers. We boarded in a
tank once,7and offered up many a whisnered
prayer for the man who made it. _ Certainly we
did object occasionally to his having made the
hole in the top so small, but that was only
when we were clouded with abstract speculation.
And the fencers, too, we are fond of. We know
all about fencing. We used to practise it with
another journalist who has since gone off with a
circus, or got run o ver by a dray, we forget which.
He used to fence with us with laths we took out
of the lattice-work of a fowl-house in the next
yard. We were getting on very well when he was
“ lumbered ” and got fined. They wanted to make
out that he took off the laths to get at the
fowls. So, you see, we can quite understand
the aspirations of fencers. Your letter has
called up quite a lot of old memories. Write
pretty often to us, if you can spare time
from the shovel. We like to be cheered a bit
now and then. We have used your item....
“ F.F.”: The number of subjects of the Empress
of India is 256,000,000.... “Ronald”: The office boy
desires to be remembered to you. He doesn t
think much of your verses, but he has given them
to his grandmother, who is an old lady of feeble
intellect, and easily amused. He is obliged for the
envelope, though. He is making a collection of
old stamps. We shall take it as a favour if you
will, in future, address ycur letters to him....
‘C.B”: Thanks. You will see that we have at-
tended to the matter. “Justice”: Your sugges-
tion for a cartoon received. Too complicated for
adoption, but we are obliged for your friendly
attention....“lnquirer ” : You are right. We ve
noticed the same thing. When a hungry man
starts dinner, he’s a tierce Socialist. After a tew
comprehensive bites, his feeliDgs towards capital-
ists soften. At the second course, he is merely an
advanced Liberal. When the plum duff appears, he
thinks there is something in Conservatism. If
cafi noir is in the programme, he’s a pronounced
“ Jingo ”by the time ’tis finished. Then give him
a “Henry Clay” and nothing short of autocracy will
suit him. Yes, you are right. Whoopi.... ‘ln-
quirer No. 2” : getting monotonous. Let
us tell you once lor a'l we don’t identify ourselves
with Socialism. We never identify ourselves with a
cause we don’t thoroughly understand So far as
we do understand it, it aims at awarding the re-
sults of labour to the labourers, instead of to the
dead-heads. So far, we are with it. The truculent-
looking ghouls in stubbly beards, who are such a
God-send to the "comio” papers, appear to be the
mere draff and offal of the great Socialistic move-
ment, just as the howling dervishes of 1649 and the
furies of 1789 were of the English and French
Revolutions—“Parramatta”: We do not know
where the rules for “ pitch-and-toss ” can be
found, and your allusion to “ ringing in the tail
grey ” is Sanscrit to us. We’ve shown your letter
to everyone on the staff, but they never heard of
the game—“C. M’Carthy”: Received. Much
obliged for your good opinion “L.M.8.”: The
whole “par.” would have to be re-written, and,
candidly, it is not worth it. There is no earthly
reason why the elect should not occasionally be
unlucky in their matrimonial ventures, just as
publicans and sinners. A woman will stick to the
man she loves, however despicable he may be, and
deceive him she hates were he rolling in gold and
grace —“Percy B.”: You want to learn to swim
and don’t know how to start. We cannot assist
you, unless you intend to swim in beer. Drop us
a line if you do “Lex”: Pause, ere it be too
late. Many a promising young life has been
wrecked by devotion to the Muse :
“ See, people of Great Britain, and of her wide do-
mains,
See how ye’re held in Ibondage and in [slavery’s
clanking chains I
Awake I you men of spirits free; strike for your
freedom brave—
Strike for it hard against the clan—for vietory,
or the grave 1 ”
This is but a wee bit of what you send. “ Strike.”
Helas! We are weary of this constant slaughter.
Our cellar now is stuffed with the bones of men
who called on us with “little things of their own.”
There’s room but ! for one skull more. Thanks.
We knew you’d take the hint—“ Washington”:
Your poem, “ Life’s wild, raging Sea,” is a remark-
able one. The opening verse—we have room for
it alone—
“ O’er treacherous depths and wide shallows, in
the ocean of life,
With a varied cargo of happiness, regrets and
Through great waves of'[confusion and currents
of strife,
The frail barque of humanity sails.
Now it stems the wild rush of discontent [and
woe;
Now encounters the surge of despair;
Now tacks against winds of fate, whose long ad-
verse blow
Makes stoutest hearts on the ' ’tween decks ’
beware.-
“ Thus bars to progression and barriers to grace
Mark .strong the impression man bears on
his face,
And aid contempt of love and coldness fo r
glee
To make life but a "journey through a wild,
raging sea
is an exhaustive resumt of life’s struggles. Every
day we see, tacking past our window, the "frail
barques of humanity,” with varied cargoes aboard.
We cannot, of course, say what the cargoes are.
We only know that all seemed to have sailed from
Circular Quay with “rum” in ballast. Another
poem like yours, “ Washington,” and the light
will have gone out of our life....” Maude”: Lid
you get our letter ?
One of the saddest and most serious com-
plaints yet made against Bishop Barry comes from
that thriving boneyard called Penrith, and we are
confident that if the subject only causes one-half
the trouble to his conscience that it does to his
complainant’s stomach, the worthy Primate will
either resign at once or blow out his brains with a
bow and arrow. From the evidence now before
the ecclesiastical court, it appears Bishop Barrv
recently visited Penrith for the purpose of ad-
ministering the rite of Confirmation to some
twenty or thirty young warriors, “ by the laying
on of hands and by prayer,” and during the pro-
cess it is alleged by a writer who signs ‘ Pewn.
Pulpit ” that the Bishop lumped the lot, as it were,
by laying his hands on two candidates at a time,
and only repeating the prayer once, and that, too,
in a singular form over each pair. Naturally
enough, these parties feel that they have only had
a half-and-half or shandy-gaff sort of confirmation
and are liable to slide away from the ranks of the
blessed just as easily now as ever; but this is not
all the trouble, either. “ Pew v. Pulpit ” also de-
clares that immediately after his Lordship’s return
to Sydney the Penrith imeumbent received written
instructions to the effect that in future when ad-
ministering the Lord's Supper the full ceremony
was to be performed—viz., “ The body of our,”
&c., and “ The blood of our,” &c., over each indi-
vidual'separately—thus causing not only an extra
hour’s continuous talking, unnecessarily, by the
incumbent; but being also a source of great worry
to pious mothers who have left the baby at home
in bed with the kitten—or a box of matches—to
amuse him. Besides this, one might as well look
for the grace of the Loard in a goat-house as in the
breast of the average healthy man who, after
sitting out such a long-winded service, is forced to
face a dinner done to rags; and then, again, who
can imagine the heartfelt misery it brings to those
Sunday-school teachers whom it deprives of the
few hours’ courtship so necessary to the health
and happiness of persons of that persuasion I This
is a serious matter, indeed, and one pregnant with
the fate not only of the Anglican Church, but even
of the morale of Penrith, for, as our indignant
correspondent truly says, “the result of this new
arrangement will be a rush for the first table to
get away in time, or there will be any number of
absentees.” We do not believe that the Church of
England was ever in a tighter place since the
rouseabout days of Bloody Mary; and, therefore,
we earnestly implore Bishop Barry to grip the
trouble at once, and squelch it worse than a bay-
press would a fat “gohanna.”
A Pretender-Prince has appeared on the
Burmese horizon. But His Majesty the King of
the Golden Foot and Many Umbrellas pays not the
slightest heed. Just now idleness is de rigueur at
Mandalay. The Court has ordered everybody to
go into profound laziness for a month at least.
Etiquette forbids any more serious occup tion
than this amusement. Just as all Tartary had to
be silent while the Cham ate, so now that the
dorian fruit is in season in Burmah the King must
not be disturbed. “ His Majesty and the harem
are eating dorian.” This formula suffices to stop
everything. The discussion of his favourite fruit
must not be trespassed upon by any frivolities of
administration, or the flippancies of national con-
cerns. Let the firmament rain a deluge of comets,
let a wilderness of Mengwoon Princes congregate
upon the frontiers, His Majesty must not be
bothered. He is eating dorainl What kind of a
fruit is it, this wondrous thing that lays its relax-
ing fascination upon the whole machinery of go-
vernment; thatstops, by the mere spell of its de-
liciousness, the routine of an administration ? It
is not easily described; but roughly speaking, the
following recipe may be ventured upon for imitat-
ing a dorian. Take equal quantities, say a quart,
of almond paste and oniou sauce, and mix them
thoroughly with a pound of cream cheese. Flavour
it with as many essences as can be procured, and
serve up in a dish with an outrageously-
dead cat. The cat, of course, is not intehded
to be eaten. It is merely used as a garnish
to impart the necessary perfume to the fruit.
Yet the dorian is emphatically delicious. ’Tis but
the first taste which costs. Afterwards it has the
fascination of opium. The dorian-eater is insa-
tiable. He becomes voracious as a whirlpool,
bottomless as the pit. His appetite is unfathom-
able and Gargantuan, He will eat more, at one
sitting, than the human frame could be thought
capable of containing, and even then will look
hungrily at the spoon and plate as if he would
like to lick them as clean as Squeers’ pupils used
to do. The tastes flit over his bewildered palate
in suoh swift succession that he can no more
identify them tuun a passenger in an express train
can identify faces on the platforms he dashes past.
It is a procession of the ghosts of flavours, of the
phantoms of perfumes, and they crowd along on
each other's heels so fast that the eater can never
stop precisely at any one of them, and exolaim,
“ There, now, this is so and so.” It is already gone
past, and the next one is passing. It w»s almonds
when the eater opened his mouth, but before he
had time to say so it was onion-sauce, which turns
into vanilla-cream and then to cream-cheese, with
a dash of lemon and so to a meringue, sherry,
Swiss milk, raspberry—anything. So, though
comets blaze in the sky, and pretenders to the
Throne bluster on the horizon, there is tranquility
in Mandalay—“ the King Is eating dorian.”
Fine weather, large attendance, and good
contests left nothin# to be desired at the Balmain
Regatta on Monday last. The ball opened with
the eight-oar race, and although individually the
Morcantiles appeared much the best on paper, 00l -
lectively the Sydney crew rowed in far and away
better form than their opponents, and led from
start to finish. The maiden fours fell to a Balmain
crew—Kinnimont, Reed, Frazer, and Langley;
Sharland came in first lor the bona fide amateur
sculls in wager-boats, under protest from Brett,
who finished second; Seale, Trimble, Brett, and
Martin, M R.C., defeated S.R.C,, and N.S.R.C.-cum-
S.R.C. crews for the senior fours; the race for all
comers in light skiffs fell easy prey to Messenger
(501 b.); and Smith and Durrell, G.R.C., won the
maiden double-sculls. For the all-comers’ race
Matterson was run out of his course, and Pearce
obtained a lead sufficient to render the Clarence
River man’s case hopeless. However, both men
finished the wrong side of the flagship, and
Messenger, who had retired, seeing the mistake,
again joined in, and rowed over the course, but
the umpire very properly ordered the race to bo
rowed over again. The Chance made an easy win
amongst the canvasers; the Regina won the 10-ft.
race; Young Victor carried off the palm amongst
the 14-footers; the Australian again had an easy
victory over the Sao; the gallant little Rosetta
won the open boat race under 23-feet; and the
Buttercup, by time allowance, won the big half
deck race. The Victor, well sailed by her owner
wonjthe 24-foot open boat race; Regina, sailed by
George Fletcher, won the 16-foot professional
race, and the “ double event; ” and the Maritana
annexed the 20-foot half decked race. TheWanga-
rella, Ellis’ last, also started: but considering the
dead weight she had to hump along, it is not to be
wondered at she did not make a show. She is a
handsome-looking craft, and if Mr. Trebeck eases
her of the ridiculous amount of ballast she carries
ins'de and out, he may still have a show of ex-
hibiting her tuck to the lot of them.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES
We than be glad to have this index potted up hv
secretaries of racing club* and manager* of
iporting event* in general. I
RACING.
Goulburn T.C November 13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....NovemberJ9. 20, 21.
Bendigo (V.) November 2b, 27.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Gwvdir R.C. (Annual) December 3, 4.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
A. J.C. (Midsummer) ...December o-'
Wallsend J.C December 26, 27.
Moonee Valley (V.) December 27.
Canterbury Park R.C. December 27.
liosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersali's Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting ..January 1.
Adelong J.C January 1, 2.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Lawrence J.C .January 26.
Burrowa J.C February 6, 6.
Cootamundra T.C February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian R.C F e b rua ry 18.19.,
Murrumburrah T C. (Annual) February 18,19.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5, 7.
AQUATICS.
Gosford Regatta November 15.
Brisbane Annual Regatta December 10.
Snail’s Bny Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Clifford .February 7.
Clifford v. Beach eb « uar ?
Beach v. Hanlan • ■ • • • • • March
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18.
ATHi.KTICS
Riverine Athletic Club Sports, Hay Race-
oourse December 26, 27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney ... .January 1.
SPORTING AND ATRLETION MANU
A class of men always on strike: Pugilists.
On another page will be found an account
of the Balmain regatta, held on Monday last.
The smokers lost the cricket match, it is
now explained, because “ men who smoked cigars
were bound to throw away their stumps.’
A manual of the ‘ ‘ Law of Betting, Time
Bargains, and Gaming,” has been published in
London by Mr. atuttteld, a Lond n barrister.
At Kennington Oval, Sept, 20, Speechly
bicycled 10 miles in 34 min. 12 2- 6 sec., or 9 15 sec.
laster than the best previous grass-track record.
The Rowing Association has fixed the
races for the Gardiner Challenge Cup Fours and
Junior Scullers in outriggers lor the 20th December.
Mayger, who won the English 100-yards’
amateur swimming championship in lmin. 111-5
sec., has just turned tweuty-one. He stands ott.
9J4ln , and weighs 12st. 111 b.
Old Terminus, of cut-throat notoriety,
has passed from Mr. Dillon to Mr. Kinnane, 100
guineas being the stated price. His new owner
intends to keep him to the sticks.
Bonnor, who made the biggest score for
the non-smokers in the recent match, is not atotal
abstainer from the flowing bowl. The match
realised £5BO for the Old Cricketers’ Fund.
It was recently rumoured in London that
the 1884 season was I. D. Walker’s last on the
cricket field. He was captain of Middlesex tor
years. He will be visiting New Zealand shortly.
The seven mile walking match between
Bernard Murphy and John Nimmo, for £4O, took
place on the 31st October, at the Hall of Science,
Melbourne, in the presence of about 500 persons,
when Murphy won by about 60 yards.
The Adelong and Gundagai Spoil's, and
Murdochs are hard at it for the Gregory Cup.
Last Thursday the soores were Adelong 158, Oun-
dagai 207. M ’Gray 90, Page TO. The match will be
continued to-day (Thursday.)
At Newoastle, in England, the professional
F Wood, won a 30 miles bicycle race in 1 hour
37 min. 30 3-sth sec., and J. Green won a one-mile
amateur handicap, beating R. H. English, the
25 mileß amateur champion.
“Pendragon,” commenting on the Han-
lan-Beach race, says:—“ Oddly enough, there is
nothing in the wire about Hanlan s invariable
speech after a race as to t’other f ellow being the
best sculler he had ever encountered. This is an
omission.”
The English 100-yards’ amateur swimming
Championsnip was won by Mayger by two lengths,
Cairns second. Time, lmin. 11 l-osec., just one-
fifth of a socond behind amateur record. The best
professional record is lmin. by E. 1. Jones,
in the same water.
“Pendragon” writes:—“ln declining an-
other match, at least for six months, with Hanlan,
discretion showed itself the better part of valour
with Beach, notwithstanding that he had just
proved his ability to row at about the s ime rate as
a torpedo-boat.”
At the Albert Park carnival the contests
for the Challenge Sculls and Professional Sculls
were very so-so. Pities defeated his only oppo-
nent H. Bradley, with the greatest ease for the
lormer: and Mattersou, whose opponents were
the brothers Edwards, made just as easy au affair
of the latter.
Some time since we gave it as our opinion,
in this journal, that bicycling and tricycling are
most injurious recreations, particularly lor young-
sters, and the Lancet of 20th September bears us
out. Every parent and guardian should read the
article in question, whicn, for reasons, can hardly
be reprinted or summarised in a generally-cir-
culated paper.
In the last match Australians v. South of
England, of the 145 ruus made from the bat in
both the South innings, no less than 140 were
accounted for by Graoe, Whitfold, O Brien, W. W.
Read, and Wood, whilst the remaining twelve
innings contributed but 5 runs Ten ciphers
appear in the two innings.
in a match at Erith, Kent, Palmer clean
bowled three batsmen with successive balls. At
the end his analysis showed the following extra-
ordinary figures: 20 overs and 3 bails, 11 maidens,
17 runs, 10 wickets. Blackham’s five wickets only
cost 26 runs. The eleven to which they were
attached easily beat the sixteen opposed to them.
Gillen and Palmer scored 68 out of the 101 runs
made by their side.
At the “ aquatic carnival,” at Albert
Park Lake, Fittes stated his willingness to enter
into a match with our amateur champion, Brett.
The Victorian need have uu aitliculiy about fixing
up a match, as we known a Syuneyite who is will-
ing to at once back bis townsman for a hundred-
guinea “ trophy.” By the way, Hanlan introduced
Fittes to the giddy throng as tne ” amateur cham-
pion of the colonies.” If we mistake not, Ned
used to trot Brett out under the same title. How
is this thus ?
The Vandemonians appear anxious to have
a “shy in” for the next intercolonial eight-oar
race, and we cannot see bow they can be very well
Bbut out, provided they raise a bona fide, amateur
crew. It will, of course, be a drawback to the
competing colonies having to send a crew away
two years running, but it is only natural the tight
ittie Islanders will wish to have the race rowed in
due turn on their grand sheet of water, more es-
pecially if, in the future, they can raise a vic-
torious crew.
Cyoling is now a sport at which, it seems to
us, the ordinary amateur has little or no chance.
Unless he is .rich enough to disregard oost, he
cannot hope to hold his own against men supplied
gratis with machines or absolutely paid to perform.
These latter are found in fresh and fresh cycles,
and, besides, have them “regulat' d,” as one may
say, by the most skilled workmen. The better
machine wins, and in the fight between the maker
and the lay rider the skilled workman’s representa-
tive is bound to come out best.
Jack Burke, the English pugilist, had an
unlooked-lor opportunity of displaying his fistic
skill shortly after his arrival in America. He hap-
pened to be riding in a New York street car when
five roughs began to amuse themselves by annoy-
ing a young lady. He ordered them to desist,
when they retorted by abuse. Burke shoitly
afterwards left the car, and the five followed him.
One struck Burke, whereupon the pugilist reached
out for the entire company, and having deftly
“floored” three of them, the other two departed
hurriedly.
Truth, while inclined to believe that in
3herwin (and, perhaps, Pilling) an efficient substi-
tute could be found for Blackham behind the
wickets, cheerfully admits that England has not—
and, what is more, never has had—so deadly a
fast bowler as Spofforth, or so mighty a slogger as
Bonnor, with whom even Thornton in his beat
days coulu not have compared for an inßtant. In
the matter of general batting, however, good as
Murdoch is, he does not equal several of our
cracks. M’Donnell, however, deserves special
mention as a splendid specimen of a very valuable
and rather rare type of batsman.”
There is a disease well-known in the hos-
pitals as “ housemaid’s knee,” brought on by too
much contact of the knees with hard substances
in washing, scrubbing, &c. A new development
of it, which merits the special attention of crick-
eters, is reported from Nottingham, where
William Oscroft, the famous professional—who is
well-known in Australia—is in danger of losing
one or both of his legs. Oscroft, whose cricketing
days ended a few years ago through ill health, was
out leg-before-wicket perhaps oftener than any
other well-known player of his generation, and
the result of much contact of the hard cricket-ball
with his legs has been to reveal a serious disease.
W. G. Grace, A. G. Steel, and others, whose beset-
ting sin is to place their legs where the bat should
be, had better beware.
Mr. R. H. English is now the world’s
champion bioyclist, and has beaten all records.
His speed comes nearer flying than anything else.
He has lately beaten by four seconds Keith-Fal-
coner’s wonderful smin. 36sec. for two miles, and,
riding straight on, has beaten Dr. Cortis’ record
for an hour’s ride! In a 15-mile race, with eleven
starters, he went right away from the start, and
won by 500 yards from the second man. Mr.
English rode the full distance, 15 miles, in 44min.
29 4-ssec., and, finding that he was Bsec. ahead of
record, rode on. He finished 20 miles in 59min. 6
3-5 sec,, and, in the full hour, travelled a distance
of 20 miles 560 yards. On his way he beat all the
performances from two miles upwards. He is a
north countryman, very much of the Cortis build,
and has risen at a bound to the top ot the tree,
where he is likely to remain. He can certainly
beat 2min. 40sec. for one mile.
A Melbourne Sportsman man inter-
viewed Beach a couple of weeks ago—and a lot he
got out <f him. It must, indeed, have been news
to the Sportsman readers when they heard the
Hanlan-Heach race was “straight as a die, ’ and
that, barring Clifford, Hanlgn was the grandest
rower Beach ever clapped eyes upon. But how
even this budget of news must have paled when
they read that, as a rower pure and simple—what-
ever that means—Rush capped the world. Beach
finished up the interview with the astounding in-
formation that he was sure to beat Hanlan, and
that he (William Beach) was no professional, but
a workiug blacksmith. The Sportsman then
stated that their reporter thanked Mr. Beach for a
cordial interview, and withdrew, but whether he
nominated his poison as rum and syrup or Bishop
Barker, the paper stateth not.
The sni-dtsant wife of Colonel Thornton,
in August, 1804, rode her husband’s Vingarillo
against Mr. Elinc’s Thornville, a distance of four
miles at V ork. There were 100,000 persons present
and a detachment of dragoons had to be called in
to help the police in keeping the course clear. The
betting was 6 to 4 on the lady, and it was said that
£200,000 depended on tne result. Mr. Flint won on
his own horse, and pocketed the stake ofalCOOgns.
On August 24, 1805, Mrs. Thornton was engaged in
two matches. The first was for 2,000 guineas, half
forfeit, and four hogsheads of Cote Koti. In this
her opponent declared forfeit, and the iadv
cantered over the course. In the next match
she rode a mare, Louisa, against Buckle, a well-
known jockey, on Allegro—distance two miles,
Mrs. Thornton carrying 9st 61b and Buckle 13st 61b.
The lady was dressed “ in a purple cap and waist-
coat, nankeen coloured shirt, purple shoes and
embroidered stockings.” An account savs that at
the finish “ Mrs. Thornton by the most excellent,
we may truly say. horsemanship, pushed forward,
and came in a style far superior to anything of the
kind we ever witnessed, gaining the race by half a
neck. The manner of Mrs. Thornton’s riding is
certainly of the first description ; indeed, her close
seat, and perfect management of her hoise, her
bold and steady jockeyship, amazed one of the
most crowded courses ever witnessed.” At this
time Mrs. Thornton (otherwise Alicia Meynell) is
described as being about 22 years of age, very
handsome, of a fair complexion, light hair, blue
eyes, and very fascinating.
On Saturday afternoon, “Professor ”
Sample gave a performance in the presence of a
party from Government House, a crowd which
filled the marquee, and last, but not least we
trust, our humble selves. The flr.-t animal ope-
rated upon was a draught horse belonging to
Messrs. Goodlet and Smith—an animal, it was
asserted, which had defied the farrier to shoe him,
without strapping, for the past 18 months. Under
the hands of the “ Professor, however, he showed
under entirely different colours, and allowed the
farrier to shoe him in the face of a large crowd,
not to speak of a flapping tent and flags. That
this was a genuine case there can be very little
doubt, considering the standing of the firm who
allowed their names to be used in connection with
it. Amongst other horses handled by the " Pro-
fessor ” during the afternoon, was a wicked-
looking chestnut belonging to John Free, the
well-known Strawberry Hills ’bus proprietor.
Free assured us that this horso, known in the
stables as “ The Terror,” was perfectly unmanage-
able until the “ Professor” laid hands on him last
Friday night, but that he was completely mastered
on Saturday afternoon, there can be no two
opinions, as he suffered himself to be driven round
the ring with a pole between his hind legs and
crackers and kerosene tins tied to his tail. Later
on, a pair of highly-trained mares went through
an interesting show, and the “ Professor ” finished
the entertainment by illustrating an easy and
effective way of throwing a horse. It speaks well
for Sample’s system when such a horseman as
John Free is a member of his class, a nd a staunch
convert.
The Daily News, in reviewing the Aus-
tralians’ English tour, says that their visit was
brilliantly successful. In previous seasons, the
colonials played continually on wickets damaged
bv rain, while during the present summer they
have had continuous fine weather, hard, dry
wickets beiDg the rule, and up to the last two or
three weeks a wet wicket the exception. This
season’s programme has also been the most am-
bitious yet attempted. That the men should have
gone through so much work, and yet at the end of
thirty-two matches be in lull possession ot their
powers at all points of the game, is the best evi-
dence of their superb physique. But it would be
rash again to undertake a similar teat with ODly
thirteen players, including the manager. As the
Australians were beaten both times by the Not-
tingham professionals, the importance of their
victories over the Players is enormously dis-
counted. On the other hand, when the Australians
were beaten by the Gentlemen at Lord's, they lost
Spofforth’s services after about an hour's cricket,
and had to bat one man short. The South of Eng-
land did not have their best eleven either at
Gravesend or the Oval, and the North gained their
two victories without in either case having the in-
valuable aid of A, G. Steel. Looking back upon
the whole tour, English cricketers have no reason
whatever to feel dissatisfied or disheartened. They
have no bowler to approach Spofforth, and no
wicket-keeper to compare with Blackham; but, it
we take away these two men and Palmer, we
practically exhaust the superiority of Australia
over England. Great as Spofforth s previous
achievements have been, however, his record this
season Is a better one than ever. He has bowled in
liner weather against much stronger sides than
before, and yet comes out with an immense advan-
tage over his comrades. Altogether he has taken
211 wicsets at an average cost ot 12 76, and can show
a magnificent list of successos. Seeingwhat he has
uone in a season of fine weather, it is only reason-
able to assume that had he been favoured with
the wet wlokets which helped him in previous
tours he would have put all previous bowling per-
formances into the shade. No bowler can so
readily take advantage of any defect in the
ground, and It is perhaps in this particular that
his great superiority lies. Palmer, who would, by
the majority of English crioketers, be considered
as seoond only fo Spofforth, hasperhaps not been
so successful as was expected. He has only taken
127 wickets as against Spoff orth’s 211; nevertheless
he has done splendid work for the team. Haying
a special reputation for bowling well on fast true
wickets, It is always his lot to go on when circum-
stances are most favourable for run getting.
When the wickets are affeoted with rain he often
has to give place to Boyle. We may be wrong,
but we are of opinion that Palmer would be more
formidable in a team that did not Include Spof-
forth. Were he the first bowler In the eleven In-
stead of the second, he woald have choice of ends
—by no means an unimportant advantage—and
would always go on first when the wickets were
bad as well as when they were good. In confirma-
tion of this idea, we may point to his bowling for
the 1880 team after Spofforth had been disabled.
Under no circumstances, however, do we think
that Palmer, in a long series of matches, would
ever be so formidable as Spofforth. He Is not so
consistently good, nor does he possess the same
remarkable faculty of rising to the necessities or
a great occasion. It is the opinion of the best
practical cricketers—both English and Australian
—that, on a perfectlv good run-getting wicket,
Palmer is the most diflioult bowler in the world;
but he does not possess Spofforth’s capacity to at
once adapt himself to all variations of weather
and ground, nor has he so complete a mastery
over his pitch. Giffen has been the third best
bowler in the team, and has on occasions done
very big things. He is not ;an everyday bowler,
but he has his days of conspicuous suc-
cess. In one match he is almost unplayable,
in another he is the first to be knocked
off. It is his unquestionable distinction, how-
ever, to be the best all-round oricketer in the
Australian team. Boyle has suffered far more
than Spofforth, Palmer or Giffen from the continu-
ance of fine weather, He is, and always has been,
essentially a slow wicket bowler, and the little
work that has been imposed upon him shows
more clearly than anything else the immense
difference that has been experienced in the condi-
tion of the grounds as compared with the previous
tours. Boyle is the oldest member of the team,
and it is perhaps scarcely to be expected that he
will much longer be able to hold a place in repre-
sentative Australian elevens. On his own wickets,
however.lhe is still a very effective bowler; and,ln
proof of this, we need only refer to the England
match at Manchester and the North of England
match at Nottingham. As to batting, while only
five innings of over 100 have been played for the
Australians there have been twelve 100’s scored
against them. The batting honours of the tour
have been gained by Murdoch, M'Donnell, Scott,
and Giffen. Bannerman shows a decided decline.
Murdoch himself has not been as consistently
successful as in 1882. In point of soience, know-
ledge, judgment, and patienoe, however, he is, as
he has been at any time since the summer of 1880,
considerably ahead of all other Australian bats-
men. M'Donnell has shown immense improve-
ment upon his previous play in England; he re-
tains his splendid hitting, and has displayed a
great deal more discretion. Scott has proved an
unqualified success; time after time he has played
a fine innings when runs were most wanted, and,
except Murdoch and Blackhan, there is no bats-
man on the side who possesses greater confidence
at a critical point of the game. Bonnor has given
us some wonderful hitting, but remains much as
he was two years ago. As a whole, the batting ot
the team did not come up to expectations during
the first part of the tour, but got better and better
as the season advanced, and was at its very best in
August. The fielding has been less certain than In
previous tours —very brilliant at times, but ocoa-
sionally marred by serious blunders. Judged as a
whole, the tour has been a great and genuine
success.
Rosamond do New South Wales Qto
Henry I.
Henry, ’tis past; thy membership is o’er,
And Tenterfleld can claim thy care no more;
No more can Speaker Barton proudly view
Thy towering form amid the scorned crew;
No loDger may the morning Herald's page
Record thy speeches, fired with righteons rage.
How often, in thy sinuous career,
Have thy misdeeds surcharged my breast with
f ©&r!
How often would I willingly have checked
Thy efforts to embroil each snarling sect I
For 1 have seen that thy controlling power
Was ever greatest in fierce faction's hour;
And when religious jealousy was rife
Thy strength grew, in just measure, with the
strif © •
And thou didst hold thy swelling crest most high
When thundering forth some sham religious cry,
Whilst thy ability was most displayed
When Orange lodges hailed each new crusade.
Henry, the history of Rome relates
That when that city envied distant States,
Her oonstant policy was to incite
Them to fierce warfare: and when.wasting light
Had thinned their ranks and weakened their array,
To make each one a scarce-resisting prey.
But in the glare of Rome’s Imperial might
Her crafty wiles elude our dazzled sight;
We view all nations bound, but still retrain
From asking by what tricks were forged their
chain. .
Thy fate the same: my future sons shall see
The victories won, but not thy trickery;
Praise thee for triumphs that thv art obtained,
But never ask, “ How were those triumphs
gained. .
Laud thee tor measures thy career can boast,
But never mention the Kiama Ghost.
Still must I praise the genius thou hast shewn
V I wonder if those bills were all his own?);
Still I admire the talent aDd finesse
Which engineered thy party to success;
But much I grieve that thou hast led the fire
Of pious malice and sectarian ire.
Yes, H< nry, it is well thou shouldst resign
Tne reigns of power to younger hands than
thine; ... . ,
And I can almost view without a tear
Thy willing passage to a humbler sphere,
Nor would I wish thy presence to retain,
But hen you “cut,” dear Hal., don t come
again.” isHMAiUi.
“ German syrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee's German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
f ree of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular size, 3s. 6d. Three doses will
relieve any case.
THE KOOKABURRA.
When a dude kisses his sweetheart, the
unhappy girl is apt to feel down in the mouth.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
“What letter comes after H?” “Don’t
know.’’ “What have 1 got each side of my nose?’’
“ Powder.”
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Why is a girl in a hammock like a house
on fire ? Because there’s a big display of hose if
anybody puts her out.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
“ The worst of my husband’s moustache is
that it tickles my face so.” “Really, dear. It
never ÜBed to tickle mine.”
Oh, how refreshing palatable and reviving
is a draught of cool water with flop Bitters in it,
to a fever patient. See.
“ I hear you were very drunk last night,
John. You take after your father.” “ No, sir. I
have to take before him or I don’t get none.”
Before cutting a man’s head off in China
the authorities considerately make him drunk. In
this country they considerately make him drunk
before “ putting a head on him.”
WOLFfl’s Schnapps has gained a most en-
viable reputation, and stands to-day confessedly
the most magnificent anti-spasmodic tonic, invig-
orant, and restorative in the world.
The three colonial systems now in vogue
are (1) the English system, which is to have
colonies and colonists; (2) the German, to have
colonists and no colonies; (3) the French, to have
colonies and no colonists.
“ Mamma, was your name, before you
married, ‘ Tunkintelle ’ ?” “Why, no, child! What
?ut that in your head ?” “ Oh, nuffin much—only
heard pa tell my governess that he loved her
better than Tunkintelle.”
One cold after another will, with many
constitutions, securely establish the seeds of Con-
sumption in the system. If you are in need of a
remedy for any Lung trouble, or Throat disease,
you will find Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant always
prompt and efficacious.
When the blood moves sluggishly in the
veins because it is loaded with impurities, an al-
terative is needed, as this condition of the vital
fluid cannot last long without serious results.
There is nothing better than Ayer’s Sarsapar-
illa to purify the blood and impart energy to the
system.
A bar-maid at Cullinaringo was en-
gaged in opening a bottle of soda-water, when it
exploded, and a part of the shattered glass bottle
entered |his eye, destroying the sight. This ex-
plains why it is that so many men, in calling for
soda-water, take such pains to save one eye from
danger, anyhow. They close it.
“You should go to see the sleight-of-hand
performances of the Fakir of Siva. They are
wonderful,” said Gus de Smith to a iriend. “ What
does he do that is so wonderful ?” “He turns a
rabbit into a flowerpot.” “ There is nothing won-
derful in that. My milkman turns a quart of
water Into a milk pitcher every morning, and he
doesn’t even brag about it.”
The borrowing family sent their boy Jack
over to Mrs. Murphy’s to borrow some tea and
sugar and a plate of butter. Mrs. Murphy was
busy and had no inclination to lend to neighbours
who never returned anything they borrowed. At
the same time she did not care to entirely offend
them. “I’d be glad to accommodate yees,” she
said politely, “ but oim in a hurry and haven’t the
time to wait on ye. I’ve other fish to fry just
now.” The boy went home and reported that Mra.
Murphy was too busy to attend to him, and had
other fish to fry, &c. “ And why didn’t ye wait ?”
asked his mother, breathlessly. “Go back, and
take another plate with you, and tell Mistress
Murphy you're in no hurry, and mother’d be muoh
obliged to her for a plate of the fried fish l"
The proposed extension of the Railway
citywards renders is possible that we shall be
able, ere long, to get in anywhere up the line and i
travel right alongside the P. and 0. and Orient.
steamers in the harbour. This will be a little •
better than waiting by one of those enigmatical (
red smeared posts, inscribed with the lying legend t
“ The trams stop here.” As a matter of fact they,'
don’t stop “ here.” It might have been originally/
intended that they should so do, but we suppose)
the alteration in the scheme has not been ex-
plained to “ the man at the wheel.” We wondeir
if they will learn to put the break on properly or*
the new line, thereby preventing sundry coroner’a
inquests and other pleasantries; and we are curi-
ous as to how much money will be wasted in
Government printing before they are finally
fixed. W ell, we are going to have the railway,
and won’t cavil at trifles. But there is one thing,
some of the proposed stations are not where they
ought to be. If there ever was a proper and
appropriate place for a station it is just about
Belmore Park, for the convenience of the
thousands who daily flock to Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Palaoe Emporium, Haymarket.*
Th» Melbourne branch of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is encroach-
ing more and more on the prescriptive rights of
the Briton. Not oontent with limiting his power
over his horse, his dog, his cat, and the various
other animals which, from time immemorial, it
was his proud privilege to belt when he liked, the
society now limits him with respect to belting bis
children. A resolution to this effect was actually
carried at the last meeting. Herbert Spencer is
quite true in stating that liberal politics tend to
tne curtailment of individual liberty. We shall
soon find seme soolety oarrying a resolution to
prevent a man belting his wife when he likea.
Civilisation is being played out. After a while
there will be nothing which a man can wallop.
An interesting group of aboriginals (mostly
located at Gannon’s Forest) from a celebrated
photographic studio has recently been produced,
and is exciting much curiosity in the locality
named, particularly among the gentle sex. The
sable nomads are represented, some standing and
some in a sitting posture, in front of a celebrated
local inn,which was chosen as their camping ground
on the occasion of the opening of the Illawarra
railway line. In artistic finish this photo of the de-
scendants of an almost extinct race is exquisite,
and bears out the adage that the “ apparatus can’t •
lie.” We commend it to a prominent place in our
Art Gallery, where it would doubtless, as a picture,
be more appreciated, and at least escape the un-
kind criticisms of the fair creatures in the locality
named, who, we regret to say, would appear to be -
unable to appreciate such a magnificent produc-
tion of electric photographic art.
This is the kind of thing which is eagerly
republished by London papers Australian
Labour Market.— The Cape Argus publishes the •
following letter, written by an ex-Cape colonist in
Sydney to a Cape Town friend Dear Jamie, I
arrived here on the 23rd April, and I heartily wish i
I was back at the Cape. Trade is ten times worse >
here than ever it was at the Cape ; in fact, this'
plaoe is a regular fraud. The 1 jdgfngs are not
nearly so comfortable as in Cape Town. There
are hundreds of men, of all trades, and farm
labourers as well, walking about next to starving.
There are twenty-one carpenters belonging to the;
society out of work in Sydney, besides scores of
non-society men, I met two here that used to
work for Mr. M in Cape Town. They have >
been here two months, and have never struck
work, and now they are seeping out of doors and
begging fer food. So take my advice and stay
where you are. I don’t know whatever we are*
going to do.”


W. H. GHARD AND GO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL or
other PRODUCtE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 8
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well'
known firm is given to all oonsignments.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
£
I
m
ft
0
ft
NVALUABLE
re
T#°!*
**o
to
on
oss
Of
u
o
CS
nr
£erv
otnP
2i?Sh
JSj
ielS
era
N
iPEQIALLY'
TED FOR T
Colonies*^
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
COME AND CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson & S ons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN#
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, In the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS AT sb. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness. Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
iiHints, Female Complaints, JAasitude, Loss of
Oei
recruits ana re-esiaudshoo nowu
mended by the Faculty. —j-i:
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright s Phosphodyne
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
j ob, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
VT TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angela Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
gV~ Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
JSther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
s
RiWRffS
R
ESSENCEopLIFE
(e only infallible remedy for
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
musoular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
Saits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one for
465.; if by ooaoh, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,l
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbura-
street. One Door from George-street South.
Travers Vegetable Compound
OOF'STR.IGHITED.
copyrighted.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do."
C3*lts purpose is Solely for the legitimate healing of disease
and the relief of pain. It is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Frice, 10s. 6d. per Package.
CS*Ladies, it will under all circumstances, act in harmony
With the laws that govern your system.
<Cs*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its uso.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
03*Itls a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales are
unprecedented. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
ffifTlt revives the drooping spirits. Invigorates and har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye, and plants on
the pale cheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
65-For the euro of Kidney Complaints of cither sex this
Compound i s unsurpassed,
Mrs Travers’* ‘Ouideto Health” will he mailed freotoany
lady sending stamp. Letters efinquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. 80x, 907, Sydney.
MRS. TRAVERS' LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, tor
4|d. Fourpence halfpenny. 4Jd.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, os.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 343 George-street.
KELSEY
ARNCUFFE RAILWAY STATION
TO BE SOLD
crvSi
al
W.Pntckml
ON THE CROUND
y Clcdi,,tfy
|6 “
O
CP
T*'“
or
IOCAL SKITCH
/6 ,
■ /MS
CP
'8
t 5
htn s r
/
S T
tfIUSS * ffALLOKAH j»
AfiunTKis tSuffvemp, wfirpff
want
to
ou
ness
£
(b
the
For
m U
O/ity
a
one
a
%
Op
'iddres
ENTed
BN
D
s»
Only
0
One
T
duress
&
0
usfralia
di
r>}
7
%
&
/on
T
KSte.
5^
1
LOCH-DHU W.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgo v.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, ItaTPltt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide:


F
H
URNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NFWTON, and LAMB,
O’Coimell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TANDB, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
LIBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &e.
T>EDROOM SUITES complete In various woods.
_D and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing- table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
5
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOtf strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
O
f'NHIf'FONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NJ3VER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
1 9 A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priees, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penaive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s tne pair.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
_T BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
ELFTaD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAI Li-
Patented.
D
8
Si
iilgws
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durabrerund light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, anU occupying only four inches in thickness
when k Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
id LAsS-11l (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
KDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 365. each"
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment: best make, lowest price*.
SOCIAL
Last Thursday, the Sydney Liedertafel
held its smoke concert for the first time in the
Exhibition Building: and whatever the acoustic
defects of the place may be, it was the most com-
fortable building the society has yet bad as regards
space. About 1300 members and visitors were
present, and dispersed about the white-sanded floor
were 127 tables, round which the chairs were drawn
by sociable little groups, who ordered their six-
penny “ nips ” from the waiters flitting around.
Silence was kept during singing, and a request
was made that even matches should not be struck.
On such occasions the members do not dress.
There was, of course, room on the outskirts any
time, but anywhere near the platform the crowd
was as 41 throng ” as it could be. The books of
words were very handsomely got up. A special
train was put on for the suburbs at 10.25 p.m., and
tram arrangements were specialised also. It was a
grand success.
* * *
Miss Lily Garton’s combination troupe
gave a rather unique entertainment last week, in-
asmuch as all the performers were under 15 years
of i:ge. There was a a fair attendance, most of the
front seats being appaiently graced by the pre-
sence of Miss barton's personal friends. Even the
chairman, Master T. C. Watson, was only a boy.
He did his duty well. The weakest part in the
programme was the recitations ; they were all
more or less sing-song, and though possibly
gratifying to the parents and relations of the
youthful performers, were not good enough to
justify being given in public. Musical solos and
duets were given. Masters K. and H. Ingham, C.
Bray, W. Flynn, and Sparks, with their lungs and
Angers, and Misses L. M’Rae, Bella Pirie, and
Masters M‘Rae and Sharp, with their legs, might
be called tne main company; and Miss Lilly
Garton, the star. Among the latter’s varied con-
tributions were, the Flower ■song from Faust, a
dance song, a stage waltz, Irish Diamonds on the
piano, and a hornpipe. The young lady can do a
great many things, but one thing she seemed
utterly unable to do —namely, look her audience
in the face. Her eyes never got beyond the edge
of the platform. A word to the wise is enough.
Dancing is Miss Lily's forte, and she is skilful at
it, and also facile at the piano ; but if she wants
people to like her, she really must look up. About
10 o’clock, chairs were moved, and a couple ot
hours' adult dancing ensued in the Protestant
Hail.
* * *
Botany may well be called the historic
bay wtien among its many memories are shrined
those ot two such navigators as La Perouse and
James Cook —whose nations still honour their
names. Cook’s exploits have been lauded oft ana
high; La Perouse’s name was, on Thursday last,
betlttingly honoured by the pilgrimage made to
his monument by over a hundred French com-
patriots. Taking advantage of the Bruats pre-
sence in Sydney harbour, a number ot French
citizens invited the officers and men of that war-
Bbip to a trip to La Perouse, and with them went
pressmen and a few prominent persons, includmg
three Cabinet Ministers. A special tram from
town was met at Botany terminus by a steamer,
and in a short time the party was landed close
to the cenotaph that rises spire-like above the
sandy shore-tho spot whence for nearly half
a century the last traces of the great French sailor
were known. The party gazed upon the stone, the
railing, the shore, and seawards, as if seeing in
their mental eye the stately ships sailing away to
be seen no more; and then after some wreaths had
been placed on the monument erected in 1825 to
La Perouse’s memory, several speeches were feel-
ingly made by M. Marquis, commandant of the
Bruat, M. Lucien Henry, &o. The tomb erected
to the French priest, Pere Receveur. who died on
the Astrolabe and was buried in 1788, was also
visited. All then returned to Botany proper,
where a banquet was laid at the Sir Joseph Banks
pavilion, ana M. Julian Decourt, French Consul,
took the chair. Further speeches were made, and
as ladies were present dancing followed till dusk.
The idea of the patriotic pilgrimage was a most
happy one, and no doubt will be long remembered
by the Bruat men. m
It is not because girls are scarce at Bal-
main. It can’t be that. Possibly it may be that
some confiding young man has lately fallen into
the mesh of the wily mother-in-law, and the others
hold back to watch his fate-or it may be simple
economy ; but, somehow, young ladies were
rather few at the third Assembly Ball. We don t
know whose fault it was; whether they were not
asked, or would not come. But it could not be
the latter—we know Balmain girls better than
that. We have it on excellent authority, that one
whose company was besought only received five
days’ notice. Any young man who could be so
thoughtless as to expect a lady to settle her flutter-
ing mind about a ball-to say nothing ot re-
flouncing her war dress and fixing up a ttchu-in
five days, deserves to go girl-loss the rest of the
season. But those who did go were loved all the
more for their scarcity, as well as for their other
good points. The local bevy included a lively
brunette in black ; a Beattie-street captivator in
blue ; and two sisters in cream, one being set off
witiffcardinal trimmings, andjthe other topped up
with blue, both of Darling-street. A white dress
topped with marigold betokened a good dancer
from Campbell-street. Miss Williams also danced
well in a combination of garnet and pink
satin ; Miss Lewis, of Newtown, was a petite
blonde in pink; and Miss Wilkinson’s cos-
tume of mauve satin bodice over cream veiling'
skirt, was perfectly tasteful. Two sisters ot
Forbos-streot wore noticeable for feathery danc-
ing, and also because, while one was Amy-able,
the other had received at her Bertha more than
average share of beauty. Two other sisters, of
Darling-street, are known for dramatic capacities,
and while one takes leading parts with great
sweetness, the other is sometimes cast for roles
where she has to say' little and look pretty, which
duty, we understand, she finds as easy as anything.
A pink charmer, though a Storm, was not a heavy
one; and it was peculiar, and even displeasing to
our sense of fitness, to find that one ot the
daintiest little ornaments in the room was called
Vial. The name was quite inappropriate to the
chatty little brunette who has to carry it-at any
rate, until she gets a chance of changing. A dress
of terracotta satin in long pleats set off with con-
siderable art and effect the natural advantages of
Its fair wearer, who came from Sydney. Although
the music was a trifle variable, it was fairly good,
and Mr. R. Hoop r had light duties as M.C. With
the help of Mr. and Mrs. Oldham’s excellent
supper table, the energies of the company were
kept in full play till past 4, when the rosy blushes
left the ladies’ cheeks to appear in the eastern sky.
* * *
The ball season is nearly over, but a ball
on Thursday next at Leigh House should not be
missed. It is organised by Dr. F. de Sylva, under
the patronage of the N.S.W Mauritian Anglo-
Franoo Mutual Help Society. Refreshments are
arranged for, and either evening or fancy dress
may be worn.
* * *
Those festive persons, the Owls, held a
grand bal masque in Melbourne Town Hall last
Thursday. Eight hundred participated on the
floor, and several hundreds spectated in the bal-
cony at a cheaper rate. All was very complete.
The lamps were covered with coloured Owls, and
bird cages hung all round contained live birds.
Fancy dresses predominated. One gentleman made
up as an immense bottle representing Carlton
Pale Ale, and mysterious masks caused much fun.
There were a good many “sweet owl faces passing
to and fro’’ in the throng. Several curious prizes
were awarded at midnight. That for best lady s
character was won by Miss Priestly, who went as
Silverton; second, Cleopatra, by Mrs. Gough. Mr.
Longuehaye, as King Pippin, gained the prize for
gentlemen. The most original character was
Young Australia, by Miss Simons; and the best
sustained impersonations were respectively Mr.
Joseph Waxman’s Rip Van Winkle, and Miss Cor-
coran’s Folly. It seems a pity only one prize was
available for that favourite character.
* * *
Next Monday, a public picnic will be
given at Clontarf by citizens of Sydney to officers
of the Iroquois, American man-of-war now in
harbour. The Mayor will preside, and a number
of Sydney gentlemen who have travelled through
America are the leavening spirit of the committee.
It is intended to be a first-class picnic.
* m *
Fully 250 attended the Social at Nithsdale
on the evening of Monday, to close the holiday
with dancing. All were youthful and jubilant,
and good looks were quite fairly distributed.
Counting extras, nearly a score of dances were
played by Mrs. Bentley in her usual perfect time,
assisted by a Needs’ violin, &c.; and from end to
end the programme was thoroughly enjoyed.
Light refreshments were pretty heavily levied
upon. It is only seldom that an assembly, all so
nearly equal in youth and in dancing skill, is
gathered together, and no better close to a holiday
could be desired than one of these companionable
Cinderella parties, which provide a reasonable
amount of recreation without the fatigue which
generally follows a long night’s dancing in warm
weather. In the old country, there is a dancing
season. Here, there is none; for although
dancing is a winter pastime in theory, it is
actually carried on, as everyone knows, all the year
round in Sydney. Even in the heat of summer
many private parties are given, occasionally public
balls, and at numberless private picnics afternoon
dancing is carried on. It is rather peculiar that
while everyone avers dancing is not suited for the
warm weather, yet nearly everyone does it more
or less. Now, it seems to us that like a good many
other popular averments, this one is largely wrong.
One person says it because he has heard some one
else say it, and it sounds plausible. Why should
dancing not be just as rational in summer as in
winter ? Why is it that cricket, lawn-tennis, boat-
pulling, etc.—all far more violent exertion than
dancing—can be practised in summer? Simply
because people dress to suit their exertions. They
wear light, loosely-fitting flannal, soft and porous.
It would be impossible to play cricket with vigour
in ordinary clothes. Yet people in an excessively
warm night in summer enter a ballroom in exactly
the same attire as they would don at a ball in mid-
winter. As at present managed, dancing is over-
warm ; but we fait to see why it should be. At pic-
nics the heat is modified by the free circulation
of plenty of fresh air;-and there is no reason why
ball-rooms should not be constructed to admit of
this, too. We mean without walls. In China,
India, and other sultry climes, these buildings are
used, why not here ? With the cool night breezes
blowing throug h one of these Summer ball-rooms,
the cool electric light in pretty coloured globes,
cool conservatories open to the sky, and men and
women suitably attired—what would be more
pleasantly picturesque, or what more suited to an
Australian Summers night ? Men are not obliged
to wear the same thick, impervious broadcloth
that is worn in wintry London. Much cooler
materials are available; indeed, even now, dress
suits are being made of porous tweed to ensure
the comfort of coolness. Of course, ladies’ rai-
ment is a delicate matter, into which our natural
modesty prevents us making too close enquiry;
but from stray glimpses that have flashod upon us
at picnics, garden and tennis parties, of white arms
peering through gauzy lace and other light and
lovely materials, and fleecy skirts that absolutely
seemed to level in their own coquettish airiness,
we are sure ladies need not always wear heavy
dresses, and yet might be always just as charming
as if they did. A majestic woman, perfectly stiff
with brocades and velvets, may be a very imposing
object, but give us the tripping, skimming, chip-
pering little person that looks like a soft bundle
chiefly made of lambs’-wool and thistledown, and
who seems hardly to tread the floor. Of course,
it’s only seeming; but it’s a pleasant illusion.
Furthermore, the music and style of danoing are
quite capable of being modified for summer use.
Waltzes might with advantage be played slower;
food dancers would never grumble. Walking
ecently through a quadrille or lancers is not at
all violent exertion when done with correctness and
grace; but persons cannot expect to get otherwise
than warm when they grasp one anotner as if in a
Graeoo-Roman wrestling match, and swing their
several selves round as if their existence depended
on their rapidity of rotation. Sometime, perhaps,
society will reform its summer dancing. Stop it—
it certainly won’t; the liking is too deeply rooted.
But, if it must be practised, surely there is no rea-
son why the style that grew in a totally different
climate should be slavishly copied here in Austra-
lia. But, wandering away on this new topic, we
iorgot to finish the girls at Needs’s. One beauty I
was delicious in pure white, thb bodice of satin
and skirt of net, gloves to match. Two tireless
sisters, spirited dancers, weredaughters of a nook-
seller—one in pink, one in blue veiling. A really
delectable dress was of corded figured silk, worn
by a quiet Jady, with most delicate lace and flush
pink flowers. Glttteringly brilliant was the dress
of a decided little blonde; it was white satin,
beaded in iront, skirt be-laced and be-flowered,
and the arms were of lace embroidered with white
beaded leaves, etc. And a most peculiar dress,
entirely of cigar-coloured plush, convinced us
that its fair owner’s ideas would not agree with
ours as to what constitutes a comfortable dress for
summer dancing.
» * *
Government House Ball at Melbourne last
week, being the first given by Sir Henry and Lady
Loch, was a resplendent affair, and over a thousand
guests were present, including, of course, all
fashionable Melbourne. Most of the Ministry were
there, a number of officers, also Sir William
Robinson, Governor of South Australia, and Sir
George Btrahan. Governor of Tasmania. Herr
Plock’s band played for the dancers. Lady
O’Loghlen wore a rich dress of orange satin, with
a petticoat of white lace over amber, and a bodice
and train of rich brocade. Her daughter, a nice
cream silk and embroidered gossamer. Mrs.
Donald Wallace looked extremely handsome in a
silk of delicate blue, the front trimmed with
bugles and plumes. Lady Nicholson’s daughter
wore only plain white satin ; and Miss Fairbairn,
a dress of cream docked with red ribbons. Mrs.
Graham Berry in black brocade, Mrs. H. Power in
a magnificent dress of cream figured velvet with
satin and lace, Miss Snodgrass in white satin and
golden grass, Misses Desailly, Miss A’Beckett,
Miss O'Shanassy, Mrs. Carter in pale pink, Mrs. R.
Power and Miss French both in cream brocade,
Miss Stawell in pale blue tulle, Miss Fellows white
tulle, Miss Ryan white satin and tulle, were among
those present. Lady Clarke wore all cream, and
Lady Loch a cream satin dress flounced with valu-
able lace and trimmed with satin ribbon and
ostrich tips; long pointed corsage, cut low, also
decked with feather tips. Her two daughters wore
white silk and tulle. In the opening set, the
Governor danced with Lady Stawell, wife of the
Lieutenant-Governor, the other couples being Sir
W. Robinson and Lady Loch, Sir George Strahan
and Miss Robinson, Col. Brownrigg and Mrs.
Deakin, Sir W. J. Clarke and Mrs. Howard Vin-
cent, Mr. Deakin and Miss Smith, the Mayor of
Melbourne and Lady O’Loghlen, Mr. Howard Vin-
cent and Lady Clarke. The ballroom was most
ornately prepared, and though a very spacious
suite of rooms was available, the affair was de-
cidedly crowded. The only toast at supper was
“ The Queen,” proposed by Sir Henry Loch.
* * *
Before the sports ended on the Agricul-
tural Ground there was a general look of tired-
ness on the faces of most people. The gathering
on Prince of Wales’ Birthday showed more than
ever how welcome a stand would be with its back
to the sun. Not only would such be a comfort,
but it would be a great help towards ensuring fair
play and safety to both competitors and spectators
in the races. Stupid people were continually
crossing the track close in front of careering cy-
clists and whizzing horses at full trot. They
wander thus aimlessly about because they have no
comfortable place to settle and see the proceed-
ings. Shade trees would also be a great boon.
There are splendid capacities in the ground for an
unlimited crowd, when they are improved, and
being so convenient to the city, the show ground |
will always be a popular resort.
* * *
The extraordinary event of a diamond
wedding, whioh so seldom occurs, was celebrated
last month at Campbelltown in Tasmania, and it
marked the 60th marriage anniversary of pro-
bably the most extraordinary man in that colony.
The Rev. Dr. Adam Turnbull was married in Scot-
land in 1834, but almost immediately afterwards
came out to “ Van Dieman’s Land.” He was pri-
vate secretary to two Governors, Arthur and
Franklin, and for years conducted the entire
correspondence with the English Government.
Dr. Turnbull achieved the great feat of thoroughly
mastering the three learned professions in theory
and practice—law, medicine, and the church. For
years he practised as a doctor; as a lawyer, he drew
up many Acts of the Tasmanian Parliament, in
which he laboured for over 35 years; and for oyer
30 years he afterwards preached as a Presbyterian
minister. It falls to few men to do as much, and
probably no man living has so much personal
knowledge of Tasmanian history, political or
social.
* * *
The hovering clouds blew off and left a
lovely day for the Balmain Regatta. A moderate
breeze suited both sailing and rowing races. The
flagship, the Messageries steamer Dupleix, was
crowded. Although a large boat, there did not
seem much room; promenading was reduced to
the process of slowly wedging one’s way through
the crowd, and the steamer is not favourably con-
structed for getting good views from. However,
there were a light refreshment counter, lots of
chairs, and the music of the Coldstream Band—so
time passed pleasantly on the sunny 10th. There
was not such a line display of toilets as we have
seen at other regattas, nor was the Dupleix deck
best suited to show them, but some were
pretty, most neat, and all interesting in the
intervals of the racing. Eminently nice were
the wbite lawn costumes of two sisters, embel-
lished with live flowers, and two white lace hats
stuck all through with gold pins were the essence
of daintiness. The hats were Battenburg, which
are now growing very popular. A characteristic
costume was of drab satin pleated skirt, and a
polonaise of brocade in pale-blue and pale-gold
pattern, bonnet trimmed with forget-me-nots and
butteroiips to match. Two cream cambrics, bme
spotted, were seasonable and pretty; and a charm-
ingly quiet dress was worn by a young lady whose
dove cashmere was just sparsely trimmed with
dashes of old gold ribbon. Inexpensive and un-
pretentious were two dresses of Galatea stripe,
worn by young girls—quite regatta dresses; and,
neatly made and modestly worn, they had
all the charm that good taste land neat-
ness convey. . A cream figured muslin
looked well under a Battenburg that was
bespeckled with sundry gold beetles and butterflies,
which interesting insects proved that the young
lady was determined to keep up to the fashions.
A biscuit-coloured China silk dress was piped
effectively with red, and the small straw hat
adorned with poppies was a good match. A radiant
girl wore a pale strawberry silk bodice and paniers
over an indigo skirt, which opened on one side
with serrated edges to show a continuation of the
Btrawberry down to the hem. Altogether, tbe
radiant girl was temptingly nice. Innumerable
boats pottered aimlessly around, as is their way at
regattas; and members of the fair sex might often
be seen digging an oar into the harbour with all
that wonderful lack of precision which usually
marks their efforts when they try to persuade
themselves they are rowing. But two young
ladies—one in purple and one in white attire —
each pulling a pair, displayed admirable form, and
attracted general notice from the flagship.
• • •
The Parramatta bazaar (for Wesleyan
Church) was one of the best there has been there.
Rev. J. Clifton opened it, and large attendances
soon decimated the wares on the stalls. Several
visitors came from Sydney, including the Misses
Shipway and Slade, who gave some valuable
musioal assistance, also that latest vocal luminary,
Mr. Quong Tart. Local aid to that portion
of the proceedings, was also efficiently given
by the Misses Tunks and Dunn, Messrs. Sparks
and M'Manis. and the pupils from the North
Parramatta Public School. The Misses A. and M.
Barker rendered some excellent pianoforte duets.
The dresses of most of the ladies were tasteful,
exhibiting every variety of colour. The belle of
the evening was a young lady from Summerhill, in
dark navy-blue velvet, the eldest unmarried
daughter of the ex-Mayor of Parramatta. The
eldest daughter of the Superintendent of the
Protestant Orphan School also looked exceed-
ingly nice in check silk over navy - blue
skirt. The three daughters of a resident school
inspector were very elegantly attired —the two
elder in rich brown velvet, and the younger in
peacock. The two fair pianoforte duettists, men-
tioned above, looked very attractive —the elder in
cream nun’s veiling, and the younger in light
blue—as did also a young lady from Hornsby, in
pale blue, who came with them. Two young
ladies from Harris Park, recent arrivals from
Kempsey, the elder in ruby and the younger in
myrtle green, were much admired ; and had there
been a prize for the prettiest child, it would oer-
tainly have been annexed by their little sister.
Two cousins from near the Western road,
alike in Christian name and surname, and
alike also in untiring efforts to effect sales, ap-
peared to Igreat advantage—one in cream colour
trimmed with light blue, and the other in dark
green. Another young lady from Hassall-street,
apparently a great favourite, who worked inde-
fatigably at the left-hand end stall, wore an
elegant white silk, and with her were the two
graceful and ladylike daughters of the senior
district minister, in white and lavender. The
Cumberland Band was in attendance, and played
vigorously at intervals. The bazaar was liberally
patronised. It will leave pleasant memories, and,
what’s more, a good cash balance.
** * #
We ought to have mentioned last week
that the flowers, pot plants, &c., used to decorate
at the Ladies’ Ball, Glebe, were lent by Messrs.
Searle and Sons. Also, that Mr. A. lokerson did
half the work of M.C At Lady Clarke’s ball, the
Footwoman of the Future, a character taken by
Miss Grice, was dressed in short quilted cardinal
satin skirt, and a coat of pale blue, the collar and
cuffs being white satin. Gold braid was used as
trimming, and a satin hat, three-corner shape and
combining the three colours, was worn In Lon-
don, painting the face is becoming quite a common
custom among delicate young men in seciety, who
must be beautiful or nothing. But they can be
both At Lady Loch’s At Home on Thursday,
Mrs. Palmer ( n&e Carandini) sang a piece composed
by Sir William Robinson ..,In return for hit,
Juvenile Ball, parents presented the Mayor of
Melbourne with a cabinet containing 380 splendid
photographs of the children in fancy dress. More
are to come, and as there is not an album
large enough in the colonies, the committee
have sent home for two monsters A
pleasant Social was held on the sth inst., at
Tattersall’s in connection with Madame Yager’s
Woollahra dancing class. Question of chief
charmer balanced betweenia maid in pale-blue and
cream lace, and the wearer of pink ombre satin.
An exhibition of skipping rope dancing and a
fling was prettily given by three youthful nymphs.
. .. Murrumbidgee Turf Club ball, at Wagga, this
month.... Annual picnic of employes of Robert-
son’s coach factory goes down the harbour on
34th inst.... Proposed to form a Band Club of the
Sydney bands Garden party that was to have
been ffield at Fairlight, last Saturday, postponed.
. ..At Newtown, a capital exhibition was open
three nights last week at the St. Stephen's Young
Nen’s Institute. Flowers, drawings, work of
various kinds; the best drawing was done by
Newtown girls.... The annual floral service was
held at St. Mark’s on Sunday. Splendid display of
flowers.. .Mr. G. D. Carter, new Mayor of Mel-
bourne, marked his accession to office on Monday
by a grand banquet in the Town Ha 11.... Bachelors
of Manly gave a Cinderella ball on Tuesday night
in their Oddfellows' Ha11....Mr. Thomas Bracken,
M.H.K., of New Zealand, and author of “ Flowers
(For continuation of SOGlaju see next puge./


EMMA BOYNTON.
A STORY OF GREAT SUFFERING.
I have been afflicted for one year and nine months
with what the doctors called rupia. I was taken
with dreadful pains in my head and body, my feet
became so swollen that I was perfectly helpless,
sores broke out on my body and face, my appetite
left me, I could not sleep nights, i lost flesh, and
soon became so wretched that I longed to die. in
this condition, after trying various remedies, I en-
gaged two homoeopathic physicians, Dr. and
Dr. , and was under their treatment a year
and a half, and failed to get even temporary relief.
My diseases grew worse; my sufferings became
terrible. I tried “ faith cure,” but was unsuccess-
ful. Kind friends then tried to get me into the
City Hospital, but the superintendent, after seeing
me, declined to admit such a case as mine there,
and said I would net live six weeks unless I was
relieved.
On the 30th of April last, I sent for Dr. F. M.
Blodgett, of Boston. He came, and after an ex-
amination pronounced my case the most hopeless
he had ever witnessed. My photograph, which
was then taken at his desire, while I lay propped
up in bed, shows the disease as it appeared on my
face: but no picture could possibly indicate how
much pain and suffering I endured. The eruption
had increased to great burrowing, foul-smelling
sores, from which a reddish matter constantly
poured, forming crusts of great thickness. Other
sores appeared on various parts of my body, and I
became so weak that I could not leave my bed.
In this condition, and by advice of Dr. Blodgett,
I began the use of the Cuticura Remepies, the
Resolvent internally three times per day, and
the Cuticura and Cuticura Soap externally. In
just sixty days, i. e, June 20,1 was so far recovered
as to be able to go alone to the gallery and sit for
my photograph, which shows more than words
can do the wonderful cure these remedies have
wrought in less than nine weeks. The sores have
all disappeared from my face and body, my appe-
tite and strength have returned; 1 am free from
pain, my flesh is increasing, and 1 can go about and
enjoy life. My restoration to perfect health is now
only a matter of a few weeks. My friends think
my cure miraculous; and I shall never cease to
feel that the Cuticura Remedies have saved my
life.
EMMA BOYNTON, 39 Chapman Street.
Boston, Mass., July 17, 1884.
Knowing the composition and curative value of
the Cuticura Remedies, I recommended them to
Miss Boynton, with the results above described. I
indorse her statement as a faithful and true ac-
count of her sufferings and cure.
F. M. Blodgett, M.D., Hotel Parthia.;
Boston, Mass., D.S.A.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated, Hunter-street, oyduey.*
THE PICK
OF
RIVERSTONE!
FOR SALE ON
SATURDAY NEXT.
Train at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
A FEW remaining UNSOLD ALLOTMENTS,
200 feet deep, adjoining Steam Saw Mil),
Cosmopolitan Hall Hotel, Stores, and Railway
Station.
ISIT” Parties wishing for a Profitable Invest-
ment, will do well to secure Land in this flourish-
ing and continually-increasing township.
Boyd and King,
96 PITT STREET.
-j domestic paper fashions
X VFvJv/ shown in our Illustrated Catalogue.
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpenoe.
, CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
JTALIAN EMPORIUM.
FANCY CHINA WARE,
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 470 George-street.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
Department of Publio Instruction,
Sydney, 6th November, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
of new Publio School Buildings, at Comleroy-
road, near Kurrajong.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Publio Instruction, Sydney, and at the
Public School, Comleroy-road, on application to
the Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed Fresh Tender for new
Buldings, Comleroy-road Public School,” must
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m., on Monday, the Ist December, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
u
DE
s
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tin ee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. Tnat with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, ohildren, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To (juard aoaA.net fraudulent imitation*,
see that each box bear* the name of “ Wilcox and
00.. 239 Oxford-etrect, Lorulon.”
HORDERNS
ON THE
Briclclleld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
ESP These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Curtains ]? h v? v S . forw arded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
. If you like which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
m
>
fi
>
?
I
sw
►4
ii
*
a®/il
fkjl&i&i s *3 tU'iA'A'AA'ia'ilStiii
m
m
m
m
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Lmen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. |OF“ Examine carefully the engraving of our
* LACE CURTAINS.”
Price: t l2s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
[ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
"J LACK CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. |Ia C E curtains]
VST Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
of the Freelands,” has been giving elocutionary
entertainments at Auokland. He recites his own
poems Bir Julius and Lady Vogel combined
•with the Hon. Robert and Mrs. Stout, and gave a
grand ball at Wellington (N.Z.), lately. It was very
costly and fashionable A fanoy dress ball was
held in Narrabri Sohool of Arts, for the Convent...
At Riverstone, Mr. West gave a ball at the Cosmo-
politan Hotel on Saturday, as a sort of inaugura-
tion. Some pretty dresses were worn by ladies,
and the attendance was large, including visitors
from Windsor, Richmond, &c, Miss Cobcroft was
very assistful at the piano, and among the fanoy
costumes that worn by Mr. Ground and his lady
caused considerable comment. Miss Cunnine was
thought to be belle.... This evening (13th), the
opening entertainment of the Garrick Club takes
place at the Cambridge Club rooms,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Edith” asks: “Would it be improper for me to
leave unanswered a letter from a young man
apologising for having taken a brooch, ear-
rings, &c., I having onlv seen him once ?” It
would depend on whether the young man
usually gets his living that way. We have
known young men take brooches, earrings,
&c., without anyone seeing them at all. The
case seems hemmed in with vagueness. Tell
us more about the young man and the tin
brooch; and when you write, spell Bulletin
with a large B, please, Edith.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lady Loftus’ At Home November 15.
Complimentary Iroquois Picnic November 17.
Produce Merchant’s Plonio (Botany)..NovemberJ3o.
Dr. F. de Sylva’s Ball (Leigh House)..November 30.
Return Ball to the Mayor (Town
Hall) November 36.
Metropolitan Liedertafel December 4.
Sydney Liedertafel, Ladies Night (Ex-
hibition) December 9.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,—l received your letter from
Brisbane on Friday, which has filled me with con-
sternation. It appearß tnat the draper kings are
up in arms about what I toid you oi their ways
up there. Now, nothing was further from my
thoughts than to hurt theii feelings, and really I
didn’t know there was anything disgraceful in ask-
ing a price for an article, and, if the oustomer
thought it dear, immediately offering it for half
the figure. Indeed, E thought it quite good-
natured and accommodating on their part, and I
can assure you it suited me exactly. But, from
what I hear, some of the leading firms are quite
put out about it, and, of course, each one declares
that no such thing ever happened in their estab-
lishments, and it can only have been at some petty
shop, where a conscience is a thing unknown. But
truth compels me to say that, deny it as they will,
it was at one of the largest establishments in
Brisbane where I remarked this comioal way of
doing business. I will even go further, and say
that it was not at our old friends, Finney, Isles,
and Co., which is far too honest and plain dealing a
firm to ask twice as much for their goods as it
would pay them to take. But there! if I say any
more I shall get into further disgrace, so I will
just leave the cap to be worn by whomever it may
fit.
I was glad to see so large an audience at the
second Vogrich conoert, for the attendance at the
first one was disappointing, although most of
the dailies pronounced it to'.be\large and fashionable.
But if the first was large and fashionable, the
seoond was certainly larger and more fashionable.
The opening piece, Scnumann’s “Grand Quin-
tuor,’’ was a positive treat to those who possessed
the capacity of enjoying the |beautiful work: as
the performance lasted thirty minutes, and per-
fect silence reigned in the hall throughout, it is
only fair to suppose that the audience was com-
posed of honest musicians. I wish, though, that
people wouldn’t applaud after each movement of
a work of this class; it does jar so on the ear, and it
appears to me it is like interrupting the flow of a
narrative—you lose the thread as it were, and have
to “ listen back ” in order to know where you are.
Of course it is encouraging to the performers to
know that their efforts are being appreciated, but,
as a rule, our musicians are not so over-burthened
with modesty that constant applause is needed in
order to keep up their spirits. I don’t know
exactly how it is, buttbe more we hear Mons. de
Willimoff play the better we like him—his playing
I mean. On this occasion, his “ Elegie ” was so
well appreciated that he was compelled to twice
bow his thanks to the audience ; and really it was
played with that pure tone which so few manage
to coax from the violin, and with such delicious
expression that I should .have applauded myself
had I been a man. Brilliantly as Madame Vogrich
acquitted herself in both recitative and air from
the “ Magio Flute,” and in the Jewel Song, I much
preferred her singing of Sohubert’s “ Ave Maria.”
In the latter her voice sounded sweeter than
I have ever before heard it, and altogether
with the piano and stringß accompaniment, I can
tell you it was a gem. Herr Gumprich’s 'cello solo
was rather indifferent; but I am sure he can
do better —indeed, I know he can, for I have
heard him. He is always inclined to be just a little
meohanical, though. Liszt’s arrangement of the
Wedding March abounds in the most teazing diffi-
culties, which seem like mere child’s play to Herr
Vogrich. His own “ Staccato Caprice” and Chopin’s
lovely “Berceuse” were bracketed together, mak-
ing a happy contrast of style. It was very gratify-
ing to notice at this conceit that Herr Vogrich did
not find it necessary to interrupt Madame Vogrich
In her song in order that he might beg the ill-
mannered boors, who seemed to prefer the music
of their own voices to that of the lady’s, to be
silent. These concert-hall chatterboxes are becom-
ing more and more aggressive. I remember at the
Radcliff concerts they were extremely annoying;
and, if Mr. Radcliff had not been the most good-
natured of men—(fancy, he has been playing the
flute part in the Brisbane Musical Union orchestra
just to oblige them!)—he (would not have put up
with the an noyance so complacently. And, talking
of annoyances, did you ever, dear, have the dread
misfortune to sit near a lady at a concert who
fanned herself the whole evening through with
expression 1 The other night there was one sitting
just behind us, and the worst of it was her fan
squeaked with every movement. In the “ Ave
Maria ” the operation of the fan had a most comi-
cal effect. It started with, an adagio movement
and pianissimo in accordance with the music,
and theigraduailaccellerando and crescendo were
really very fine, but the final diminuendo was best
of all, when the squeaks became fainter and more
faint, till at last they died away with the last note
of the song; and then for a’few precious moments
we had a rest from this dreadtul tan. The dear
Old lady seemed to enter into the spirit of the I
music so thoroughly that we couldn’t feel down-
right angry with ner; and, besides, she looked so
wholly unconscious of the pain she was Inflicting
upon us by her fantastical movements. Madame
Vogrich wore a beautiful white satin dress, with
very high Elizabethan collar. The skirt of the dress
was handsomely trimmed with white passemen-
terie and lace, and at the termination of the V-
shaped bodice was a beautiful bunch of real
flowers; silver necklet set with brilliants, and dia-
mond earrings. In the hall there was an extremely
handsome dress composed of black satin sprinkled
all over with tiny stars, worked in rose-coloured
silk. It was worn by a stylish-looking lady, and
was much admired. And, oh I there was the very
loveliest shot silk trimmed with pinked out
flounces. In one light it looked pink, in another
peach colour, and then, again, it shone a deep
purple. I think these snot silks are wonderfully
pretty; but Edith says they look so old-fashioned,
and declares the only dress she can remember her
greatgrandmother wearing was a shot silk. She
admits that it makes a pretty trimming for a dress
of plain material, but as for having a whole dress
of the silk—oh, no! I know this, if anyone
offered me two or three shot silk dresses, I
don’t think I should refuse them ; but Edith
always was a slave to her prejudices. I saw
two or three of the new hair ornaments worn
the other night, and they were extremely
pretty. A large star, set with brilliants, is at-
tached to a small wire spring, which is then
fastened on to a long gold hairpin, which pins the
star on to the hair. Now, this little spring causes
the star to tremble with the slightest movement
of the head, which gives it ten times the brilliance
It would have if it were stationary. I have seen
them crescent-shaped, b t prefer the stars.
Flowers in the hair are now almost unknown.
I am so glad ihe Liedertafel Smoke Concert is
over. Why? Well, because it’s pot the slightest
use our expecting to go out anywhere on those
nights, for there positively isn’t an available man
to take us. They all go to these smoke concerts,
whether they are musical or otherwise, because
“it’sthe thing, you know.” I heard Ned come
home before I went to sleep that night, and,
although 1 did not seo him, I knew that someone
had been playing the clarionet well at the concert;
and also that some singer had made a success with
“ The Last Watch.” And this is how I knew. In
the silence of the night I heard the not very mel-
low tones of Ned’s clarionet issuing from his room,
but, after a few vain attempts to play ‘‘Still so
gently” without any “goose squeaks,” the in-
strument was laid aside, and in an uncertain bari-
tone—which miyht have been a good voice if he
had not tried to persuade it into being a tenor—he
sang “The Last Watch,” until he came to the
highest note, and then the rest was left to our
imagination. It's a peculiarity of Ned s to try
and persuade himself that he can do things—no
matter what—as well as anyone else; but
he is not stubborn, and when he makes the
attempt he is soon convinced to the contrary.
So in the morning, I asked him who had
played the clarionet and who had sung “The
last Watch,” at the [concert. “Oh, Pier sang
and Cooper played, but how do you know
anything about it ?” “ I heard you trying to imi-
tate them both when you came home last night.”
Poor Ned turned red, for he knows we are aware
of his weakness, and exclaimed, testily, “I am
going to give up the clarionet and take to the
viobn; Willimoff was grand last night,—yes, I’ll
try the violin, as for my voice, I don’t know what’s
come over it lately.” , I suggested that there
might be something wrong with his larynx, but
my suggestion was treated with contemptuous
silence.
If ever I composed a song I should pray that it
might notjbecome too popular, for the very best
composition palls when one hears it at every street
corner. I don’t say that “Wait till the clouds
roll by,” is the best thing ever written, but at
present the very atmosphere seems full of it,
there Isn’t a larrikin who has left it unwhistled,
nor have the street musicians spared us--the very
dogs seem to bark it. It is just as much sung,
whistled, and played, as was "Nancy Lee,” when
the latter was at the height of its popularity. It’s
certain death to a song to become so popular. So
if I had the gift of composition, I should prefer to
write a song similar to—well, Gounod’s “ Valley.”
for instanoe, which can never be vulgarised. By
the way, I have ouly heard the “ Valley ” sung
once in Sydney, and that was by Mr Hallewell, and
in his very best style, too; but I don’t think it was
appreciated as well as it deserved to be-so per-
haps that is why he has never repeated it. I wish
he would, though, sometime, for it is very beau-
tiful.
I wonder when we are going to get some " tea-
on-the-lawn ” days. Here we are into November,
and the weather as uncertain as an English April,
which makes garden parties complete failures, and
moonlight picnics ditto. But it appears to me I
have written you a long letter, and now I haven’t
told yau anything about our lovely summer cos-
tumes. But that will wait till next time, for lam
really tired.
Ever your loving MAB.
P.B.—Tho Remenyi concerts are, as far as
Remenyi is concerned, simply charming, but I will
tell you more of them in my next.— Mab.


MONEY AND TIME SAVED.
Messrs, thomas hendersow and co„
Agricultural Machinists, of 89, 91, 95 Eliza-
beth-street North, Melbourne, lurnish us with
the following 1 combined statements received from
some of their employes, under date 26th January,
1884 Mr. William Downes says : “ With pleasure
I bear testimony to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oi'
as a household remedy. One application I have
found to totally remove the pain and marks of a
severe bruise, and I believe it to be an invaluable
remedy for sprains. Since experiencing its good
qualities I have recommended it to several friends
for neuralgia, soreness of chest, &c , and in every
instance it has given relief.” Mr. w. A. M’Horg.
accountant, contributes the following statement:
" I sprained my ankle very badly. I tried the
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. My ankle was greatly
swollen and painful, but after the first application
the swelling had sensibly decreased and the feeling
of stiffness entirely gone out of my leg ; in fact,
a week’s daily application of the Oil effected a
complete cure, and I had not to remain away a
single day from business. (A friend of mine, afte
seeing my ankle, prophesied three weeks’ deten-
tion at home.) I believe the Oil to have great
curative power for sprains, and that it possesses
the properties claimed for it.” Mr. R. W. Johnson,
titter, sprained his ankle severely. He applied St.
Jacobs Oil with the most beneficial results. In less
than a week it has made a perfect cure, and he
was not absent from work for a single day. He
has also used it for toothache, which it cured
almost at once. He recommends itto all sufferers.
Mr. John M‘lntyre, carpenter, in our employ,
speaks of its virtue. . . . Having sustained a
severe fall on my back, I was, through tne injury,
half paralysed, I tried St. Jacobs Oil, and after
using two bottles I found much relief. My arms,
which I could not raise above my head after the
fall, I can now use freely, and can go about my
work as well as ever. 1 look upon the Oil as a
most valuable medicine. *
A SOLICITOR’S SOLID STATEMENT.
M. E. Benjamin, Esq., of the firm of Messrs.
Hart and Benjamin, solicitors and Commissioners
for Australasian Colonies and New Zealand, make
the following statement“ Pacific Chambers,
60 Collins-street W est, Melbourne, 11th December
1883.—Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs, I h uV ®
much pleasure in testifying to the remedial effects
of St. Jacobs Oil. 1 have used it in a case of #
severe sprain, and also for rheumatic pains, ana
its application has always been attended by almo* 1
immediate relief.—l remain, dear sirs, yours triuj*
“M. E. BBNJAitIN.
Polical
Points
A South Australian politician said, “ Capi-
tal would employ monkeys if they would work.”
The attention of The O’Sullivan Is directed to this.
The New South Wales Ministry certainly
trot “a facer” over the Mudgee-Walgett line.
But, in Victoria, the Service-Berry Ministry got
Just as heavy a knock on the Ballarat Bast to
Buninyong line. And both Ministries are still in
existence.
When poor little Andy Lynch was alive,
he at times told the New South Wales Assembly
that he “ riprisinted the grate intayrior.” This,
however, does not justify the theological joke
made by the Protestant Standard, when it said
that Andy had left the world and gone to his con-
stituency.
In the South Australian Parliament last
week, Mr Kings aid he intended to vote “ against
his conscience?’ And the House laughed. Now,
members need not have laughed. Everywhere in
Australia legislators vote against such conscience
as they have, but it is very seldom that one of
them admits doing so.
So soon as half the officials in the Lands
Offloe in Bridge-street have been drafted into the
country, the outlying branches of the department,
which are here, there, and everywhere in Sydney,
will be brought under ODe roof. To persons having
business with the Lands Department, this will save
expense, but not time. Now, you have to go round
from one office to another in a cab. Presently, you
will merely have to sit for hours outside one official
door, and walk ten yards to do the same outside
another.
One broad feature will be found in the
Looal Government Bill of the Stuart Ministry. It
will be compulsory in this way. Not a district in
which land is held by lease or freehold will obtain
the smallest subsidy from Government, unless as
a supplement to local taxation. And Government
will carry out no works in any district, exoept such
as ate of a purely national character. Within
municipalities and settled districts, too, the license
fees ana other revenue that goes to the Crown will
go to the local governing body. But, in the back
country, it is possible that looal government may
Still be accompanied by a central administration.
In Wilkie Collins’s novel “The Law and
the Lady ” there is a rather crapulous character
who has no legs, and wheels himself about on a
mechanical chair. The New Zealand Treasurer,
Sir Julius Vogel, has the usual number of legs,
but so full of gout are they that he has to wheel
himself in and out of and about the Chamber of
Representatives in a chair like that of Wilkie
Collins’s gentleman, who, by the way, liked truffles
stewed in champagne, and shared a taste, therefore,
with Vogel. Sir Julius has to speak from his chair,
which is softly cushioned—that is more than his
speeches are. In his old style, he has so cast out
political baits in all directions that the different
parties opposed to him are broken up, and he has a
majority at his baok.
The people of the Dai ling and the Lower
Murrumbidgee look to Federation for advant-
ages that they can never get from Sydney,
and undoubtedly they can make out a good case
against our pedlar-like centralising policy. We
posG ourselves as chatnpiODS of Freetraae, and
we interpret the doctrine by barring all traffic
that does not lead direct to Sydney stores. The
people of Hay and Deniliquin have for years
desired to make a railway at their own cost,
and our Government refuses permission, because
“the policy of New South Wales is to bring all the
wool to Sydney.” The tyranny and impudence of
this avowed principle will read very badly in
history, and, indeed, will make us look very queer
if it gets into the Home papers.
Dailey believes that the adoption of the
Convention Federation policy would secure the
lands, lives, and liberties of the immense popula
tion of Polynesia, prevent schemes of plunder,
and lay the foundations of justice. Now, one who
can believe that will believe anything. We should
like to hear Tawhiao’s views on the subject, or
those of the chief whose village the merry iaen
of the Miranda burnt and “ looted ” the other day.
The security and justice which flourishes under
the meteor flag may be all very well for mission-
aries, syndicates, and the commercial runners of
wooden nutmegs; but for the autochthyon it
Birnply means white spirit spoliation and sudden
death. The nigger, in fact, might sing with much
appropriateness: “You will skin me with your
feder”-ation.
Herr Rauspaoh’s invention of a wild-beast-
taming electrical baton might be applied, we con-
ceive, with considerable advantage in .parliamen-
tary procedure. For example, were the Speaker,
the Chairman of Committees, and the Sergeant-at-
Arrns supplied with a Kauspaoh baton a piece,
there might be some chance of briuging
obstreporous members, if not to order at least to
comparatively useful motionlessness. Wo oan
fancy Buchanan, stupefied by a shock, crouching
in his seat; A. G. Taylor perfectly numb; Parkes
growling fitfully, but subdued ; Garrett showing
his teeth, but silent; and Wisdom on his back, a
child again, earnestly endeavouring to get his big
toe in his mouth. In the hands of really impar-
tial officials, and employed faithfully to tame
blatant bores and bullies only, the baton would
" pay ’’—the want, however, is the.really impartial
officials.
The German General von der Goltz main-
tains that in the next invasion of France, cavalry
must be employed on a great scale, and that
Berious battles of cavalry and horse-artillex-y alone
may be expected. In the recent manoeuvres, the
great position was assigned to the cavalry, which,
on the first day, had ah the work to do, not a rifle
being fired; the whole of the infantry was em-
ployed in “ mere strategical manoeuvring.” It is
known, moreover, that the one great (reliance of
the Russian staff against German invasion is on
the great number of cavalry they habitually keep
ready for concentration in Poland. Germany can-
not rival them in this arm. If this news is correct,
the revival of cavalry campaigning will greatly
increase the expense of armies and the calamities
of war. Cavalry can never .be cheap, and a mass
of cavalry moving in an enemy’s territory must
desolate it as would a flight of locusts.
Apropos of the sullen and hostile attitude
of the people of the South of Ireland during the
Viceroy's visit, thus the London Echo:—“The
Land Act and the Arrears Act are forgotten in the
remembrance of the coercive legislation for which
Ministers are responsible. Nothing that they can
do oan reconcile the Irish people to an Adminis-
tration that threw a thousand (citizens into gaol
and kept them there for months without trial or
evidence of guilt. Mr. Justin M'Carthy has re-
cently published calculations which show that Mr.
Parnell will have a following of nearly eighty
members in the nexf Parliament, and other autho-
rities are of much the same opinion. Bhould this
happen, it will be largely due to the folly of Liberal
Ministers who listened to Tory counsels, and, in-
stead of being true to Liberal principles, sus-
pended the Irish Constitution, and left Irishmen at
the mercy of any hireling who chose to Bwear
away their liberty.’*
By direction of the Speaker a piece of
furniture is to be placed in the New South Wales
Legislative Chamber which he expects will have a
decidedly beneficial influence on the temper and
tone of debates. A “ Luger Messer is to be hung
from the ceiling.” Perhaps people will ask “ what
is a Luger Messer?” Well, in Bohemia, when a
number of village cronies are talking politics and
drinking beer, there is suspended from the ceiling
of the room a large knife with a lot of little bells
about it and a string hanging down by which it
may be shaken. Then when one of the company
says something from which some one else differs,
the party who differs does not get up and say
“ you’re another.” No, he just pulls the string and
the knife shakes and the little bells ring, and the
gentleman making the statement is expeoted to
substantiate, explain, or apologise for it. There
can be no doubt of the theoretical utility of a
Luger Messer in our Assembly. It will come in
very handy for Sir John Robertson, M'Elhone, or
A. G. Taylor, if they like to use it. That’s the
point, however. Sir John says that whon he wants
to say “ It’s a lie,” he prefers saying it right out
and not ringing a lot or infernal little bells. And
M'Elhone and Taylor are much of the same
opinion. Then there are quite a number of mem-
bers, such as Abigail, Lusoombe, and R. B. Smith,
who would like to say “you’re a dam liar,” or
“ it’s a dam lie,” but refrain from moral considera-
tions. Now, these gentlemen, it is thought, would
be always ringing the Luger Messer as something
is being always said that they would like to con-
tradict. However, a very few days after the
opening ef next session will settle whether the
Speaker’s new notion is a good one or not.
It is said that the Land Boards will possess a
great deal more of independent executive power
than the Minister intended. The section of the Act
dealing with the constitution of these bodies is
being carefully overhauled, and it is found that
when organised in strict terms of the Act, the
Boards will be, in the first instance, entirely in-
dependent of Ministerial control, and the publicity
which is essential in every stage of procedure
will afford a strong guarantee against subsequent
abuse. Years ago, Sir John O’Shanassy had a
disputed portion of land allotted to him in one
day at the Central office. The purchase was com-
pleted, and the Deed Issued at once by Ministerial
flat, while the dispute was pending. Such a gross
perversion of law can hardly occur under the new
Act. Mr. Farnell is reported, indeed, to have said,
lately, that “ the Chairmen of Boards would take
the orders from the Minister, exactly as Land
Agents did under the abolished Act,” but it ap-
pears that he is greatly mistaken—so much the
better, say we. In view of the decentralisation
contemplated, the department is in a state of
panic. The hundreds of youngsters, who, as State
paupers or legacies from thejvarious Ministries,
have been kept by the public for the last ten
years, have now the alternative before them of
POOH KID!
A MAN WHITES TO AN ENGLISH PAPER ON BEHALF OF THE UNFORTUNATE GOATS
AT THE SEASIDE COMPELLED, UNDER THE BURNING SUN, TO DRAG HEAVY LOADS
OF FAT CHILDREN, “PANTING, AND WITH THEIR TONGUES HANGING OUT OF
THEIR MOUTHS.”
going up the country to work under the Land
Boards, or of getting their noses kept to the
grindstone in Bridge-street, working up the
arrears of the old Acts. The vision of “the
saok ” in the back-ground, wili, no doubt,
stimulate them to a speedy comprehension of the
new law. It is quite evident that the “Govern-
ment stroke” must be quickened : and whatever
may be the defects of the Act of 1885, it will
deserve our blessing if it infuses order and activity
into the Augean stalls of “the Lands.” It is said
that there will be fifteen or sixteen Land Boards,
each supervising a local department consisting of
land-agents and surveyors, and holding open
courts all over their district at stated intervals.
This is essentially the same method that has been
in operation in Queensland since 1868 : and there it
has worked with such good results that in ad-
ministering a territory twice as large as New South
Wales, there are no arrears, and all information
can ;be got at once, both at the local and the
central office.
Hurlbert,[late editor of the New York
World, has just written a pamphlet reviewing the
main incidents of Blaine’s nine months’ tenure of
office at the U. S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs from
March 4th until December Ist, 1881, and in which
Blaine is specially charged with having system-
atically disregarded the claims of American
citizens who were arrested in Ireland under the
Coercion Act. The chief interest in this publication
is the fresh light it throws on the circumstances of
Buckshot Forster’s retirement from the Chief
Secretaryship of Ireland. Hurlbert shows that
this retirement or dismissal was due to no other
cause than the energetic attitude assumed by the
United States Government after the dismissal of
Blaine by President Arthur and the accession of
Frelinghuysen to office. Frelinghuysen cabled,
March 3,1883, to Lowell (American Ambassador in
London)“ Use all diligenoe in regard to late
cases, and report by cable.” Lowell did so, and
received in reply the following message The
President hopes that the Lord Lieutenant will be
instructed to exeroise the powers entrusted to him
by the first section (of the Coercion Act) to order
early trials in all oases in which Americans have
been arrested.” Lord Granville found that the
frotection of the rights of American citizens in
reland had come into the hands of an American
secretary who was not to be trifled with. He re-
plied the same day, and assured Mr. Lowell that
the matter would receive immediate atten-
tion. He was as good as his word. A
Cabinet Council was summoned and Forster
invited to communicate with the Lord Lieu-
tenant, and ask him to exercise his discretion in
the sense desired. This Forster refused to do.
The American Government took an unusual step.
They called in the unofficial aid of Hamilton Fish,
ex-Becretary of State. Fish sent a cable despatch,
at the request of the State Department, to an
eminent British public man, who was authorised
to show it to Gladstone, to the effect that if any
further delay oocurred in complying with the de-
mand of the United Btates In regard to the Ameri-
can suspects, that these suspects should be re-
leased at onoe or at once put upon their trial, the
relations between Great Britain and the States
would be very seriously strained. This despatch
was immediately imparted to Mr. Gladstone, who
saw himself confronted by a new and most formid-
able complicatio nof the Irish question. He made
up his mind. Fish’s despatch was laid before the
British Government on April 2nd; on the 4th Fre-
linghuysen was able to announoe that ail the
American suspects had been released. Forster
ceased to represent coercion in Ireland from the
day the Fish despatch arrived, a fact borne out
by the events whioh followed. Parnell and his
companions were unconditionally released, despite
the strenuous opposition of Forster, who still
clung to office. It was determined to force him
to resign the Ministry he had so nearly wrecked.
Miohael Davitt was unconditionally released.
There was nothing left for Mr. Forster but to re-
sign.
• • •
Parliament has been summoned to meet
on the 19th inst. for dispatch of business—Plenty
of candidates for Carooar. Mary’s own Garland
one of them. He will support female suffrage. 8o
would any sensible man in bis place Payment of
Members Bill rejected by Upper House in South
Australia. Sir Henry Parkes considers payment
of members most objectionable.
Says the Bituminous Hanby: “A milk
Inspector is to be appointed in Melbourne. Why
not in Newcastle ?” Because, dear boy, it is neces-
sary to get the milk before you get the inspector.
And you can hardly expect your reporters to rush
around for news and give milk at the same time.
There iB no goat living that could do it.
There is just the off-chance that the
simple-minded citizens of Gundagai will shortly be
left to the tender mercies of the erudite Elworthy
in the matter of local journalism, as the only W.
H. L. Bailey has intimated in a late issue or the
lively sheet which bears his imprint that, if his
subscribers do not ante-up with the overdue
stamps, he will withdraw the light of his counten-
ance from among them, and leave them in well-
merited obscurity. Sad tidings these for the Gun-
dageese. And. to add to their discomfiture, he
points out, with painful lucidity, the deplorable
position in which the district would be placed
should the Herald (which hitherto—to quote the
immortal one—“ has been a power in the land ”)
cease to circulate. In a leading article, couched
in vigorous Anglo-Saxon, and frescoed with
foreign quotations, the aggressive W. H. L. jumps
on the neck of his contemporary bv holding up
to a discriminating public his vaooillating policy
anent a railway to Tumut or somewhere. This
is the cheerful style in which Bailey opens out:—
“ We have so continually pointed to our con-
temporary, the Gundagai Times, as a servile lick-
spittling journal, entirely devoid of backbone and
principle, that we begin to think the proprietor of
it must have the skin of pachyderm, else, for
deoency's sake, he would not continue displaying
his chameleon-like colours in so barefaced a man-
ner.” Now, isn’t that a start quite good enough
for anything? And then he proceeds to show by
almost damning evidence that, like Sir Boyle
Roche’s famous bird, the editor of the Times
could not be enjoying the mild dissipations of the
metropolis, and grinding out brilliant editorials in
his Gundagai sanctum at the same time, and he
further draws aside the veil of the sanctum sanc-
torum ruthlessly, and discloses what he oheerfully
calls “the ruse de guerre of sacking the editor,”
to whom the credit of writing some of the leading
articles of the Times had been ascribed. Seriously,
we cannot see how the people of Gundagai can
afford to lose that doughty champion of their
interests whose power of invective is only equalled
by his gigantic stature and an abnormally big hat.
Even though it should be converted into a gratuit-
ous ad. we are reluctantly compelled to admit that
there is a lot of wholesome fun in the Gundagai
journals-a bit personal may-be, but what of
that ?
Here’s a bit of the plainest sort of English,
which we commend to the best attention of the
Postmaster-General. A subscriber sends it along:
—“ Could diggers and other bushmen be assured
that their newspapers would come through all-
right, your circulation and that of other leading
weeklies would, I am sure, be largely on the in-
crease. The other day a timber-getter wanted the
loan ot my Bulletin, and in lending it to him, I
inquired why he didn’t subscribe to it. He said
he and his mate took it and the T. and C. Journal
for upwards of twelve months, but getting little
more than half the papers they were entitled to,
they became disgusted and ceased to subsoribe. I
have heard similar remarks made in many parts
ot the Australias by many and various men. Pic-
ture to yourself a poor, worn-out old digger—per-
haps a forty-niner—ending his days on a Chinkee-
fossicked field. He makes, say, two weights a week.
Out of such a pittance he has to support himself
and his two friends, probably the only real friends
he has in the world, his cat and dog. This worn-
out naan on a worn-out goldfield. The man and
the goldfield typical of the stirring past, both soon
to be numbered amongst the tdings that were.
Such as he will subscribe to a paper. That and his
pipe are the only luxuries he enjoys. He may now
and again pinch his guts to pay for it. His boots
may be rotting off his bleeding feet, but he’ll try
to await another washing and make sure of the
paper. What a darn shame that such as he should
be robbed by a pitiful set of State parasites—dudes
who dissipate their time and dimes in billiard-
rooms, &c. Here is an instance: I knew a store-
keeper who had occasion to go to Sydney; not
„ a drinking man, he hung up at a swelUsh
kind of boarding-house. The place jamful of young
snobs, swells, and other dudes. The whole blasted
ht-out was barnacled on to some part or other
of the state ship. One night, some hair-pin begun
to read a humorous yarn about an old nigger out
of one of the evening papers. The joke had been
quoted from the Detroit Free Press. The store-
h® oP er remarked that he would like to see a copy
of that paper. ‘Would you?’ said the cove who
sat beside him on a sofa. ‘ I often get one. I can
get almost any kind of rag I want, at any time. I
fetch plenty here, but the fellows take them to
the rooms and they are lost sight of.’ The Post-
°lr9? was the department honoured by tlie services
of this particular snoozer. Country Post Offices
are pasted over with directions signed by the
Postmaster-General, in which he indirectly admits
that his department is chock-full of thieves.
The public are warned to be careful in registering
letters, in cutting bank notes in two, etc., which
seems to me to read like a humiliating admission
that are many prigs! in the Post Office. Is there no
rerasdy for it ? Will there always be thieves in
the Post Office? Then why not get rid of the
whole roost of paid prigs, and run the concern with
a cheap staff from Darllnghust Gaol. I don’t, for a
moment, cast the slightest reflection on the little
Post Office here, I got eleven papers out of a
possible twelve in the last quarter, and I’ll swear
the twelfth got lassoed before getting here.” Our
correspondent is too sweeping. That there are
thieves in the Post Office is sufficiently proved by
the periodical detection and conviction of “ well-
connected ” prigs. But it would not be fair, there-
fore, to brand the entire body of Post Office
officials as dishonest. There are black sheep in
every establishment, and in the Post Office temo-
tations are considerable, and detection perhaps
more frequent than in most other departments,
owing to the very carefulness of the observation
to which the employes are subjected.
The World says that the priests of the
Anglican Church who contrive to get into trouble
are alarmingly on the increase, and though a
blameless majority should not be reproached with
the criminality of a minority, the scandal grows.
No one can observe the ecclesiastics without being
struck by the vulgarity of their appearance, and
the meanness of their habit. The Irish R.C. clergy
are sneered at as an underbred peasant priesthood,
yet the average Anglican parson, whose acquaint-
ance we casually make, does not contrast so very
favourably either with them or with foreign ec-
clesiastics. Cleanliness is cheap, yet the parson of
the period eschews it as if it were one of the seven
deadly sins. Nothing can be in worse taste than
the misshapen felt hat, surrounded by a triple or
quadruple belt of black cord, which surmounts
the clerical head. Twenty years ago no English
clergyman would have permitted himself to ap-
pear in public habited after so uncouth a fashion
—with coat that has never known the brush, linen
that is a stranger to the laundress, and hands
never encased in glove or apparently dipped in
water. Police reports show that he is sadly ad-
dicted to getting into scrapes, so is not to be won-
dered at if he provokes many base imitations.
“Clerical imposture” is now the stereotyped
heading of newspaper paragraphs. A tioket-of-
leave man. noticing the disrepute into which the
ecclesiastical profession;; has fallen, and the ab-
sence of anything like distinction in so large a
proportion of those of whom it is composed,
naturally sees no reason why he should not assume
the priestly role. He is probably as well born and
bred as the curate of the new school, quite as well
educated, not more devoid of moral principle,
with far more strength of character, ingenuity,
energy, and resource. A sham divine is often no
worse than the real article. If there still existed
the difference which there once used to be between
the latter and a Hyde Park preacher, there would
be fewer counterfeit [presentments. But, just as
every small farmer’s daughter wants to be a go-
verness, so ihe son of every small tradesman
wants to be a parson—not that his aspirations are
spiritual. This is the age of social pushing; the
Church offers a respectable and easy career, and is
open to all. A University degree is no longer
essential. Formerly the fool of the family
was sent into the army; nowadays the fool
or the sluggard shuffles into the Churoh.
The typical newly-fledged parson has no wish to
come to the front. He has neither pluck nor
spirit, power of application, nor go. He is a poor,
invertebrate, weak-kneed creature, morally and
physically limp, with an ignoble fondness, not so
much for ease and comfort, as for torpor. His one
idea and object is to exert himself as little as pos-
sible, to do the least he can, and to do it in the
most slovenly fashion that will pass muster.
Better a curate’s £l2O a year, as it seemkto him,
than the £250 which his brother may be earning as
a schoolmaster or as a Government clerk. Clergy-
men can generally make their work what they
wish it to be. So long as they do not violate public
decorum, and keep out of the county court, the
polioe court, and the newspapers,’.they may scamp
their work at will. Their stipend is paid regularly,
and if they can sleep ten hours out of the twenty-
four, and eat three square meals a day, they are
satisfied. Now, the World is, taken allround, a
most respectable paper, and is extensively read by
the aristocracy, to whom it considerably “kow-
tows.” Did we see such a diatribe against the
clergy in a “ low ” Radical paper, we could under-
stand it, and make the necessary allowances. But
when we find the fashionable papers agreeing with
papers that are not fashionable, on the subject of
the clergy, what are we to conclude ? In at least
some parts of Australia, we are glad to see, a Uni-
versity degree is a sine qua non for ordination to
the Church of England. And common fairness
compels us to say that you rarely meet in Aus-
tralia a Churoh of England clergyman who is not a
gentleman.


Cleanse the Vitiated Blood
1' O CLEANSE the Vitiated Blood of Scrofulous,
Inherited, and Contagious Humors, and thus
remove the most prolific cause of human suffering,
to clear the skin of Disfiguring Blotches, Itching
Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and Loathsome
Sores caused by Inherited Scrofula, to purify and
beautify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no
trace of disease remains, Cuticura Resolvent,
the new blood purifier, and Ctjticura and Cuti-
CURA Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautifiers
are infallible.
RESOLVENT, the new blood Puri-
fler, cleanses the blood and perspiration of
Impurities and poisonous elements, and thus re-
moves the cause. Cuticura, the great Skin Cure,
instantly allays Itching and Inflammation, clears
the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers and Sores, and re-
stores the Hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Beautifler, prepared from Cuticura, is indis-
pensable in treating Skin diseases, Baby Humors,
Skin Blemishes.
ran
m
JAMBS E. RICHARDSON, Custom House, New
Orleans, on oath, says:—“ln 1870 Scrofulous
Ulcers broke out on my body until I was a mass of
corruption. Eyerything known to the medical
faculty was tried in vain. I became a mere wreck.
At times could not lift my hands to my head,
could not turn in bed; was in constant pain, and
looked upon life as a curse. No relief or cure in
ten years. In 1880 I heard of the Cuticura
Remedies, used them, and was perfectly cured.”
Sworn to before U.S. Com. J. D. Craweord.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
K. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Consignees.
I HAVE HAD a Ringworm Humor got at the
harbor’s, for six years, which spread all over
my ears, face, and neck, and which itched and irri-
tated me a great deal. I have used many reme-
dies by advice of physicians without benefit.
Your Cuticura Remedies have entirely cured
me, taking every bit of humor off my faoo and
leaving it as smooth as a dollar. I thank you again
for the help it has been to me.
GEORGE W. BROWN, Mason.
48 Marshall St., Providence, r.I.
Price: Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 36 cents; Re-
solvent, $l.OO. Prepared by
Potter Druir and Chemical Co., Boston
PAINTS.
OILS.
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
K W“ NT P. PnttArM and Prl<w« «mt,
CUT THIS OUT,
BY cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
you will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
lor £l5 55.; orastroDg, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for £3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 5 years!
Note the Address:
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878.
MAT Hi MONlAL.—Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
w.
PALING
All
AND CO. (Limited).
o
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THB RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
all the latest music in stock.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW 80UTH W
COMPAGNONI CAT ERING CO. (Limited).
m J?® din * <\ nd O jd « Bt Catering Establishment i n N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &o.
undertakeß l«» Balls. Wrings. Banquets. Dinners. Luncheon.
Gcntlemen ’ are th ® floeBtl *
t. £,® e * ea daiir ’ 31 Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
n E. D. lOLLEM iCSB, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-slreet, Sydne y. 11
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements*
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three years.
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal ' Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWEU jER
GOOLALTA WIKES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEATJX, 7
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gl-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’a)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU. WAITJ
GENT.'S 60, Is. 0(1. ; 100, 2s.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. o<i.; 100, 3s.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. Bd. s 260, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 103.; 1000, 15s,
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATR,
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE SR!SUPPLYCO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
& a.
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of Mew S how Rooms.
Messrs. B, LLOYD S CO.
GEORGE S TREET,
OPPOBITB WT'NTAED STREET.
Ladies’ Underclotliing & Baby-Linen.
A Magnificent NEAT STpCK was selected bv Mr
Lloyd in London, Paris, and I n Ireland y r ’
FIRST GRAND SHOW Q!F DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND 8HOWOF TEA. GOWNS
wtMi^
NIGHTDRESSeI UNDERCL0TH ING.
An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask fSrilfustrated r ■ '
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*'
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
. Bln along
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culoaim
Cowabee
Narandor
Hulong
Carratfiool
Hay
Wsstirn District, MW,;
Caperteo
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Co bar
Coonamble
Bourke
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabrl
Walgett
Northsun District, N.8.W.;
Brewarrlns
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southhrn Aim South-Wkstsrn Lins;
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Rockhampton
erald
Cbntral Lins:
Capella
Comet
Northern Lins:
jwnsvllle
i Towers
Ravenswooe Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
Agencies In all parts of the world.
Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BA 88 PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL AND WINH
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
■». a. brown a co., ~
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-bireet.)
From the Strand, London.
V
t
%
ma«
BOAR'S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite bra no
of Stout selected with srreat care from the
best of the brewing-s of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be prooured ovorywhore.
CATTKIX it CO., Sole Agents.


Marshall Brothers, American Dentists,
simply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
tristrv is carried on hy the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denta
Rooms, 104-0 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
Mb. DbCouroy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the Miners Handy Book,
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide, and Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, w Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, fST" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a mW of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being the greatest
' Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
• highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
• without intoxicating. ’
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
• wait until you are sick, but if you only
• feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
• dreds have been saved by so doing, at
• a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
* purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNervousMen
"Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood is
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
.Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Beblllty and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct; methods and absolnte thor-
oughness. Full .information and Treatise free.
Address Consultini? Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.B.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Pbysioians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &o. (or Diseases of
W AddresB—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Burgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
ajnu«VD TH-r-'H , - , UclllcU Oy
11.. B.OMU.rewh-rtr.el B^.
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRL. - -
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
aII classes of illustrations undertaken.
jy Facsimiles of Handwriting for I Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
mms COMPANY having specially engaged a number of flrst-cisss experts from London, New
r X York and Pan Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
pg* book or Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
JTI Pfjofo £n. graving
\j -a cut" engraves op Ijype /\e.V-
af fry pßofo-cfp emicaP nnea.ry.
W, [f rnoun.fec| type arv<^—
car? ge /et m "foray of J/fe.
ancj |® rI ip fed- from of any ordi-
nary rar.ntTng prey. appear-
. a nee if re/em% vyy cXosc-fry
a ccoob cut. anc| y infeipdof to
• ,super/ed.e to a great" exteipC
tftat anf -00-sTPy nr^emod-
of engraving, °ff e £
qreat indueement/ to atu ojFlo
u/e cut/ Price
f.J-r/, OaUa eoguey or cegy
<sUver-ti/inq |suripq/e. <3et our
estim-ate/ anc| Try uy r *
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
SOLE IMPORTERS OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT BTREET.
a
m
SOLE AGENTS FOR THRU
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY
WILL.
POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in 5 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes 11
Neuralgia in 6 Minutes IS
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Pro^U^e^Prematw^Sra,
Make tie Hair grow long
" “ Brain.
Their Boyal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES PRINCE
■RTBMAB.CK and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott s
®Ele?tri?Sir Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could he pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless competition, resembling ebony: combination
h tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and lias added them to his Toilet.
A. CHURCHILL -daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister ot
Lord Randolph Chine hill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
43T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, <k Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen's use.
t-
-7
4
»
W
.1
'X,
10
I * *
Crewlcerne, Nov. 12,1580. *
Sir,— My patients have given *■»
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that Bhe gets no
neuralgia in her faco if she uses it, and
others stato that by * few minutes’ brush-
ing with tho Electric Brush, a nervous headaclie,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, g. F. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.E.
A Handsome
Unbrea'fcable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved. & Mounted.
From Dr Lemprirrk, D.C L. f <fcc.,St. John's College, Oxford. r>ec - 28 » 1S ? 1,
j u ty V ®^g^^ ,^. a pjg^|yj^ e t o^^^tlylreconinw e ncntf o No^)ue t whoha3 materM t itB 3^oir?ort, i9 (
Your Fle“h Brushes only one S proof of the eno4ou3 future open to the scientific development of useful and GmfioU domestic appliances
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, O. Lhmpbikke, D.C.8., &c
31
'’’The
direct to nny part of N.B.W. or Qu p Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Chernies esn be
SSffiKJ&Jw AusSa! ’bee tha’t the name of Dr. Icott is on thefeox.witUt which
none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELEGTRIC ASSOCIATION
P.O. BOX 22!.
64 I MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOD AND COAL AND GLORY.
There lives—and lives well, we dare to say
—ln one of the suburbs of this city a wood and
ooal merchant who has solved the secret of making'
the best of this world and the next. He has united
godliness and gain, the pursuit of weilth and the
hunt for heavenly glory, in a manner most ad-
mirable and edifying to see. "We have one of his
bills before us for a ton of coa.l a ,
ten-inch firewood—not a bill against us, it is need-
less to state ; the days of our credit are over, bo
far for the affairs of this world and the lust for
lucre that is tllthy. But the compromise with the
other world is the more interesting. he ingeni-
ous coal and wood man effects this by a border of
texts all round the bill. We quote from that
before us-“ The wages of sin is death. This
text is at the top of the page. At the sides
"Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth
My word and believeth in Him that sent Me hath
everlasting’ life” —and one or two others that, as
associated with an account for fuel, are suggestive
In the extreme. This is truly a novelty in the way
of religion, and might not inaptly bo termed an
attempt to take the Kingdom of Heaven
by cunning. And why should not salva-
tion be worked out in this w ? y ’ l aB J,® a ~
of in fear and trembling, or blood and fire f
We have always thought it due to the intellect
and the cividsation of this century that a more
artistic method of approaching problem of
Immortality should be invented. And behold it is
an accomplished fact. We can a ** T ° f ® w
serenely and eapily over the Sea of Life, satisfied
in our minds that, sooner or later, we shall reach
the Golden Shore. The grocer need have no
qualms of conscience now about adu Iterating his
BUgar as long as he wrips it up in a paper embel-
lished with moral maxims and scriptural quota-
tions. The lawyer can send In without scruple a
colo sal bill of costs, heading it with one of the
beatitudes, and footing it with a of the
psalms. Even we see a chance now for a humble
place somewhere near the celestial gatehouse,
where we can make a modest living by warning
Bt. Peter when the Protestant Standard people,
or any other people who have no business there,
strive to squeeze through the bars. All we have to
do is to print a pleasant reference to Pastor Allen,
or an occasional tribute to the piety of Peter Camp-
bell (now, or lately, i ‘ vaol), to counterbalance the
wickedness (are we really wicked, do you think?) of
the rest of the paper, and the thing is done. What
fun we should have, to be sure I we would
gravely shake our beads, and say that they bad
made a mistake in the place, when a party of
round-paunched, reverend saints came to.the gate
with their good deeds in a Gladstone travelling-
bag, and asked for admittance. And while they
paused in perplexity, we would go out through
the wicket, closing it carefully after us and put-
ting the key in the lining of our crown, and politely
point out to them the way they should have taken.
Then we would softly return and tell the whole
story to a select circle of seraphic wags over a keg
of ambrosia. Or when one of his own race tried
to obtain entrance surreptitiously, we would
whisper the fact to St. Peter, who would come out
with his sword and cut the intruder s nose off (Peter
but off the ear of the High Priest’s servant once),
which we would use as a halo-peg. Oh, we can
tell you there would be gay old doings around the
GoldfnGateif wo were located anywhere in the
neighbourhood. We should be atnong strangers
of course, but what of that? We could soon
make ourselves at home, and we could always
send down messages to our friends by passing
caravans. And this brings us back to the astute
wood-and-coal wrestler for perishing pomp and
immortal glory. It brings us back with the con-
viction that he will get both, unless his little game
becomes too palpabio and is prematurely crushed.
And we see no reason why it should be, unless
Providence has become more sophisticated of late.
We see no reason, indeed, why he should not, if he
choose, supply hell with fuel while he palliates
heaven with texts. In fact, as his accounts would
be rendered to the devil with a rich embroidery of
saving texts, we think he would be fairly entitled
to a halo as large as a cart-wheel for his splendid
audacity in attempting to convert the Father of
Evil himself. And no*, after all this, we think
that he (the wood and coal man, not the devil)
should send Ufi round a load of firewood without
the usual sordid accompaniment. we have a
stock of bills, and we don’t want the texts.


THE
IGNO
■Flem-CL
HI
iWp ?-
*#*B
-■■
» mm/ 7
!l V*
hi mi co:s
FAMOUS
3VEi@rxi.oxi
IPT^LTO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the rlght-thinkiDg public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MJGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had .on very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for firrt-class work and
richness of tone.
53?" Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC lE,
Rains, bruises, urns, scald 3, &c and
*ken internally cures DIARRHOEA, T! Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other .utbrnn aches
*ad pains.
Price, «3/- Sold Everywhere.
0. E. MOULTON, sole prop::: tor,
Melbourne and - dney.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
ARWOISTFHTCP.
Raft?, CERTAIN, &SPEKT)V CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint*
mat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Joothactae, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite. Pomqip fusordors. Liver and Kidney
w»n*pla}ntB. Loss of Vital Power, &c. Hy its tonlo
»ud soothing effects it at once removes all craving
tor AlooUol. Rv Its richness in phosphorous and
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
MJNTC NR'iViVR nourishes and gives vigour to
tne system, 4s. 6d.. or 255. a case.
«oleProprietors, MARSH AT,I, BROTHERS, M.P.B,
"mnufßcturlng and consulting Chemists, 104 and
so Market-street, near Hyde Park, Bydn«y, and
Circular-quay. TAKE F? CRBTI-
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairrrother.”
Rockingham, Yt., July 15,1882.
® Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“■While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by tiie use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Braodon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always curs when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
* prepared by <•
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
' N Sold by all Druggists. A
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO„
Wholesale Agents.
RSI
ROWLANDS CD ONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to he.
ROWLANDS* EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
latelv been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith's Latest Kove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOORS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY ooODS, GAUDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, ETC.
Surprisintr Reduction of 4a. in to expedite
removal of bis enormous stock.
The c ale cow progressing is a gratifying
suet ess.
T. T j SMITH, 399 Q-eorgc-st.,
Ex etly opposite the Royal Hotel.
T S BOOM
;n° t 66
V EITHER FOR
k PRICE or QUALITY
» r?npVrt *
-A."brsi.±a.a,:na.’s
SPills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cei-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they oan be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEOEGE STEEET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HT" 808 GEORGE STREET.
'Sfl-fSKATEff*
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER.
CHANT.
bolelgent
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
IF Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ;
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
8®” The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN POR PRESENTATION PLATE.
fS
U
o
<£>
<3
</>
a;
RW
! *i'
9
Co
&
4
l/>
o
3
fiB
a
&
is
o
m
<£/
mi
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
-
QTihLe ZSoliaTtole DBu.grgries!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
hr HOTO GRAPHIC
1 STOCK
IMPORTERS
ITA
%
I
IT n
ki't
ft
r
>
i*’ =
fW
- Well,;
•.'J.N.. ot 5r,,i 'M0,!,..
fa*! r '^ S: °f a|| dl
, ' V.CAMERAS, r Woo,, a> ,
&-• . . CARDS,CHEMICALS .VPk
' \ qerttsq-QP ® •- —
Q > —“
VU.J OHNSON EtSONS “n
\ PAPER
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLCh
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.


A PRETTY PACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frcse’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
rcsto e young lady in one of our pro-
HAMBURG minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
TEA. among her classmates but with &u
the faculty, was obliged to give up
HAMBURG her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous siek headache,
TEA. accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
HAMBURG tion of the brain was impaired.
rendered her very miserable. *
TEA. physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
HAMBURG ailment, failed to afford relief. A
TEA. friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
HAMBURG using Emil Frese’s Hamburg
recommended the same to her. one
TEA. made trial of it, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
HAMBURG the result. After a few days use o
this popular remedy, she was ruuy
TEA. restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
HAMBURG sible to say too much in
good old standard remedy, haul
TEA. Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no hous
hold should be without it. ItPJJ
HAMBURG vents, as well as cures, skin disease
gravel, affected liver, headache, na
TEA. sea bile, wind, indigestion, consup
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude.
HAMBURG foul breath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a
ordered stomach. Once used it is ai
ways used. Try it.
TEA.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N ELY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHt
NEWEST SHAPES.
Printed and Published by The Bullet iN^ y<
paper 00. (Linuted). 34 Pitt-st*i Sydney)
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
QUACKS AND THEIR VICTIMS.
Yet one more class, the Herbalists, assist
To swell the tale of those in Humbug; s list;
To these, join other quacks whose only plan
Of life is trading on the ills of man.
Their long advertisements display to view
Each dread disease humanity e’er knew;
And sentences ambiguously obscure
Hint at disease, and then announce a cure.
While dark suggestions, penned with wondrous
skill, , — ....
To make the reader think that he is ill,
Lead to the offer to afford advice
And treat each case till cured at certain price.
But if some youth, in trustfulness, should send
The fees as named, reply will recommend
For his imagined ills some antidote
Which will be sent for (say) a ten-pound note.
This is no fable: we would gladly show
A letter written some few months ago
By one who advertising in the’Presd
To cure all ills asserts his readiness.
And guarantees to set each patient free
From all diseases for a certain fee.
Lured on by suoh good terms,'a settler sent
The cash as named and stated his complaint:
Yet no health-giving herbs repaid his trust—
But, in their place, to his immense disgust,
A letter came, whose every line might tell
That if the scribe did sure ’twas not by spell.
*• Dear Sir,” ’twas thus it ran,—“Your case, I fear,
Is bad; you’ve gravel, dropsy, diarrhoea,
Kidney disorder, heartburn, nettle-rash,
With tendency to gout., and water-brash.
Our far-famed Nerve Pills, nerver known to fail,
Will o’er these ills most eertainly prevail,
And. with a tincture.made by me, restore
Your shattered frame to health and strength once
more; _ , _..
Then take, with these, our famous Drops of Lif e—
And I may also add that, if a wife
Congenial to your taste can be procured,
Sir, by this means long life may be secured.
My medicines are costly—I desire
Only the cost price—for what you require
I only charge ten guineas: for that sum
I’ll drive all humours from your ‘little turn.
(Here I would gladly use words more sublime.
But such, alas, won’t give the needed rhyme.)
« By this same post, I trust you will reoeive
Proofs of the cures my medicines achieve.
Of course the brocure shows but very few.
And paltry signs, of what my art can do :
But I can show such numerous proofs of skill
That, but to name them, ten such books would
fill.
" A well-known M.L.A., for lying famed,
So far from this disease I have reclaimed
That he has told no lies for full six weeks,”—
The settler said, “Ah, then, he never speaks.”-
" A member, too, from pressure of the brain
Relieved by me, is now himself again;
And yet another M L.A. I’ve fed
With healing balm for gravel in the head—
(To such a size this gravel, too, had grown,
His head was just as dense as paving-stone!)
And he from me such benefit received
That now, from all it held, his head’s relieved.
“ One recent case, I openly confess.
At first defied the art which I profess:
It was a writer who was on the stall
Of what we call the threepenny Giraffe.
’Twas idiotcy that ailed him—week by week
He seemed to grow more fit for Tarban Creek;
Nor did my physic seem to operate,
Nor could I see the reason ot his state,
Until, at last, I got him to admit
That he perused the lines his pen had writ.
I wondered not then at his mental pain—
Such stuff would overturn a healthy brain.
Now, he has promised he will never read
Either his own or fellow-writers’ screed;
And.’as there’s nothing else that can distort
His head, ’twill soon regain its want of thought.
" I’ve also cured a rising auctioneer
Of an attack of lying—but I fear
That this will knock his business into smash—
For, as he gains in truth, he loses cash.”
So on ad libitum. The settler, wise.
Saw cloven hoof peep through the thin disguise.
Was he, a married man, once more to mate ?
Nor law nor spouse this thing wouldjtolerate:
If he attempted such a game to try,
Full well he knew that someone’s locks would fly.
He laughed at his complaints, with such success
That they subsided into nothingness;
And as before his ills were born of gloom,
So now his merriment became their tomb.
But many a poor unfortunate has paid
Each fresh demand such daylight thieves have
made,
Until the treatment’s ultimate effect
Has been to ruin health and intellect.
Oh, that for one brief hour I might be free
To name the workers of such villainy 1
Oh, that I might with glowing words transgress
The law that shields all scoundrels from the Press I
Then would I tell such ghastly truthful tales
That these men ne’er could stay in New South
Wales.
And yet exposure oould be quickly made,
Should any wish their fellow-men to aid.
Let someone write, address as advertised.
Then have the boasted nostrums analysed:
Print all the letters, and contents ot stuff
Called medicine—that would be quite enough;
Print atfuli length the so-called Doctor’s name—
I’ll warrant he would ask for no more fame.
But now, perchance, someone may feel surprise
That I have never done what I advise.
Do I hold back for fear of being rash ?
Oh, no 1 I have the pluck, but not the cash.
ISHMAEL.
Tlie Three Roses.
I walked one day among the flowers
Growing in sweet, perfumed confusion,
Roses, and heliotrope, and myrrh,
While, ’neath the dense shade of a fir,
Grew primrose blossoms in profusion;
And much I communed, as alone
Among the scented things I walked,
Until I stayed beside ne heads
Of three queens of the garden beds,
And thus to them I talked:
•« Say, glorious rose of scarlet tint,
And beauty which is leonine—
Say, bounteous rose of crimson hue,
If I your whim could grant to you,
What regal wish is thine ?”
“ Oh! ” quoth the rose with heightened tint,
•« My wish is quickly full contest;
I would that—like the rose of old—
I might my warlike charms unfold
Upon Lancaster's breast.”
“ And you, of saffron-coloured leaf.
With tints whlcn faintly blush and flee,
If unto me was given the power
To grant your wish—O yellow fiower,
What would your fancy be ? ”
“ Mine,” whispered she, with downcast head,
And leaves which trembled like a dove,
“ Is that a faithful hand shall break
My stalk, and, for my beauty’s sake,
Give mo one kiss of love.”
“ And yours, moss rose, whose tint is sure
Whiter than whitest, purest fleece ?
If I your wishes could command,
Speak, lovely queen of all the land,
Say—what is thy caprioe ?”
“ T,” spake the virgin of the flowers,
• Wish tnat it ever should be said
That my poor shoots their blossoms bore
Over the gateway and the door
Where tears fall for the dead;
“ That on the breast and in the hands
Of those who Journey on to God
My blooms should lie, and fearless go
Within the coffin, hid below
The starred and verdant sod.”
“ Ah, roses red and cream,” cried I,
“ Hear thy pale sister's wished-for fate.
Thou, scarlet queen, would battle list;
Thou, saffron maid, wish thy leaves kissed;
She comforts e’en the desolate.
“ And nobler, purer, higher is
The wish the snowy flower has said
Than all your whims, for she would give
Away her glorious gift to live
And die among the dead.
“ Learn, 0 ye flowers! to bo like her—
To keep from thoughts of self apart;
Not the hot lover’s brave desire,
Not a Lancaster’s rose of Are,
Shows such a lion’s heart.”
INA M. W.
Young Pipelegs was processing genteely
home along the Crescent the other evening, when
a clay-daubed Corporation man stopped him: “ I
say, doss, wud yez giv’ us a loight ? ” A look of
disapprobation came over the young gentleman’s
face, but, coldly saying, “I may have a match,’ he
MISS MARY ANDERSON IN “COMEDY AND TRAGEDY.”
This beautiful dress, worn by the talented American actress, consists of an under
pettiooat of salmon satin, with graduated oream lace flounces to the waist, along train
of oream satin, with facings of salmon satin, and a trimmed waterfall of oream lace
and thick salmon and cream cord. The body is of cream satin, with salmon ouffs
fastened with diamond and pearl buttons. The deep lace sleeves and fichu are of In-
dian muslin, trimmed with laoe.
searched, and found one. The municipal toiler
orooked his knee, and slowly drawing the match
along his trousers, he lit up, thus: “ Oi m thinking
(puff), Oi am, that (puff) ye musht be wan of (puff,
puff) thim doodes.” And he slowly stumped away,
with a grin that made Pipelegs madly wish that he
only had a little more than the ordinary masher’s
amount of muscle.
We are going to prick the bladder; we are
about to tear aside the mask; we are on the eve of
throwing the electric light of common sense upon
a huge delusion; we are—but, hold hard. Let us
square our elbows and tackle the subject. In the
Atlantic Monthly, Mr. Richard Orant White
has reviewed Shakespeare and his works in a style
that seems to us real wholesome. Everybody who
casts up his optics to heaven when Shakespeare s
name is mentioned, is, of course, prepared to show
that the playwright was as good as great; that the
lofty thought he uttered, the noble moralities he
taught, were the reflex of his own nature. Well,
hear what Mr. White says:—“The interesting
question remains—Was this poet a good man ? We
don’t know. We only know that he was civil in
his demeanour; that his conduct united with his
great mental gifts, to win him, standing in the
lowest social position, the favour of those who
were in the highest; that Ben Jonson loved him,
and thought him honest and of a free and open
nature; that, being only an actor and a play-
wright, he rose rapidly from absolute poverty
to very considerable wealth ; that to please
the coarse tastes of a very considerable part
of the public, ho who, when he spoke, judi-
cially denounced indecency as bad in morals and
bad in art, made his plays more copiously, more
grossly, and more ingeniously indecent than any
others known to modern literature: that he sued
one of his Stratford townsmen for £llss. 10d., and
another for £6, and, getting judgment against the
latter, and not being able to arrest him, he pro-
ceeded against his surety; that he did not save his
father from similar prosecution on the part of his
creditors, but that he did buy from the Herald s
College a coat of arms for that father, and a patent
of gentry full of falsehood, of which he, at least,
was cognisant; and that when William Combe, the
squire of Welcombe, projected the enclosure of a
large part of the common fields at Stratford-on-
Avon, and there was great opposition in the inter-
ests of such men as Sha < espeare’s father and the
poor agricultural labourers, he, notwithstanding
entreaty, stood by the rich grasping squire. AH
of which ainonnts to the statement that the Cod-
gifted William Shakespeare was, after all, of very
common clay; that the satirist of usury was a
miserable usurer himself; that the denouncer of
time-serving was a lickspittle of the most con-
temptible kind; that he who preached the nobility
of nature could lie to get a patent of gentility
provided him! And why not? There is nothing
in all this to raise the eyebrows about, ’Tis the
common spectacle -illustrated in the pulpit, on
the bench, at the bar, in “society”—oh, yes I tis
the very lever of society—in the Press, in every
institution of civilization. Virtue, honour, truth
are the worthy masks hy which clever men and
women tickle the imaginations of those who can
scarce idealise these principles, much less under-
stand their actuality. And so, who shall
against Shakespeare because, being first of intel-
lects, he was none the less smaller or soul, mayhap,
than the hindsjhe affected to despise. ’Tis human
nature, this, and it is well to remember that great
genius by no means absolves its owner from the
common frailties of human nature. So I
Mr. Minister Abbott deeply regrets that
Civil Servants have been mixed up with the
money-lending business, and the intelligence has—
as the immortal Dawvid would say—filled him with
“a soorprlze that borr-ur-ders upon con-stur-
nashin.” Just so. And when the spicy Davis v.
Fairfax revelations came to light, the heads, and
sub-heads, and sub-sub-heads of the different de-
partments threw up their hands with the same
holy horror, and exclaimed, “Can such things be
and overcome us like a cloud in these sweet abodes
of virtue and propriety ? Small wonder, either,
for it is always the foolish parents who think their
children perfect mode s, until they find them in
the gaol, or on the streets, and it is notorious that
it is always the injured husband who is the last in
the town to hear of his wife’s dishonour. The sim-
ple cause of the heads of our departments ignor-
ance respecting the rosy little games going on
amongst their subordinates, is that they take
matters far too easily, and, providing all things
seem to jog smoothly along, they seldom mix with
those below them, except, of course, at their an-
nual friendly picnics. Davis was no worse than
hundreds of others in the service, except in one
respect—he happened to be foolish enough to allow
himself to be bowled out. The convenient prac-
tice of the obliging usurer was started long before
Davis opened shop; it has flourished ever since,
and although the clouds lower o’er it now, it will
soon bob up as‘■erenely as ever. The Mines is
by no means the only department in the mire; in
point of fact, it is a trifle better than a few others,
which on pay-days were once so besieged by
battalions of the liook- -.ose tribes that the places
looked more like Hebrew synagogues than re-
spectable Government oflices. To say that these
disgraceful proceedings were sealed secrets to the
heads of some of these Departments is simply un-
true, because to such an extent did the nuisance
arrow that it began to seriously affect the working
of the offices; and, as far back as 1879, an order was
issued by the Superintendent of at least one
branch of the service to his accountant to pay no
salaries to anyone except the clerks to whom they
were actually due. This caused trouble for a time
amongst the professional usurers outside: but it
would seem that an amiable little arrangement
was at last entered into between them and the
amateur sharks inside, by which the latter could
keep a close surveilance on the unfortunate
gentlemen who happened to be in a chronic state
bf impecuniosity. The greatness, so to speak, was
in a measure thrust upon the official usurer, and,
therefore, we are half inclined to drop a tear tor
the untimely fate of Mr. Davis, of whom it may be
said that he was simply a victim of accidental cir-
cumstances. The most serious feature about the
business, however, is the fact that such disreput-
able transactions as these can be carried on for
years with impunity under the very noses of tho
men paid by the Btate to check them, and it is
only when one delinquent, more avaricious or
more stupid than the rest, unintentionally draws
aside the curtain that we get a glimpse of the rot-
tenness of the Service. How are we to know that
such things as unlawful perversion of Govern-
ment moneys, commission on contracts recom-
mended, and a hundred other similar scandalous
proceedings, infinitely worse than the Davis affair,
are not even now in full swing amongst us ? Our
Civil Service would seem to be a veritable Augean
stable, and the sooner a Hercules comes along
with a broom the better.
Advance Australia! Bingera leads the way.
Another long-felt want is filled chock-up to the
very bung-hole. For countless centuries back the
fair town of Bingera has yearned with a mighty
yearn for a fearless, outspoken journal, which
would do justice to the skill and industry of the
district hens by duly chronicling the arrival i f
their monster eggs, and which, in trumpet tone ,
would blazon forth to the world the mighty deed*
of its amateur brass band, and the spirited enter,
prise of its local barber, who, at enormous ex-
pense and risk, introduced the first double-bar.
relied spittoon ever seen upon the Gwydir. Brit
Bingera yearns for these precious boons no more,
Mignty men have risen up in her midst; men who,
to the fertile imagination of a Shakespeare and
the classical erudition of a Porson, unite a prac-
tical knowledge of the workings of the indis-
pensable paste-pot and shears, which is, to say the
least, phenomenal. Two of these intellectual giants
have coalesced, on the principle of two heads, &(..
&c , and the result is the issue of a well printed (and
better “ leaded out ”) journal, called the Bingera
Telegraph and Warialda Gazbtte One Alfrv,
Wiskens (which is probably a neatly disguised fom
of the word whisky) represents ths Bingera ele-
ment, and ample justice is done to the Warialda
division by a gentleman who boasts cf a name long
enough to knock down anples with—John Charles
Lawson Veness, no less. Quite a "new era in jour-
nalism" (rather a novel expression, that) has been
struck out by this noble pair of litterateurs, as may
be seen from a few hasty glances at a sketch
headed “To Top Bingera and Back.” This picnic
procession, we are told, was undertaken in order
that “ one of the party ’’—either Wiskens or Yenes'
might avail himself of the opportunity of
seeing with his own eyes, and feeling with hi’
own spine, the numerous shafts sunk by tho
miners for the purpose of disclosing “ the
golden wealth which for many centuries had
been lying hidden in the bowels of the earth,
hundreds of feet below the surface of the
lofty mountains which rise, giant like, on
every side" “Giant like” is good, and this is
probably the reason we get some more of it when
we are told that “ Our esteemed townsman” (more
originality), Mr, Walter Murray, landed the writer
another flask of pain-killer- and three friend* at
the reefs “Just as old-Sol was shedding the last
of his golden evening rays on the tops of the giant
eucalypti and craggy rocks with which the Jong
chain of mountains are covered-at the door oi
Mr. E. Spicer’s Gold Diggers’ Arms Hotel ” Need
we add that the giant intellect of the B.T. and
W.G. at once let itself down a peg and
actually permitted host Spicer to show it into ‘ a
clean, snug little parlour, where, a fow minutes
later, it operated like a hungry wolf upon a whole-
some evening meal.” The remainder of the even-
ing was one long feast of. reason and flow of soul
—together with a flow of something else out of a
stone jar—and next day the party descended some
of the “giant excavations made in solid stone by
hard-working miners while seeking the golden
treasures of the giant quartz reefs.” After this,
the giant genius said he'd have a little more
“killer” than “pain” in his tumbler this time
and then, tumbling Jinto our giant townsman *
giant buggy once more, the excursionists were all
landed safely iDside gunyahs, just as the sonorous
hoofs of Aurora’s bounding steeds struck the
russet-hued gibbers of the eastern sky, without
one of the company being mistaken for either a
roost robber out on the war-path, or a Sydney
Buffalo delegate coming home with customary
honours from the opening of a new lodge. Such is
the Bingera Telegraph and Warialda Ga-
zette, a journal for which we can safely predict
the time-honoured “brilliant career”—if it’s not
cut off by a heavy frost.


AND
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIvkBT'S
541 Georg-e Street,
Brickfield flill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta,
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
,LE *. borthwigk,
lmporter of
Djl J SSle efr, aim Ornamental Glass,
“ COLOR MERCHANT,
S* Siiv^ TEK ANB decorator,
erer, Beveller, and Embosser.
de^f e S Qg p^. of Paperhangings of the most
gr;t, ■- ever Been iQ the colonies.
aeQl - Post free.
y 0 *<|
street,
Hunter Street.
mYAJVD CO.,
®
Mercers, k.
Shtr
Pit qyy!?; ® 3 -. seldom equalled I Never
S> e ar for wL° niSh -
%eij w Vl nter, largo variety, lowest
k- c htts G^rf ri if sty J ish shapes.
Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
& CO,, 96 King-street.
%
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling', healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
4 NGLO-AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
f\ FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £560,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital £102,5T0.
Reserve Fund .. .. .. £5OOO.
Directors *
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
C. C. Skarratt, Esq. IJ. H. Newman, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P. I Benjamin James, Jr.,
I Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call .. .. .. Five per cent.
„ 3 months .'. .'. Five and a half per cent.
„’ 6 „ ... .. Six per cent.
„12 „ .. ... Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of per
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received b>
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGE BT.. 498 BVrWRY
a- SEASO IST, 1884.
ancTsHAW
n. Pleasure to inform their friends and the publio that they
(|Uk **°* OPENING FOR THE COMING SEASON,
MILLINERY AND STRAW GOODS,
the newest dress materials,
j, AUASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
> V a nd Imitation LACE GOODS,
low Alg 0) j-. an<! as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
lj rj t^4 an<i rr yt and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
ana n
Drapery Department
\ et R qUite sure on^ SaaUy lar £ e assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
g8 < Tow P WIU com P are favourably with any house in the trade.
| lnRS ’ Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &c
fe^i,
wSgS®""-
K Handkerchiefs
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
‘ e S
Gentlemen’s Departments.
’ a hd colonlatest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make
our > Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing; Gentlemen’s White ’
!y J ARi) up an<i Coloured Shirts of every description,
flo!’ ou * CLOTHING—We are almost daily opening out Men’s anc
u ftlNc j)pp 6 most scientific principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
ARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful
NT.—All the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters anti
Moderate Prices. u
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
4na 424 ’ *26, 328 UGORCIE STREET, S1IWE1;
Palmerston buildings, old broad street, London.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
IbTotnt Open..
I hotel,
v Qt Ring and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
Vh V
«As„ ** c CLEERY
\
HP-STA
t»s.
(late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
Reuters Life SyrupNo2
A positive and radical cure for every form of
Scrofula, Syphilis, Scrofulous Sores, Affections of
the Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair, and all
diseases of the Blood, Liver, and Kidneys.
GUARANTEED to purify, enrich, and vitalize the
Blood, and restore and renovate the entire system.
Reuter’s Healing Soap
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery, and the healing
f skin diseases of every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
S. Bfofffnung and Go.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted fifst quality 1
v ChargesstrictlyMQO£V?Ar%
MARSHALL BROTHERS:
SURGEON’. DENTISTS e.
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnifleient s.s, Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT nd-extaJser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &e., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may b© left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmO'
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY BULK.
THE MCL K SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & he Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office .. 21 Harbour-street
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
C. COWLES,
GMJNMAKER & IMPORTER
Ay
Sv!&
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.— Second-hand Guns by best makers.
rou iBi imi.iL
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother wiil certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
|ar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O iu the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
! V. WAKEHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
jar THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£sttu.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
30$ iae©rg{g Street, S^sflney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ ■ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Sal# Brettiers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED J 869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Off PARLIAMENT, 181 J
Paid-up Capital £900.000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors:
.C.M.G., Chairman
M.L.C.
The Hon. Sir John H ay, 1
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.G
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
General Manager: I Secretary:
E. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redl’ern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
g
London BrA-NCh : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Es
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable tei-ms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. -A.riell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, cantoris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canter bury, ifor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, In Mb.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, J 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 ©nil 345 Kent Street^
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
jrn
m
M
"'■'M -•i"
'
m
Try BTJRGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. (id. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. IJO PFH>STREET.
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for
forwarded to anv nart of the colon?
Km
* LIMITED}
UL
m/v//
u
MOON
c/er
m
Plccee
cine


Tiie London and Liverpool Watch Compan}
//^
:
M-
os
'i '.:
i@ses
> *
27 EO TT-A-l* -AJRC-A.DE- 27 j
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRAl*
the above address, where the people of New South Wales can , L
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’
First-class, Souad, Strong, Starling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capp j
JeweiBed, for .C8 10s., warranted for 5 years-
27 3£5Crsr -A-X* 27
THE LONDON AND UMERPOOL WATCH CQMPANY.J^
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
drink it
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
no & min, i
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancv Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD
Martin. IKeesliaxi,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mins Hotel is centrally situated, Heine, close to Post «^.?Sj«n»l!®®St.'S2^n n^I ™7lip!riS!
i Superior A ccornincdation for Families and Commercial Genttemen ™f d lclc £ rams
The most Comfortable ana Commodious Pnvate Bar m the city. Albeit b. manners an
supplied, porting* telegrams trom all parts ot the colony posted up.
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIK-DBESSIN '
91 King-street. j
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIEW^
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY
SCOTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney
An nvAinaw C„ D contain, more of the active property of Malt than a pint o(ttehe._tal<,_orporter ; -LAI.OPT. _
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
mORKe
WffLxmam
WMt*£u*!m
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as largo
niianti ties aro being* imported, into .Now ooutn
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverasre should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
V/HGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Hiaaisrs
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOQD,
147 YORK STREET.
GL BEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Giiboy’fl Old White Jamaica Hum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
'ffUCKEW & CO., Sole Agents,
376 Georg e-street. Sydney .
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FUBIIITUBE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBIT
b H
LIMITED,
3,4: stud 1® Spring Streat,
Sydney, .
Have always in STOCK, f. or SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE buyers only,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T H B N W A li -E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents lor
JOHN WALKER anti SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. Q ATEN'S
Schnapps and u^neva.
A. MELVLN ind SONS’
Edin'butMi Pale -■ l ®>
AFTER CEFORC
Copyrighted,
MOUSTAOnS and WHISEEE3.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thirty and
will do it on cither bald head or
bare face, forces heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails , 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having vacd 1 to
BEFORS AFTER
Copyrighted,
3 phta. No injury , easily applied, certain in effect. Packets I*. Gd.
each. 3 for 3s. Gd., post paid, sent under cover , free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglau, Sole Agent, llox 730, 0.T.0., Sydney % N.S. W m
ROBERT BUTCHEB & CO,
& (Late William Long),
|ar WINE ANI) SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeivc prompt attent
tJSE NOTHING BUT
ST'AWARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: COWFEH, WHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE'S
10
H. P. GBE6o^*
17 PIT T S
g Yj)]!fEY>
-s-oB a " J
ARE SOLE AGENT
and have In ’
FIRE PUMPS
boiler-feed
TANK OB UGBT SE B
MINING PUMPS cl jliA'
COMBINED AIP & } Ci
TANNERY P uMpS TX r P 9
SUGAR-HOULE P^ F
VACUUM PUMP®
DEEP-WELL-SlN# j
SEND FOR PRI cES
CATALOGUES
p
1
jffßApg
>
==N\
e 2
tuning fulness “ o ut-
of taste and »-*
of taste
Agents.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, ' g
Manufacturer of ail kisraals of Haters, CordiaSs, arael Bitters, asid Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gola Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Sold Medal for M
m
itt'
