

aarver sal
“PS *“P
s*Jwai Mtoat^mmaLzas
lay
*fEW
mm HORDERN AND SONS,
p alace emporium, haymarket, only.
If spring Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
Y r y Mail Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
showing a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Bibbons,
\ , Ties, Collars, Elowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
stock of Eurniture of all kinds, Carpets, floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
ything requisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTED VALUE THAN EYED !
I * * Our Only ilddress—
WHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
jL Paiac® Emporium, Haf market, Onlf,
EKSAIi PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin New Series


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
83T" UNEQUALLED SAFETY.
S3T EXTREME SIMPLICITY. H” GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
mm.
*:i<
"SO
!il
m
Bm
•-
-vt
frrr
$M
...
'VV
sggßWsrj:
J3r\SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. S3T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sols Agesits for
The' Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
ALiAM A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IT, 'IPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
QIWiilG SEAR, Brass & Hlekel-gsiated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and. Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
tagr Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &e.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Sc.
BON &CCOEO WORKS, 8&B Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on applioation.
RO Y AII BIOTEL
BOOTEE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western district. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropo’is. Private Suites for families. First-class stabling - .
THOMAS HWGGIHS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 1154 and 350 GEORG K STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd's only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager
YANKEE DOODLE
Wz=-
&
m
jism
s ?*m
°'/ic}
SQ H
SON St
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
P*
C6Wq%e toR „
TOBACCO JIP
— 1
VOX POPULT !!! This mighty power has built tiho PTXSOX’P great Tobacco Factory. How? The
voice of the people declaring tbo YANKLE 1,001)1.K snd ( OKQL EPtOH 'J obaccos their own,
demanded the supply—Dixsop at cl fens responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having- no equal in
the boutkern Hemisphere, and consuming the bulk of ail the Imported American Leaf Tobacco.
MEMO, to you from
HORDERN’S in Pitt-1, Sydney
To Residents in the Country. , g
You cannot do better than send down to us
whenever you want something nice and tasty, di
from what you can get in the country stores.
1 'pticoß*
Send down to ua for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, an
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers?
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
nffVQnJU F &
ffl, HR, ail mM M® 1 ®
337 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, EN&
lA^
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP 00
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag^ic
Implements. „
*
Kobey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ier and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
, Ceßtertl\isa.\,
¥oicq s.yu3l litt.
BOIUEB*.
■Vertical and Horiaontai.
MACHINERY. flo d
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines.
Fret
00
✓
es, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Macmnes. we r
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-u
English and American Agricultural implements. & 3ol^^ ioei ‘
~~~ Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows. Cultivators. Horae Hoe£', rT " I . ( , s i J iDtf
Bakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn i
- ' a
.Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. _ fl(
Coaoh Builders’ Sundries —Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furms
Masury s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Steaks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron 5 ©
u K and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolnaeks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
and
pa &
0^
Builders’ Ironmongery. ntefg '
Locks. Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Cfltpe
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to f^CS*
BRISCOE, DRTSDAIiE AND v
397 Seorfga Street, Sydney.
W~ W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 pi “'
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CIATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retail”
t prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasmg 11
tiff 01
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATTNS. LACES, ©
JDRAPEKY of all kinds, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
r,o'' BS '
1(< 0
Our introduction of Glove-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, is a g*‘ e
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE - FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FR© M '
WHOLESALE
■W- ■W7’CATE^!><./
19 3 and 195 PITT S - "" 13
W. SHEARSBY & C 0«!
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe
Trousers from 21s. to 4 Os.
&r N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at
W. Sheausby & Co., Albert House, Temple Co©^*
0*
W
1*


THE BULLETIN
E Vol. 2.—No. 76.—New Series.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1884.
“—«•
The Benefit of His Roputation
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1884.
Speaking at Hurstville, Mr. Wiight, whom
we are glad to observe once more in condi-
tion to take part in public functions, said a
few words with respect to the pains and
pleasures of office. With respect to the
pains, his own recent illness and the serious
attack suffered by the Premier, furnished
text sufficient. When the labours of office,
consc’entiously performed, prostrate a man
so robust as the Minister for Works, and ex-
pose a hardy man like Mr. Stuart to a para-
lytic stroke, what are we to think of the
buoyant old age of politicians who have held
office ten years for every one in which
either Mr. Stuart or Mr. Wright has bent
his back to the burden ? The extraordinary
protraction of the present session may ex-
plain to some extent the breaking down of
the two Ministers under the strain. But
that alone will scarcely fill the bill, and we
are compelled to believe that both gentle-
men had some physical infirmity whioh
needed but exposure to extra exertion to
attack them. Besides, admitting that they
were subjected in an unusual degree to these
pains of office, Mr. Wright claims that they
have also enjoyed to the full the pleasures
which power, well used, confers. “ During
my experience,” said Mr. Wright, “ I have
found there are two things to which a Minis-
ter can look forward with pleasure. The
first and most important is the self-con-
sciousness of having faithfully and honestly
performed his duty; and the second is to
know that his efforts are appreciated by the
people of the country which he serves.”
There is not in these expressions anything
new to us. Our philosophy had anticipated
Mr. Wright’s experience, and it has been a
maxim with us that the sense of true patri-
otic effort must be a sweet reward, even
when qualified by the mortification of lack
of appreciation and recognition by those
whom one has laboured to serve; while,
when coupled with that appreciation, it
must be supreme reward. Despite their
lack of novelty, the maxims enunciated by
Mr. Wright deserve to be graven in letters
of gold for the instruction of generations to
come. We can conceive no monument more
fitting to preserve the memory of the open-
ing of the Illawarra line than one on which
these expressions of Mr. Wright should
appear by way of motto.
* * *
Later on in the proceedings, Mr. Wright
read a letter, dictated] from his bed of sick-
ness by Mr. Stuart, in which the Premier
referred to “the vilification” to which he
had been subjected in reference to his par-
liamentary advocacy of the railway, the first
section of which was that day opened. Mr.
Stuart’s letter contained this pregnant
passage:—
“It is now a great many years since, almost
against hope, I and a few others began the agita-
tion tor the Illawarra railway; and, although I
have been vilified as to having lent myself to all
sorts of improper influences and practices to ob-
tain a railway, utterly rotten in itself as to the
prospect or th“ possibility of its paying, merely
because it would aggrandise myself, by passing
through a large tract of territory which, without
fl> would be of little value, but with its aid would
bring me considerable wealth,—l take this oppor-
tunity of saving that I advocated this line because
I thought that every mile of it would pay from
the very commencement-asa passenger line from
the first, then as a mineral, and, lastly, as a general
une; and that it would prove itself to be capable
without exception of giving the highest returns
of any line that could be made out of Sydney.”
* * *
We don’t tbink Mr. Stuart ought seri.
ously to complain of having suffered vilifi-
cation with respect to his participation in
urging the construction of the lllawaria
railway. The fact that, whether the line
pay the country or be a burden upon
it, its construction will result in enriching
himself is undeniable, and has always been
obvious. To couple his activity in relation
to this project above all other projects, with
its influence upon his own fortunes, has
been but reasonable. Even now, the ques-
tion may fairly be asked, whether the
this, above all other possible lines of
railway in any other conceivable part
of the colony, appears to people gener-
ally certain to be the superlatively profitable
line which it seems to Mr. Stuart ? It may
be doubted whether, had Mr. Stuart pos-
sessed vast mineral estates (say) at Lake
Macquarie, an immense advantage which
would accrue to the country were the bar
preventing access to that sheet of water re-
moved might not equally have seized upon
SIR G. STRACHAN, THE TASMANIAN GOVERNOR.
his imagination and swayed the direction of
his political activity and iuliuence. To sup-
pose that this might have been so, is not
necessarily to ascribe corrupt motives or
illicit devices to a public man. It is, indeed,
to ascribe to him interested motives, but in-
terested motives are not necessarily corrupt.
A man may—and it is not uncommon that a
man does—permit his judgment to be un-
consciously swayed by his personal interests.
This is not only not uncommon, but it is uni-
versally true. When one sees in every civi-
lised community a body comprising some of
the most cultured of the citizens—men of
delicate sensibility and rigid integrity in all
matters exterior to their profession—men
who would scorn to stoop .to falsehood in
private life, daily lying with deliberate
knowledge that they lie, and concentrating
every faculty of their mincl and art of their
training to distort facts and to enable rascal-
dom to inflict injury upon worth—when we
see honourable, high-souled gentlemen dis-
card alike virtue, sensibility, integrity, and
self-respect, 'as soon as they assume their
robes as legal advocates, and daily enter the
temples of Justice of which they are the
ministering priests, only to blaspheme the
goddess and defile the shrine—what is left to
arouse surprise ? Mr. Stuart, as a man of
business and speculator in mineral lands,
has no right to expect that the publio shall
make exceptions in his favour, and credit
him with a climax of disinterestedness
which would be, if not superhuman, at any
rate hypernatural.
♦ * *
But we maintain that Mr. Stuart is in
error when he describes the references
which have been made to the harmony be-
tween his private interests and his public
preferences in the matter of this railway, as
having attained the acerbity which amounts
to vilification. It is a maxim with us that
a reputation takes a long time to grow solid,
and that, as a universal rule, every man de-
serves the reputation he bears, but always
in a diminshed degree. Thar is, that when
a public man has acquired in the popular
regard the reputation of beiDg upright in
his dealing, that character could be proved
by reference to all the facts —were reference
to all the facts of a long career possible,
which it is not—to have been justly con-
ferred. So, also, in the contrary case, when
a public man, after a long] career, comes to
be burdened with the character of being
unscrupulous, treacherous, and corrupt, an
exhaustive review of the incidents of his
life would establish the accuracy of the es-
timate which had, in the long run, been ac-
cepted by his contemporaries. Every pub-
lio man, we say, is entitled to the benefit,
and is fairly chargeable with the detriment,
of his general reputation. Once that is
established, the public will inevitably—and,
we think, properly—regard each incident,
as it occurs, by the light to which his past
gives a colour. When personal interest is
apparent as part of a public, function, and
a man’s reputation is tinctured with colours
and flashes of proved dishonest acts and un-
principled shiftings of opinions to catch
the varying blasts of popular favour—
and when especially the very air seems
charged with flavours of dirty dodges
and devious devices whenever his name is
mentioned—the odds are beyond calculation
that he is really what he is believed to be.
Ordinarily, the man held in popular admira-
tion is not so heroic as his reputation, nor so
pure and public-spirited as his general re-
pute would allege. And, similarly, the habi-
tual schemer is sometimes actuated by
upright motives, when only corrupt designs,
disguised more ingeniously than usual, are
ascribed to him. Men of the latter character
are formidably dangerous to journalists
actuated by a genuine hatred of fraud and
hypocrisy. So many and so shocking things
which they cannot challenge, are at onetime
or auother said and published truly to their
shame and disgrace, that the incautious
public moralist is apt to be betrayed into
accepting, with inadequate inquiry, some
allegation of rascality not more soandalous
than others never controverted, and, by
publishing the same with honest denuncia-
tion, to afford a rascal an opportunity, by
exposing the inaccuracy of that particular
charge, to flourish the inference that all
previous and similar charges were in equal
degree wide of the exact truth. Nothing
could be more painful than to see trium-
phant scoundrelism thus enabled to employ
the powers, created by the public for its
defence from the arts of such, to lash the
censor whose mistake had its origin in a
detestation of fraud, and a desire to rouse
the public to be on its guard against shame-
ful and demoralizing influences.
* * *
But we must abandon generalities, and re-
turn to Mr. Wright and his chief. Of the
former, it has to be said merely that his
political reputation is still a-making. He
brought into political life a capital of pri-
vate character of an advantageous nature.
If he acts up to the maxims he enun-
ciated at Hurstville, there can be no
doubt as to the result. With respect to
Mr. Stuart, his chief drawback has been his
long and intimate association in the past
with politicians now universally regarded as
speculators and forestallers: men who got
early intimation of projected public expen-
ditures, and backed their information with
their own money if they possessed any, and
on shares with other people’s money if they
had none themselves. The acquisition by a
number of politicians of great tracts of
mineral lands along the course of the rail-
way to the South,lof which the first seotion
was opened on the occasion referred to at
the outset of these remarks, has long been a
subject of notoriety and of comment. The
Illawarra railway may pay when opened
and thus be justified. But we cannot con-
cede, even to Mr. Stuart writing from a
bed of sickness, that it is not and has not
cib initio been a political and land-jobbers’
line. A man, we repeat, is entitled to the
benefit or detriment of his reputation. Mr.
Stuart’s character, we believe, stands suf-
ficiently high to support him against infer-
ences based upon the personal advantages
which the construction of that line wil
confer upon him, which in the case of some


TIE POPDLIE IUII
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.-YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &e.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME
BRIAN 8080 WHISKY,
'when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 8 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
rjw
Coughs and Colde.
B Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and. taken at bed-time.
IT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
FIB IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SSiigli Bottle Bcpartaccl
BJLBIBT BTEIBT.
wh:*n you visit bydnby,
go s o
C. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE tiTREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
where you can (Obtain for
©dL.
A. GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, POST
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
at such a Qui ility that cannot he surpassed at any
othe r establishment In the world.
0. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTM-Offt
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only Bd. per tumble*-
Quality Superlative.
NONE hut WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRAiSt*
Is sold in thlß department.
The must Wholbsomb of all Bbvbragba
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
YBRDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMJIIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRAND?/
6s. dd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Market Street, fvdney.
other politicians previously besmirched by
instances of known and habitual dishonesty,
would have been regarded as “ confirmation
strong as proof of holy writ.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Eiok Shearer, and other Matters.
Some of our correspondents have quite peculiar
ideas about what they seem to think to be our
journalistic mission: ideas, we may say, which we
cheerfully misunderstand. Thus we have a letter
before us from a gentleman in the very remotest
West, who tells a story about—but, never mind,
we will let him tell it himself further on-and
expects us to bestow our sympathy as he bestows
his. It is a common weakness of correspondents,
this. Hero is the letter, or the gist of it:-“A sick
man was brought from Caiwarro, a station on the
Paroo, to Brlndingabba station, some forty miles,
in a buggy, intending to go from there by coach
to Bonrke to receive medical treatment. Codb
and Co.’s line of coaches, plying between Hunger-
ford and Bourke, pass Brindiugabba on their way
to Bourke about midnight. On its arrival in
the morning there were only two,' or at most three,
passengers-a wealthy and well-known person in
these parts being one. The sick man (a shearer)
was brought to where the coach pulled up, by his
mate, who asked the driver if he had room for a
sick man. The coachman answered he had; but
the wealthy and well-known, in a bouncing man-
ner, said he would have no sick man in the coach
with him, saying he might have small-pox, or some
other vile disease, etc. etc., and prevailed on the
driver to start without him. Next day the sick
shearer was driven down to Yantabulla public-
house, where, after a few days’ careful treatment,
he died.” This is all—except a few lines which wo
deem unfit for publication, as they contain reflec-
tions upon the character of one who is evidently a
worthy gentleman. Why should we sympathise
with this sick shearer? Because he happened to
be dying, is that any reason that he should be
allowed to inconvenience a substantial man who
has a stake in the country and can sign his name
to a cheque for four figures ? Why, the very idea
is full of dynamite and anarchy. If such notions
as these become widespread—if the sick and the
weak and the helpless are privileged to incommode
the healthy and the wealthy—if the possession of
riches does not include the power to trample at
pleasure upon human hearts and human feelings,
then, what in the name of Mammon is the use of
trying to get rich at all? The question is a very
grave one, and goes to the foundation of society*
Who would care to amass money, if money could
not procure him the right to do as he chose ? Why,
the whole fabric of civilisation would fall to
pieces if this mad doctrine were to gain ground.
Commerce would come to a standstill. Ambition
would be blighted in the moment of its birth. Just
let us suppose a case, for the sake of illustration.
Take a man who begins life with the set purpose
of making money and keeping it. There is no
need to follow him-the prices oharged by laun-
dresses being so exorbitant just now—through the
Various ways by which he arrives at riches. Suf-
fice it to say that he arrives. The first thing
he does is to buy a station—the possession of land
being a sort of perpetual insult to those who have
none but what is on their boots. Then he looks
around for a poor man to play with. He is not
long before he discovers a struggling selector who
is bringing up a large family on a selection imper-
tinently near the station. Then the game begins.
Our wealthy wag starts with a number of actions
against the selector for trespass. The seleotor,
who is a high-spirited man, objects, as he some-
what impudently terms it, to be trodden upon,
and determines to fight the matter out. He loses
most of the actions, of course, the magistrates
being chiefly wealthy men themselves, with a
healthy fellow-feeling for others in the same
position. The selector is nearly ruined by the ex-
penses, however the judgment goes. This is
enough for our frolicsome friend, so far. For a
while he keeps dark, and the unsuspicious selec-
tor begins to think he was hasty in his estimate of
him. But one day, when the [plot has been com-
pleted; the disguise is dropped, and the selector
sees himself surrounded on all sides—hemmed in
like a fly in a spider’s web. While he lias been
dreaming his foolish dreams of kindly feeling
between rich and poor, the sophisticated
squatter has been buying up all the land
around his selection. Tha consequence is that
he has the choice between building a six-foot wall
round it, selling off his cattle for what he can get
for them, or letting them Btray into the land of
the squatter—who has a watchman on ever stump*
If necessary-and taking the risk. The result is
that he is compelled to go to his rich neighbour
one day, and sell his selection and everything on
it for any price that merry gentleman chooses to
give for it. 80 one homestead is broken up. And
if, while these proceedings were going on, the son
of the squatter succeeded in seducing the daughter
of the selector, all the better as an additional as-
sertion of the privileges of wealth over poverty.
Damn poverty ! We have no sympathy with
poverty—except in a novel. But, to return to the
case in point. Is it not a pleasant possession, this
power that riches gives to do as you choose, who-
ever suffers ? It was to Nnno the chief charm of
his imperial office. If the rich man were not al-
lowed to ride rough-shod over the poor man, we
might as well all be poor to-morrow. What plea-
sure, for instance, would the present; writer have
in setting these things down, if he were re-
strained from bullying the small boy who comes
for the “ copy ?” What joy would there be in life
for that small boy if he could not go home and
beat his smaller brother who doesn’t go out and
earn money and can’t smoke a clay pipe ? Evi-
dently none. It runs through all ranks of society,
and through all grades of being, this desire to kick
the man below. That is to say, it is a natural law.
And being a natural law, who is going to be so im-
pious as to dispute it? Not we, anyhow, for all
our far Western correspondent can advance. The
fact is, the poor are becoming too insolent of late
years. Not content with the permission to live>
generously granted them by their betters, they
now want to live in comfort—actually in comfort I
This wicked ambition must be crushed out of them
before it grows too strong. We are pleased to see
that our friend the Czar of ttuesia is of our way of
thinking in this matter. We have wandered con-
siderably from where we started with the sick
shearer, but the warmth of our feelings on this
subject must be our excuse. As for the
shearer, we dare say he is better dead. If he had
saved his money and kept his pockets closed while
the pockets of others were open—if he had re-
fused to listen to the foolishness which some
people term the call of charity—if he had lied a
little and cheated a little, but only in the way of
business—if he had soled his boots with his con-
science and iron-plated his heart—he might now
have been in a position to cast out some other
poor shearer to die, instead of being dead himself-
But he did not; and, therefore, the fate he met was
strictly his own fault. That is all the sympathy
we have with him. His mate, too, is evidently on
the road to ruin—actually neglecting his work
and losing wages to look after a sick man. Pshaw!_
There is no use in reasoning with such preposter-
ous fools.
That Strain Again.
Tke people of New South Wales have lately been
a good deal put out, not to say made ropeable. at
having had the insinuation thrown at them that
the old convict strain still lingers in their com-
munity, affecting their criminal statistics for the
worse, and generally lowering the whole tone of
their social status. And with abundant wrath
they have hurled back the objectionable reflection
jn the teeth of the envious ones who made it.
Perhaps it would have been better had they gone
earnestly to devise some means for
reducing to a minimum the effect of that strain —
—for (hush 1) it does exist, and it’s not a bit of good
saying it doesn’t, you know. In the plutocratic
strata ’tis plainly traceable. Ihe more discreditable
outbursts of well-to-do larrikinism are attributable
to it, without doubt. So far, however, tho re-
proach touches Victoria and Queensland every
whit as closely as it does the mother colony of
the Australias. But the worst is this—here, in
New South Wales, an official tone which was cur_
rent in the old days of convictitm is still, if
dominant, at least too influential in not a few
branches of public departments. There are still
in harness too many relics of those! corrupt times
—officials, of course now “high up” through
length of service, who treat the public pretty
much as they were wont to treat the prison popu-
lation, and who think that the masses exist for
them, just as of yore they used to take jolly good
care that the convict horde did exist for them.
When representative government was introduced
and transportation was done away with, all the
convict officials should have been paid off. Owing
to this not having been done, their remaining in
the service has inoculated it with a something,
which, though certainly not “ old convict strain,”
is a precieus sight more insidious, and on that
account more mischievous. The existence of this
something does undoubtedly tell against New
South Wales.
In our last issue but one, by a mischance, the name
of Mr. Dutton, the Queensland Minister for Lands,
was appended to Our front page portrait of Sir
ANTnoNY Musgrave, Governor of that colony.
Our portrait was from an admirable photograph
from the well-known studio of Lormer and Co., of
Brisbane.
Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. od.:
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are ss. per inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. Bd. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per oent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 63 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Three youngsters had been away for their
annual holiday. On the day of their return home
they found they had run out of nearly all their
cash, so determined to travel second-class. When
they arrived at the station, one said, “ You fellows
get the tickets while I look after the luggagb.”
After the train had started he enquired it they
had got his ticket. “ No,’' they replied ; “we only
had enough money for two.” “Well,” said he.
“ what am I to do when I arrive in town V " “ Get
under the seat,” they said ; “they won’t sec you.”
Just before they reached the place for collecting,
under the seat he got. The man arrived for the
tickets, and they gave him three. “ Why is this ?”
he enquired ; “ you have given dhree tickets.
Where is the other person?' “ It's quite right,”
they answered ; “he is under the seat,” and out
he crawled, smothered in dirt, and none the better
pleased for the practical joke.
The Rev. J. A. Dowie was out Ballarat way
lately, laying on hands like a good one. There is
no doutt, wnatever scoffers may say, that cures
have been effected by the laying on of hands
Take the case of Dr. Johnson. He was, in his
early days, as is known, very bad with the virus of
lying; but his mother laid on bands, and he is an
example to-day of robust truth. The same thing
is true of the Duke of Wellington. When Mr.
Dowie told the Ballarat people, then, that news-
paper men were so ignorant and so prejudiced
that, without investigation, they denied the effi-
cacy of the layiDg on of hands, bis attention must
have been directed to the religious Press alone.
We are actually champions of the doctrine that at
the present stage of the world the laying on of
hands is the only effectual way of curing certain
disorders in certain men. Catch a religious hum-
bug, for instance; lay on hands (if possible, with a
stick in them), and the efficacy of the operation
will, almost for a certainty, be at once apparent.
Ob, it is a mistake to assert that the secular Press
is ignorantly obstinate on the question of the lay-
ing on of hands.
August Flower.— The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
live per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Sour
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costivene3s,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrasb,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This vaiuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands of
sufferers and is known In all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. It costs only 3s. od. a
bottle. Sample bottles Od.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
{Correspondents who give neither name Hof nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ A.M.G.” (Wagga): Glad to hail you as a
co-worker. We read and noted your reply to the
S.M. Herald, and shared your surprise that it was
not suppressed. As you say, it is preposterous to
condemn nationalization of the land because in
British India the people are ground to the dust
although the land is nationalized. The fact that
rents are seized as tribute to a foreign conquering
nation, and for the lavish payment of a horde of
officials whose savings are all exported, and to pay
an army of occupation, makes the difference from
a condition where rents would be utilised for the
benefit solely of the nation whence they are drawn
so distinct, that it is strange even a prejudiced
journalistic hireling of capital should have ven-
tured to assume that it would really pass un-
noticed. Still, we differ from you when you write,
referring to the Herald's scribe, “ I can’t believe
the man who wrote it was such a fool as not to see
the absurdity of the comparison between the two
systems. He meant to lie.” We don’t think he
meant to lie "Gympie”: We will deal with the
loafer matter, probably, next week. Always
happy to tackle shallow objections. They have
great currency and influence. Lots of fools in the
world “Annie”: Our heartfelt thanks are due
to Burrowa’B gentle Annie for her fond faith in
her Bulletin. To an angularly-minded priggess,
who had told her that she did not possess much
maidenly decorum or she would never have
quoted from such a paper as The Bulletin,
Ann e, dear creature, replied, with a candour and
spirit which has earned her our eternal homage,
“ If young ladies did nothing worse than read The
Bulletin, l would have no occasion to take them
to task so often for their conduct.” True for you,
Annie, our dear, and more power to your elbow...
“Stranger": We’ve read a lot of Dinnie’s visit to
Newcastle, but we object to publish exparte state-
ments “ Subscriber”: The Prince of Wales may
be a good landlord, you say. We really believe he
is. But the individual landlord is nothing to us.
Our contention is that land which was not made
by man should not be held by him as private pro-
perty, like the ships he builds or the machines he
makes. We contend that private property in land
is a blunder “Hilarion”: Received—“ Hap”
(Georgetown): We believe you. We believe your
couplet—
“ For myself I cannot rhyme, yet still
Could wipe you out with hammer and drill,”—
contains two obvious truths. We know you can’t
rhyme, and we honestly think that with a hammer
alone, let alone a drill, you could start us. The
fact is, Hap, if we saw you coming our way with a
hammer, we wouldn’t wait to ask about the drill.
We’d go “8.F.”: We don’t like your initials.
They are too suggestive “ X.”: Mere slusn
“Reader”: We are used to it. Many town and
country papers are run on our “pars” Men
must live “Copra and Chicken” writes from
Suva (Fiji) saying he is open for the post of hang-
man and flogger to the NS.W. Government. He
appears to have ci edentials from the Irish police,
and says something about having assisted at the
assassination—execution, of course, we mean—of
Franks for the murder of Mr. Muir, in 1872, He
seems to be a man possessing force of character,
having made his way from private to inspector in
the Fiji police. A man who does this can do a lot
of things. He should start now and work down
from inspector to private. ’Twon’t take him
long. But the fact remains that there is small
chance of an outsider getting the billet of hang-
man and torturer to the N.S W. Government.
There are too many applicants with Parliamentary
influence “H. Halloran”: Peut-etre —“Boat”:
Is it necessary to obtain a license to let boats for
hire ? We can’t say, but some reader may be able.
“Zol” Sendanother copy. ...“Jones” You are
right. France has no right to annex any islands
south of the Equator. No country has, except
Australia. Yah1....“ W.E.”: Muoh obliged
“M .Quad”: At the Government Printing Offl'be
picnic, the health of brincipal Parliamentary
Shorthand-writer Robinson was not propoße'j, so
consequently was not “hansard.” Item.—The
band did not play “Richards, O mon Roil’ 1 when
the toast of the day was propoged “ Jasey”:
You want our opinion. It is this. Yournarrative,
to begin with, is incomplete. Its object is obscure.
Now and then it puts on a semblance of cohesive-
ness, and then falls back into haziness. Writing,
to be effective, should have some easily dis-
tinguishable motif, like a simple melody. We
answer you like this because in many of your sen-
tences there is an occasional sparkle—just enough
to suggest that there is some thought behind your
rather crude expressions—that you possess the
raw material, without the literary deftness neces-
sary to make it marketable. Try again. Some
short paragraphs, mind, and—write on one side
only of the paper “ Stranger ”: You are wrong
—quite wrong. There isn’t a cabman in Sydney
who would take advantage of a stranger (es-
pecially a Victorian), and charge more than his
legal fare. These men have been much maligned.
They are honest and hard-working, and we don’t
see why you [Ah I dry up.—Boss Ed.]
A grand national shooting matoh has been
held at Vincennes, under the auspices of the Ligne
des Patriotes, a body ostensibly formed to prepare
the youth of Prance for the future guerre de re-
vanche. 1300 rilie clubs were represented. Money
prizes to the extent of 75,000 francs were given, in
addition to numberless works of art.
“ We are gradually approaohing a state of
civilisation,” writes a Normanton correspondent.
He goes on to say that whisky <s sold at a shilling
a nobbier, and that even cordials oan be got up
there at about the same rate. This is glorious
news, and fully justifies the announcement with
which he opened his paragraph—although to those
who knew Normanton some years ago, the an-
nouncement seemed a piece of Northern pleasan-
try. When we were up there, we had business to
look out the chief magnate of the town, and, not
finding him at head-quarters, we started to canvass
for information, We thought the lockup a likely
place to find him enjoying a siesta. But he wasn’t
there. That seemed strange to us, but came to be
intelligible when we mastered the faot that there
wasn’t any lookup at Normanton. It followed, as
a matter of course, that he could not be in the
gaol or in the church. When a man is not in tb a
lockup, the gaol, or the church in Northern
Queensland, dive into a public-house and you’ll
likely find him under the table. We shot into a
shanty, and, turning to the left, saw there were
two m;n under the parlour table. “ Which of you
is Mr. Pighead?” we asked briskly, for our time
was limited. Neither man opened his eyes, but
both muttered, “ Bring it shlong, Sam; fernal hot;
don’t put watersh in; watersh fernal hot.” We
tapped one of them on the nose with the toe of
our boot to intimate that we weren’t Sam, and
went to the bar to acquire knowledge. Sam was
lying on a plank on the inner side of the counter,
with his head on a keg. “Are you not afraid
your liquor will be stolen?” we asked. “Can’t,”
hiccupeu Sam. “It’s all here. I put in ail the
pain-killer and kerosene that was in the house
before I lay down. Bather you'd not want any
yet, friend. Let it mix. It'll knock you down by
dark.” We pressed for information about Mr.
Pighead, and at last elicited something that served
us. “ Was here this morning,” said Sam, “for his
first drunk, but he doesn’t care about snoozing on
boards. He goes to the scrub. You may find nim
there; but if you like to wait, you’ll be sure to
meet him here when he comes for his second
drunk.” “ When is his second drunk due ?” we
asked. " Lemmesee,” hiccuped Sam, “thestuir
I make now lasts a man a good spell. I don’t ex-
pect he’ll come for another hour.” We sbrack out
for the scrub. It would never do t,o le veNoi*
manton without being able to repoyt we had deli-
vered our message. Moses 1 What was that coming
towards us among the ti-trees ? Why, that wi a
Mr. Pighead. He hadn't a stitch on him but a
smoking-cap and a pair of slippers. We handed
him our letter of introduction, which he tore up
without reading. He asked us if Sam was awake*
and on our answering in the alftrmatlve fc he said,
“Come on down for a drunk.” And this is the
same Normanton that is roported to be gradually
approaching oivilisation l Acht


The Wide Bay and Burnett News says
that its experience of collectors “is not a happy
one.” It appears that most of the collectors for
that able journal were, after raking in a certain
amount of money, in the habitrof promptly “roam-
ing” to brighter she res. But you can hardly
wonder at this, when you consider the usual treat-
ment collectors on country papers receive when
they call round for the quarterly accounts. It has,
in fact, come to such a pitch that whenever a man
is brought into the hospital in any town with the
top of his skull stove in, several limbs broken, and
an eye missing, there are no questions asked.
They simply put him down on the books as a
newspaper collector.
Sydney contains over 100 miles of lanes and
streets. And there is a different stench in every
The war-ship Wolverene again ventured a short distance
out to sea, on Saturday. During her absence a small boy
harbour ata^Ult) WaS Btat!ioJied at tde Heads to protect the
Which reminds us, that “The gunboat Bwin.
ger mysteriously disappeared from her anchor-
age, Brisbane River, this morning. It is be-
lieved that her destination is New Guinea, as
she steered northward from Cape Moreton.’ 1
The New Guinea niggers will be ready for her,
And while upon naval matters, it will
be as well to mention that H.M.S. Nelson
will not return home when her period of
service on the Australian station expires,
but will be recommissioned for the same
duty. This will be good news to the bar-
nacles and oysters that have taken up
their residence upon the anchor of that
ship, as they will now be saved the incon-
venience and expense of shifting. 1
UAN ot 40 .u 1n & rwpecta Me eltuotion, wlahee to CORRPa
iIH " lth “ reveotable WOM AN to the abore. Must begood bouiekeener
fairly educated, and a OhrUUan. Address In thin, paper, MammoDy.-D.T!
We know the very thing for him. We know an .eminently
pious single person of the other sex, f who can say her prayers'
with one hand and boil the greens with the other.
Undertakers’ picnic at Botany on Wednesday
last. See Bulletin next week.' All the melan-
choly details fully illustrated.
Ihtercolonial idhe match, last'Saturday. Our
special artist was ion the spot, but saw nothing
worth recording.
This is our friend who has been foL.v »
lessons in horse-training from Professor , but ban?'
toiwly.** o*’ 0 *’ WC Can t aSord tB advertiBe lum gratuu
Mr. McElhone leaves 1 London *for , Australia,
next month. And Parliament is getting ready to
give him » fitting reception.
I,t is anticipated that the Nile expedi-
tion for the relief of Khartoum will ad-
vance into Upper Egypt early next month.
Maudlin Maunderings of a Morbid Mind.
(ROW WITH HOP. WHEN HE SEES THIS TITLE.—ED. B.)
o&e of them. You will hardly believe this, maybe-
t us tell you that we have It on the best autho-
* It is well known that those who have been
eprived of sight from their birth have a compen'
taifc Dg 11061111683 of the other senses. We were
king to a blind man not long ago—a blind man
„ known on the corners of the principal streets.
o you fiud it difficult to avoid missing your way
f we asked. “ Oh, no,” he replied, ctaeer-
y; “ if I did, people are so kind that anybody
ri »<ht.” “Suppose you lost your
wnn\A when there were few folk about, how
go ?” wo continued. “ Well, I don’t
of 116 Baid < with that strange smile
strpi«®T^u lna • “but, if I did, I should know tbo
“ HoL? ~a P Pe ned to be in without any difficulty.”
•mniioC vre enquired, wonderlngly. “By its
v ’ repiied *
othing is to be gained (says the Fobt-
ghtly) by blinking the fact that the Hutch
colonists are supported by our own fellow-subjects
in resisting what they call the “ imperial factor,”
and in pertinaciously thwarting any arrangement
which carries with it the assertion of English
influence and authority. What has just occurred
in ZuluUnh is identical, so far as its broad signifi-
cance is concerned, with what has occurred in
Bechuaaatand. The Dutch are determined that
from the whole of South Africa, England shall be
excluded. No graver intelligence has come to
hand for a long time than that w eich reached us a
few days ago, to the effect that the Boers at
Pretoria have proclaimed a protectorate of
Zululand under the guise of a republic. Mr.
Macnenzie's recall from Bechuanalaud, and toe
debates by which it was preceded in the
Cape Parliament, showed plainly enough that,
in the words of a local newspaper, “anything
was better than an imperial control, and anything
was preferable to the so called dictatorship of
Mr. Mackenzie.” The announcement made in the
speech from the throne on the prorogation of Par-
liament, that the con tot t lon with the Transvfuil
Government hau been ratified by th*> Volksraad at
Pretoria, is practically mnoelled by the latter piece
of news. Nor is it with the Boers that we nave
alone to reckon. The Hutch who are our own
fellow-subject/*, living In our colonies, are just tia
hostile as the Boers themselves to English asee n-
deney. It is not, indeed,the Transvaal from whioh
the movement undermining the authority of En g-
land in those parts has principally proceeded, b it
the Cape Colony, ft was Mr. Rhodes, an Eagli jb-
subject, who said in the recent debate in the Cai >e
Assembly that “ first, and foremost they must e u-
deavour to remove the Imperial factor from t le
situation.” List y ear “ he had implored the House
to pass a resolution for acting in conjunction wi th
the Transvaal, in order to prevent theintroductii m
of the Imperial factor in Bechuanaland. It mu st
now be eliminated, or tnere will be great dang er
for South Africa.” Now, whatever is to be ti le j
future of our dependencies in South Africa, it is >
clear that the present condition of affairs cannot
last much longer. Whether in Bechuanaland or iu>
Zululaud, thq are, not only to their own,
satisfaction, but with the complete approval of
the English colonists, overpowering and absorbing
the natives. Conventions are ratified only that
they may be violated and destroyed. Can the
burden of empire under these conditions be re-
tained, or is it worth retaining ?
“He has tilled a lons felt want.” Many a
time, and oft, on the Rialto of this very city, have
our abnormal ears been tickled, and our soul of
souls buoyed up with heavenly hope at the siren
sounds of those magic words, but only, as it would
seem, to increase our despair when subsequent in-
vestigation proved that all was a bitter snare, a
mockery, and a base delusion. This is partly the
reason why we now go around wearing abominable
clothes, and the wild haggard look of a man who
is about to start yet another comic paper. To-
day. however, we fancy we have struck the
straight thing at last, and a thrill of joy leaps
through our veins, even though the Pacific Ocean
rolls between ourselves and the causeof oursoul’s
delight and happiness. Right here, the sight of
two pawn-tickets and the offensive presence of an
upturned gingertseer bottle which holds the odour
—but nothing more—of a gill of rum, brings our
minds into a more matter-of-fact frame, and we
now feel cool enough to explain that the secret of
our recent frenzied joy is the fact that a Chicago
man has recently discovered a plan by which the
most helplessly drunken citizen can, in a few
hours, be restored to the bosom of bis family so
thoroughly sound in mind, and limb, and brain,
that it is simply impossible for the partner of his
joys to do aught but thrown her alabaster, though
painfully freckled, arms around bis neck,and yell
“ This husband ot mine is three times the man he
was before he had his last ‘Chicago.’” “Biling
’em sober,” is the rather unpoetical, but very ap-
propriate, way in which the ingenious Chicago
party speaks of the new boon, and, although he
declines to give the whole of his secret away, still,
we have pumped enough out of his patients to
justify our making a shrewd guess at the means
employed. vVhen the “ drunk ’’—and he must be a
gentleman drunk, and a man of means, for the
price Is stiff, and the respectability of the estab-
lishment must be upheld—is brought in, he is
stripped of his good ciothes, which are carefully
ticketed aud laid away, after which he is rigged in
a tlannel suit, aud is emptied by means
of emetics. After this, the “biling” process is
performed, something after the Turkish bath
fashion, and then the patient is straightened up
and taken to the boss's private room, where the
finishing seoret touch is given him. After this,
they put him in his little bed for an hour or so, and
when he wakes up and is turned loose once more
ne feels flit enough to knook the stuffing out of
Slogger Sullivan, and wipe the pathway with the
back of the head of Donald Dinnie. Five hours is
ample time to freshen up the worst cases, and, we
need scarcely say, the enterprising proprietor of
this ‘ biling” down establishment is rapidly
amassing a colossal fortune. Thousands of
tales are already told of the wonderful
cures effected, and amongst the lot is one
touching a young man who was about to marry a
suburban heiress, and came into town to get his
certificate and arrange all his other nuptial fixings.
He was a weak-kneed young fellow, and, finding
hie courage gradually oozing out at hla finger tlpd
as the day wore on, he stepped into a saloon and
called for a corpse-reviver. Here he met an old
schoolfellow who was then actively employed
holding up bar-counters with his back all day for
a living, and the end of it was that he was subse-
quently found lying in the ice-chest, pawmg con-
V ulsively at the lid, and mumbling something
about it being “ ’fern’l shame pull all er blankets
otfaf’ier.” Another nip sprawled him out as stiff
as Julius Caesar; and in this statj he was carted off
to the “ bilin’-down ” establishment by his friend,
who was a shade soberer now than he himself was.
It was a real bad case, because the young swell was
to have been married at .six o'clock, and It was
two o'clock when the sobering-up operators
gripped him. But the pair were put through the
process, and started off for home and beauty at
five o'olook as sober and dignified as two Judges of
the Supreme Court. Now’s the time for some of
our enterprising citizens to the idea, put it
into practice, and become bloated millionaires in
the quickest time on record. There’s millions in
it—especially when Parliament is sitting.


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings
Co , 143 Pitt-etreet.*
Personal
Items
Pious Billy, the German Kairer, has fallen
oft his horse again and not noen much hurt. What
a fortune he’d have made as an acrobat!
Mr. Edward Edwards has gone to the
Levant, and to the monasteries of Mount Athos, to
search for manuscripts. There is a marvellous lot
of misdirected energy abroad in the world at the
present time. Now, why could not Mr. Edwards,
like a sensible man, come out to Sydney and start
a search through Douglas Bladen’s shoe-trunk?
“HER TROUBLES!’’
“ The Duke of Beaufort lias arranged that
Connie Gilchrist is to live near Badminton, part of
the year, at all events.’’—London Paper.
You’ll think, p’rhaps, jealous is the Duchess
Of what her lord costs many a so v.;
But, understand the case just such is,
She’s nothing to be jealous of.
Bishop Barry says there is plearly upon us
an age of danger testing all institutions, seeking
out more and more first principles of truth and
right. Now, who but the hierarch of a decadent
medievalism, who but a priest who thinks more of
his creed than of the Truth, would think of calling
such an epoch “an age of danger ?” yet, perhaps,
from his standpoint, the aproned man is right—
this i 8 an age of danger to shams.
Once more the Government has flatly de-
clined to let up on a single day in the sentence
passed on Alphonse Bechet for arson, and so the
gay son of Gaul will have to languish without his
Chateau Margaux and eighteen-penny cigars a
trifle longer. This time, we do not wonder at the
Minister s refusal, for the last petition presented
for Bechet’s release was signed by forty-three
members of Parliament—the only names of any
weight or importance amongst the lot being those
of Andy Lynch, and Tom Dalton. “ Save me
from my friends.”
Mr. John Lamont Dow has just put his
finger into space, rent, by a little tickling motion
of a nail in deep mourning, the filmy veil, and dis-
covered a new path to immortality. This way of
glory is by bees. Recently his towering genius
received the crown, and he was lifted up od
shoulders and proclaimed President of the Bee-
keepers’ Association. Look at him there now, his
moustache waxed, his chin wagging, his nose
exalted, and see below the first services of the new
worship going on. The worship is called Apecul-
ture—or, or, we mean Apiculture.
Angus Mackay wants to lead the local-
optionists of the outside districts in Victoria. Me
climbed up on the platform lately, and proclaimed
that if there was a man in Australia who knew all
about everything, and everything about anything,
and the full of a bonded Btore about local option
in particular, it was the straddling orator the
drowsy hearers were yawning before. What a
pity the Victorian Legislature does not pass an Act
empowering the Assembly to exercise a local
option anent members slid into the House down a
plank sloped by humbug and greased witn cantl
The Bega Brayne thus allegorically pokes
fun at Sir John Robertson:—“ An ancient ema-
ciated brown horse, known to his owner as * Old
Billy,’ is at present a dettner of municipal law.
Billy roams the streets; the pound has no terror
for him, nor is he worth twopence to the pound-
keeper, inasmuch as Billy's reputed owner will not
reloase him, and nobody would give half-a-crown
for the poor old animated skeleton. And the
authorities do not care to risk destroying him, as
the real owner might seek compensation at law.
Just now, ‘Old Billy’ is reported a tough problem
for all his enemies.” Not bad for Bega, eh ? though
rough on Sir John.
Bismarck, according to the Times, once
said that Lord Augustus Loftus was a tactless
gentleman. And as he didn’t like our dear, accom-
Elished Governor as British ambassador at Berlin,
e got rid of him in favour of Lord Ampthill (Odo
Russel.), who has just died. Bismarck is credited
with having made the remark, “Never trust an
Englishman who speaks French with a correct
accent.” Quite right. When any distinguished
Australians succeed in interviewing his Highness,
t hey will merely, in order to set themselves straight
on this score, have to say: “ Mairsi, mong Prance,
Tioo voulong ung hookoo de kognack, may par trop
dcr soda avec ter kognack.”
What John Osborne means by Secularism
is a philosipphy that denies the existence of God
and a future life; and to call such a philosophy a
Bans-culottish religion is, in his idea, to describe it
with perfect accuracy. Now, if the converse of
this be true, Osbornefsm, which professes to know
all about God and the things behind the veil, must
needs be a cuUnttish religion—a religion, that is to
say with broeks, which it undoubtedly is, and
moreover there are pockets in the breeks, specially
to the hierophants' breeks, into which it is an
article Of faith that there should bo a constant
flow of coin from the pookets in the lay breeks.
Yes, in that sense Osborne and Co. (who deal in the
unknowable) are eminently culottisb.
The World remarks that: “There never
was a time when nepotism and jobbery were so
rampant in the Navy as they have been during the
last four years. Officers who are in favour at
Whitehall, and who can command high interest,
can do what they please, and they may confidently
count on getting the best berths for which they
are eligible. Here is Rear-Admiral Tryon, late
secretary to the Admiralty, appointed to the
Australian command, over tne heads of more than
twenty senior rear-admirals who have not yet
hoisted their flags. Not only is Rear-Admiral
Tryon the junior officer but one on the list, but he
has only completed four months’ service in that
rank. Sir Frederick Richards, the junior Sea
Lord, was to have received the post, but I hoar he
has resolved to wait for something nearer home.”
The World hears that “a well-known
Australian knight has lately been the victim to
the extent of some thousands of pounds of a gang
of swindling ‘gentlemen,’ who persurded him
they could convert his personal title into an here-
ditary one. This same gentleman is the regular
weekly prey of vermin of another kind.” Myste-
rious, this! But we recognise the gentleman. A
man who has red hair can afford to suffer and be
strong. He was evidently destined by Providence
for an hair-redit&ry title. As regards the “other
vermin,” the World’s allusion is to the obsequi-
ous conductors of a certain recently-established
London weekly paper which the great man is
alleged to subsidise. The road leading to a baron-
etcy is long and weary, end, in the words of
Macaulay, “ ungratifled ambition is a foretaste of
the tortures of hell.”
His Honor Judge Paul has got back to
Queensland, and it may reasonably be supposed
tnat he values highly the discrimination of the
leading people of the great capital. Those Queens-
landers who didn’t accompany him home were
particularly glad to read of the favourable im-
pression the genial dispenser of hard labour made
on London society. It seems he was accepted on
all sides as a wit. That was rather a surprise to
his old friends; but when the Judge’s fund of
anecdote is borne in mind, the title is, if not satis-
factorily accounted for, rendered in some measure
intelligible. When the Judge crosses his legs and
shuts his eyes, he can spin narratives of the
Queensland bush at which a Brisbane Synod would
weep. It was, no doubt, a few of these narratives
that made London society laugh, and register the
distinguished visitor as a wit.
Mr. Thomas Bracken, ex-M.H.R. and Poet
Laureate of New Zealand, has made wlmt is called
a fresh departure. After his defeat by a smull ,
majority at the late elections in Dunedin, the
talented author of “Lays of the Land of the
Maori and Moa” started prospecting for gold as a
public lecturer, and, notwithstanding the prevail-
ing depression in that colony, he seems to have
struck a reef with a rich vein of the pure metal
runniner through it. During the past few weeks
Mr. Broken has lectured at Hokitiki, Christ-
church, Wellington, and other places, to very
large and enthusiastic audiences, and everywhere
the Press has been unanimous in its praise of the
different entertainments. The poet’s favourite
lectures are entitled respectively “An Evening
with the Poets of Ireland ” and “ An Evening with
Poets and Humourists.’’ The lectures are inter-
spersed and peppered throughout with readings
and recitations from the works of the several
authors under review. As an elocutionist, Mr.
Bracken is not faultless, but he has a good voice,
and his brogue is simply delicious. Becerra, it
beats Banagber. so it does, entoireiv. We wish
the genial Thomas all the success he deserves, and
that’s a good big plateful.
PAW THINGS!
“That impecunious couple, the Duke and
Duchess of l’eck, who are now on their road to
Rumpenheim, are expected to return to England
shortly, to reside at the White Lodge, Richmond
Park, which will be placed at their disposal by the
Queen.’’—
Quoth Teck, “ I am a wretched chap,
Condemned for life to penny Nap.;
The Queen’s instructions I have read ’em:
No more—’tis set down—must I head ’em!
In future—Majesty does say—
I must not ‘ ring in the tail gray,’
Nor into further errors slip,
And ‘square the man who holds the kip.’
Bann'd from 6oarW—cruel thing!—
When I each time couin turn the king;
A Gallic game—l took French leave,
The little secret’s in your sleeve.
I’m coming, Mary—what’s for tea ?
Oh, d ! no sausages for me!"
L. L. Smith has got his chin above water in
another grand enterprise. He has clutched the
handle of his great Jubilee Exhibition, which is
expected to give the publicans of Melbourne an
opportunity to trade off an inconveniently large
stock of rascally liquor on unsuspecting rustics.
L. L., turning his handle and smiling at the uni-
veise, is a pretty spectacle. And he can show his
teeth in a frill of riotously happy enjoyment, for
the ambitious medical man has succeeded in amass-
MUTUAL.
MBS. CRUMMY (Mistress of the Home): “FOR SHAME, ROBERTS! MB. CRUMMY’S BEST
WINE, TOO. I AM SURPRISED.”
ROBERTS (butler): “SO AM I, MUM. I THOUGHT YOU WAS GONE OUT.”
ing great wealth. His boast that his income ex-
ceeds that of the Governor is not regarded as
exaggeration. And his boast that his clients
increase in number from year to year is not
regarded as exaggeration, either. Another state-
raent that cannot be regarded as exaggeration is
that those exhibitions and what-nots held in Mel-
bourne with the view of bringing people in from
the country, are increasing in frequency with
every decade. Hence this question:, Does there
exist a relation between the progression
observed in the increase of exhibitions and
that observed in the increase of Dr. Smith’s
patients ? And if it be found that there does, then
have we discovered a reason to account for the
phenomenal activity he displays in projecting these
attractions, and for the way in which he strips his
teeth and smiles at the univejse when the thing is
in swing and he gets hold of the handle ?
Jagoe is the name of a Sand Hill humourist,
who has recently got himself quite disliked by the
corporation of Semaphore, Bout,h Australia, and
the head andjfront of his offending seems to be
the following letter recently sent to tho Civic
Fathers:—“To the Chairman and Councillors of
the semaphore Corporation. Gentlemen, In view
of the vacancy'’ caused ty the resignation of the
late Mayor of your liniiuentiai and important bo-
rough, I venture most respectfully to request the
favour of appointment to tho vacancy. 1 have no
peculiar qualifications for the office, beyond hav-
ing been a long resident in the district, and for
many years an employer of labour, although for-
tunately employed also by a most distinguished
section of ’ paper-stainers ’ and ‘ink-slingers.’
Hitherto, it has been my desire to pay 20s. in the
pound, and in that I have succeeded; but if in
its wisdom the Council see fit, I will as soon as pos-
sible qualify for the position by paying 103.— 0 r
even if necessary ss.—rather than lose the billet. I
also promise” That’s as far as the official
reading of the letter went. Councillor Christie
termed it a disgrace and an insult, Councillor
Tennant considered it an insult and a disgrace,
Councillor Hannay thought it was both, and Anally
the Council Clerk was ordered to catch hold of it
with the tongs and jab it behind the fire. The
joke, it appears, turns on the fact of some one of
the Civic Fathers having recently received a judi-
cial whitewash.
Poor old Tom Paine has been catching it
hot again: this time from the Rev. Bunn, of New
Zealand. Bunn has been lecturing and putting
the plate about at the highly moral settlement of
Manawatu, and, as a matter of course, the gospel
of Thomas Paine, according to Bunn, contained all
the hoary and now exploded lies that a century of
defamation has succeeded iu stringing together
round the memory of the Bturdy common-sense
philosopher. Bunn trotted out the Rev. Joe
Cook, of America, as an authority on Paine. Mr.
E. A. Haggen, editor of the Woodviele Ex-
aminer (N.Z.), took up the cudgels on behalf of
the memory of the departed patriot, and de-
molished Bunn and his Cook in line style. He
quoted largely from the opinions of the celebrated
men who knew Paine personally—George Wash-
ington, Jackson, Jefferson, Monroe, and Judge
Herttell. The latter wrote: “No man in modern
times has done more to benefit mankind, or dis-
tinguished himself more for the immense moral
good he has effected for his species, than Thomas
Paine, who, in truth, merits eternal life, and
doubtless will be immortalised in the memory and
gratitude of future generations.” Barlow said of
him: “He was one of the most benevolent and
disinterested of mankind. He was always charit-
able to the poor beyond his means, a sure protec-
tor and a friend to all in distress.” Napoleon said
that a statue of gold ought to be erected to his
memory in every city of the universe. When will
anyone say such things o* Bunn and Cook, or any
of their clan ?
Marshal von Moltke isn’t dying. At'latest,
he was staying at Ragatz. His only retinue con-
sisted of two soldier-servants, and his personal
baggage might easily have been carried in a child’s
wheelbarrow. Save in those signs which must ac-
company 84 years of age—he having been born on
26th October, 1800— Count von Moltke presents no
special symptoms of decay, while his intellect is
clear, bright, and unimpaired. A tall man, some-
what bowed, with a rugged face, keen deep-set
eyes overhung by shaggy eyebrows, a massive
forehead, and a firm soldierly tread, Von Moltke
would be conspicuous even amongst thousands of
other conspicuous figures. In his manner and
habits he is as simple and frugal as was the great
Duke of Wellington, and he has a horror of being
made a show of. isaturally taciturn, it is seldom
he enters into conversation, especially with stran-
gers ; and meet him when you will, he always seems
to be wrapped in thought. He has been in the
habit of visiting Ragatz for some years. He gene-
rally arrives unexpectedly, and takes the plainest
bedroom he can get—for anything like luxury he
totally eschews. Von Moltke is an exceedingly
frugal eater; wine he seldom touches, but now and
again he takes a little beer. He is a good walker
still, in spite of his four-score and four years. He
promenades alone, and without even the assistance
of a stick. His habitual attitude is with his hands
behind him. He walks slowly, and with his head
slightly bent forward. In the evening, after
dinner, he spends an hour in the salon, where
dancing and games are indulged in* and though he
takes no part, he manifests great interest in all
that goes on. At nine o’clock ho returns to his
hotel, and, half-au-hour later, retires for the night,
Carcoab Mary’s husband is a man evi-
dently of much intrepidity. He recently bearded
the Newsletter in its den, and held a conversa-
tion respecting the spons. due to Mary from the
proprietor of that journalistic meteor, who, it
seems, is no less a person than Dr. Walter Rod way,
formerly, so we understand, a tenant of Judge
Windeyer. Here is some of tho conversation:—
“ Mary’s Hub.: What is the nature of the business
you are advertising ? Secretary: We propose, sir,
to reproduce the well-known San Francisco News-
letter with several pages of Australian news,
and offer it to the public at the price named in the
advertisements. M.lt.: What references can you
give ? Secretary: Labouchere, of the London
Truth and San Francisco Newsletter. [lll]
M.H.: Humph 1 Good man, Labouchere, though
not telephonable. Couldn t you give Austraiian
reference? Secretary: Well—er —no. You see, we
are just opened out here, and don’t know many
people yet. M.H.:. . . Labouchere, remarkable
man; know him personally ? Secretary: Oh, dear,
yes; old friend. [lll] M.H.: How came Labouchere
to be connected with the San Francisco News-
letter? Secretary: Why, my dear sir, it was I
who advised him to go into it. [lll] Remarkable
success.” This is a gay and festive story, and has
a fairy element in it that savours of the evidence
of an Israeiitish insolvent—or that of a back-block
publican with a taste for racing. This interview
(which will probably be historic) concludes as fol-
lows:—“Mary’s Hub.: Thanks, no. You misun-
derstand. lam not on the staff of The Bulletin.
Secretary: Oh, my mistake. Beg pardon. Good
day.” Probably the best reason why little Garland
is not on the staff of The Bulletin is that he is
the staff (and probably the machine) of the Car-
coab Mary. Besides, we have no use for ani-
mated commas on this paper. And, furthermore
but, a rhyme:—
TO “LITTLE GUMBRUSH.”
You Little Gumbrush, why prefer
To show splenetic tricks ?
Why, we’ll be writing’ papers, sir,
When you are carting bricks.
The author of “ Called Back” may be called
a lucky man. His story has some originality in it,
out beyond that betrays no particular brillianoc ot
composition. The piot is wildly improbable, and
therefore sensational: but the book has no soul,
and is not written with particular art. However,
Mr. Fred. Fargus (or Hugh Conway, as per title-
page) is lucky, and, being full of literary ambition,
must be gratified now that he has been commis-
sioned to write a story for the Christmas English
Illustrated Magazine, one for the Christmas
Graphic, one for Harper’s Christmas Annual, and
one tor the Christmas Annual at Bristol, where h«
h, veB - ? e 18 an auctioneer, deaf, rather dull, and
40. He has written a few poems and short stories
bu^? l 8 ~ n S v ® r J , P° k . fin of outside a limited circle
uuGl Called Back ’ appeared. Even in Sydney
this book has had an enormous sale; and its Dint-
has been dramatised very effectively.
In the month of July, Admiral Hewett ar-
rived at Mauritius from Suakim, and became the
guest of the Governor, Sir John Pope Hennessv
at his country residence Reduit. We learn from*
locil journal, L’Argus, that on July 14th the Go
vernor gave a dinner at that place in honour r f
the Admiral. Among the guests were several
members of the Legislative Council and several
military men, as well as many leading Mauritians
with their ladies. At dessert, Sir John Pope Hen’
nessy proposed the health of the Queen, which
was drunk with enthusiasm. ThenlSir John, in s
complimentary speech, invited the company to
drink with him to the health of JAdmiral Hewetr
This toast was drunk very cordially, and the Ad
miral returned thanks. What followed is thus
described in the Port Louis Journal;-- The
Hon. Mr. Ambrose rose and proposed to drink the
h *B Excellency the Governor, coupled
Lady Hennessy. Speaking of Sir
John, Mr. Ambrose said among other things thnt
he was the best Governor the island had ever had
and especially the only one who had rendered true
justice to the Mauritians. Upon this Admiral
Hewett interrupted him, saying, ‘No, he is not the
best Governor that has been had here. I am an
English admiral, and I oppose such comparisons
Other governors have been equally just towards
the Creoles. Mr. Ambrose wished to continue
speaking, but the (Admiral, who had »t first ire
mained seated, rose up and repeated the words in
?i. y - t^ ore ene rKetic tone. It need hardly be said
that this unexpected sally broke up the convivi-
banquet. Mr. Ambrose found him-
self obliged to stop short. The health of the
Governor and Lady Hennessy was hastily drunk
and immediately afterwards all the company with'
drew from the table, the ladies retiring to the
drawing-room, and the gentlemen to the verandah
At this moment the Admiral accosted Mr. Am-
brose, and asked him how he dared to use before
a British Admiral, such language as that
which he had employed: ‘You have praised one
Governor at the expense of another before me
You forget that lam a British Admiral.’ Mr. Am-
brose contented himself with replying, quietly ‘ r
am sorry to contradict you. I know the history
of this countrv better than you do, and all that I
have said is only an expression of the truth.’ ” We
learn that the Hon. Mr. Ambrose is one of the
leaders of EngUsh society in Mauritius, and is at
the head of the oldest and principal English house
in the colony. This incident ha's not affected the
personai relations of Sir John Pope Hennessy and
the Admiral- It appears that a few local politicians
endeavoured to make capital out of it, by pro-
posing to get up a public banquet to the Admiral
and the officers of the Euryalus, but the project
received no support from the leading Mauritians
and was therefore abandoned. The report pub-
lished in L Argus had not been contradicted up to
the departure of the last mail, which left Mauritius
on August 6.
He is a police magistrate for one of our
inland townships, and the great man had been
down to the metropolis to get rid of some of the
dust and grit that will grain into a “ fellah ” if he
survives a couple of years in the Western Plains
districts, also to give his rigidly select oircle of
feminine friends one more opportunity of admir-
ing his willow-branch moustache, his portly form,
and sloppy ooal-heaver’s walk. He had gone, seen,
triumphed, and again, like the noble Roman, was
returning to his pine-ridged mistress, to recount
h s conquests and sun himself in the respectful
glances of his intimates. He had reached the first
stage of his homeward journey from the train,
and was compelled to pass the night beneath the
roof of a wayside “ inn.’’ (This same-“ hotel ”we
call it—is generally voted by sundry squatters and
bagmen a “ capital place to put up at, 11 yet “ inn ”
was the blighting epithet flung at it by our distin-
guished-anything you like; we “dussunt” call
him friend, even journalistically, as Jupiter’s
thunderbolts would be as pop-gun shots to his
scarifying glanoe were we to profess to be any-
loss humiliating: than his bedroom carpet.)
~n D» £“6D, was nigh in his nostrils generally,
and the to-be-ever-sacred room in which he was
to pass the night was so particularly. Even
to a more horrifying degree did it smell when
he was informed that a fellow-traveller—a road-
inspector, by the bye, and the very antithesis of
himself in all that was presumptuous and assum-
ing—would have to share the chamber with him,
said chamber being, we admit, faintly imitative of
that or a first-class metropolitan hotel, marble-
topped wash stand and equally expensive accou-
e i ar £ e 9x6 beds, with snowy drapery.
J6UO cubic feet of air—enough oxygen, one would
think, to get through in a single night; all this the
K.f. modestly ventured to observe, and was
gravely and promptly rebuked for presuming to
have an opinion at all about the matter. How-
ever, there were but three things for the gorgeous
one to choose from: chance the bed-room, pig it
out round the back, or sling a clothes-prop out of
tb£ window, and avoid contamination that way.
After much deliberation, he solemnly announced
that he’d take the bed, and bare his sacred form to
the unsanctifled gaze of the R. 1., which he did, aDd
informed a breathless audience next morning that
he had ‘ slept indifferently well,”—which was no
doubt perfectly correct, as the boots in corrobora-
tion said, when he went to call him, “Ithowtas
how he had a old bull under his bed, for, bygob, I
niver heerd sich solid snorin’ in all my born days.”
He departed amid emotional adieux, and was
pulled up about dinner-time at the door of a sta-
tion, where dinner was hospitably prepared for
him and his fellow-travellers (in deference to the
wish of the coach proprietor, as there is no other
inn for 66 miles, and the journey is usually
done right through without feeding) by the lady
of the house. The meal was announced, and our
dispenser of justice crowded round the table
with the inspector, and began to surround the
eatables in a manner complimentary to the coek.
Raising his eyes in one of his rapid pauses, be
anxiously wondered “ who the third party could
be designed to luncheon with us,” for be saw
another knife and fork laid. In answer to his
query, in walked passenger No. 3 -a senior con-
stable, and a smart, meritorious young gentleman
to boot, but whom, of oourse, the great man had
not deigned to notice in anything but an official
manner. However, there he was, with a pleasant
bow taking his place behind the spare knife and
fork, and looking decidedly like handling them.
Surprise gave place to amazement, which, in turn,
was chased away by a look of horror, when the
intellectual being was satisfied beyond doubt this
was the third party destined to lunch with him.
There was but one way to escapejhis abasement.
Even though he should suffer the pangs of hunger
never should it be ,'said that be underwent this de-
gradation. The grand raassivity of his immov-
able, marbled pride should remain spotless and
unshaken. Ho arose, and, with the stoicism of a
Spartan, left the table, the room, the house, and
firmly walked to the coach, where he pensively
and gloomily cigaretted the time away until
another start was effected. And his name is-LN°>
you don’t.—Ed. B ]
* * *
The Townsville Herald has given a thou-
sand pounds to be incorporated with the local
Bulletin. M'Manus takes a third, and gives bis
services as machine editor. No more variety show*
for Mae. He is now going to "turn over” man)
new leaves... They have founded a chair of music
in the Adelaide University. So much for hjivmg
a musical Governor. We in Sydney should founu
a chair of market-gardening.
• • •
Item of Fashionable Intelligence: In an-
ticipation of his impending release, the Claimant
is growing his whiskers.


The Ballad of Maginns Brown.
INVOCATION TO THE MUSE.
Listen, O Musel
Listen unto your life-long suitor,
Who kneels and sues!—
One who, if he had only been astuter,
Might now have been a legislative looter;
A patriot proud.
Praised by the News,
And called his country’s saviour by the Shroud ;
Or fashionable congregation’s tutor,
Clutching his dues—
Instead of drinking flat ale from a pewter,
A dismal tootle-tocter,
With broken Bhoes;—
If for your sake I've gone through life travailing
(And, let me tell you, ’tis not much to live,
For one who is by nature sensitive,
By writing poetry these times;
He has to be upon the everlasting forage
For rum, as well as rhymes,
And get his inspiration as he can
From a grim compound poets know as porridge—
The basis sawdust, the remainder bran—
Or fall back for his divine afflatus
On cold potatoes!)
If, for your sake—l say it once again—
I bav6 endured both penury and pain;
If heartless meD railed at me with a railing,
Till I’ve grown pale to look upon a paling;
Then, by these sufferings sustained for you—
All genuine, I assure you—
I do conjure you,
Get sober I do!
If only for variety,
Put on your ancient graoe,
And wash your face;
Not that I wish to play the mentor,
But that we are about to enter
Into respectable society.
THE MUSE.
Well, it has come to something, truly!
To something, truly, it has come I
Why was I praised by bards subliraer
Than ever these poor days shall see;
When one who is but bailed out newly,
Whose head is empty as a drum—
A paltry, porridge-eating rhymer—
Presumes to lecture me 1
Why, ingrate, when I’ve come to thee
With sonnets of the sky and sea,
Lyrics of light, and songs of splendour,
And bright Pindaric flashes—
I’ve found your bead upon the fender
Your tongue among the ashes!
And lecture me!
Now, let me tell you, onoe for all,
O poet of the porridge-pot,
In vain again on me you’ll call,
For I shall evermore refuse:
I go from you to be the Muse
Of bladen and of Lewis Scott.
THE BARD TO THE MUSE.
What shall I do ?
THE MUSE TO THE BARD.
Oh! as for you,
Why, you can do just as you choose,
Or get a mule to be your Muse!
(Ooes off in a great flutter.)
THE BARD TO THE EDITOR.
You see the precious fix that I am in!
THE EDITOR TO THE BARD.
We do. Your little game, sir, is too thin.
D’ye think wo wish to occupy a hoarding
With our next issue, that you sit and spin
Such stuff ? Go, paint it on the moon in tar!
Sir, you were honester, by far.
When you were in a boiler boarding.
Now you have been promoted to a tank,
Your aspirations far exceed your rank.
THE BARD TO THE EDITOR.
And this is gratitude! Have I not been
The proD of your poetic staff ?
Have I not grown, with grinding rhyme, so lean
That people look at me and laugh ?
It is too precious hard, sir,
Upon a pore, unfortnit bard, sir—
I wish I had a handkerchief to weep ini
THE EDITOR TO THE BARD.
How now! Have you not had your kerosene—
A tin of it, allowed you every week ?
Have you not had the free run of the gum,
And frequent access to the office-paste
(A bit high, p’r’aps, but that depends on taste),
Besides what oil was left from the machine
(A very deeent substitute for rum) ?
And had you Dot the ash-box, too, to sleep in ?
Yet this is how you speak!
THE BARD TO THE EDITOR.
I ask your pardon, sir; I own I’m wroDg,
And I regret extremely what I said, sir—
That last lot of machine-oil was too strong,
I den’t think it’s quite gone out of my head, sir.
But now my Muse has left me quite—
All females leave you when they think you ’re
down—
I don’t see how the mischief I’m to write
My funny ballad of “ Maginnis Brown.”
EDITOR.
Is there no inspiration left but this ?
BARD.
Well, now you mention it, I think there is;
Though it is one—l make severe assertion !
For which I have particular aversion,
i et, for ail that, I’ll venture for your sake a small
saoriflce.
EDITOR.
What is it, then ?
BARD.
Jamaica!
EDITOR.
Well, get it
BARD.
How ? Who will put down the dust ?
EDITOR.
Then owe'fortt!
BARD.
Alas I have no trust.
„ EDITOR.
No tram-tiokets ?
BARD
Not one, but pawn—
EDITOR.
w , „ Yes; such
* ou ve always had, I know. Well, then, how much ?
BARD.
I think, sir, that I might be a contriver
t>n something, say, adjacent to a fiver.
EDITOR.
Go! here is sixpence 1 Royster if you must.
(Exit Bard, rejoicing.)
the ballad begins in earnest.
Maginnis Brown was tall and dark,
His age was thirty-foui;
He was a stately counter-clerk,
All in a soft-goods store.
But though his features were not fair,
The soul within was bright;
They say he used to put his hair
in papers every night.
He never smoked or spat about,
a Dover cursed or swore;
.? never known to “ shout ”
While in that soft-goods store.
Dover drank, he never played
At Nap or seven-up;
mc ar dly ever took or laid
The odds upon the Cup.
Whene’er this good young man you met,
a T. e v C l ar f ied ’ da -V or night,
A ? ■u ein his left pocket,
A hymn-book in his right.
THE BARD TO THE READER.
There are five verses clean and clear—
,*Tve verses to a drink—
t - y 18 h° uld not finish here,
T really cannot think.
I id not give—here’s one more verse!—
If I had half-a-crown,
The phantom of a corpse’s curse
For good Maginnis BrowD.
But, ah! for me there’s no such bliss.
So I must as I can
Work up more sympathy with this
iDfernal soft-goods man.
BALLAD CONTINUES.
He grew and grew, and grew in grace,
In grace and heavenly hope;
You saw them gleaming on his face—
They looked like yellow soap.
If honest prayer to heaven mounts,
His did not go astray;
He mixed his prayers with his accounts
In a most pious way.
say, in tones to make you sob,
-r.,, “11© he a “ piece ” unfurled,
111 do you this for thirty-bob—
God help the wicked world!”
If we with pen could only paint,
We’d picture his renown;
He was a perfect soft-goods saint,
This good Maginnis Brown!
Till pious ladies—such there be!—
And schoolmistresses prim,
And pensive ladies sighingly
Would come to gaze at him;
And whisper, while he clutched the “ greed ”
And shovelled in the cash.
Dear man—he is a saint, indeed;
Observe his sweet moustache!”
ERIEND OF THE BARD ComeB in.
Hallo! old boy, a picnic’s on
, To-day: of course, you’ll come!
(All friends). Fill up, and let’s begone:
There’s corned-beef and there’Brum!
CONTEMPT OF COURT.
AT SEA.
HIS HONOR (to prostrate Barrister): "CAN I DO ANYTHING FOR YOU, MY DEAR FEL-
LOW ?”
BARRISTER (his last gasp): “I WISH, YOUR HONOR, THAT YOU WOULD OVER-RULE
THIS MOTION.’”
the bard (mournfully).
I never knew a tree or flower,
I never reared a young gazelle;
I’ve got to write another hour—
(Pause)
Maginnis Brown may go to Well ?
boy comes m.
The editor he sez as how
He'd like to know jist what you mean;
I’ve got to get that ballig now,
Or else he stops your karrasene!
BARD.
O Misery! O Gloom! and Woe I
Likewise O Skulls and Spectres wan!
To think a bard is treated so-
l’ll go and Join a caravan.
(Another pause.)
I’ll go and see the editor I
EDITOR.
Well, now, sir, what have you come for?
BARD.
Another threepence—just one thrupp—
EDITOR.
Be off I Get out!
(TO MANACLE-KEEPER.)
Chain him up.
And bring the ballad when it’s done—
If these be bards, thank God I’m none l
(Interval of an hour.)
manacle-keeper enters.
EDITOR.
How now ? Why this expression weird ?
manacle-keeper (tremulously).
Well, sir, he’s been and gone and cleared.
editor ( furiously ).
How, villain ? How—what do you mean ?
manacle-keeper (sullenly).
He’s drunk the ile from the masheen,
And gnawed the chain through—gnawed it clean!
(Interval of a day.)
policeman enters, and hands some manuscript to
EDITOR.
What’s this? editor.
POLICEMAN.
EVhat’s fwhat? He tould me jist
To come and put it in yer list.
, EDITOR.
Who told you ?
POLICEMAN.
Who tould me? Fwhy—and you can laugh!—
A blagyard wroiter on yer shstaif;
He s in the lock-up since lasht night,
An , be me sowl, it sarves him right.
Call these your poicks and your wits!
He tore.my uneyfarm to bits!
(Is mollified, in the usual way, and goes.)
the ballad staggers on.
Maginnis Brown (if I could knock up
Ten lives, I’d let him slide.
From what I’ve seen yet of the lock-up.
It has its seamy side).
Maginnis Brown all suddenly
Began to smoke and swear,
And drink—by thunder, you should see
How everyone did stare!
Where pray’rs once came from him in chips.
As from a pious tract,
Now. foaming curses from his lips
I ell m a cataract.
until at last so low he’d sunk,
So sewerish was he,
So demoniacally drunk,
He was a sore to see.
What was the reason of this change ?
Why came he thus to shame ?
You ask: the question is not strange—
It was his little game!
For, 10l in but a little while
They took him by the hand,
Some charitable folks (you’ll smile)
Who had a project planned.
A very deep and cunning plot
For simple folk to plan,
All to regenerate the sot—
Reclaim the drunken man.
It was to gather up the sots
Whose lips were white with foam—
Whose frowsy beards hung down in clefs
And put them in a Home.
And there Maginnis Brown the good—
Though rum he no more quaffs—
Grows fat upon the best of food,
And lies around and laughs.
Now, who would be a sober clerk—
His little fun who’d miss,
And slave from daylight until dark,
While he could do like this ?
[The Bard came in later on in the day, and added
these two verses.]
It’s all a lie*
For now, sirs, it appears
He did not get into the Home,
But he got seven years!
I* The Bard left this rhyme unfinished, to go out with
a friend for a drink.]
Exposure to drafts when heated, and sud-
den changes in the temperature of the atmo-
sphere, are prolific sources ol severe Colds, from
which many cases of Inflammation of the Lungs,
Pleurisy, Asthma, and other Pulmonary Affections
are developed. Should you unfortunately con-
tract a Cold, resort at once to Dr. Jayne’s Expec-
torant, a remedy that will not only promptly cure
Coughs and Colds, but will relieve and strengthen
the Pulmonary and Bronchial Organs, and remove
all dangerous symptoms. To be had of all drug-
gists and storekeepers, and wholesale by Elliott
BROS.. Pitt-street, Sydney,
News from India.
JOCBERT’S RETURN.
GOLDEN TESTIMONY.
Another of the world’s wonders—that interested
and enlightened thousands upon thousands, that
magnetised skilled manufactures and products
from the four quarters of the earth, and that ven-
tilated the vast and wealthy resources of our
Indian Empire—lives, but in the memories of the
past. The Calcutta Exhibition of 1884 is no more.
Like its great predecessors, its career throughout
was marked by signal success; the attainment of
the object of its promotion being realised in the
highest degree. Industries that for years laid
dormant in India, were again awakened by the
trumpet of emulation; and brooking not rivalry in
their own dominions, they entered the lists of com-
petition, prepared to do battle on behalf of the re-
sources and manufactures of their country. The
result exceeded even their most sanguine expecta-
tions, and an impetus and vitality has been given
to the trade of that country that is pregnant with
beneficial results in the distant future. The manu-
tactures of India are, or rather were, always essen-
tially domestic industries. The artisans worked in
their own houses with their own tools, they made
their bargains direct with their customers, and
every workman was his own master. This was pos-
sible-in fact, necessary-on account of what is
known as the village system of India. Even now in
rural districts, which form the larger part of the
country, each village and town is an independent
community, and doing most of its business within
itself The weaver, the potter, the brasier, the
goldsmith, the ironworker, the mason, the shoe-
maker, just as well as the priest and physician, are
each integral members of a community and the
rightful inheritors of their respective trades there-
in. With the Exhibition era, however, k change
came o’er the spirit of the dream—the units coal-
esced into one mighty power, and as a whole gave
the worla the result of their combined labours in
as grand a display of valuable native manufac-
turers as ever graced an Eastern stall or adorned
an International competition.
India now proudly ranks—the result of this
master stroke of centralisation—as one of the
world’s coming producers, and Phconix like, as it
were, from the ashes of the recent exhibition an
INDIAN TRADE
will spring into existence, the fostering of which
should prove of vital importance to these colonies.
To exemplify a slight instance in point. Tho ex-
port of manufacturing copper to the great eity of
the east from the mother country is very large,
owing to the prominent part this metal plays in
the construction of a i native vessels and utensils.
Hut the ingots of this valuable metil come in the
first instance from these colonies prior to their
manufactory into sheets in England for the Indian
trade. Is this as it should be? Surely colonial
enterprise and capital are capable of successfully
coping with a difficulty of this nature, and to a
mercantile advantage. While India, on the one
hand, requires copper, tho colonies, on the other,
are large importers of oil and tea from her shores.
This, and many other questions in regard to the
Indian trade, require close scrutiny and attention,
which they will doubtless receive at the hands of
those interested in the mercantile relations be-
tween the two countrios. Probably no ono will bo
better able to form and exprees a> competent
opinion on tins subject than the promoter of the
Calcutta International,
MU. JOUBERT,
who has now returned from the field of his late
labours, and whose recent Indian experience ne-
cessarily has given him an insight into tnis matter
that should prove of practical benefit. TurniDg,
however, again to the exhibits. In the arts and
sciences the competition was very keen, owing to
the high standard of excellence shown, necessi-
tating the most minute and critical examination
on the part of the judges. Jewellery comprised
every conceivable design in gold and silver. Re-
presentatives of every clime vied with each other
in the attractiveness and elegance of their display,
and the effect produced by the scintillations of
thousands of precious stones.* intermingled with
the varied hues emitted from sparkling gems, was
one to delight the eye of the connoisseur, or glad-
den the heart of the professional
BURGLAR.
This is the age of progress. The itinerant vendor
of vile nostrums and deleterious compounds, who
in days of yore poisoned our forefathers with
specifics for the ills that flesh is heir to, has given
place to the man of scientific attainments and pro-
fessional knowledge. This was thoroughly exempli-
fied in the class including drugs and medicinal
preparations, and which might be said to be one of
the most important in the recent Exhibition.
Those who scrutinised the elaborate showcases in
this section could not fail to observe the imposing
display made by renowned chemists of medicinal
preparations produced after years of study, perse-
verance, experiment, and labour. When it is
borne in mind that to grasp the coveted honours
every exhibit had to stand the most stringent
chemical tests at the hands of the judges, there
could be little doubt of the bona fide nature of the
preparations exhibited for competition. Those
selected to make tbe awards in this section were
gentlemen of the highest standing in professional
knowledge and experience, men who were in the
first rank as chemical authorities, and whose ver-
dict could
NOT BE QUESTIONED.
Dr. Kanny Lall Day, Fellow of the Pharmaceuti-
cal Society of Great Britain, C.I.E (a distinction
which was specially granted by the Empress of
India on Her Majesty s last birthday), F.R.8., be-
sides being a distinguished Rai Bahadoor, and a
member of the City Council Commissioners, as
well as a Professor of Chemistry, was one of the
judges, his oolleague being Mons. Cabasse, one of
the greatest French chemists of the present day.
To secure the highest honours in this class no
stone was left unturned by the discoverers and
manufacturers of medicinal preparations. Well-
known medicinal celebrities figured conspicuously
in the contest, while London, New York, Paris, and
Calcutta all forwarded special preparations laying
claim to be unsurpassed in relieving the sufferings
of humanity. Carefully was each exhibit analysed
and tested by the judges, with the result that,
although many were highly commended, all had
to pale into
INSIGNIFICANCE
when St. Jacob appeared on the scene. Not only
was overwhelming testimony of its marvellous
curative properties brought before the judges (no
Jess an autnority than the French Commissioner,
Mods. Larelle vouching for its efficacy in com-
pletely curing his leg, which unfortunately
was oruised by accident), but the most cru-
cial tests undoubtedly proved that it was
the most wonderful discovery of the age.
The fact is, disclaiming irreverent tenden-
cies, St. Jacob improves on acquaintance, and is
by many regarded as the patron saint of the
Maories of New Zealand, where the jurors awarded
it. the first order of merit and gold medal for its
practical cures in the Christchurch Hospital. Dr.
Robinson, superintendent of that institution, and
Professor Bickerton, of the local University, were
the jurors on that occasion. Truly, it may be said
that after securing the gold medal of the Calcutta
International Exhibition of 1884 against all comers,
that St. Jacob has
SCORED BY HONOURS
honestly won and justly awarded. To the unen-
lightened the question will naturally arise—Who is
St. Jacob, and what astounding preparation has he
given to the world ? St. Jacob, be it known, was to
Germany what St. Patrick was to Ireland, with
the slight difference, that while one obliterated
the venomous reptiles, the other proved the con-
queror of many diseases. Hence St, Jacobs Oil
has now spread over the width and breadth of
every lanu accessible to civilisation, and the
wonders of its ext raordinary powers are becomiog
the daily theme of conversation as case after case
comes to light in which it has played the part of a
benefactor in tin's world of echea and pains.


Professional Directory.
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Mesßrs. Wil,ma.mBon, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Immediate and Genuine Success attended the
opening of the Dramatic Season.
Houses crowded to overflowing to witness the
sterling drama,
WAGES OF SIN. WAGES OF SIN.
Intense enthusiasm and hearty welcome extended
that sterling actor and universal Sydney favourite,
Mr. ALFRED DAM PIER,
The drama produced under the immediate
direction of Mr. Alfred Dampier.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box offioe open from 11 till 4. No free list.
<1
ERA HOUSE
lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGN O L D and ALLISON.
Acting Manager Monty Browne.
MISS DE GREY,
and her
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THURSDAY EVENING, 23rd OCTOBER,
First production [in Australia of the beautiful
comedy by Wycherley,
THE COUNTRY GIRL.
Peggy Miss DeGrey.
Business Manager
Stage Manager
Prices as usual.
George-street.
for Miss ) Mr. A. L. Cunard.
De Grey) Mr. F. T. Lingham.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411
CADEMY OF MUSIC
L Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Business Manager for Mr. Fleming Norton,
Mr. F. Gunther.
EVERY EVENING, for a Short Season only,
Mr. FLEMING NORTON,
in his Musical and Mimical Entertainmont, entitled,
PICNIC PORTRAITS,
received each night with the utmost enthusiasm
by brilliant and fashionable audiences, as given
liy him, by command, before their Royal High-
nesses the Prince and Princess of Wales, family,
and guests, at Sandringham, on November 26,1881;
at the Egyptian Hall, London, upwards of 260
nights ; and at the Crystal and Alexandra Palaces,
&c. f &c., &c.
Prices as usual, 45., 35., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Marks’, next
to Academy of Music.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8 o’clook.
Carriages at 10 sharp.
- Solo Pianist and Accompanist. Mons. Adrien
Baudouin (from Le Conservatoire de Paris), who
wili perform upon a Grand Pianoforte, by Brins-
mead.
A
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17th.
Re-appearance, after years of absence, of
RAINER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR I
AMERICAN WAR !
AMERICAN WAR!
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. W ybert Reeve.
Last Two Nights of Grattan Riggs in GRASP, or
A MOTHER’S LOVE. Saturday next, the ever-
favourite and successful drama, THE IRISH
DETECTIVE, in whioh Grattan Riggs assumes
seven distinct characters.
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
AN BARRY’S
GRAND PROVINCIAL DRAMATIC COMPANY
will arrive in Sydney on
TUESDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 28,
after completing the most successful dramatic
tour ever known through the Southern and Wes-
tern districts. During this trip, Dan Barry’s com-
pany has given
TEN BENEFIT PERFORMANCES
in aid of Public Institutions and private indivi-
duals in want of assistance; over £250 having been
handed over from these performances towards the
noble cause of charity. Mr. Dan Barry, while in
Sydney, purposes adding to the strength of his
company, and will be happy to hear from ladies
and gentlemen of the profession desirous of en-
gagement.
NEW SOUTH WALES WEALTH AND INDUS-
TRIAL EXHIBITION.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
INTENDING exhibitors are reminded Forms of
Entry are to be sent in by November 1. Exhi-
bits will be received at Exhibition BuildiDglOth
December, to arrange for Public Opening, 15th
December, 1884. Office, Royal Arcade.
GEORGE BROWN, Hon. Sec.
yiCTOKIA RACING CLUB.
* DERBY. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER Ist.
CUP. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4th.
OAKS. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6th.
STEEPLECHASE, NOVEMBER Bth.
GREAT FEDERAL MEETING.
Return tickets at holiday excur-
sion FARES from all Stations, from the
27th October to the Bth November, available for
Return till 15th November.
The conveniences for the comfort of the public
at Flemington are now [admitted to be the finest
in the world.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Sec. V.R.C.
ICTORIA RACING CLUB.
C UP Week*
RETURN TICKETS issued from the 27th Oc-
tober to 6th November available for two months.
First-class £5 6s. 6d.
Second „ 4 Is. Od.
A Special train to Sydney will leave Melbourne
after the close of the Meeting on SATURDAY,
NovemberB, at 10.10 p.m., for which NO EXTRA
CHARGE will be m«de.
H. BYRON MOORE, Sec. V.R.C.
ANCI N G .
PKOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon Glasses. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
M
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Music, which has
Deen separated from the general stock in order to
fleet startling reductions.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
faying in a stock of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the Public.— The newest and
choicest music received every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
piece. Choirs arid Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 21st October, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of New Chimney,
Sydney Mint
Construction and Supply of
Roofs, Girders, and Columns
for Workshops, Eveleigh
Annual Contracts Harbours and
Rivers Department, 1885
Coonong Bridge over Colombo
Creek, on road U rana to Urana
Railway Station
Bridge over the Billabong at
Bourke
Conveyance of Coals for Dredges
and 1 ugs, Harbours and Rivers
Department during 1885
Erection of Porter’s House,
Carrathool
Construction of Watertank and
Cesspit at Springwood Railway
“Station
Supply and Erection of Doors
and Iron Gates, and Fencing
Goods Shed, Ciroular Guay
Work required in widening
Pyrmont Bridge-road, Viz , I
Kerbing and Guttering, and |
Erecting Dwarf Wall and Iron |
Railing
Tuesday,
28th October,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Gas Works’ Build- I
ings, Lunatic Asylum, Glades- |
viile
Repairs,&c. Courthouse, Nundle |
Erection of Battery and Store-
room, La Perouse Cable Sta- I
tion I
Construction of Brickwork and |
Masonry for Bridge over Rail-
way, Wells-street, Redfern
Construction of Wrought and |
Cast Iron Work for Super- I
structure of Bridge over Kail- |
way, Wells-street, Redfern i Tuesday,
Erection of Stationmaster’s 4th November,
House at Doughboy Hollow, | at ll o clock.
CKN. Railway
Construction of Shed, Lismore
Wharf, Richmond River
Construction of Shed, Luwrence
Wharf, Clarence River
Erection of Stationmaster's
House at Windsor
Lease of Bungawalbyn Ferry
for 1885
Repairs to Premises resumed
for Post and Telegraph Office,
Wootlahra
Additions to Public Free Library
Sydney
Construction of Covered Service
Reservoir, at Lambton
Construction of Covered Service
Reservoir, at Wallsend
Erection of Temporary Building
Department of Mines
Constructing Foundations and
Pits. Workshop, Nos. 18 to 25,
Eveleigh
Tuesday,
11th November,
at 11 o’clock.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming: Baths
(the ®nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-ot-an-hour.
THE FEDERAL ART UNION.-To be Disposed
of by Subscription, on the Art Un on prin-
ciple, by permission of the Honorable the Attor-
ney-General.
£.5000 WORTH OF PICTURES,
in 10 000 Shares, of 10s. each.
Ist prze, valued at £5OO • 2nd ditto, ditto £4OO i
3rd ditto, ditto £3OO ; 4th ditto, ditto £2OO ; ot i
ditto, ditto £lOO. 5 Brizes, valued at £5O each,
£250 ; 10 ditto, ditto £25, £250 ; 20 ditto, ditto £2O,
£4OO ; 60 ditto, ditto £lO, £<soo ; 400 ditto, ditto £5,
£2OOO
The drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected by the
subscribers, who will receive notice by three
advertisements in the “Herald,” "Daily Tele-
giaph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon as
two-thirds of the subscribers have been obtained.
When the drawing day has once been decided
upon there will be no further postponement
Purchasers will be found for ail pictures oyer
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should tho win-
ners consider the prizes over-valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer sellino’ their pic-
tures can have the money immediately alter the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at anytime,
the money will be returned in full to the subscri-
bers.
Winning numbers will be advertised in all lead-
ing papers.
Amongst the pictures is a “View on the
Thames,” by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50
years or more in the house of the late Sir George
Stephen, Knight, Q.C., Deputy-Lieutenant of the
county of Buckingham, from whose sole surviving
executor it has been purchased. Authenticity of
this picture guaranteed by certificate from the
hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G', Lieuten-
ant-Governor.
Send crossed cheque, P. 0.0., or stamps.
Apply to J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
81 King-street, or Box 606 G.P.O , Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that an early date may
be fixed for the drawing. All prize-winners will
be written to and the winning numbers forwarded.
E 3
o
</>
70
m
*
Y (LIMITED)
E.W.MOON Jianayer
Placcfiiarie Place \
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Gnaravin* Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYB.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARBA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGP.
WM. HOWARD BMITH & 80NS (Limited),
42 Kins: Street, Sydney.
THEY HAVE ARRIVED!!
The Yankee Rubber Babies,
GO in the waistcoat
pocket, yet can be in-
stantly enlarged to Life Size,
resembling life, for like the
real article it coos at plea-
sure, yet screams awfully
if smacked. Experienced
fathers are deceived by
these laughter-producing
infants, and no home can be
a really happy one without
their cheering presence.
Post free, Is. tfd.
I'm a Daddy; I’m in Love;
r i he Mother-in-law; I’m a
Farder ; and Before and
After Marriage. The fun-
niest pictures overissued, 5
in each set. Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by
post, 38. 2 d. „ .... „
The Three Donkeys. The newest have out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d. „ , , _
The Wizard of the North’s Enchanted Pack of
Cards, used by Professor Anderson in his world-
renowned tricks. Is.; by post. Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog-a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. tid.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. Cd.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows:
New Challenge, Is. Od.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Bings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On siDgle
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one lBd. and
two at Is. each.
The Puzzle Purse, an ingenious affair ; get the
money out if vou can. Price, Is. 6d.; by post, ls.Bd.
The Lucky Pocket Book, or Never Broke ; wins
more money than a racehorse. Price, Is.; by post,
Is. 2d.
Address all orders plainly to HORTON and CO.,
401 George-street, Sydney. P.O„ Box 641.
Reuter’s Life Syrup No. 2
A positive and radical cure for every form of
Scrofula, Syphilis, Scrofulous Sores, Affections of
the Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair, and all
diseases of the Blood, Liver, and Kidneys,
GUARANTEED to purify, enrich, and vitalize the
Blood, and restore and renovate the entire system.
Reuter’s Healing Soap
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery, and the healing
f skin diseases of every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
to
want
ou
ness
Or
+0
the
For
M
%
0//r/
ffl
One
\
Op
dddr
ENTed
3Nd
JLA
A
Only
One
?5?
ddness
M
0
ustralia
r
T
ton
T©KI
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
f'VF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarde
LI MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA. vn
GOLD METALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents F^rante
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Giasg
G. H. ADAMS, AgenVlurPitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide:


THIRTY SHILLINGS,
r r
V?-
W THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and exeoutes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 23 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reaeh of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of oostand crudeness.
It requires no skill to extraot from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Bongs, &c., &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect acouraoy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that ‘‘he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of musio
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voioe, and has a little card-holder for convenience
In singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot alford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment Ilian four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the oolonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by a'l educators and moralists
that musio is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effect for good is
boundless. The love for mu6ic which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other-
wise hard ]task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is »»«.,
and where good music oan be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
bo without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may ohoose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for musio are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entranoe to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROTAL—“ The Wages of Sin ” p. 8.
Opera House—“ The Country Girl ” ibi
Gaiety Theatre—“ Grasp ” ib.
Academy or Music—Mr. Fleming Norton... ib.
“ The Wages of Sin,” which was produced
at the Theatre Royal on Saturday night, seems to
lead one irresistibly to the conclusion that Mr.
Arthur Garner has a penchant for precedents. Of
that gentleman’s taste for opera we have just had,
in Mr. Searelle's *‘ Estrella,” a definite example;
and, charming though that work was, we pointed
out, at the time of i f s production, that the char-
acters in Mr. Parke's libretto were only very plea-
sant people we had known in other operas under
different names. We bore, however, with the
irhost of Gobo, the phantom of Frittellini, and the
reflection of BobSche, chiefly because they were
tuney” at intervals, and throughout quite mirth-
provoking. With regard to the dramatis personae
of “The Wages of Sin,” written by Frank Harvey,
Esq. (author of “ Woman against Woman ”), and
purchased by Mr. Garner when in London, we are,
we think, inclined to be less tolerant. “ The Wages
of Sin ” has “the most powerful of moral lessons, ’
though we really fail to see, so far as we are indi-
vidually concerned, how anyone can be either
morally elevated or intellectually benefited by
the usual string of melodramatic improbabilities
which includes, amongst its minor details, such
trifles as drunkenness, robbery, and seduction.
♦ * *
Here, now, in a little par., is as much of
the plot as we care to give, and should our readers
consider our risunU of the fable of an enticing
nature, we advise them, in all conscience, to book
their seats without delay, and revel in this, the
most powerful of moral lessons (by Frank Harvey,
Esq.), purchased by Mr. Garner during his recent
visit to London. Well, then, our old friend Leake
(he is called “ Mr. Deane ” in the piece), owns a big
mill, and also owns a ward (Ruth Hope), Miss
Jenny Watt-Tanner, who has contrived to “mash”
both the local clergyman (The Rev. George
Brande), Mr. Alfred Dampier, and his cousin
Stephen Marlor, a very unpleasant young man who
adopts the costume of a dog-fanc'er, smokes
cigars obtrusively, and is a generally objectionable
character. This part is entrusted—we quote some
diabolical contemporary—to “that rising young
actor, Mr. Charles Holloway.” This wicked young
man has, some considerable time before, taken
Barbara Dale, a mill girl, to the Eight Hours’ pic-
nic—an expedition which would seem to have had
the usual bizarre influence on the condition of the
census. Well, this deluded young creature—en-
acted l*y Miss Solange Navaro—meets her betrayer
and reproaches him; but yielding once more to
the facinations of the dog-fighting rig, agrees to
lay at the door of the innocent young curate
(“ lifted ” almost bodily from the “ New Mag-
dalen ”) the blame of what has accrued from the
Eight Hour Demonstration. And, this reminds us, if
one may be permitted an unmarked parenthesis,
that the results following a picnic of the horny-
handed are usually similar to those depicted by
Frank Harvey, Esq., in his “ most powerful of
moral lessons.” Peculiar, is it not? Something in the
banners, perhaps. To resume, Leake’s nieoe con-
siderately, and with justice, doubtless, seeing that
this kind of thing in a clergyman rather oversteps
the borders of stric orthodoxy, decides to wed, in a
moment of pique, the dog-fighting cousin; a
decision, on her part, which is only the signal for
the commencement of all those stereotyped
struggles, paltry pictures, and melodramatic
moutnings, with whioh the several regimes of Bland
Holt have made us so shudderingly familiar. In
the end Charley Holloway gets bombarded with
fire-arms by a friend who aimed at the Parson, but
was too drunk to hit him, and eventually every-
thing is wound up satisfactorily, and tne most
powerful of moral lessons is complete.
* * *
The cast is a comparatively short one,
and, in many instances, it is singularly lacking in
strength and fitness. This was especially notice-
able in the selection by the management oi Mr.
Alfred Dampier to fill the role of the clergyman.
That Mr. Dampier is an actor of considerable local
popularity was sufficiently evinced by the tre-
mendous reception to him on the opening night.
It must certainlv be admitted that, in the
wearing of a military moustache and in the
assumption of continual athletio poses, Mr.
Dampier must certainly be admitted to have
lightly tripped over the borders of conven-
tional ty. Further than this, Mr. Dampier
could not be said to have set forth in his imper-
sonation of the Rev. George Brande any original
kind of matter whatsoever; and he was, if the
truth must be known,;rather a bore than other-
wise in those scenes in “the most powerful of
moral lessons produced under his immediate di-
rection.”
• * *
As the villain Stephen Marlor, Mr. Charles
Holloway (who has, we understand, been recently
playing Romeo) had a robust part, which suited
him ; all concentration and repose being ren-
dered unnecessary by reason of Charley having to
be the whole time at concert pitch, either “ biffing”
or being “biffed,” until, finally, as we have stated,
he comes to an untimely end through the medium
of a dose of lead, the gin of the country being
hitherto unsuccessful in compassing his decease.
Mr. W. H- Leake, as Mr. Deane, a rich mill-owner
—fancy “ My Partner ” owning anything more
valuable than sardines and baby’s shoes—gave a
fair rendering of the part; but it cannot be a
matter of doubt that, to those who last saw Mr.
Leake flashing his rapier as d’Artagan through
six acts of the “ Three Muskeeters” (as Joe would
have it), there was, in beholding W.H.L. ladling
out big doses of morality in a faded bell-topper,
ce rtain feelings of disenchantment and disillusion
which went far to cast sadness upon the soul. Mr.
AIL Boothman looked picturesque, of a certainty;
hut his performance was marked by an amount of
self-consciousness that he would do well to plane
down at his earliest opportunity. We have seen
People get drunker on the stage than Mr. Charley
Hrown, and put more realism into their simulated
intoxication; but perhaps the performers we are
"Peking of got drunk so often off the stage
on , ey have thus been enabled to more effectu-
ally elaborate their impersonations.
• • *
As Ruth Hope, Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner
was, on the whole, a careful representative of
’ “aery of the voluptuous and robust order. What
rather tended, nowever, to dispel the illusion was
me singularly well-fed appearance she presented
wnen starving in a garret in the second act. But
loa most certainly have to congratulate this young
may upon the marvellous rapidity with which she
contrived to mulct the passing public of valuables
Af 1 r ® B °ldtton to do so and her acquisition
=i,„ p i under being compassed within an incredibly
“Of 1 , B P ac e of time. Miss Solange Navaro had a
L.rtjn Barbara Dale that was totally unsuited to
“® r *J or many reasons, it being at its best but the
iiivw conception ot a middliug author, and really
PrWorthyof a lady, who. irrespective of her other
has had the honour of playing
h»iia George Rlgnold, Esq. (who, it is stated, we
, 8 recently quarrelled with his boots), in
hvvrir Pieces. Perhaps the biggest hit was made
Lily Dampier, a young lady, it will be re-
who, during the rigimi of her pretty
tn e ® ai ety, was continually being subjected
tortures. In fact, we know of no
th«»MP which she played with her dad in which
hntJki lain dld not Pursue her. Miss Lily has now,
emntw. r *i oa ? t , ° a tbe trammels of the strictly
T>ln?r?i? a l Wlth her short-frilled frocks, and now
Julio i ow comedy part of Juliana Bioggs. Miss
as an eccentric old landlady, the stage
editing °i the youDff lady aforesaid, gave us an
the“°Ti second-hand, of Mrs. Willoughby from
sminin C f et :B f - Leave Man;”sbe,apparently, being
GamoP iR.P 1 e same manner as her manager, Mr.
fier, with a penchant for precedent.
* •
deDe^H e # Wa P e3 of Sin ” does not, apparently,
author t? r ,.. itB Buc cess upon scenic display, the
Power.’ v • a lively sense of his own dramatio
and Ji?'rf vin k evidently relied upon his dialogue
situations for success. That a meed of popu-
larity may attend the piece is one of the things we
have just got time to hope for. Monday is the
morning we generally devote to an examination—
usually attended with dramatic results—of the
children's boots.
** * #
Before seeing Mr. Fleming Norton, on
Monday last, in his so-called “Picnic Portraits”
—a prosaic title, by the way—we carefully read
over the printed sheets of press notices he was
good enough to forward us. One of these notices
—that of the London Times— will doubtless form,
to some extent, the key-note of this modest little
notice. Here. theD, is what the Times says of Mr.
Fleming Norton; and of the authenticity of this,
and, indeed, his other notices, there can be no
question:—“ Mr. Norton need not fear comparison
with any other impersonator. His changes of cos-
tume are rapid, but they are always complete, and
even elaborate. His characters are marked and
strongly contrasted, without extravagance or cari-
cature.” Our italics, as you may imagine. Clement
Scott, in the Observer (the ablest of all the
London Sunday papers), considers that-inverted
commas, please, fair printer—“ Mr. Norton’s char-
acters are so tot illy different in costume, voice,
and facial expression, and the changes are so rapid
and complete, that the visitors are fairly be-
wildered.” As a supplement to this, the Oaily
Telegraph states that Mr. Fleming Norton’s “ en-
tertainment is a complete success, and crowded and
fashionable audiences have adopted Mr. Norton as a
public favourite;” and the Melbourne Argus adds
to these undiluted encomia the following meed of
emphatic praise:—" Mr. Norton is a clever mimic,
with plenty of vivacity and volubility. He knows
how to individualise his characters, has a flexible
voice, with a good falsetto for feminine songs, an
easy presence, and a pleasant manner.”
* * *
It is given to us to comprehend, we be-
lieve, in some degree, the very many difficulties
that lie in the .way cf securing a success in a
monologue entertainment. Besides the ordinary
versatility of the comedian and the vocalist, there
is required a powerful physique, in order to be
enabled, night after night, to repeat a performance
which is as much a gymnastic feat as manv of
those competed for in athletic gatherings. [We
don’t know, by the way, whether “ competed for
a feat” be distinctly allowable; but we let it
stand, in order to allow of our being, for once, any-
how, tn rapport with the Herald. That journal,
in its notice of the "Wages of Sin,” has the follow-
ing:—“ Ned Drummond appears, and in attempt-
ing to shoot Brande hits Marlor, and sends him to
his last account, thus administering the wages of
sin.” It would be funny, wouldn’t it, if the risiDg
young Baptist who penned this beautiful “ copy ”
presented himself on the fatal Saturday at the
“GRASP” OR, A MOTHER’S LOVE.
counter, and requested the astonished cashier to
“administer” him his salary. This, however, is
mere detail. That’s all.—Ed. 8.l There is (to re-
sume) a very large amount of “nerve” also
required by the artist who gives an en-
tertainment of this description, and of the
latter commodity (dull this), which is eu-
phemistically termed here “a knocker,” Mr
Norton has, undoubtedly, a very large supply on
hand. Once he is on the stage, it is obvious to the
many (and, perhaps, painful to the few) that Mr.
Norton’s coniidence in himself is illimitable. To
those—since it must come out—who have not seen
this mimical and musical entertainer in his mimi-
cal and musical entertainment, this surpassing
possession of aplomb in Mr. Fleming Norton’s case
might appear perfectly excusable—since, after
giving this, the very entertainment (“Picnic Por-
traits”) we are noticing at Sandringham House
by command of the Prince of Wales, “he,” we
quote, “ received the honour of a personal con-
gratulation from the Prince of Wales, who ex-
pressed the great pleasure he had derived from hn
performance. The Prince and Princes 3 expressed
much surpnse at the rapidity in his changes of
costume, and their admiration of his perfect de-
lineation of the various characters assumed.” And,
indeed, if another reason should be assigned why
Mr. Norton should not think vin ordinaire or him-
self, here it is. red hot, from the Maryborough
(V.) Standard “ Mr. Fleming Norton thoroughly
pleased an appreciative audience, many of whom
declared he was superior to the great Maccabe. Such
a treat seldom falls to the lot of the Maryborough
public.”
* ♦ *
The very heavy billing with which Mr.
Norton embellished the city, together with a per-
fect snow-storm of ecomiastio press notices, pro-
cured the mimical entertainer a good show in the
front seats; but he was greeted by only a sparsely
populated gallery, whose conduct, we are grieved
to have to chronicle, was of by no means the
most orderly description. We had not heard Mr.
Norton half-way through one of his impersona-
tions when it at once flashed upon us that, irre-
spective of any abilities the performer might
possess, the entertainment itself (notwithstanding
it compassed the approbation of H.K.H. the Prince
of Wales) was one entirely unsuited to a colonial
audience. It is some time now since we trod what
Alfred calls the "pave" of Piccadilly, and that
accounts, perhaps, for our failing to see one
scintilla of either wit or humour in Mr. Norton’s
much praised monologue. His changes are quick,
no doubt: this, however, is a mere mechanical
business, In whicn the “dresser” behind enacts
the star part. But, as a matter of fact, Mr. Norton
could be beaten at every point in the very thing
he has oome out to show us—even by little Miliis,
who is scarcely out of his teens, and, who, previous
to entering the protean portion of the profession,
devoted the greater part of his existence to re-
ducing the somewhat prosaic process of laying
bricks and mortar from a science to an art.
• * •
Each of Mr. Fleming Norton’s impersona-
tions commences with a lone: preamble of unutter-
able dulnesB, and ends with a song calculated to
make men who are supposed “ to rise on stepping-
stones from their dead selves to better things ” go
howling forth into the world, seeking the commis-
sion of crimes of a ghastly, and, we may even add,
of a ghoulish, nature. Take, for instance, the en-
tertainer’s impersonation of “ Mons. Alphonse de
Videgousset (from the Grand Promenade, Leicester
Square),” into which he introduces a French song,
supposed to be comic, but which stands out in its
every stanza (and there are some seven or eight of
them) the personification of Despair. His Swanky
Bill (a quick change enough) consisted of the ex-
periences of a race-course “ Aunt Sally’’-man, in
getting locked up; into which is introduced (by
way of making things lively) a somewhat lengthy
dissertation upon the criminal jurisprudence of
“the old country.” Then he sanv a song of the
“ Wna, Emma ” order—a lyric which comprised no
less than eight stanzas, and which was received by
the audience with feelings of gloomy discomfiture.
Another character undertaken (so esteemed by
Koyalty, arid by the aristocracy cherished) is that
of Zachariah Chucklehead, the ordinary stage
rustic, who sings a song about his agricultural
looral-loorai;(and something else) until everybody
is burning with the desire to borrow his neigh-
bour’s hammer, or, in default of his possessing
one, to rush out and get the heaviest bludgeon
that can be purchased for sixpence.
• • •
In a word, if Mr. Fleming Norton had
“ had it ” once he hasn’t "got it” now; though
possibly he may be at some disadvantage out here,
in neither appearing before Koyalty nor before
what may be strictly termed a “fashionable
audience.” On the whole, perhaps Mr. Norton’s
entertainment is one that is most adapted to
school-ohildren, each of whom after the perform-
ance is presented with a penny whistle. So far as
we are concerned, nothing less than a penny
whistle, with a twopenny tart lashed on to the end
of it, would temptjus there again. But we have
been always noted for our rustic, even primitive,
taste in things dramatic. “ And there an end.”
♦ * *
[Mr. Norton has called in to explain that
on the night of his performance he was verv ill
80. B.]
w * * *•
Mr. Charles MacMahon is a youthful im-
presario, with a divided belief. Half of his belief
! is centred in temperance, and half—naturally
enough in Grattan Biggs. Accordingly, we learn
—and how wo love quoting from a play-bill!—that,
“arrangements having been made with Charles
MacMahon, Esq., the Gaiety management have ar-
ranged for an engagement, for a bfief season only,
j of the most successful Irish comedian and chardc-
I ter-actor that has ever visited Australia.” Thisan-
! nouncement drew us towards the theatre with all
I the force of a loadstone, our interest being, like
Charles’ belief, equally divided between that
merry young gentleman and the most successful
Irish comedian and character-actor that has ever
appeared in Australia. It was not, we must con-
fess, without some uncomfortable thought? of our
increasing age and decreasing locks that ve
viewed Charles—upon whom we used, in times
gone by, to bestow lolly-sticks and marbles -
clothed with authority and scintillating with
diamonds. Seated in his office, making up the
house, Charley is a bewildering spectacle. There
is majesty in his every movement, dignity
in his every glance. We remember, cowed
by this splendid vision, feebly enquiring of
him whether he remembered us, in Sand-
hurst, making him Grand Primo of the
Top Club, and, subsequently, City Tyler of the
View-street Hop-Scotch Association, but he pre-
tended to bo busy with his “ minions,” and did not
reply. We, therefore, rather sneaked in than
otherwise, and saw “Grasp, or a Mother's Love,”
a (playbill again) “new sensational society drama,”
written by Harry W. Emmett, a clever young
actor, who, in his giddy days, has forwarded us
“considerable poetry” chiefly dealing with the
emotions of the soul; passionate effusions which
invariably secured insertion where the wicker-
work trembles ’twixt shadow and shine.
* * *
For this, if for no other reason, “Grasp ”
should catch on with an octopus-like clutch—it is
a great lark all through. “Grasp” is irresistible
from the fact that it is merry where it is not
meant to be merry, and, indeed, every effort on
part of the author to hammer in the Melpomene
wedge—to put on, if we may so speak, the tragic
stop—is rendered singularly abortive by the un-
conscious whimsicality of his situations, and
general hilarity is the result. Even, for instance,
when Jen-lan, the villain, drills holes through the
body of the unfortunate bridge-keeper, afterwards
gagging him and manacling his limbs with the
public-house clothes-line borrowed from next
door, the audience are in a simmer and a bubble
of merriment, and when as an anti-olimax (the vil-
lain’s machinations having been defeated) the low
comedy engine comes wobbling over the bridge,
some (unexpressed) discontent is felt amongst the
ucshampooed that all the virtuous people weren’t
For continuation of “Sundry Bhows,” seepage 12.


PEPPER AND SALT.
One point in which the Salvation Harmy
Captings have the bulge on their duly-qualified
licensed-to-retail-grace-and-glory opposition sky-
pilots is that they talk straight, and the bulk of
their congregations, who are not too deaf or too
drunk, can generally grasp the meaning of their
observations. For example : a tale is told of a
Collingwood howler, who, finding his flock loved
iniquity better than pie, wound up a good
forty minutes’ Jeremiad by exclaiming, “Yes, me
brethern ; at th’ larst day, the Looard will come
amidst thunder, an’ lightnin’, and Hallelujah
volleys, an’ all th’ people bein’ ranged aroun’
for judgment. He will say to Peter, 4 Where is thy
flock ?’ and Peter will answer, * Here, Lord, 's the
lot on ’em.’ Then he will say to Luther, ‘And
where are your sheep ?’ To which Martin wil l
reply, ‘Behold! they’re all here.’ And so on
with all the other shepherds, until He comes to
me, and when He asks me where my fiock is, how
will you miserable sinful skunks feel when I ups
and tells Him, ‘ Looard, I haven’t any sheep at
a ll_for, verily, my crowd is only a lot of dirty,
rotten, whisky-soaked hogs from Melbourne?’
Then the people marvelled within themselves why
jt is a person can never find a dead cat to pelt
when a suitable mark presents itself.
* * *
Says the Cooktown Herald, advising the
settlers on the MTvor River as to how they should
deal with the blacks, “ Introduce the Snider-it’s
Two Opposition Leaders.
(OUR ARTIST HAS, SOMEHOW, OMITTED THE PIT.)
the only effectual way of holding your own.”
This will show you how much affeotion there is
between kindred in the Far North. We never ex-
pected much lrom Cooktown editors, but we
certainly did not think they would go back on
their own flesh and blood in this fashion. But,
perhaps, their spite was only natural. It is not
every editor who can stand being fired out of his
tribe with equanimity.
• •_ •
The Maryborough Colonist says: “There
is something up with the Sydney Bulletin.”
Certainly—its circulation. But there is nothing
“up” with the Colonist— except, perhaps, the
editor’s umbrella.
* * *
The Maryborough (Q.) magistrates seem to
have a tendency [to giddiness which ill befits the
gravity of their position. The local paper says
that the police force—virtuous everywhere, but in
Maryborough saintly—” have been trying their
best to rid the town of those frail nymphs who
have been haunting the streets during the last few
months. But,” it continues severely, “ their
efforts have not been met by the Bench with that
sympathy which might have been expected.” Then
it goes on to say that two of these tender ing&nus
were lately brought before the magistrates on a
charge of flghtiDg and using language of a vigor-
ous but uncultured character. Instead of getting
a month or two in gaol, they were simply fined £1
each—the fine being promptly paid by a chivalrous
admirer in the court. Well, we have thought this
thing over, and we really don’t see so much to be
surprised at in the decision of the Bench—that is,
not so very much. If the young women had been
sent to gaol, their morals might have been cor-
rupted, and the magistrates would have been to
blame for it. But we should like to know why the
police are so anxious to have the poor things im-
prisoned. It can’t be but, no! Still the affair
is curious.
* * *
“You had better look'out for another
place,” said the proprietor of the Evening
Slime to his authority on articles of vertu;
“ the fact is, you are too expensive.” “Well,
sir, I don’t see as how I could do it under fifteen
shillings. However, if I must go, I suppose I must.”
“ What are you going to do ?” said the proprie-
tor, as his art-critic took a handkerchief out of
the crown of his hat, which had hitherto concealed
the existence of a saveloy and a slab of cold pud-
ding ; “ what line do you ini end to adopt ?” “ The
wool-washing,” replied the ex-chatterer on speci-
mens of buhl and marqueterie. “ Oh, well, we
won’t shut you out of it altogether,” said the boss;
“when in the water, if any little society item or
fashionable article should occur to you, you can
jot them down, and I will see what I can do for
you. I am, indeed, in want of a few spicy things
in that line, for the man who used to do them was
thrown off his cart and fractured his clavular, as the
doctors say. Yes, confound it, and there’s my
best story-writer sent up for seven days for solicit-
ing alms: soliciting alms, mind you, and he drew his
seven-and-sixpence a week regular, besides the
coppers he used to receive on several occasions
for holding my brother’s horse. I suppose,”
he said, turning suddenly to the ex-babbler on
ormolu and bronze, “ you don’t know anything
about music, do you ? ” “ Not much, sir, though I
used to blow a little into a flute when I was a boy.’*
“Dear, dear! that’s a pity, too. You don’t know
the trouble I have with my staff. Just because I
gave my musical man one-and-fourpence extra
for a bit of a column notice about the Glee Club, a
week or so ago, what must he do but go and make
a beast of himself, and he has been on a wild
debauch ever since. However, you can go now,
and, as you pass the office, tell Rabies to send the
sporting prophet for those boots I had half-soled
and heeled.”
• • •
A new industry has been started on the
Herbert River, Queensland. A gentleman dwel-
ling there has commenced cat-breeding. It has
just dawned on the other residents—after firing off
their season's stock of shoes—that he is probably
connected with a boot-factory.
* * *
The son of an English nobleman, who was
up at Newcastle lately, is missing. The boilers on
the wharves have been overhauled, but without
success. The search is now going on among the
tanks. Our troubles! If the whole—or the greater
part—of the British peerage was found to be miss-
ing one fine morning, we wonder who would care?
The six-foot footmen, perhaps. And, by the way,
this reminds us that it has .been remarked by an
acuto observer that [the race of British footmen
are more aristocratic-looking than their masters-
Wo .can quite understand this. There is. probably,
less mixture in the breed. The position ot foot-
man is often hereditary in a noble family, and so
welt, the mistresses are no worse th&n the masters.
They are continually complaining in Tu-
mut about the headstones in the cemetery being
damaged. And they have never yet found out
who does the damage. So they are much per-
plexed in mind. We are not. It is as clear as
possible to us that the corpses themselves are the
real culprits. Anyono who has seen them playiDg
leap-frog over monuments, by moonlight, will
not require a ghost to come and tell him this. The
only cause for wonder is that the Tumut dead
should be so turbulent. But, perhaps, they make
up, when dead, for the dull time they had when
alive. Still it is a ourious thing. We have been in
Tumut ourselves ere now, and we venture to say
that if a stranger arrived there by night he would
mistake the cemetery for the town, and put up at a
fafliily vault. And, perhaps, he would not make so
much of a mistake after all.
• • *
A new paper has been started in London
for the purpose of supplying our friends at home
with information as to which part of Madagascar
Australia is in, whether there is postal communi-
cation between Sydney and New South Walos, and
a census of the population not living in bark huts.
This is a very worthy purpose, and one that, if
carried out, would, no doubt, do the colonies a
great deal of good—if our members of Parliament
would only stay here and look after their business,
instead of going to England and giving away the
whole game. It is impossible to remove the idea
which prevails in many English circles, that our
highest society intermingles and intermarries
with the blacks, while this goes on. We
think a law should be passed providing that
no person representing himself as a prominent
person in political, professional, or sooial life in
the colonies should be allowed to go to Europe
until he had passed an examination in English
grammar and given sufficient guarantee that while
he was away he would clean his teeth and nails re-
gularly and not use hair-oil when he was going to
a ball. If this course of conduct were adopted,
Australians might in time be able to converse in
London drawing-rooms without the usual criticism
after they were gone that they were remarkably
intelligent—for savages. The name of the journal
that is going to help to bring all this about is the
Anglo-New-Zealander. It comes out fort-
nightly, and is conducted by Mr. G. M. Read, for-
merly editor of the Otato Daily Times.
* * *
The Brisbane Observer says that “alli-
gators are making their way further South.” We
should rather think so. One of the reporters on
that brilliant journal woke up the other morning
and found a full-grown alligator stretched upon
the counterpane and two young ones in his blu-
chers. That was the reporter who wrote the para-
graph. . + •
Cloncurry must be a cheerful place to live
in. Cloncurry is in Queensland. We have some
pride in stating this fact, as we have j ust discovered
it. There is no sombre Sabbatarianism, no Puri-
tmical piety about the people there. A gentle-
man, who is a friend of ours, arrived there on a
Sunday night, a few weeks ago. There was not
much fun until the women-folk had returned
from church, and their husbands and fathers and
brothers had finished poker-playing for the night.
But, at about eleven o’clock, our correspondent
noticed a large crowd assembled outside one of
the hotels, every second man having a lighted
candle in his hand. The first impression this soene
left on the mind of our correspondent was that he
was about to witness some kind of religious pro-
cession. The first words he heard were “My
man’s too b—y drunk to run.” This disillusioned
him. It was a foot-race—several foot-races in
fact, for they kept them up till one o'clock in the
morning. It seems that foot-racing by candle-
light is a favourite Sunday-night amusement of
the upper classes of Cloncurrj. For they were
all prominent residents who were in it. Which
makes us say again that Cloncurry must be a
cheerful place—for the devil. But what a quaint
fancy it is to run to hell by candlelight!
• • •
Our amiable and accomplished Sovereign
has made a preseat of an autograph copy of her
book “More Leaves from the Journal of my Life
in the Highlands,” to the Melbourne Library. In
forwarding it to the Premier, Sir Henry Looh said
that he “ felt certain that this gracious presenta-
tion will be highly appreciated by Her Majesty’s
loyal subjects in this colony.” And the Premier,
in passing [it on to the president of the Library
trustees, took occasion to say that he also felt
assured that it would be read with rapture. The
president is, doubtless, of the same opinion. This
is all very nice and loyal, but we wonder what the
frowsy-headed and broken-booted gentlemen who
spend their nights on the Yarra bank and in the
Gardens, and their days in the Library—for want
of a better place—will have to say upon the sub-
ject! It will no doubt be a solace for them when
confronted by the prospect of having to go supper'
less to their culvert that their Sovereign still
keeps her “little relish’ and can enjoy her pdtes
and her truffles almost as well as bofore John
Brown passed away. It was Jcharaoteristically
kind and thoughtful of Her Majesty to provide
her supperless subjects with this inexpenssve
pleasure.
• • •
There are branches of the Salvation Army
In Ceylon now. They have -got their songs trans-
lated’.into Singhalese, with very curious effeots in
some cases. Thus the natives of Ceylon have
never seen snow. Consequently, “whiter than
snow ’’ is a figure of speech that has no meaning
for them. But the Salvationists were equal to the
occasion. They at once changed the phrase into
“ our hearts are whiter than cocoa-nut scrapings.
Adaptability of this kind is a great deal better than
Scriptural zeal on starting a religion. But we wi l
wager there is one .thing the Salvation nu*'
sionaries will never adapt themselves to-and tba
is eating rice. If it came to a question of living on
that or leaving the heathen to his blindness,wear
afraid the heathen would grope for light arooi
* his dumb unhelping gods a long time before
rice-fed Salvation officer brought the lantern o
faith to him.
* * *
This is from the Maryborough
—a Queensland journal of considerable weig


about four pounds, avoirdupois:—“Burglary con-
tinues active, and we hear of good lines being
cleared at Mr. G. F. White’s, at the Queensland
Boardinsr House, Maryborough, and at other places
in town.” Cheerful news this, and with a spice of
surprise in it—surprise that anything should con-
tinue active in Maryborough, except grave-dig.
ging. But we will bet those burglars never cleared
anything at the office of the Colonist— or, if they
did, it was the sandwiches out of the editor’s hat.
The burglary at the boarding-house, though, re-
minds us of a case that occurred in Bligh-street.
A man who kept a boarding-house there was in-
formed by one of his boarders that, while he was
A Protectorate.
NEW GUINEA NATIVE: “YOU’RE GOING TO PROTECT ME AGAINST THESE OTHER FELLOWS? GOOD. BUT WHO’S GOING 70 PROTECT ME
AGAINST YOU?”
away one night, burglars had come in and cleared
a good deal out of the house before they were in-
terrupted. “ Did they ?” he replied, with mourn-
ful serenity, “ then they did more than I could
ever do.”
• • •
Here is a pretty item for Bishop Barry to
read between two mufllns:—“We find,” says the
Northern Star, a paper published in Lismore,
that, owing to dissensions, the Church of England
18 tenantless, and the fences pulled and
goiDg to decay.” If the devil only subscribed
regularly to our paper, we should send him a copy
of this issue, and then there would be a nice little
rigadoon in Lismore. It would smell of brimstone
for a month. And there are the Catholics up there
with a fine new church-a “noble pile of build-
ings," as the local paper enthusiastically calls it—
and a convent. Where art thou, Zachary Barry, that
didst flutter their convents in Corioli ?
♦ * *
A chimney sweep arrrived at Lismore the
other day. The peoplejthere had never seen a
gentleman of his profession before—consequently
there was considerable speculation as to what he
was. The sweep saw his occasion and caught it by
the hair. He gave out that he was the travelling
reporter of the Jernee, As his appearance
favoured the Action, he was believed by almost
everybody. But there were one or two sceptics in
the crowd, who determined to test him. They took
him into a bar and began to All him up with beer—a
man keeping tally the while on a shovel-blade
with a piece of chalk, like the British workman
counting up how much money was wasted in a
year on drink. He had only got through a gallon
and a half when he fell to the ground speechless.
This settled it. Everyone came up and had a kick
at him, and what became of his body is more than
we can tell. But the sweep who could so far for"
get himself as to pretend to be a Jernel reporter
deserved any fate. He even deserved to become
one.
If we were asked whom we considered the
most reckless people in the world, we should
promptly reply “journalists.” And, if we were
further asked who were the next rashest, we
should as promptly reply “printers.” They will
start a paper at a moment’s notice in a coal-pit, or
even a graveyard, if the gate-keeper will only pay
in advance. The latest example of this reckless-
ness occurred in Queensland. A speculative
printer started a paper in Sand gate—the watering-
place of Brisbane—the other day. We have no
doubt it will have a large circulation among the
picnicers—a culinary circulation. But this sort of
enterprise is epidemic. Do you know what we
shall do if we read much more about such things ?
No ? Well, we’ll start a paper in Mossman’s Bay!
• • •
The Redfern Borough Council has obtained
the reputation of being the most orderly and well-
behaved eorporate body in all the suburbs. The
Mayor of Darlington, hearing of its fame afar off,
came one night last week from his distant satrapy
to gaze upon the gorgeous spectacle. As he came
into the council chamber, one of the aldermen
was being reproved f< r insulting behaviour. That
was all. The business of the meeting then went
on with only a few interruptions here and there,
just to impart variety to the proceeding s. There
was no evidence of invention or even careful con-
sideration about the profanity used. It had not
the bold bizarrerie which characterises the pro-
fanity of some other suburban councils, nor yet
the mature wickedness which distinguishes that
of the City Council. In other matters the Redfern
aldermen were just as quiet. It was not more than
twice—if it were twice-lhat he heard the familiar
“ Come out into the yard and I’ll show you.”
is hardly necessary to remark that the Mayor of
Darlington went home astounded with what he
had seen. He will probably endeavour now
inaugurate a similar reign of peace in his own
council. We wish he would let us know when
begins tho experiment. We should like to attend
his funer.il.
* * » -
A young man, who used to be employed in
Parramalta, went to London a short while ago, and
attempted to commit suicide in the Thames. The
Parramatta River was not good enough for him.
This comes of your high-toned education. When
it has come to fuch a pitch that a youth is so cul-
tured that he can't find any water in his own coun-
try go d enough to drown himself in, we think it
is lime the Education Act was repealed, and the
bu'K of the population not allowed to pass beyond
P hooks,


Referring to the recent visit of the Duke
of Edinburgh to Dublin, United Ireland says:—
“The attitude of the Irish people towards this
gentleman and ladies and gentlemen of his way of
living is perfectly plain. So long as the English
Parliament chooses to continue the Sovereign in
her situation, we, though holding our own opinion
that hereditary Sovereigns are as laughable shams
as hereditary peers, will continue to obey the law
with respect to Royalty as we obey the Jaw with
respect to vaccination, but personal adoration of
the very commonplace persons who till thrones is
no more enjoined by law than kissing the shoe of
the podceman or process-server when officially
engaged. It is a voluntary abasement, and not a
matter of law or loyalty.”
More health, sunshine and joy in Hop
Bitters than in all other remedies, observe.
Rheumatism and similar diseases, caused
by a low state of the system, are cured by using
Ayer's Baksaparill.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Ib.*
“Still so gently o’er me stealing,” quoted
the indulgent Charles, when his better-half in-
sinuatingly stole her arm around his neck, and
coaxed him into buying a decorated set of china-
ware from Bray Brothers’ establishment, 402 and
404 George-street. *
Faded Complexions.—How many thou-
sands of ladies there are who look wan and faded,
while yet in early life; to all such let us whisper a
word. You have in BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
the means of restoring your colour, brightening
your eyes, sweetening your breath, and giving
you sound general health.
Mb. DeCouroy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, w Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, @r‘ Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record iQ the Departments and
Supreme Court,*
At the last session of the Church of Eng-
land Assembly, in Melbourne, it was unanimously
resolved that the Legislature should be urged to
prevent newspapers from publishing the details of
divorce cases. The reverend gentlemen are right.
It has an injurious ‘effect on the public mind to
read, court after court, extended reports of cleri-
cal giddiness. But why this energy now ? Have
the holy men something specially toothsome
ooming up ?
A “Layman” has been writing a lot of
letters to the Argus, wanting the Bishop of Mel-
bourne’s Fund trebled in amount. If it were only
trebled, the Bishop is sure the good work would
be quadrupled or more, and Sir George Verdon
and several others lie back and try to conjecture
what an evangelical paradise the Victorian bush
would become if only the cash were three times
what it is. The “ Layman ” announced that be
knew the way to treble it, but he held his hand
close, and refused to let it out until everyone was
on his toes with his ears stretched thirstily. Then
“Layman” said: “You want to treble it? Well,
here is the way. You raised £5OOO last time, didnit
you ? Good. Well, then, get everybody who paid
that time to double bis subscription next time.
See ? There you are, with £lO 000 netted. Thats
it doubled already. Now, theD, off you go once
again. Just pick out 20 mqn from the congrega-
tion. That’s not hard; is it, now? 'twenty men.
Very well: just get each of these to subscribe
£250. Ho, ho! you’re on to the back of it. That
makes another £5OOO. Therefore, grand total—
£15,000; just treble the present amount. Kb?
Think I’m wrong in my figures? Not likelyi
Cypher it out yourself, if you doubt me. You H
find that’s the aiay to comeat it.”
Where authentic signatures are affixed to
recommendations regarding a certain preparation,
the character of the article stands eloquently vin-
dicated; perhaps no other preparation can boast
of a more complete record of eminent names
than Wolfe’s cjChkapfs.
drowned In the creek, and that comic villany did
not eventually conquer. One notable thing about
“Grasp” is its superb mounting; the various
effects which Mr. Kinchela has managed to carry
out on so small a stage testifying to his extreme
ingenuity. The first “ set ” is indeed a moral of
rustic painting; and, it is, perhaps, to he regretted
that such a pretty stage-picture was not reserved
for a piece calculated to have a longer run than
“Grasp.” This play has evidently been written
(or say compiled) for the purpose of showing what
Mr. Grattan Riggs can do in the part of an
Irish fisherman. Since Mr. Riggs—a sterling
aolor— can do so well In the role of anything
that is Irish, it goes without saying that he gives
an excellent account of himself as th« fisherman,
and as a stolen “document” recoverer has, pro-
bably, never had a rival on or off the stage.
• a •
“Grasp” is pleasantly, if not powerfully,
acted. Mr. F. C. Appleton is not distasteful as tne
injured city barrister in whiskers; and, in an
equal degree, Mr. Sam Poole is far from being dis-
tasteful as Tuam Cooney, “ a student," inja mous-
tache. Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield is rather a stick,
though, as a young lawyer in gaiters; but Mr.
Harry Jerdan gave a very good account of him-
self, indeed, as a mill-owner in spectacles. For
the ladies, Miss Ethel Adele showed to great
advantage as Nina Dargan, though we can see no
reason, because lamp-black Is cheap just now, for
her giving herself a pair of black. eyes. Miss
Addle has learned how to prattle very prettily
since last we saw her; and how to modulate the
voice Is half the histrionic battle. Miss Emma
Fischer, as the confidante, was a little boisterous,
but quite a picture so far as costume and make-
up were concerned. “ Our Own Mary Ann ’’ (Miss
M .Melville) was excellent as the Queen in “ Ham-
let ” disguised as a Mrs Crimmage, and Miss Maggie
Oliver made some very good fun out of Loodie
Lallan, a domestic. The Gaiety is not, however,
big enough for Miss Oliver d cette licure. But,
then, we are not so beautiful as we were, our-
selves—though we are still beautiful.
* * * *
By the way, Duncan Macullum has arrived
in town with a splendid sensation, which he is go-
ing to spread all over the metropolis in a few days.
Duncan keeps the nature of it dark. We wonder
whether it’s in a cage ?
* * * *
It has been “ Woman against Woman ” all
the week at the Opera House, and the people
seem to like it. Probably we should have liked it,
too, at the time we adored ice-creams, and waited
outside “weed” factories for tobacco-twisters;
but we don’t do that now, and have taken to snuff.
Hinc illoe— whatever it is. Monte Browne is a
demon at Latin.
* * * *
The Imps gave a matinee on Thursday, at
the Royal. There was a good house. There always
is when the admission is free. “Who are the
Imps!” Come here. So. It is a society made up
of Bohemians—Lower Bohemia and higher mix
on equal terms. We have been in both Bohemias.
We prefer the lower. There, there is always to be
seen the man whose mission was high, but who
AT HOME.
AT BUSINESS.
AT DINNER.
AT THE CLUB.
NIGHTCAP.
FACES—PHASES.
somehow missed it—the poet who started as a
Shelley and ended as a sot—but enough. It was a
matinee, and Horace Bent, Radcliff, Vogrlch (of
course he wasn’t there, the man that struggles
with Beethoven, avoids the persons who wrestle
with “ Lay me in my little bed ”) were to the fore.
Radcliff was great. But he always is. He was the
only one in the crowd that was howled for. It is
odd to hear him play upon the flute—odd in many
ways. He comes on so unassumingly, and then
tongues and slurs and double-tongues until you
say “ Well, when he’s done I’m going to start, for I
care to hear nothing else.” bearelle was there,
and played. Miss de Grey was there, too, and
gave us a Lady Teazle Was it Sheridan’s
Lady Teazle? Well, degustihus, etc. The “Irish
Detective” was Dot played. This may seem
strange, as Dan O'Connor was in the stage-box;
but you can’t please everybody. Miss Florence
Cowell took a part in the “ Happy Pair.” There
are but two parts, and she was given the chief
one. Most of the men sitting near us were mar-
ried. We could tell that by their subdued air,
nervous manner, and awkward way of applauding.
But Miss Cowell carried herself so well, etc., that
all the bald-headed men near us looked and acted
as if thev were twenty-one again. Charlie Huener-
bein bossed the piano. Many of the imps we’ve
no time to notice. From start to finish it was a
success.
"THE POOR PLAYER
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Prof i■.
“Another row. Arthur Garner has written
a waspish letter to the Melbourne papers, denying
the report that he is to marry Miss Letty Howarth
on the Theatre Royal or any other stage. It seems
that a joke has somehow or other been played
upon Arthur, even through the medium of our
trifling Hunter-street contemporary—a pleasantry,
like that on full-private Jamos, who was considered,
it will be remembered, by General John, to have
made, upon the subject of their respective birth-
rights, a joke of doubtful taste.
I would not wed, so Garner said
(And here he flew into a rage)
The fairest queen the world has seen
Upon the Theatre Royal stage.
We are rather glad, so far as we are con-
cerned, that Mr. Garner is not to wed the fair
Amelia—we mean Letitia Martin; because we
have a great idea of marrying her ourselves,
if it would not be too palpable. But what
with one taking in clear-starching, another
an artistic manipulator of Barrett's twist, wo
really and then 'here's our 149th proposal to
Maggie Oliver hanging over our heads, besides the
party who firmly believes us to belong to the mili-
tary. No. We feel we shall have to give it up.
The public wouldn’t stand it .. And, from Mel-
bourne to Bundaberg, we see “ Miss Alice Sydney
Burvett, the world-renowned pianiste,” has been
punishing a Pieyel there to the exteut of twelve
morceaux nightly, to the confusion of the Bunda-
bergites, who, we are grieved to note by the local
papers, seemed to have stayed carefully away, and
sent an alligator.. M‘Lean’s Comic Opera Com-
pany, however, fared better, with “The Strategist,”
little Parlato seeming to have ;got the hang of
Jaok Rutledge. Mrs. Polk’s part Is played by
Emmeline Fox, the little lady who was recently
linked to Fred. Millis at the altar of Hymen Oh,
and Mrs. Dr. Potts and “ Mrs. Dr. Longshore ”
are doing a big stroke up North; such a big
stroke, indeed, that there is not a man now,
from Bpringsure to the Towers, who does not
imagine he nas not got an attack of the tllly-
fallies: while, after the learned doctor’s departure,
the well-connected residents of the various town-
ships discover that their troubles are all over ; the
effect upon them of long interviews with the
rum-bottle is not, as formerly, to cause an erup-
tion of boils to make them come out in pills. A
tear now from the Mayor of Copperfield is as good
as a dose of medicine—And let us tell you about
P. J- Holdsworth’s charming lecture last week at
the School of Arts, on “The Beauties of Ireland,”
delivered in a strain of delicate eloquence, and
profusely scented with patchouli. And what
about Captain M'Laughlin’s fascinating discourse
upon the works of diet Harte-of a fascinating
lecture made more fascinating still by the author’s
loving treatment of his subject? And, pause,
ere it be too late. The “Our Boys” Dramatic
Club, ot Narrabri, successfully attacked “The
Ticket-of-Leave Man,” retiring, after the combat,
in good order, with the usual egg-and-turnip ac-
companiment. The brass band made its first
appearance on this occasion, and we understand
that the last bulletin respecting the cornet, which
was posted outside the Narrabri dead-house, inti-
mated that his talk was coherent, and that only
the immediate members of his family and the
Attorney-General were allowed to visit him ... We
have aimed nearly every substance, bituminous
and otherwise, that the world produces, and have
applied on several occasions for the corpse-cash at
his burial club. But he still luxuriously lingers.
“ The Octoroon ” this time at Kiama, with, pro-
bably, “ The Colleen Bawn ”to follow. Once
James begins, he is like Bottom’s prologue—“ He
knows not to stop.” —And about Melbourne—
heaps of novelties. Kignold, who seems to have
quarrelled with his “ Boots,” has been giving them
William in “ Black-eyed Susan,” and Colonel Chal-
lice in “ Alone,” for a change, supported by that
Soung charmer, Miss Braybrook Henderson, and
[iss Kate Bishop, a clever leading young lady,
whom we have imported at that age at which
clever leading young ladies usually favour the
antipodes. And the “Fun on the Bristol” at the
Bijou announce sixteen new songs—a piece of
intelligence which causes us to congratulate our-
selves upon the Tact that the Widow O’Brien is
over the border Tbe Baldwins are at the Vic-
toria Hall with their eternal mysteries which the
magicians of Pharaoh would probably have guyed
immoderately . And what pleasant news to learn
that Remenyi, the violinist, at the Town Hall,
whose fiddling charmed in America some of the
ear of the chromatic James, is a great and gorgeous
success—Nice, too, it is to learn that Falconer’s
“ Extremes,” with Mrs. Chippendale in the cast, is
being much appreciated—we will get into this
style sone day, as sure as pie-by crowded
and delighted audiences And this reminds
us that Goodie, the treasurer at the Royal, is laid
up with a bad attack of bile. This Is a source of
some annoyance to the management; for now the
gifted conductor of tne Penrith Argonaut, and
the spirited editor of the Wallerawang Worrier
are enabled to delude the man at the stalls door
and pass in on high moral grounds. It seems that
Goodie is very bad; and we are sorry for it. And
we are the more sorry because Goodman’s com-
plaint is a chronic one, and his illness is entirely
unconnected with going out fishing with the
chorus.. .It is said that the Royal triumvirate have
netted £l7OO as the result of three weeks of Sea-
relle’s “Estrella.” Rubensteln, who some years
ago was offered £15,000 for a nine months’ tour in
the U.8.A., accepted an engagement to give twenty
concerts in America Carlotta Patti, who visited
us some years ago with her husband Mr. de Muuok,
fell in her apartments recently and broke a leg...
“Little Nell, the Californian Diamond,” who was
a success of a certain kind in thiscou' try a few
years sinoe, made her dSbut (which, judging from
the notices, was rather satisfactory) in comedy nt
Paris, the other evening, under the nom de theatre
of Mile. Helen Dauvray The mounting of Bar-
dou’s Dew drama at the Porte St. Martin, Paris,
will cost upwards of £12,000.
BRIEF MENTION.
A distinction with a difference: China wants
a peace with France, France a piece of China.
The new Bowral paper is called Intelli-
gence—on the lucus a non lucendo principle.
A Tamworth poet mourns for his mother in
the local paper. Probably she is in the pound.
The D.T. brags that its circulation has
trebled during the year. What a fuss to make
over a couple of new subscribers!
The Presbyterian says that “ Christianity
is neither dead nor dying.” We are glad to hear
it. But it is no fault of the Presbyterian that it
is not.
The last days of Palmerston , (N.T.) are
close at hand. It Is already beginning to totter to
Its fall. They are about to start a Temperance
lodge there.
As a companion lecture to Bevill’s “Trade
Winds and Monsoons,” the Technical College
authorities should get Parkes to give “ The Pour
Winds of Heaven.”
The residents of Bega have petitioned
against the extension of the gaol. It would ap-
pear from this that the rival editors in that happy
village have made It up.
The Solicitor-General paid a graceful com-
pliment to Hillston the last time he visited that
Arcadian village. He said there was nobody there
who was fit to be made a J.P.
Somebody proposed the other day to
establish baths in Parramatta. It is understood
that Fergy is now engaged in preparing a wither-
ing denunciation of the scheme.
According to the latest statistics, the pro-
portion of deaths to every thousand of population
is a little more in New South Wales than in Vic-
toria. But then, we have A. G. Taylor, you see.
A Townsville paper speaks of a “ fasoinat-
Ing hearse ” lately built by the local undertaker.
This is good. A “ gorgeous grave ” and “ warm-
hearted worms ” are all that is needed to complete
the sentence.
A lot of Maitland ninnies have presented
the child Walsh, who wandered into the bush and
got lost for several days, with a watch. They
should have given it to his parents, and bid them
keep it—on him.
“Ha! another art critio come to judg-
ment,” roared Clint, as he brought a batten down
on the back of a goat that had strolled into his
studio, and was licking the paint off one of his
gorgeous land-sale pictures.
We read that the Queen of Roumania can
write as well as a newspaper reporter. The Queen
of England can write—as well as—let’s see. We
have it. As well as the Empress of India. And
now we are ready for the Tower.
A German professor has discovered that
there are really man in the moon. He has seen
cities and cultivated tracts on the lunar disc. He
might have seen more, but his observations were
interrupted by a policeman. This is the way
science is crushed.
According to the Protestant Standard a
new flower has been discovered in Central
America. It can be seen only when the wind
blows. Of course. It has decency enough to keep
out of sight till it can raise the wind.
It is curious that when the Brazilian
Government recently cremated the body of a
lawyer who had died of yellow fever, he burnt
with a blue flame. Looks as if the Old Claimant
put in execution pretty promptly, doesn’t it ?
The produce reporter of the Rum took his
girl to the Zoological Garde s a few days ago.
They stopped and looked at the alligator. “ Rather
a bore, this” said the reporter at last. And he
yawned. “That takes me,” sighed the alligator.
And he turned over on his back and passed away
like a child.
One of our poets was going down George-
street the other morning. His eyes were
very red, and his face puffed. A friend met him.
“ Hallo,” said the friend, noticing his appearance,
"I see you’ve been burning the midnight oil. 1 '
“No,” replied the poet gloomily, “I’ve been
drinking it.”
Says a science paper:—“A French electri-
cian has invented a new sounding-lead, which tells
the exact moment of its reaching the bottom by
means of an electric-bell. At last we shall be able
to fathom the meaning of »n Echo leader. But,
on second thoughts, no. Alas, no! We should be
dead long before the bell sounded.
The last issue of the Silver Age to hand
contains the information that there are now five
lawyers in Silverton. Also, that a Presbyterian
clergyman had arrived there. Also, that the
oorpse of a man was found hanging from a tree by
a strap. We do not presume to connect these
items, nut the thing looks curious.
The Echo the other day remarked: “ It is
generally understood that the Empress and Regent
of China has decided upon making peace with the
French.”, Whereupon the Bega Bkaine observed,
in ignorance of tne fact that the Empress and
Revent are one and the same, “The ‘has’ is the
Echo’s own.” Yes, and the ass is Bega’s.
The paper published nearest the plaoe—we
forget its name—says that “ a Hillston gentleman
has been sent to take charge of the Mount Hope
pound.” Great Ctesar, this is elegant writing.
We look forward with pleasant suspense to hear
of a distinguished nobleman of Duck’s Flat boing
appointed to the position of "Dustman.”
Three-fourth of the Scotch ministers are
said to be abstainers from intoxicating drinks.
Humph! A good deal depends upon what you
call intoxicating drink. We should say a Scotch
minister might drink anything short of vitriol,
and still keep sober. As for “ whusky,” of courte
it is a beverage that may be safely given to infants
—Scotch infants.
We have before us a oopy of the last issue
of the Dally Northern Standard— a very lively
paper indeed, published frequently in Townsville,
we believe. Tne principal paragraph in it con-
cerns the bellman. We suppose he is the editor’s
brother. There is no reason for the editor to be ,
ashamed of the connection. We wonder, though,
what the bellman thinks.
A cable was lately attacked by a whale.
We don’t know which cable it was, and we don’t
know the name of the whale. But the result
seems to be In favour of its being an Australian
cable. There was a cablegram sent nome the other
day to the effect that Sir Henry Parkes was re-
ceived, on his return, with much enthusiasm.
Anyhow, the whale was killed.
A scion of a noble line,
A youth of high degree,
Whose ancestor came over as
A cook from Normandy—
With stately step he trod the deck
Beneath the starry night,
Then stopped and raised his dexter leg
And—struck a light I
No wonder the Queen is so seldom out of
mourning. She has her troubles. The last is not
the least—Princess Beatrice is carving a statue of
her. It is said that arguments, entreaties, and
tears were tried upon the Princess without the
effect of dissuading her from her work for a day.
When a daughter turns against her mother in this
fashion, things have come to a pretty pass.
OP COURSE.
A gentleman dwelling in Corowa writes to
the local press to say that he “ was never drunk iu
his life.” What?—
What, never drunk ? Well, this beats all
That we have ever heard or read, sir I
Not even once—at rout or ball ?
We think, you must have been born dead, sir!
THE BARD.
Behold the Bard of Alfred’s love,
Behold him in the bar, sirs;
All earthly things he soars above.
His soul is in the stars, sirs.
There are two circles round his eyes,
He is the Muse's suitor;
His thoughts—great soul!—are in the skies,
His nose is in a pewter I
A telegraphist in New Zealand made a
happy blunder lately. A member of the Legisla-
tive Council had said in one of his speeches that
“ barmaids lured young men to destruction.” This
horrible libel on the sweet pets the gentle youth
transformed into the following charming senti-
ment: "Barmaids loved young men to distrac-
tion.” There was a gap ot fifty years between the
sges of the senator and the wire-puncher, how-
ever, and that probably accounts for their dif-
ferent ideas.
The Mayor of Ballarat is the friend of God.
He said the other day, with reference to his conduct
in leaving the chair while Gerald Massey was lec-
turing, that " he could bear personal injury offered
to himself, but could not bear insults being offered
to God.” God can now take things easy. If the
bellman will only join the Mayor in his generous
defence of his (presumed) Creator, we see no reason
why the Deityship should not be a sinecure and the
whole government of the Cosmos run from Balla-
rat. If so, the Mayor will do us a personal favour
by commencing his new business with damning
himself.
The Echo is weak at foreign lingoes; and
the joke is that, in copyiogtbe Echo, the Herald
follows its mistakes-and vice versa. Here be a
few new readings from those wells of French de-
filed. Viola for voila, arrpos for apropos, troisi-
enne for troisieme, cjue vous Hess for que vous etes, and
so on ad infinitum in one article I Item, in one par.
they call the French Minister to China Patenore
as well as Paten6tre I Again : they speak of a
Baron Wind having once been Parmesc Prime
Minister, referring, we suppose, to the Yorkshire
jockey, Ward, wno attained that position and
dignity some years ago.
Apropos of cannibalism, here is a prescrip-
tion of Dr. Bolnest, Physician-in-Ordinary to
Charles 11., for making what that learned physician
was pleased to term a “ Mummial Quintessenca’’:
—“ Take of the flesh of a sound young man dying
a natural death, about the middle of August, three
or four pounds. Put it into a fit glass and pour
upon it spirit of wine. Let it stand so three or
four days. Take out tbe flesh and put it on a glass
plate, and imbibe it with spirits of salts. Let it
stand uncovered, but in the shade, where no dust
or other filth may fall upon It. Be sure you often
turn it, and being well dried you may put it up in
a fit jar and keep it for use. Dr. Bolnest makes
no apologies for this cannibalism, and many of his
other prescriptions contain “ young man ” in dif-
ferent forms.


Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
,
COPYRIGHTED.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs, Travers* Compound
does all that it claims to do”
C3"lts purpose Is Solely for the legitimate healing of disease
and the relief of pain. It Is prompt i n action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For fcU those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10a 6d. per Package.
Cs*Ladlee, it will under all circumstances, act In harmony
with the laws that govern your system.
C‘7”That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, ami
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
C3*ltU a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales are
unprecedented. It removes faintness, flatulency, nil craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.^)
Physicians use it and Prescribe it.
|3f*lfc revives the drooping spirits, invigorates and har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye, and plants on
the pale oheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
the cure of Kidney Complaints of either sex this
Compoundi s unsurpassed.^)
Mrs. Travers’ * 4 Guide to Health” will bo mailed free to any
lady sending stamp. Letters efinqulry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. 80x,907, Sydney.
MRS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver* Price 2s. 6d.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS:
CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
W TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED
M eda/s Gamed against the World
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. W ABE,
SUKQEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
BT Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
either Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MILK SUP P LIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, bellij? obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations*
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagonir
factory. *
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Oflice..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
CUT THIS OUT.
BY cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
you will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVEIt
(by Fotberham, or other well-known makers)
lor ;£5 ss-; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for £3 I Os.
Guaranteed for 5 years!
Note the Address :
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878,
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care ot
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
BATT, ROOD, & PURVES, Auctioneers.
m.' Hi WALES :
r ■
•-
Mr-
., *
V
<*?
CN
\\\&
fV;g
1
,!
mggt C
r X
RUSH ALONG THE! ILLAWAREA LINE.
to
Special Train at 2.15 p.m.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day.
Awake, Eolian tom-tom, with a crash,
For, 10. each tuneful syllable means hash;
And while each spectral figure floats around,
Be here, sweet peace, and hushed each jarring
sound.
See spineless Stuart, with the magic wand
Of millions borrowed, network all the land;
Now Service brandishes the Fed’ral flag,
With craft emblazoned, and with bumptious brag;
See the grim face of Parkes flit threat’ning past,
And o’er the prey his vulturous glances cast;
There Taylor plays again his eustomed part,
And talks of nothing with unconscious art;
Buchanan’s warlike figure, see, arise,
Eager to punch or damn opponents'eyes;
Make way that empty Melville now may pass,
And bray his sufferings forth like Balaam’s ass;
While Luscombe cheers the swill he-loves so well,
And with his fiery nothings gives us .
O’Connor comes, with windy phrase replete,
Anxious his home-learnt lesson to repeat;
Equal to speak while mighty nations rock,
Or rise to grandeur o’er the Town Hall clock.
Cease. Garrett, cease; and, Dailey, be thou meek—
We fain would hear, when Piddington would
speak;
Hear Dibbs, with fourteen million pounds galore,
Propose by loan to pay with fourteen more;
And Heydon prove, with figures most correct,
We need Protection that cannot protect.
Now the Domain, the Monument, await.
Where Picton, Perry, or Dan Smith orate;
Where Freethought orators their logic bawl,
And aptly prove priests have no thought at all;
Where Rechabitish agents spread the light,
And on their own smug vanity get tight;
While Moran, Barry, to their duteous sheep
Discourse glad tidings that induce sweet sleep;
Symes, Walker, Bright, who worship God no more,
Say “ Curse collections, but— pay at tiie door.”
Even So.
The days go by; the days go by,
Sadly and wearaly to die:
Each with its burden of small'cares,
Each with its sad gift of grey hairs
For those who sit, like me, and sigh,
“ The days go by I The days go by!”
Ah, nevermore on shining plumes,
Shedding a rain of rare perfumes
That men call memories, they are borne
As in Life’s many-visioned morn,
When Love sang in the myrtle-blooms:
Ah, nevermore on shining plumes!
Where is my Life ? Where is my Life ?
The morning of my youth was rife
With promise of a golden day.
Where have my hopes gone ? Where are they,
The passion and the splendid strife ?
Where is my Life ? Where is my Life ?
My thoughts take hue from this wild day,
And, like the skies, are ashen grey;
The sharp rain, falling constantly,
Lashes with whips of steel the sea;
What words are left for Hope to say ?
My thoughts take hue from this wild day.
I dreamt—my Life is ail a dream I
That I should sing a song supreme,
To gladden all sad eyes that weep;
And take the Harp of Time, and sweep
Its chords to some eternal theme.
I dreamt—my Life is all a dream.
The world is very old and wan—
The sun that once so brightly shone
Is now as pale as the pale moon.
I would that Death came swift and soon;
For all my dreams are dead and gone.
The world is very old and wan.
Tne world is young, the world is strong,
But I in dreams have wandered long.
God lives. What can Death do to me ?
(The sun is shining on the sea).
Yet shall I sing my splendid song—
The world is young, the world is strong.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
When an old witch descends the kitchen
steps, keeping your servant girl from her work
for half an hour, and ultimately persuades her to
sleep with three black beetles’ livers under her
{Allow to charm back the waning affections of her
over, the said old woman beoomes liable to im-
prisonment as a rogue and vagabond; but when
the premier nobleman of England, the Duke of
Norfolk to wit, dips his invalid infant son in the
sacred waters of St. Winifred’s Well, in the super-
stitious hope of a miraculous cure, he is-well, he
is the Duke of Norfolk still.
The Catholics of Melbourne are going in
for a Gipsy encampment on Easter Monday. Peter
Lalor, Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, J. G. Duffy, and a
host of illigent gintlemm will stretch their legs
under the canvas. Och, but there will be lashings
of love, and whisky, and true religion! David
Syme, however, is suspicious that some disrespect
to the Queen is intended. He has, therefore,
bought a nose and a brogue, and fitted them on to
a loyal reporter, who, in this disguise, will be
taken for an Irishman, and will be accordingly
allowed to witness all the ceremonies. No dis-
guise, however, will avail if he can’t drink whisky
by the kettleful.
“ Yis, gentlemin,” yelled a pimple-headed,
advanced-thought Dimmycrat in the Domain on
Sunday last, “I sides with the Frinch fllosserfur
wot said that he would never believe that certain
classes ov men were sent into this world to fill
different puzhione in life, until be saw one man
born with a hemperor's coronet on his brow, and
another with a jackass’s cross upon his back; wich
is th’ badge ov hus down-troddin wurkmin. No,
gentlemin; I tell you hover an’ hover hagin that
all men are born hequal.” Just here, a man with
about seventeen different strata of mud on his
clothes, and a nose that looked like the thumb
part of a boikd lobster’s claw, backed himself
against a plantation fence and exelaimed— “Thaßh
alldam rot, an’ I lay an’ one half shov I provesh it.
Ti>ish ’ere f’ler sez, all men born equal. Ver’ well
—why can’t yer stan’ sthill? If everybody ’sh
born equal, how is it some f’lers kin get blin
drunk twice as fasht ash other f’lers ? Now, look
er me. I couldn’t get drunk if tried, an’ yet I’ve
sheen ver’ reshpecble clergymin get drunk ez er
bile owl through only shleepin’ in er same room ez
a f’ler that travelled f’r a big brewery. This man’s
a liass. Ord r, gen’lmen, and I’ll shing comic
shong.” Then they took him by the scruff of the
neok and the sag, and slung him out into the
exterior darkness, for his chat was thick with the
aroma of rum and onions, and sorely vexed the
people.
Schoolmaster Wollaston is under oontraot
to the Victorian Education Department to supply
book lamin’ ” to the rising generation of Camp-
belltown (Vic ); but, finding his great intellect to
a certain extent cramped by the secularism of
the State school curriculum, he seeks relaxation
on Sundays by launching out into the speculative
fields of theology, and treats the rustics of that
secluded hamlet to some amateur pulpit-thump-
ing. But the ungodly Gillies, who now bosses the
Education Department, has no sympathy with the
pious teacher, and consequently the latter has got
into trouble. Some time ago, when bubbling over
with piety and religious zeal, he applied to the De-
partment for permission to hold forth on the hell-
fire theory in the local school-room, but met
with a prompt refusal, as his request was in
direct contravention of the Education Act.
-then he tried Duncan Gillies direct on the subject,
but was equally unfortunate, and, finally, he took
the bull by the horns, so to speak, by giving vent
to his pent-up soul in a thrilling and impassioned
®® ri fi o n, which at once brought down the wrath of
the department on bis devoted head, and he was
pdfid £5 for the privilege of wrestling with Batau
m the local school-room. That’s how he became a
martyr, you see—a pocket martyr, as it were, to
i h „®f^ tent ,. na !F ed - ®° **lB °*we was brought before
Parliament a few weeks ago by Mr. Fincham, one
of Ballarat, when Duncan Gillies,
amid the cheers of the House, explained the cir-
tn tl i?. caBe ’ and intimated his intention
°ut the Education Act in its true spirit,
uld aUow of no interference by fanatical
teacher Wollaston wants to adopt
the role of spiritual teacher, he has the way open
rn«i m rh3 t ' ce Peter CanQ Pbell has given up the
road, there is a vacarcy for a bush missionary, and
theliook tdat th ®» odJ y Wollaston would just nu


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others: yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOB THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, I*B4.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, 1
used it myself, the result being that I was myseit
in three or four days, and have not suffered since-
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours,
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham*
bers, 90 Pitt-stbeet, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase oa
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to bane this index poets d up hv
eecretaries of racing clube and manager i of
iporting events in general.']
RACING.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C .November s.
Murrumburrah R.C November 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosebill R.C December 27.
TattersaU’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, Maroh 5, 7.
AQUATICS.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v- Clifford February 7.
Beach v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Caaino Athletio Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS
Tremando was under the whip before he
had gone twenty yards in the Caulfield Guineas.
Eighty-three nominations have been re-
ceived for the Casino Athletio Club £5O handioap,
in which are included some Sydney and all the
principal Northern district runners.
Farnan’s friends are willing to back their
man against Foley for £250 aside, the affair to come
off in Albury or on the border in the presence of
only half a dozen and the members of the press.
Mr. T. C. O’Brien, whose play in the
Oxford match so greatly contributed to the defeat
of Australia, will offer himself to an Irish consti-
tuency at next general election. Mr. O’Brien is
heir to a baronetcy.
The cricket match for the M‘Lean Challenge
Cup, between the East and South Melbourne Clubs,
which was commenced last season, was ooncludea
on Saturday, the result being a victory for the
East by nine wickets.
For County, Lord Harris has the
splendid average of 44.9 for 23 innings, in which he
scored 889 runs. W. H. Patterson is seoond with
28.6 for 13 innings; and F. A. Maokinnon third,
with 25.1 for 10 innings.
Mr. Brush, who rode Terror in the gentle-
men’s race at Caulfield, came to grief at the brush
fence opposite the stand—
When Brush meets brush—aw!
Then comes the tug of war—aw.
J. W. M‘Ewen, bowling for the Corn Ex-
change Tagainst the Hon. Artillery Company at
Finsbury, took the whole ten wickets iH the first
innings for two runs, and seven in the second
innings for four, or, altogether, 17 wickets for six
runs. He twice did the hat triek.
Mr. J. J. Riohardson is one of our most
enthusiastic and, at the same time, liberal boating
men. The prizes for the flrst race of the season
Bailed by the Canvas Dingy IClub have been pre-
sented by him. In fact, Mr. Richardson always
gives something more than his name to any event
he is connected with.
The raoe in whale boats between a crew
from H.M.S. Espiegle and another from the Naval
Brigade, eventuated on the day preceding the last
Sabbath, and resulted as might have been expected
in almost a paddle over for Captain Hixson s lads.
The names of the winners are T. Thrussell, Verrell,
Bayley, Nash, and Barnett.
A deposit has been placed in the hands of
Mr. Selsby, the secretary of the Coal Lumpers’
Union, for a straight away race for £2OO between
Beyers and Love over the champion course in
light skiffs This match has arisen through the
regatta of the Coal Lumpers’ Union. The time
stated in the articles is to be within three months.
Other matches are likely to follow.
The billiard tournament for the champion-
ship of Australia was concluded on Thursday
night, when Evane, of Adelaide, played Weiss,
the champion of Queensland, the result being as
anticipated, an easy victory for Evans, who scored
out when bis opponent was at 497. Evans, when
at 859, ran out with an unfinished break, which
ncluded 45 spots. Weiss’ largest break was 108.
Morrison is to be found on the Flemington
oourse every morning now, with Carter and Mac-
donald and the Dakins, and a host of other faces
well known to horsey-men. The old man is Still
the favourite with those who want a chat, but the
value he places on himself is prohibitive to the
would be seeker after equine knowledge. Close
on 200 horses put in an appearance each morning.
Mr. Horace Davenport has lately, accom-
plished a great swimming feat, having swum from
Southsea to Ryde, in the Isle of Wight, and back.
He started from Southsea at 35 minutes past 8 a.m.
and got back again at 2 p.m. (five hours and 25
minutes from the start). Mr. Davenport’s name is
well known in the swimming world, as he is ex-
champion long-distance and mile swimmer of Eng-
land.
The race for the Findon Harriers’ gold
vase, at Caulfield, is considered the grandest jump-
ing race that has ever been contested in the
colonies, no less than 24 horses starting for it. Of
course, they were all gentleman riders. Mr.
Terry, on Lord of the Forest, got home about
seventh. He topped all the jumps without a mis-
take, but had not sufficient foot to get any closer.
The distance was 2)4 miles; time, smin. 56sec.
The Melbourne Sportsman in its account
of the receut sports at Kelly’s ground, Botany,
says that “a footrace for £25 a side, was also
decided between W. Norid, a blackfellow, and T.
Clements; Clements winning easily with ten yards
to spare. - ’ This is a “ Norid ” mistake from start
to finish. The race was between Noud, of Grafton;
and Clements, a blackfellow; and was won by Noud,
not Clements, and by three yards, instead of ten.
A cricket match between Ryde and Bal-
main-Waratahs, was commenced on Saturday, on
the Agricultural ground. The Ryde lads got 132
runs; Docker 38, not out. Carr took five wickets
for 40 runs. The Waratahs only compiled 44
altogether. The Ryde boys seemed to completely
ride over their opponents, and Docker went in a
docker with the ball, docking the score for seven
wickets to a paltry scorce The Balmainiacs
are madder than ever.
Cricket of September 4 states that a re-
markable incident took place in a match played at
St. Helier’s, Jersey, on August 23, between the
Ceesarians and the Jersey Wanderers. A very fast
ball bowled by E. Wright for the latter to F. Cur-
tis shot, and, beating the batsman, struck the
middle stump about three inches from the ground,
and rebounded. The stump fell back about six
inches at the top, leaving the bails, which did not
fall, unsupported in the centre.
The veteran Yorkshireman, Tom Emmett,
is now 44 years of age, and is the oldest profes-
sional still playing in first-class matches He has
been in the field continuously for Yorkshire for 20
years, and during his career he has paid three
visits to Australia. This season he has rendered
signal service to his county, and as an all-round
man he has had few superiors. He is a great
favourite wherever he goes, and in Yorkshire
cricket his name is a household word.
The Cootamundra v. Yammatree orioket
teams, which were not strongly represented, met
in friendly contest on Saturday last. Donnan won
tne toss for Cootamundra and sent his men in flrst.
Their score totalling 109. Julian 28, Alldritt 19,
Harrington 18, and Donuan 15, being the double-
figure run getters. Yammatree, on the stumps
being drawn, had lost one wicket for twenty-four
runs. The Cootamundrians have challenged the
Yassites to play for the Comins Cup on the Prince
of Wales Birthday.
At Warrnamboolthey are going to give a
prize, at their next bicycle sports, to the most
grotesquely dressed rider. One young fellow
struok on the idea that it would be good sport to
dress as a Chinaman. He got his dress, and visited
a farmer who lives a few miles out of town, arriv-
ing after tea; but just as he got off his bone-
shaker, he got a stiffener under the ear, and,
whilst on the ground, had his ribs nearly booted
in. He has explained now that it wasjnot him who
stole the fowls they had missed.
In connection with some remarks in our
last issue but one, with reference to the cessation
of “Timon’s” contributions on aquatic matters
to the T. and C. Journal, reference, comprehen-
sible to the cognoscenti, was made to a well-known
gentleman boat-owner, not in the pleasantest
spirit. We have no taste for irritating remarks
about gentlemen who are merely enjoying them-
selves without interfering with anybody’s plea-
sure, and if the tendency of the reference had
been editorially recognised, it would have been
excised.
Robin Hood, in the Australasian, writes:
—“ The mile championship (swimming) for £5O and
the championship cup was contested on Holling-
worth Lake (Manchester) on August 23. The com-
petitors were J. J. Collier, of Salford, and James
Finney, of Oldham. Collier won very easily, in-
deed, by nearly 50 yards, and he scored a best on
record, too, for, taking a splendid course through-
out, he did the distance in 28m. 19 3-ss. The
previous open-water mile record was 28m. 24 2-ss.
This was done in, I think, 1873 by J. B. Johnson in
the lake at the Welsh Harp, Hendon. Beckwith
has since challenged Collier.”
The Melbourne Sportsman gravely an-
nounces that Messrs. Beach, Deeble, and Tommy
Kelly will honour the Albert Park Regatta with
their presence. This.is, however, contradicted in
the Australasian. Beach very sensibly refused
to knock himself about until after his race with
Hanlan, Deeble is busy and cannot go, and Tommy!
—well, we believe Loch did not offer him a suite of
apartments at Government House, so he feels a
little bit huffed. And that reminds us: what can
have beoome of that black-velvet-bound “ cadi,”
that for years seemed: part of Tommy’s very
being ? Even now, he never seems the same to us;
but, certainly, ho has changed a lot lately.
SENE: An Up-country Racecourse.
YOUTH (to Professional Jockey): “AND WHAT DO YOU THINK WILL WIN THE NEXT
RACE BUT ONE?”
JOCK ([?] pressement): “ REALLY I CAN’T SAY, SIR. IN FACT, I DON’T THINK THE
GENTLEMEN HAVE SETTLED IT AMONG THEMSELVES YET."
The contest between ;the Kingston and
Summerhill clubs was brought to a conclusion on
Saturday last, the result being a victory for the
former by one run. After the last man of the
Kingston had made the winning hit, he was run
out. The Kingston scored 123 in the first innings
and 48 in the second, Summerhill responding with
41 and 129. The principal scorers were—for the
victors, Nottle with 28, Hardwick with 26, M‘Ken-
zie with 20, and Robbies with 16; for Summerhill,
Trenborthe 26, A. Gelding 38, Barrett 23, Murray
20, and Caldwell 15. Trenborthe and S. and T.
Gelding bowled well for Summerhill, while Hard-
wick, Smith, and Anderson were the most success-
ful trundlers for Kingston.
The following are the results of the racing
at WolloDgong, last week :—Hurdle Race : States-
man, 1; Baron, 2; Alpha, 3. Five horses start' d.
Statesman led from the start, and finished several
lengths ahead. Time, 4 min. 4 sec. Trial Stakes :
The Thorn, 1; Peter, 2 : Jacquenette, 3. Eight
horses started. Selling Race : Silver Arrow. 1:
Disoord, 2; Wirefly, 3. Four horses started.
Wollongong Handicap : Ajax, 1; Vidette, 2. Eight
started, ana the field kept, close together from the
start to the finish, the judge being unable to dis-
tinguish the third horse. Hack Handicap : Star, 1.
Eight horses started. Flying Handicap : Peter, 1:
Ferndale, 2. There were three starters. A match
was run by The Thorn and Stumpy, resulting in
one of the best contests that were ever seen on the
Wollongong course. The Thorn won by a head.
The last issue of the Melbourne Sportsman
oontains a leader headed “ Leaving the Race on the
Training-Ground;” and there is little doubt but
that many a man and horse|are beaten by overwork.
Some require a lot more work than others, and too
little judgment is displayed in finding out when to
stop. We remember an old “sport ” who was pas-
sionately attached to kangaroo-hunting, and fol-
lowed the usual plan of giving his dogs nothing to
eat the morning he was going out. One likely-
looking iSlut ran so badly that he got disgusted;
and, wnen he was having a snack in the middle of
the day, he gave her a good feed of raw kangaroo-
meat, whereupon, to his astonishment, she caught
the next tripod they ran at. There is little doubt
it is a mistake to starve dogs or men, as food only
takes a certain time to digest, and any animal feels
fitter and stronger a reasonable time after a meal
than they do when faint and sick for the want of
nourishment.
The regatta at George’s River on the occa-
sion of the opening of the Illawarra Railway, was
a great success. The double scull race, for Botany
residents, was won by Smith and Wheatly; two
other boats started. Bailing skiffs, not exceeding
22 feet: Wakanoa 1, Madcap 3, Nellie 3. Fishing -
boat race, under working sails. This was won
anyhow by “ Podge ” Newton’s new boat, the Ad-
miral. This boat is described by the Herald as
the well-known Sydney crack. Now, considering
that she has just left the stocks—ln fact, it is
doubtful if a dozen people had seen her But
it speaks for itself; Granny’s sporting man
always says something good if ho goes beyond the
mere names of the boats. Wild Cat. 9U minutes’
allowance, 2. Junior double sculls: S. J. Law and
J. Fraser 1. Single soulls, residents’ race, J. Smith
1, G. Wheatly 2. All-oomers, in outriggers, who
have never won a prize exceeding £100: C. Mes-
senger 1, Croad 2, Goatley 3.
The Nimrod Fishing Club had their first
outing last Thursday. The weather was good and
the trip was made in the Commodore, wnioh boat
has been secured for the season. Two or three
grounds were tried, but leather-jackets seemed to
have things all to themselves until Cape Three
Points was reached, when over 450 scaly spoil were
landed. Mr. George Eastway has presented a
medal, to be given to the member who secures
most schnapper this season, the winner never to
have won a prize. The luoky man who lands the
heaviest fish also to get a medal. Of course each
fisherman is to give the weight of his fish, as you
can always trust to gentlemen of piscatorial ten-
dencies to tell the truth with regard to the weight
of what they catch. We once knew a little man
who certainly was a big fisherman, and made
things very lively for the Murray cod round his
neighbourhood: he told us of] a desperate struggle
he had just had with a cod that got stranded on a
sand-bank, and its weight was 901 b.—before night
it had gone up to 1901 b. Of course, he lost it.
On Saturday a good crowd of locals and a
few Sydneyites gathered on the banks of the
Nepean to see the events between the two brothers
Kemp and Solomon and Matterson. Solomon, up
to the time of the race, was a long way ahead in
the betting, 2to 1 being offered and taken. Solo-
mon took the lead at the start, but T. Kemp stuck
to him, and, when about a mile had been got over,
hauled on his man, and Solomon, feeling himself
beaten, in a most manly and sportsmanlike
manner gave way to prevent a foul. Actions like
this give sport a tone, and raise it and the men in
the estimation of everyone. The big event of the
day then came on between Neil Matterson and
Peter Kemp. In our last issue we remarked that
Kemp had spoilt his chance by doing a grand trial,
and the result proved us correct, for, although
Kemp took the lead at the start, he completely
caved in in a mile, having to be lifted out of his
boat, suffering from severe cramp in the stomach.
Too much training and straining before the day.
Kemp rowed well, and, from the name he has of a
sticker, a great race was expected: but, probably,
the excitement of a race like this tended to upset
him.
On Saturday last the Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club held their opening evolutions, and
then retired to Cremorne for the usual blow-out.
Over twenty boats mustered, and went through
their drill very creditably, and when the crews and
visitors stretched their legs under the pitch pine
mahogany tables, there was the largest muster
seen for a long time at any similar event. Every-
thing went merry as a—[Not this time -Ed. B.]—and
if we closed our eyes for a moment, the popping of
corks made us think we were present at the latest
engagement between the French and Chinese. All
eatables having disappeared almost with the
rapidity of one of Heller’s illusions, the usual
toasts commenced. By this time, it was pretty
late, some of the boys were getting cheerful, and
a little loose play was indulged in. This was re-
ferred to by the very well-known boating man
who proposed the “ Press ” in terms of disap-
proval. while it might well have been passed over
unnoticed, and without harm to any one, we think
some of the boys might remember on these occa-
sions that there is a time for doing things and a
time for letting them alone, and that the style
which may be suitable enough when they are
rupning about without their shoes and stockings
on Cobblers or Forty Basket Beach is hardly ap-
propriate on occasions such as this.
The Spring meeting of the Victoria Ama-
teur Turf Club was successfully brought to a
conclusion on the course at Caulfield on Saturday.
The weather was favourable, although threatening
in the earlier part of the morning, whilst the
attendance was the largest ever assembled on the
Caulfield course. The Caulfield Cup, which was
this year the richest stake yet given in Victoria,
brought a field of twenty-eight horses to the post,
and resulted in an easy win for Blink Bonny, a
rank outsider—she was sold on Friday to W. Lang
for £soo—her price being 20 to 1 with no takers.
The following races were run:—Selling Race, 5
furlongs: Mistake 1, Castaway 2, Stone Broke 3;
time, lmin. ssec. Second Hurdle Race, 2 miles:
Hazard 1, Gasalier 2, Tattler 3; time, 4min. 3sec.
Nursery Handicap, 4)4 furlongs: The Teacher 1,
Wolseley 2, Ooista3; time, 59 sec. Caulfield Cup,
a handicap of 2000 sovs; 1300 sovs of the said sum
to go to the first horse, in addition to a trophy
value 200 guineas, the gift of Mr. Mathew O’Sha-
nassy; 500 sovs to the second, and 200 sovs to the
third; 1)4 miles: Blink Bonny 1, Lord Wilton 2,
Vergy3. 28 horses came to the post, but Blink
Bonny won easily; time, 2min. 40)4sec. Open
Steeplechase, about 24 miles: Struggler 1, Echo 2,
Denmark 3. This was a grand race, and was only
won by a neck from Echo iu smin. 37sec. The
Windsor Handicap, 6 furlongs: Mozart 1, Hurrfc-
cane 2, Irralee, 3; time, lmin. 17sec.
The fifth annual regatta, under the auspices
of the N.S.W. Rowing Association, took p'ace on
the Parramatta, last Saturday afternoon. The pro-
gram me contained five events, which were wit-
nessed by perhaps 400 people, principally on board
the ss. Prince of Wales and Admiral. The follow-
ing were the races got through, with the results
Eight-oar Race, over the Ohampion course; prize
presented by Dr. Fortescue and the Association,
value£l6. S.R.C.: W. H. Capper, P. Hart, W. kW
s®r, J. E. H. Kennedy, T. M. Kemmis, T. R. Moppett,
D. Middleton, C. A. Bros (stroke), Chates (cox.), 1;
N.S.R.C.: H. Dawe, D. Crowley, F. B. W. Love,
E. Lord, J. F. Connolly, R. Bourke, J.A. Oberg,
T. E. Cresswell (stroke), Cooper (cox.), 2. This raoe
was evidently in the hands of the S.R.C. men, who
went to the front as they liked from the jump.
The Mayor’s Grand Challenge Cup, presented by
Mr. J. Harris, to be the property of the school
winning it for the third time; won twice by Roy-
ston College and once by the Church of England
Grammar School ; Association medals presented
annually to the winning crew and coxswain; course
Gladesville to Blaxland's Point. St. Ignatius’ Col-
lege: C.M’Neely, J. Frost, E. O’Brien, F. O’Rourke
(stroke), T. O’Sullivan (cox.) 1; Sydney Grammar
School: A. Tnomson, A. Nicholson, W. H. O’Neill.
T. M. Kemmis (stroke), C. Manning (cox.) 2; Churoh
of England Grammar School: N. Brougham, E. El-
worthy, H. MTntosh, H. Armitage (stroke), j.
Prout (cox.) 3. The Church oi England boys had a
good lead when one of the crew got his foot out
of the straps, and so put them out of it. Junior
Beullers, in club skiffs :i J. G. Kennedy, S.R.C., 1;
A. Ickerson, G.R.C., 2. This was an easy win for
Kennedy. Gardiner Challenge Cup, for mercantile
four-oar race in string-test gigs: C. Newton, Bros.,
and Co. rowed over. This handsome cup is now
their property, having been won three times, with
a row over each time. “Sydney Mail” Challenge
Cup: A-.F. Sharland, 10st. 121 b., 1; J. O. Trimble,
10st. 101 b., 2; J. Thomson, 9st. 41b., 3. Sharland
won as he liked, by about fifteen lengths. Mr. P. J.
Clark officiated as umpire, Mr. H. Fitzpatrick as
judge, and Mr. L. Bennett as starter.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A.S.” asks: “ What kind of a show do you think
Farnan will make with our own Larry should
the pair meet ?” We think that if Larry ope-
rates in his usual style, Farnan would make a
better show when he had done with him than
at any other time. At the same time, he is
very strong and plucky, and we incline to
think that Larry will be a bit tired of punching
at him by the time it is all over. Our own
fancy is Larry, but Farnan will require to be
knocked out before he throws up the sponge,
and being heavy and resolute, will give a lot of
trouble A correspondent writes: “In an-
swer to your query relative to the Royal
yacht, I know that the Victoria and Albert has
been the Queen’s own yacht for the last nine
years; in fact, she never travels in the Os-
borne, which is used more for the members of
the household than for anything else. There
is another, the Alberta, which is newer than
the Osborne, and is sometimes used by the
members of the Royal Family.”
SPORTING GLEANING?.
Sir William Clarke’s mare Petrea has a
colt fual to Defoe this season, and she goes to him
again. As Defoe Is full brother to Robinson
Crusoe, his blood should nick with Petrea admir-
ably. The mare’s youngster this year is achestnut,
and as he has Stockwell on each side of his pedi-
gree, it is easy to guess from whom he inherits the
c010ur.... From England, a cablegram has been re-
ceived announcing that Mr. W. A. Long’s filly
Dame Agnes, by Hermit from Belle Agnes, won
the Prinee of Wales Nursery Handicap at Kemp-
ton Park, on the 6th October At a meeting held
in Glen Innes last week, the race club was re-
formed, and the membership fixed at three
guineas. It was decided to hold a meeting on the
18th and 19th February. It was also decided to
establish a Sires’ Produce Stakes for 1887, and a
Maiden Plate of 50 sovs. was announced. Mr. A.
Rodgers was unanimously elected president, and
Messrs. J. J. R. Gibson and F. Utz vice-presidents.
...It has been decided to form an association of
rifle clubs in Victoria, and 33 clubs have given in
their adhesion to the movement The athletic
sports wnich were held at Brushgrnve. GraftoD,
resulted as follow:-Pigeon match, E. R. Powell;
hurdle race, Walsh 1. Grohs 2; maiden race, Jar-
rett 1, Wood 2; grand handicap, Cramp 1, Chisholm
2, Trickwell 3; hop, step, and jump, Grohs; conso-
lation handicap, J. Sherry 1, E. Sweeney 2.
* • *
Six double scull crews, with lady cox-
swains, competed in a race off Coanicut Island,
near Newport, R. I. Winners: H. 8. Rhett,
Brooks Stevens, Miss Rhett (coxswain).... Probably
the largest stingaree ever caught on the Jersey
coast was hauled up near Seaville, July 23,
It was sft. across the back, and weighed 3001 b
Bcene: Eton and Middlesex cricket ground Bats-
men run a sharp hit to cover-point for one.
Wicket-keeper puts the stumps down, and ap-
pealsfor a “ run out.” Umpire: “ Not out,” and,
in the same breath shouts to scorer, “ One short."
... The price paid for MaudS. by Mr. Bonner, pro-
prietor of the Ledger, was $40,000, which is the
largest sum of money ever paid for a trotter. Mr.
B. can show £lOO,OOO worth of driving horses, and
he now owns three horses which, in their day, have
made the fastest time on record—Dexter, Rarus,
and Maud S— Archer has this English racing sea-
son won 177 races out of 327 mounts, Wood 99 out
397. Score at the end of the York meeting last
season: Aroher, 146 wins; Wood 140.


iSSUfI
iESgENgojUFII
only^mMJble^ ’emedy for
4^//Ei\Vbi/sJ)EßiLijf:
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of tne nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one for
365.; if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydnev *
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and cO., 43 GoQlburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
I,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
Breech and Muzzle-leading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, Ac. All goods will be faithfullv
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutler? jSst re!
ceived. All work and repairs executed equalto
any European workmanship.
.■•Mob Agent for Australia of the oelebrated
dWf ° BBOKNB '• alBo Bor.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
4 id. Four pence halfpenny. 4M.
Will take TO Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
n , quire.
Full particulars,
BULLARD, 342 George-street.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
~\\T ANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
Lj m sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
l lom,
BRISBANE STREET,
Launceston.
T H H ° entral , l J- Bit o, ated Hotel, having under-
it/n^w C «f2 sl<leral) e iterations snd improve-
to C vi^r«^nJ ers ever y °onifort and convenience
to visitors and commercial gentlemen.
The Hotel is now under the management of
MRS. PYLE,
Waverley House, Collins-place, Melbourne.* 1 ’
NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
COm ADD CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
■^"b:ra,lln.aa£CL’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Slightest tmrtfci?n? andellon ’ and free frora the
are thp e °^jP e .TCury or mineral substance,
tury • sosimnu, medlclne of the nineteenth cen-
thoro’nahlvr£™m et m l oB i' effective; they can be
Pared ifreoaratw? bein F a carefully pre-
Perience pa qH I t i® n ’ and tbe result of practical ex-
Diseases of th« fi™ Ve £$ ome h ,° T worst term of
I have vet tn b£« r l£ t ? , 2£ ch » Head and Kidneys,
immediate relief ° ar tbat they bave not afforded
434 GEORGE STREET.
/
&
r r a £ e r
: *
e v
K *
« ?
5 I
K 11
P
a *
ass
—~-g—,
ZZSZS *•*
\ *1
/
-etr
33
«■>
gi— s
•a
%
*»•»
B
%
i*
ii
Z3ZJ
h ZSD
©
at
* ■*•
rtffi
rf*
a
**
/r
R £ c £ m r
■ **
♦
I
1
i
<s
r -+'
mx
*UB-C_ -
►
Y
In
A
-» -•
i— g—
in
r
L_
VICTORIA
<r» *i
<c
V
-32
I
:*=
r®
■s-
<3
2 : ncTOR S~\
cFEFJITTMIS
i hlf uttM
°9
7M»
0
-n
2L
*r
\
£
'j-'
*/ur - tr
*s*
C/*
ry
V
a
/ *
a
/x<
W A A / A L DA
3C
CL
!v
uciKJtp nmm \
*•» H/Mhh* to ' x
q\lif 9o firSr
, on %
CKOUNDn
fmm
' /i oci 1
k"2
mUH / TITLE
L W/
Huenerbein’s Warehouses,
411 Georgost., and 118 Pitt-st.
Pianos Cost Price for 1 month only,
Prior to REMOVING TO NEW PREMISES/
S®“ Cost Price l Cost Prioe! Cost Price
RARE OPPORTUNITY JUST NOW I
Huenerbein’s Warehouses.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THe “ Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in oast
events, and trust that with their wcll-aeknowlec&ed
w C i°K P b thorough integrfty,
to make the Malabar Consn ltations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
First horse ...
Second ditto..
Third ditto* ..
Starters divide
Non-starters..
£lOOO
400
300
300
300
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
cribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of wiS
One Thousand Pounds. 01 inning
We shall Bend also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize. to
Tickets Bent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed •
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber. “ aent ai
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON
Pastoral Chambers, Georgc-street, Sydney.
£lMtttt.-MELBOURNE CUP
Beanes, 10s. each.;
T H IL? Y 1 ? r]ffr < PORTING CLUB, * Sydney,
desires to point out to the public * encrallv
tne advantages to be derived from holdi-qj ? “hari*
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. A. 11 ncrsonT
whether male or female, holding a sh'are' or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty t o lnsoect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every ouno l,ni?vi«
offered to each and every sharehohrW t#
drawing, who choose to make ar«iii ation to?
admission ticket. And, lastly, from.th# enormous
number of our prizes, one is almoto r are to win
one or other. Jre 10 wm
First horse
Second „
Third „
Starters divide
Non-starters
Plan of DisTßißtTjCim i> ;
£3OOO
1000
500
500
250
10 pr.ijeas 5 dOO
40 n 25
50 25
100 , ” 10
20 o r. 5
£lOOO
1000
750
1001
1000
. v o •. JUUU
anddt wiin?/ ■<* *P«« * f or themselves,
the best knnwr^snnrti^fj 8 * ry 40 that some of
bourne are ««* of - Sidney and Mel-
Our a ivnn°t fo e ti?Pt- e 5 *k® Club athove mentioned.
u ur nrst pnz . leurvin bv far the lanrn>t
be'se^ured^'invei?
£?om a nfeo ronnH n ,f *OB. J our .second horse,
ando’ur dhlm are d fa £5 ° ,ir thjrd ca.rries off £500;
for Dublffi Rnnnnr/ 8 vance of all competitors
the rZS H * Qxir drawing ta.kes place on
of eeurae it will f E ol * Previously lllied, when,
drawing sent at or < *? ce P lac ® before.. Kesult of
verMsed B th£mn£V c ®* to *? very subscriber, and ad-
monev PO O 44 ,e colonies. In sending
if °t?n Id’ be sen* JaDfc eh« jques, or stamps will do:
enve/one e iinK°a™ re^is I < ,r letter * Send addressed
for membm-fit or reply; also, threepence
unprins-nn, i! p4ee> rite at once for our pro-
spectus no oharge. 1* ickots sent by return post.
Agen d t re T^t» J e^m L S? ,N ’ Es( l- Turf Commission
Sydney.* " Breal BBt hidings, Castlereagh-street,
ot P the w?mi a r I ’nf n n thl 8 occaBlon >' publish the name
and alao fhe ™ 1 „ flrBt grand prize of £3OOO,
great Drizesln thiL L' ,f i' h^ 8e wll ° win OUF other
great prizes in this gx and Consultation.
OXYf ien IS LIFE.
Dp. Bright' s Phosphodyne.
T H Ne l x T le Remed y for Indigestion,
plaints . Nery ous Debility, Liver Com-
Power’ mS J 'bmplaints, Lassitude, Loss of
ancT all Pnysical Depression, Decline,
recruits and al K l D S ran £ en }?,P tfl V T Thoroughly
mended hv the*? c ? bl '? h £ B Health. Highly recom-
The indumtahW jdlcal *>eulty. CAITTION.-
Brhrht’s (the b or ? root ot , the great value of Dr
*wi° r dy genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthier jS imitations which are being made
andrefua®ua*2 aBk forDrßrlght'sPhosofiodyne
JamesLawson&Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
upholsterers,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang* Streets-
| FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, a t very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at ss. PER YARD
Including Maiking and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
NOTICE.
Persons in possession of informattoi
likely to two f service to me at my trial
month, will oblige, by sending addresstu '
W. WEBB,
Herald Office,
Campbelltowtf.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-mRrrW
and tb iobo about to marry, may obtain rminh
valuable mfc munition, which may prevent years of
suffering, by pimbly BdbdlOg a stamped addresled
s?d®! e foc ™ ly °- w - wtfSSo;


Jj! UENITDRI SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, H AT6T ANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
a t bookcas'es, secretaires,
jik APING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
teste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINET* f or Choice China, &o.
YERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
amoving rooms, &c.
T>EDROOM SPITES complete in various woods,
JL9 and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
r 0^ B i„£ r^ at , variet y* BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
11,I 1 , IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
A Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneli-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-gtess door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUPI
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, andXAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3108.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
1
V.
3
W
DOK PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed sound
_ _ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
f'IHItfFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priees, from 12s od. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAHL
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-Bt.
Toilet pairs, namei
with swin.
marble top, 80s the pair
RS, namely, DREBSING-TABLE,
ng GLASS and WASHSTAND,
the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Conneli-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CH AIL—
Patented.
This ohair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm , at the will or
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandan,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). _____
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB^
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early Engusni
and other designs, which can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirement
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, aim
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
B
B 1
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrasa;
new shipments. Bradley. Newton, and Lam_;
EDSTEADS, all kindTand sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. —.
EDDINO.—AiI descriptions at lowest rate®;
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, 0 Lon
nell and Spring streets. -
ASHSTANDB, with marble, from 28a. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chair*
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BKAL
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very comP let *
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
W
G
B'
SOCIAL
Once upon a time the Mayors of Sydney
used to lead comparatively quiet lives. But when
the Princes thought to cover this country with
flory by visiting it, and the “ nobility and gentry”
egan to look on it as part of their tour, the
Mayors felt they had to rise to the grandeur of
such occasions, and since then the social duties
have enormously enlarged. Constant entertain-
ment is now looked for, costly fetes are demanded,
and—at least, by those who move in the Mayoral
circle—one grand ball a year is regarded as abso-
lutely essential. Mr. and Mrs. John Hardie have
extended their hospitality in many ways, and now
that the year of office is drawing to a close, the
much-expected Mayor’s ball has bean given and
enjoyed, and has gone to join the glittering memo-
ries of the past. About 500 were present, and as
5J50 well tills the vestibule, everyone thought there
would be a terrible crowd. But special arrange-
ments were made to prevent it: nearly the whole
building was thrown open for guests, and in num-
berless rooms the lamps were burning brightly,
the warm carpets invited the strollers feet
to enter, and comfortable 'lounges and sofas
were everywhere at hand. As soon as the
visitors discovered this state of things, the lloor,
which was certainly over-full for a couple of
dances or bo, cleared somewhat, and corridors,
card-rooms, and Council chambers were all
tenanted with those who preferred ease to exer-
tion. A very comfortable view was obtained
from the upper windows. The main doors were
closed, so as to form an ante-room in the porch,
and visitors entered through the right-hand lobby
and across the grand stairs into the corridor. Mr.
and Mrs. Hardie received their guests in the aider-
men’s room, whence they passed into the vesti-
bule, and soon after 9 the Governor came, and
dancing commenced. He was received with the
National Anthem, was accompanied by Captain
Loftus, Mr Secretary Unwin, Lieut. Nathan, &c„
and danced the opening quadrille with the
Mayoress. All the refreshments were purveyed
by the Compagnoui Co., under Mr. E. D. Tolle-
mache, and the only funny thing about his com-
missariat efforts was that, although the limpid
lemonade ran short at an early hour, the pricoly
ohampagne was abundant all the time. A large
apartment set apart for only drinks and ices was a
great convenience, and helped to diffuse the
crowd Up in the Council room, the morocco
chairs, the acme of comfort, greatly pleased the
ladies’ fancy. Ladies are an unaccustomed sight
in those seats, but on Wednesday night many
a one was seen there, looking as fair and
rare a vision as was the beautiful Portia
in the famed court of Venice. Mr. Alfred Read,
engaged as M.C., was very assiduous in his duties,
but he had difficulties in communicating with the
bund stationed upstairs. It is always a vexed
Question in the Town Hall where to place a band.
Many aldermen were present, with their wives
and fam lies, but few members of Parliament. Sir
Henry Parkes, however, wi h Miss Parkes on his
arm. entered late in the evening. Beach and
Hanlan both danced a good deal, keeping up till
nearly the end. Mr. Beach was introduced to His
Excellenoy, and the two chief men in the colony
surveyed one another with some interest. It is
not often such a magnificent pair of shoulders are
seen in a ballroom as Beach’s. There was quite a
run on Hanlan, in whose shirt-front shone a single
sapphire about the siae of a doorknob. One
item on the programme, was the “ Bandwick
Galop ” oomposed by Miss Essie Thomas, and
dedicated to the Mayoress; played with the
full force of the band, it was found excellent to
dance to. Of the twenty-one dances, eight were
waltzes. and two or three extras were given.
Three bridal dresses, all with long trains, were
very noticeable among the many handsome cos-
tumes displayed; numbers of elderly ladies who
did not dance much also wore elegant dresses.
Of those seen among the dancers, a con-
spicuous one was of blue and white satin,
cut low, With a lengthy train, worn by a
young lady who is gifted with musica
talents A dress of sumptuous quality was all
lavender satin, sleeveless, the front quilted in
large diamono puffs, flashed across with violet
velvet bands; a row of la ge violet bows passed
round the skirt, and the corsage was trimmed with
violet pansies to match—the whole costume being
uniuuely handsome. Three dresses in different
colours were all examples of a style now very
fashionable: a raspberry red satin bodice, and
ballet skirt of tulle to match; a pretty orange
satin dress, the Skirt covered with fine net and
pompons through which gleamed the richer ma-
terial beueath; and a white satin bodice, well-fit-
ting. with a tulle skirt of awful amplitude, dotted
with pompons. Several ladies wore birds’ plum-
age flattened on the breast. Several dresses, both
plain satins and ottoman cords, were of that ex-
quisite. indefinable hue which hesitates between
pale pink and peach, or that colour where a rich
warm cream deepens into the glow of the mari-
gold The hostess wore a splendid dress of pretty
pale pink with waterfall back, and the front was
draped with fine black bearded lace; sleeves of
blackbeaded lace; flowers and jewels. To describe
all the rich toilets would be endless, nor is it need-
ful for they were all on the lines of existing
fashions, and nothing was shown that indicated
anv definite departure from the modes of the
dav A large contingent of naval officers was
present Throughout the festivity, all went with
smoothness; both the vlayor and Mr. Hardie, jun ,
being exceedingly attentive and'cordid in seeing
t’o the comfort of their guests. The ball ended
3 o’clock.
• • *
As a close to thpil" season ox\ the
the Glebe Foolbal| Club held a ball on Friday. It
was the second annual onp, plain and fancy, and
9t| present. ’Mr- GL M. Horn was sec., Mr. J. Kean
treat).; Mr. Burcher looked after the floor; and all
tnese 'gentlemen distinguished themselves by an
amount of amiability which would, if it had only
been exercised in a larger sphere than their local
Town Hall, be likely to bring the Glebe Football
Club into favourable notice with the rest ot the
world. A neat little supper was arranged, and a
string band played. Tne sultriness of the night
was tempered by a little bree?e which blew
through into the balcony. Two George-street
ireniuses were prominent among the fancy charac-
ters —one a clown, the o.ther an Austrian peasant,
the peasant heing the more wonderful of the two.
A Don Cresar wore a costume that broke upon the
assembly like a sudden golden glory, surmounted
by his sister's Gainsbro’ hat, ‘‘kindly lent for the
occasion.” A Joan of Arc, in silver and blue, was
of the softer sex, but by no means unsubstantial.
An America, Amazon, Patience, Romp, and Night
were all fancies light as air. A Bhort-haired girl
in blue veiling, who lived contiguous, had a hand-
some face, but both her face and ieet were
monopolised by one favoured young man, who
had, apparently, taken the young lady on a
lease. Darlingliurst sent a small brunette in
white and sunflowers, who was an ornament;
Surry Hills, a slender siren in pink, as well as a
seductive pi ce of temptation in white silk snd
satin mixed, named after the great gold discoverer.
Of the other dresses noticeable : A satin bodice of
dove-blue, from Redfern, was trim’d in great taste
with silver, and the black gauzy skirt woven with
gold was trim’d with dove-blue and silver to match
"-'giving the toilet a good ensemble. This foreign
word means that the entire effect was good ; and
it is useful to distinguish a lady who puts all her
dress on, from other ladies who go to balls with
only a part of i f on. A nice costume worn by a
blonde was all blue, with long loops of white
swausdowu ; and another bright item was a tine-
looking girl in black velvet bodice and crimson
silk skirt The namesake of a great wizard wore
black velvet and pink plastron. A forest Lodge
blonde was dressed in a bright scarlet satin bodice
and white muslin skirt, and looked decidedly
enchanting. Indeed, in the middle of a dance, one
voung man threw himself at her feet though
thie might have resulted either from excess of
affection or too much wax on the floor. At any
rate, the young- lady was the best dancer there,
“’’fi cau cut this out and make the other girls ory
with it
* * *
A very enjoyable evening was spent on
Thursday last, when a number of invited friends
witnessed the breaking up of Miss Downing’s
dancing-class, at her school, East Maitland. Under
their tutor, Mr. Christison, the pupils went through
several well-learned step-dances, besides all the
new square and rouud dances of the season, not
only the stepping, but the elegance of motion and
deportment of the young ladies being very notice-
able. Miss Downing’s beautiful room was deco-
rated with foliage and flowers. Mrs. George Clift,
Mrs. Yates, and Mrs. Chambers kindly acted as
judges; about 60 guests sat on one side of the
room, and the pupils on the other. The prizes
awarded were: For waltz and general carriage.
Miss Mary Keane; for best dancer 11 years old
(specially given by ladies), Miss Sibyl Yates; for
boys, Master Harry Dixon, a silver medal—though
Master Percy Clift acquitted himself admirably.
The prettiest thing of the evening was a horn-
pipe; it was danced by three young ladies, 15 years
old, and dressed in pretty blue nun’s cloth trimmed
with white lace. The exhibition throughout was
of a refined character; everyone present was in
evening dress, and Miss Downing gained golden
opinions by her pleasant energy in managing
everything so well.
• ■ •
“ To commemorate opening of Illawarra
Railway to Hurstville.” That is the legend on our
little lavender programme, with its twenty-four
dances of assorted kinds, and its twenty-four girls’
names, every one of which we love to dwell on—
every one of which we have shrined in the memory
which is all that is now left to us of the Hurstville
ball. And there is every reason to suppose that
all the inhabitants of that future great suburb are
as much ecstaticised as we. An event that raises
property uncounted hundreds per cent, may well
have pleasant memories, and the opening of the
railway last week made Hurstville richer all round.
Even Alderman Patrick M’Mahon’s delicious Italian
accents seemed richer than before, as he paraded
the palatial goods-shed on the night of the ball.
Of the regatta, the luncheon, the banquet, we
speak not; we haste to the ball, to record the list
of loveliness that was there. Fully half the visi-
tors arrived by train, and, the whole country side
being illuminated by either bonfires or rags cheer-
fully burning in the necks of ginger-beer bottles,
found their way to the goods-shed. In an immense
tent was laid Baumann’s supper, and was provided
a ladies’ room. In the shed itself the ball was held;
the floor was very fair, the verandahs closed in for
a delightfully cool promenade, and the walls and
roof a mass of ornamental verdure. It must have
taken great labour to do so much, and ladies,
we understand, did most of the beautification,
whioh always follows where their fair hands touch.
At one end was “Advance, Australia,” and at the
opposite “ Welcome to Hurstville.” done in ferns
and geraniums most prettily. Kerosene lamps
dangled inside, and the lanterns which are the
peculiar manufacture of the moon-faced Mongo-
lian dimmed the verandahs. It was a motley
assemblage that started to dance at nine o clock:
men in broadcloth and men in tweed-the village
maiden in her “got-up” piqu£, snow-white and
stiff, and the pretty city girl in her diaphanous
gauze, as delicate as the texture of Ariel s wing.
But all in that leafy ballroom that night were as
happy as the proverbial birds that in their nests
agree. No ball could be more hearty and free
from ceremony, and none more thoroughly decor-
ous from beginning to end. Mr. J. Hall and
Mr. H. Kinsela divided the floor between them as
M.’sG. The music was from a string band, and if
not perfect, was pretty—if uncertain, yet sweet;
the flute man being the most untiring triller we
ever heard, and the bassoon as conscientious as a
human being could be—while he had a puff of
breath left. We couldn’t guarantee to mention all
the local people there, but we’re certain we saw
Mr. Mark J. Hammond, M.P., because it was
through his going off by a special train at mid-
night that we lost sight of a number of ladies, all
desolatlngly beautiful, whose names are dotted
like jewels on our curiously preserved carte de
danse, but who presumably went away with that
eminent legislator. Wo also held our breath
reverently while we took down from the lips of a
man who seemed a cyclopedia of local knowledge,
the names of Mr. and Mrs. M'Mahon, Mr. J. H.
Carruthers, M.A., Mr. C. H. Lenehan, Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Gannon, Mr. and Mrs. James, Mr. and Mrs.
Parsonage, Mr. J. English, Mr. R. A. Price, Mr.
and Mrs. L. Tiddy. Mrs. MTnnes, Mr. and Mrs. T.
Lseder, Mrs. Stephen Hodges, Mr. and Mrs. E.
Holland, and others—who, we regret to say, have
got smudged in our pocket. One of the hand-
somest toilets was a line white satin, draped with
black lace, and worn with roses, by a German lady
of the district; and a local married lady wore a
beautiful black satin, with plastron and crinkled
frontof golden satin,gold lace trimming to match.
Mrs. Hodge, living close by, wore a very neat
brownish green satin, trimmed with snake-
coloured plush, and proved a graceful dancer.
Mrs. Staniforth looked handsome and stylish all
in pink; Miss Yider, of Tempe, winsome in van-
dyke-brown velvet tunic and pink skirt; Misses
Price, of Rockdale, charming in exquisitely pretty
ball-dresses of ivory broche, satin, and lace
Miss Moore, of Kogarah, looked well in white
cashmere and faille drapery, and her sister in
a pretty dress of pink satin, fine white lace
and pearls. Mrs. Wilks, of Lane Cove, was
well suited with a handsome black cos-
tume; Mrs. Zions, with a rich cardinal satin
and a black underskirt. From Surry Hills were
Misses Burney, in black satin and in pink satin and
white lace, both gems of dresaes, and both the
young ladies pretty and attractive dancers. Miss
Leeder, of St. Peter’s was a great favourite, and
neat in blue veiling and silver flowers; Miss Bar-
den, of Arncliff, wore blue broche and veiling;
Misses'Scott, delicate pink in striped silk and net;
and a striking toilette, worn by a tall brunette,
was crimson silk, draped with cream Madras
paniers. Miss Lees was not the leea-taking partner
In pink satin; Miss Madden maddened us, among
others, by her pretty ways; and Miss Goodin was
just as good-in blue broche and general style of
execution. If the belie could) be a married lady, it
would perhaps be the wearer of a beautiful black
surah dress and pink roses, from Surry Hills; if
nob perhaps it was a fine Kogarah girl in cream
veiling, paniers of white silk, pearls and roses, and
long white silken gloves—a costume well setting-
on a shapely form. The attractiveness of the
scene was further enhanced by the presence of
another Miss Blake, who was decorated with a
very bunchy white skirt, and a black velvet
bodice edged with a silver rivet design, which gave
her the appearanee of being armour-plated. From
Newtown came a good little dancer, a brunette, all
in black satin j and another, from Kogarah, in ruby
velvet and cream lace flounces with ruby pompons.
It was whispered Miss Aitkin was the prettiest girl
there, in her natty pink satin and veiling skirt.
The dancing of two little girls—Miss Downs and
Miss Robinson—in terra-cotta and pink, was ad-
mirable; and a nice blonde in kilted cream satin
and blue ribbons,; and a little brunette in white
striped satin, about; end the list of those chiefly
noticeable on the dancing-floor. But, as a young
lady naively remarked, there are other amuse-
ments besides dancing. And our last recollection
of Hurstville, just before the special started back
at three that morning, was a little incident that
quite bears out that statement:—
It took place just behind a screen—
We’re nearly sure she did not mean
Us to detect her;
But she—well, she put up her lips,
All sweet and pink, like daisy tips,
And he—well, he took just two sips
Of Cupid's nectar.
And yet, to sraze upon, in truth.
That guileless, rustic-looking youth,
You’d never fancy
That he was one who ever would
Much care for suoh elysian food,
Or knew so well what did him good,
As well as Nancy.
• • •
Last Thursday, the Produce Merchants’
Protective Association’s third annual picnic came
off at the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel and pavilion,
Botany. Such a ong name makes a very awkward
nominative ; but produce merchants are Just like
politicians—they will go in for big titles. ’Buses
left the Haymarket at 10, and private cabs and
trams took out lots, till over 400 were there by
lunch-time. There were hosts of ladies, all lovely
as Eve in Eden, and more innocent, and dancing
was the main diversion. Several sports items were
also carried through, and a gold medal donated to
each winner. Mr. Frank Smith provided a grand
luncheon at 2 o’clock, at which Mr. P. R.
Larkin took the chair. Parliament was pro-
posed by Mr. W. F. Martin, who did not
think the legislative labours had been particu-
larly fruitful, or that the Ministry had always
done right. However, as they had no doubt done
their little best, the company might safely wish
them long life and more wisdom—a condescension
for which the Ministry will, of course, be duly
f rateful. Messrs. H. Clarke, J. Bee, and J. N.
runker replied. The toast of the Association
was proposed by the chairman, who was glad to
see so many ladies present, as it showed that they
took an interest in the work of their husbands. It
also showed that they thought it advisable to look
after them, as the fascinations peculiar to Frank
Smith’s pavilion are well-known. The chairman,
however, didn’t put it that way. Sundry other
toasts followed, accompanied by the usual cheer-
ing and clashing of foaming cups, and then some
of the company returned to dancing, and others,
Adam and Eve-like, passed time by “ walking in
the garden in the cool of the day.”
■ • •
Nithsdale was gay [on the 14th instant, a
ball being held in connection with the Master
Butchers’ Association. Over 100 couples occupied
the floor, the conservatory was lit with coloured
lanterns, and the rooms were decorated. Mr.
Ernest Needs provided music, and Mr. Edwards
catered. The programme of 23 dances closed at 3
a.m. A damsel from Darling Point, in cardinal
and pink, danced indefatigably; and an Eliza-
beth-street married lady was attractive in rich
cream and lace. A Liverpool-street matron
looked well in black silk and deep white lace; and
two Kedfern sisters wore cream and ruby and
white, respectively. From Bourke-street, came a
married lady in black Spanish lace, and two sisters
in cream adorned with small dahlias, and pale-blue
decked with white daisies. A country visitor
seemed happy in white, with a flowing cardinal
sash. Moore Park sent the owner of a pretty pink
satin, and William-street a prettier one, long train
of pale-blue broche and skirt of oream. A iittle
brunette, in dark-green bodice and white skirt
flounced with green ribbons, looked as happy as a
humming bee in her gay originality. The secre-
tary was an energetio M.C.
* * *
We’d die sooner than even hint that the
fair sex is not at all times imbued with feelings ot
the deepest piety. We rebut the ridiculous idea
that when women go to church they ever think of
silk instead of sin. The idea is absurd. If any one
tried to make us believe that, the beautiful crea-
ture whose calm features are illumined by a look
of intense devotion, is really thinking of her Bat-
tenberg bonnet, or another girl’s beau, we should
regard that person with abhorrence. But yet,
we admit we have never been able to account
for the peculiar fact that while ladies can gener-
ally reach a church five minutes after the ad-
vertised time for a sermon, they are safe to be
found there a full hour beforehand when there’s a
marriage. Neither can we explain how it is that
a real good sacrificial display by one of their fair
sisters will draw more women to a church, and
cause more soul-felt emotion to simmer in the
female bosom, than anything else of a religious
character, except, perhaps, a really handsome
archbishop. The reasons are hid from us; we
only know that these things are. And we know
that one of the largest gatherings ever seen in St.
Peter’s Cathedral, Armidale, was there to witness
Miss Bray married to Mr. Edward Markham. The
bridegroom, now C.P.B. at Tamworth, has one of
the best-known names in New England, his late
father having been many lyears ago member for
the district. The bride—even wero she not one of
the fairest girls of Armidale—is one
Whose earnest face
Holds such a world of tenderness
She needs no other grace.
But she looked lovely in her bridal attire of white
satin and lace, with myrtle and orange-blossom
trimmings, and she will be a loss to society in the
cathedral city of the North. Five bridesmaids
followed: Miss Amy Bray (only Bister), in pale blue
and cream lace; Misses A. and C. Richardson
(daughters of the Hon. J. Richardson, M.L.C.),
Miss Antill (of A.J.S. Bank), and Miss Spasshatt (a
daughter of the late Dr. Spasshatt), all in
cream nun’s veiling and hats, and carrying
flowers. The mother of the bride was dressed
in an elegant ruby satin, with cream lace
fichu and bonnet, and looked more like an elder
sister than mother. Time deals so handsomely
with some. The bride’s father is Mr. James Bray,
late C.P.S. at Armidale, and now police magistrate
at Casino. After the wedding, breakfast was held
at his residence, and the health of the happy young
couple proposed by Mr. Sydney Blythe, Mr. Mark-
ham replying, and toasting the bridesmaids. The
Hon. J. Richardson proposed the parents; and
after felicitations aed inspection of the splendid
presents showered on the popular bride, Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Markham left by 5 o’clock train for
their honeymoon.
* * *
A number of beautiful dresses were notice-
able at the Mayor's ball. The only pity was that
there was not room to show them. Lady Augustus
Loftus wore black broche; the Mayoress, a hand-
some pink robe and black lace; Mrs. John Smith,
white satin embroidered with beads; Miss Parkes,
cardinal satin and lace; Miss Q. Eagar, a pretty
white net dress and red roses; Miss E. Burdett
Smith, an elegant palp blue broche; Mrs. S. Burde-
kin, cream satin; Miss' Burton, a lovely maize
ottoman silk with sprays of lilies and clematis;
Miss Mackenzie, an elaborate solferino pink broche
and cashmere; Miss Ford, a cloudy ballet Bkirt ot
pale amber tulle with waterfall back; and Miss
Coniston, a charming arrangement of sky-blue
net, chenille pompons, and rich lace. A fair girl
from Darling Point looked well in black net and
blush roses; ner darker sister was equally fascinat-
ing in pale-green satin and grenadine; a long-
trained dress of cream satin, trimmed with pink
ostrich feathers, was much admired; and a helio-
trope ottoman cord divided the honours with it.
Black costumes were much worn by matrons and
their daughters.
** * »
This evening (Thursday), the complimen-
tary party organised by the Owl Club is expected
to prove a pleasurable affair. It is tendered to
Mr. J. Caddy, than whom no one has done more
for the Owls. New Masonic Hall i? the place, and
music, refreshments, and dancing, the programme.
Evening dress ... Dr. Ellis, who is going to be pre-
centor at the Cathedral, Goulburn, will not leave
Newcastle till the end of the year Just lately, a
Silverton miner got married in style. The bride was
16, and dressed in sky-blue silk, and, with her by his
side, the enthusiastic bridegroom drove in state
thro’ the streets, preceded by the bellman and fol-
lowed by the whole population. While they went
for a drive, invitations were sent for a general
dance, but it was 10 o’clock when the bride and
bridegroom appeared, They had been bushed,
and the bride looked tired. This prevented their
going away, and they had to put up with a shake-
down in the parlour, where they were found next
morning wrapped in a ’possum rug Last week,
the Mayor of Melbourne, Mr. 0. Smith, gave
a fancy-dress ball to about 600 children in
the Town Hall. His sister, Miss Smith, as-
sisted, as hostess, to entertain the young ones—
Ad interesting wedding lately at Grafton was
that of Miss Annie Smith to Mr. Law Maurice,
Japanese dentist of that town. Six bridesmaids
were in p nk and blue, the biide in white, and the
dejeuner was held in the Theatre Royal,
wnere dancing followed for several hours.
....Last week, the traffie employes of the
Government Railways held their annual pic-
nic at Parramatta Park. Private luncheon parties
were dotted in all directions, women greatly
outnumbering men. Dancing went on in the
(For continuation of Sociai* see next page.'


Davilion, and sports outside. At the Park Gates
Hotel, Cripps catered a luncheon for the committee
and a few guests, when speeches were made by
Messrs. Heaton, Thornburn, Olliffe, Taylor, Kerin,
Johnson, Yernon, Schey and others—Annual
festival of St. Jude’s choir occurred In Randwick
Town Hall, 15th Instant, S H. Pearce presiding.
Dinner was followed by speeches ..Wellington
hospital ball comes on 10th November....At her
annual soiree, Mrs. F. Warskitt was presented
with a handsome dessert service, purse of sove-
reigns, and address, by her dancing classes. ...Mr.
Charles Tyson, one of the great squatting family
so well-known and so enormously rich, in
Riverina, has “gone where most men go.” When
the blackfellows heard of it, they trooped in from
long distances to follow the funeral. Ten black-
fellows headed the procession, and his horse, Tele-
graph, was led after the hearse... On Monday
evening, the Reform Club entertained Sir John
Robertson at dinner, to mark his birthday ... Last
Wednesday, Mr. A. Finlayson (senior partner of
the George-street firm) was married to Miss
Glenister; wedding breakfast at Darlinghurst-
road by Baumann, and the bridegroom’s e uployes
gave him a handsome present —A convent ball at
Bombala on 34th October.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ H.T.”: Fairly written, but not important
enough for a full account....” Maude ”: No
writing we are maude-lighted to see than
yours.. “Subscriber” (Parramatta) : Inter-
esting, but the fact of your taking a week’s
rest after the party to nerve yourself for con-
structing the report renders it just a week to
stale to be of any use “M.A.H” : You are
not bound to dance in a set with persons you
dislike. Yes, certainly, you may decline to
danoe with a gentleman, without giving your
reason. It is only a very innocent girl who
imagines she must dance with everyone who
asks. But a lady of tact will generally frame
a pleasant excuse.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Owls’ Complimentary Party (New Mas-
onic Hall October 23.
Campbelltown Assembly October 24.
Ladies’ Complimentary Rail (Glebe
Town Hall) October 31.
B A.D. Club’s Social (Balmain School of
Arts October 31.
Glebe Bowling Club Soiree November 6.
Assembly Ball (School of Arts, Bal-
main) November 7.
FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
. . . These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, inviting to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic.
WILLIAM JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully deoorated wit!
flag and floral decorations. oOt Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
The enterprising firm of Bray Bros., of 402
and 404 George-street, have now in their show
window, a beautiful exhibition of every descrip-
tion of china-ware and deoorated dinner sets,
together with a few Parian marble statuettes of
rare excellence.
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists,
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
tristry is carried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denttk
Rooms, 104-6 Market-at., near Hyde Park.*
One of the greatest troubles of maternal
life is to properly clothe the rollicking boys at a
moderate cost. There is oDly one house in N. S.
Wales that makes boys’ clothing a distinct feature
of their trade. Messrs. H. L. Summerfield and Co.,
the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335 and 337 Pitt-
street, Sydney, have a magnificent stock, made
from their celebrated wear-resisting fabrics, and
manufactured under the supervision of their
London house, 51 and 53 Leadenhall-street, E.C.
These goods cannot be excelled for fit, style, and
workmanship, are beautifully trimmed, and
stamped with the firm’s brand. A few job lines in
boys’ school suits, sizes 000 to 6, at Bs. lid. Sac
trousers suits, for boys and youths, from pure
Bliss,tweeds, at 215., 255„ 30i. Eton suits, maae of
pure wool worsteds, at 455. Illustrated catalogues
sent, post free, on application. H. L. Summerfield
and Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 237
Pitt-street. *
A love of the whisky-bottle is a frequent
characteristic of genius; but, as a set-off to the
bad effects of the toothsome poison, genius often
makes clever and even prophetic observations.
Bobbie Burns, ploughman and poet, said many
good things, and practically expressed his love of
"a drop of the cratur” by periodically getting
Jilind drunk. " There’s a chiei amang ye taking
iipjtes, and, faith, he’ll print them,” is one of his re-
W’ks; and isn’t it so now ? Does not the modern
•“dojUr-iewer” and the “special correspondent”
.tell yeu all about it ? All about the latest operatic
(favourite's eyes, the length of her skirt, and the
price of her jewellery. Bend “Our Special” a
trip into the centre of the African desert, and ho
Will reproduce his experiences in spicy words.
Give him a return ticket to Siberia, and he’ll turn
wp in the “ next edition ” full of quicksilver-mines
and the woes of political exiles. Send him to
Western Australia, and in the next morning's
paper you'll get a full account of the magni icent
prospects of that rising colony. Send him to
Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, and he will confess he cannot find
words to express his astonishment and delight at
that magnifieent establishment.*
Mineral Wat *rs. Amongst the many
mineral waters of the day, “ Seltzer ” water is by
(fcr Jho best-known and the most-appreciated.
Being exceedingly palatable, it is excellent as a
and refresher, and also aots bene-
ficially op f&e digestive organs. In hot climates,
ft is much ,y.B£d for mixing with wines, spirits,
&c. The name Seltzer is derived from the
German Selters, a small village In the vio inity of
WeJsbaden, Germany. Three hundred years ago,
the first mineral water-springs were discovered in
Selters. They were lightly thought of, and little
availed of. At the beginning of this centnry,
leading medical men called attention to the great
importance of these springs, and pointed out their
usefulness. Of late years, the good qualities ot
Beltzer water are well-known all over the world.
As a wholesome and refreshing beverage, it has
Vanquished all rivals. The great demand for
Rebzer has led to an extensive artificial production
.0* jt. The most minute analysis by Liebig, and
.OfUbC 1 . a 8 well as the perfection of machinery by
Rtruyf Dresden, has enabled mineral water manu-
uactuiwi +o produce an article that compares
(favourably vnth the natural Beltzer water. The
manufacture if Seltzer was commenced by Messrs.
i)alqi and uertel', a/, Bourke-street, Redfern, about
Aen years ago. How well they have succeeded
fs #hown by the fact tkftt they have been obll ted
£o take larger aiid muft central premises at 403
Pitt-street, near The rapid ex-
tension of Messrs'.'DalmariffCteftel’s mineral water
wprks is mostly owing'to tne nigh recommenda-
tions and approving testimony T,f medical men.
s£heir new works are well and skilfully fitted
(the latest improved appliances. The process of I
manufacturing is based on truly scientific Prin-
gles. One of the essentials in the production of
*Bood Seltzqr is pure waterj and to obtain this,!
Messrs. Daim and Oertel have provided filters of a i
most elaborate kind. Besides Seltzer, Messrs. Dalm
and Oertel manufacture a superior kind of soda-
water, lemonade, ginger-ale, tonic, potass, Litbieri
water fo- gout, Friedrlchshall andj
Larlsox .*
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—Will you believe that it has
taken me a whole week to go round and caress all
my pets, and to glean all the tit-bits of gossip I
have missed whilst I have been away? No, of
course you don’t believe it; and that’s right, for it
isn’t true. The fact is, I have been utterly and
deliciously idle, and you, poor dear, have had to
suffer for it; but tne fit is over, and now I am
quite ready to chat to you again.
Do you know, the taste for gambling amongst
ladies is steadily on the increase ? It is a fact; and
I have known girls lose from £lO to £l5 in one
evening at “ Naj>.” I asked one how her pocket
could stand It. She replied that “ she found if she
played steadily the year through, her winnings
were equal to her losses, so that she got a great
deal of fun at little or no cost.” Well, that may
be ; but you take my advice, dear, and don’t
gamble—it spoils the temper, and neither instructs
nor improves the mind.
The Marius-Thompson matinees are being held
at the New Masonic Hall, but, notwithstanding
that the music on the whole is good, people do not
take kindly to these afternoon concerts. To make
them more successful, there should be a special
novelty in each week’s programme. As it is,
they are rather same. Miss Thompson, who
is a sterling and unaffected pianist, was
very warmly received last Wednesday, and was
llie recipient of several beautiful bouquets,
she looked very nice in an olive-green satin dress,
A LULLABY.
O HUSH THEN, MY BABIE, THE TIME IT HAS COME
FOR THE NUISANCE TO PASS HERE WITH TRUMPET AND DRUM:
O FEAR NOT THE BUGLE, THOUGH LOUDLY IT BLOWS,
’TIS THE SALYATION HARMY DISTURBS THY REPOSE.
trimmed with cream lace, and pink satin jabot.
Madame Marius also wore a dark costume, and a
most becoming bonnet of pale-green straw, with
pink roßes. The latter lady's best solo was “ Alla
Stella,” with ’cello obligato by Herr G umprich; but
I fancy the lion’s share of its success was due to
the ’cello. Certainly the gem of the concert was
the instrumental trio between Miss Thompson,
Mods de Wiliimoff, and Herr Gumprich, and it was
really a delightful performance. Mons. de Willi-
moff played a violin solo in his best style. If his
? laying is rather lacking in vigour, it is certainly
ull of expression, and histone is of the purest. Mr.
Quong Tart still continues to send round his
lamous cup of tea during the interval, which is
always very acceptable.
I saw Nellie Stewart do a graceful act the other
night, at the Theatre Royal. It was during the
performance of “ Estrella.” Fanny Liddiard had
just sung a song, when a bouquet was thrown to
her, but it missed fire, and fell among the or-
chestra. It so happened that Nellie Stewart came
on to the stage just as the flowers were re-thrown.
They landed at her feet, as if they were iniended
for her. But she, with quick perception, picked
up the bouquet, and, stepping over to Miss Lid-
diard, banded it to her with a most bewitching
grace. Nice, wasn’t it ?
No, I did not go to the Mayor’s ball, as my idle
mood was strong upon me that night, and would
not be conquered. But I almost wish I bad made
the effort, if it was only just to see the beautiful
diamond suite which was worn by Miss Harris of
Ultimo. I hear it cost five hundred guineas, and
was made by Mr. T. M. Alcook, Haymarket,
Sydney. But, perhaps it will be worn at some
other ball soon, and then 1 can give you a full
description of it, if I am there.
The Rita-Radcliffs gave two of their entertain-
ments last week to very fair houses, and leave for
Brisbane in a few days. They do not intend to
stay very long from Sydney, as they have made up
their minds to give a grand ballad concert in the
Exhibition Building very shortly, for which they
will get the very best talent available to assist
them. On Thursday night, Mr. Kadcliff charmed
us all by his playing of “ Auld Robin Grey ” on his
bass flute. You can’t imagine the fine effect of
this grand old pathetic air when rolled ouc of this
rich and full-toned flute! It was really touching.
Madame Rita sang several of her favourite songs
with flute obligatos, and was most enthusiastically
received. Mr. Huenerbein, besides accompanying,
played his “Leurp, Waltz ” brilliantly.
And talking of waltzes, reminds me that Paling
and Co., have published Luscombe Searelle’s
Estrella ” waltz. Of course the airs are all taken
from the opera bf that name, and a little
opera It is, too, so you will do well in sending for a
copy of the waltz. I have also heard it whispered
that Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann has com-
posed a really fine concert waltz, which she intends
to play for tne first time in public at her grand
ooncert which takes place next month—the 19th,
I think. What with this, the eight Vogrich
concerts, and the Rita-Radcliff ballad concerts,
we shall have quite a su felt of good things, shan’t
we ? I hear I missed something really good by not
attending the “ Imps ” matinee last Thursday. I
beliov e the Ooera House was crowded, and every-
thing went off satisfactorily.
I just wonder how many thousand pounds were
spent at the promenade eonoert held at Messrs.
Anthony Hordern’s Palace Emporium the other
night; I did so want to go, but couldn’t trust
myself, as you know, dear, I am one of those frail
creatures who cannot endure to gaze on lovely
things without feeling a desire to possess them.
And as my mental arithmetic is faulty, it gener-
ally happens that I out-run the constable and
have to borrow from Ned, which is a nuisance, as
he is sure to make some sarcastic remark about
girls and their finery. So we didn't go ; but I
elieve thousands of others did, and came away
with their pockets a vast deal lighter than when
they started.
You say I have never told you a word about
Miss de Grey and how I like her. You forget, dear,
that I have only seen her once or twice, and that
very lately; but l quite agree with everybody
that she is a nice aetrnp-*. sue has a fresh girlish
look on the stage that I like very much, and she
has such a pretty natural sounding laugh. lam
going to see her in “ Woman against Woman ” to-
night, and then I shall be able to tell you more
about her.
We are going to have the most comical things in
cotton dresses this season. Fancy whole bars of
music figuring all over a print dress with a blue
ground 1 And then there are some with enormous
anchors about eight in.-hes in length. It is impos-
sible for such monstrosities ever to look neat, but,
after all, what does it signify ? Our eyes will soon
become accustomed to them. The “ Carnation ”
dress is rather a pretty idea, and it, as you will
readily uuderstand, was intended to simulate the
flower of that name. The flounces are of striped
silk, pinked at the edges, and laid on so as to pro-
duce the nearest effect to a flower of which a lady’s
dress is capable. The bodice is of China crepe or
silk, covered with carnations in velvet, which
seem to have been strewn by the wind. Another
new material is Indian crepe, which is bei g made
with some charming dresses in bl/iuse form. But
this style of dress, in order to he effective, requires
a slight figure. In many respects, the fashions
i
this year are in favour of slender figures that s
good ne\ys for you, isn’t it? But I m soiry lor
poor Edith.
There is something yery undecided about hats
this season. The shapes are so varied that it is
difficult to say which is the most fashionable ; but
the chief aim seem B to be to load them with as
many massive plumes as possible, and then you
are safe from criticism. Those hffleous “umbrella
hats so mHch worn by the Brisbane girls, presum-
ably to keep the gun off their faces, are never seen
here. They are dreadfully ugly, and I think I’d
rather be burnt black than wear one. Now, I don’t
object to a large hat, something of the flop shape—
indeed, they are very becoming to some faces; but
these “ hat umbrellas” have a sudden and ungrace-
ful slope in the brim which entirely hides the face
from view; and if vou were to stop and speak to a
girl wearing one of these hats, she would have to
throw her head back as far as it would go before
she could see who was addressing her—so. besides
being ugly, they are inconvenient. Vou will think
I am actually spiteful about tho=e poor hats; but
it isn’t that, dear, whioh has ruffled me. The fact
of the matter is, the postman has just been and
brought me only one letter—and that encloses my
dressmaker's bill for making my two last dresses.
Robbery, I call it—simple robbery. Just fancy!—
nineteen guineas for making two dresses and
supplying a few yards of lace 1 W ell, it j ust serves
me right. I ought to learn to make my own. I will
go and take some lessons in the square measure-
ment system, and see what that will do for me. In
the meantime,
I am your ever loving
MAR.
Inaction of the Kidneys and Urinary
organs causes the worst of diseases which Hop
Ritters cures. Read.
The British gentleman makes his apparel
a study, and a walk along Rotten Row is a treat
for those who admire a suit, perfectly fitting, and
elegant. The eight high-class cutters employed by
H. L. Summerfield and Co., merchant tailors. 335
and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney, make the true West-
End fit their aim, and the firm, by direct importa-
tions from the leading woollen manufacturers, are
able to sell for £3 3s. a splendid suit to measure in
Scotch and West of England twee-la. Amongst
the new goods just received from their London
house, we notice the new chocolate and olive
worsteds, with the famous masher Scotch checks
now so popular. Country residents are supplied
at Sydney prices, and a complete system of self-
measurement, with tape, styles, and patterns, sent
post free on application. H. L. Summerfield and
Co., merchant tailors, 335 and 337 Pitt-street,*
Political
Points
On “ panning-out” the immense amount of
matter written on the subject by the home papers,
it is perfectly clear that England is living in a fool’s
naradise with regard to her naval strength. Eng-
land must spend scores of millions in war-ships, or
lose her supremacy on the seas. It is a case of
“now or never.’’ Foreigners are beginning to
understand their own strength and weakness, and
are eager to divide our inheritance.
It is reported that Mr. Farnell has ex-
pressed an expectation that about a dozen members
of the present Assembly contemplate resigning
their seats with the ;object of being appointed to
billets as chairmen of Land Boards under the
new Act. Mr. Farnell should know whether any
reasonable expectation of such appointments can
be held by any members. The rumour has an evil
odour, especially in a retrospective sense. Now,
then, what’s a retrospective odour ?
Le Vice-Amiral Juriendela Graviere; in
his recently published “ Campagnes d’ Alexandre ”
states his belief that, before long, England and
Kussia will meet face to face on the plains where
once fought the Macedonians and the Persian
hosts. England and Kussia, according to our
author, are approaching each other slowly, and
the anc ent Hyrcania, now Ghilan and Mazanderan,
as well as the valleys of the Pud jab and Scinde,
will see a series of contests not less bloody than
the struggles which took place on the same spots
in the days of Alexander.
It is suggested that when the House of
Lords is reformed out of existence, and made into
an elective institution, responsible to the people,
any peers who may be elected to it shall have
certain privileges—such as sitting by then-selves,
keepiog their hats on during prayers, calling the
Speaker by his Christian name, and smoking cigar-
ettes during a debate. Trifles such as these are
dear to an aristocratic mind. There is one peer
whose proud boast it is that in the presence of a
lady and a queen he can keep his hat on, just as
though he had been brought up in the gutter and
did not know any better.
The London Standard says that the most
malicious ingenuity cannot point to a portion of
the globe where British and German interests
clash—which only shows how far Conservatism
will blind its devotees to facts. One would have
thought that but slight acquaintance with modern
history would have enabled a fellow to point to
England itself as the spot where those interests
most clash—the interests of the pauper Britons
crying out from horrible London for bread, and
those of the pauper German princelets crying out
from their palaces for more, more, more pensions,
more perks, more plunder—bless them I
While, at home the British Liberals hold
vast out-door meetings, the Conservatives affect
“demonstrations” in packed balls, with ticket
admission, and afternoon garden parties. At one
of these latter, some howling “ robustious ”
Mogul named J. Anderson Bose,said:—“Thegrand
old Conservative cause was everything for them—
for England, and for the world. England had
made her mark in the history of mankind such as
never had been made by any other nation, by her
industry, her morality, her religion, and it was de-
plorable that she should now have to descend so
low into the gulf of despair as to be governed by
such a wretch as Mr. Gladstone. (Cheers and
laughter.) What Englishmen loved most of all
was truth ; but Mr. Gladstone never opened his
mouth without telling a deliberate lie.”
Mr. Griffith’s Bill to prevent the introduc-
tion of foreign criminals contains, among other
drastic clauses, a passage with a villainous bearing
on the travelling correspondents of the Melbourne
papers. “ A man will be presumed to be a foreign
criminal,” says this precious Bill, "if his appear-
ance is that of a foreigner, and the circumstances
attending his arrival in Queensland afford sus-
picion of his being a fugitive from some foreign
possession.” If his appearance is that of a
foreigner I Whoever saw a travelling correspon-
dent from Melbourne whose appearance was not
that of a foreigner? Why, it is his appearance
that drives him into the profession. And as for
affording suspicion of being a fugitive—well, will
not landlords and washerwomen scouring the
country for him be reasonable proof of this ? Mr.
Griffith’s Bill may fail to keep out recidivistes;
but if it pass, Melbourne will send no more tra-
velling correspondents to Queensland.
At the Aberdeen pro-Gladstone demon-
stration, the procession was headed by a strong
[ contingent of survivors of the Reform movement
of 1833. Of these there were nineteen carriages
full, but many preferred to walk. There was also
a considerable body of Chartists. A strong element
of humour was displayed in the representations of
the Premier and the leader of the Opposition—
among other features being a large shorthofn bull
drawn in a waggon by four 'horses and libelled
“ Mr. Gladstone,” followed by a lean ox, oh which
a ragged urchin rode, ticketed “ Lord Salisbury.”
Lora Randolph Churchill was represented by a
monkey, the Conservative working men by a
contingent of donkeys, and tho dukes, earls, vis-
oounts, and barons by a number of worn-out
horses walking behind! q wago'h in which a dead
horse representing Lord Salisbury jay. The per-
sonalities were obvioqs. Mr. Gjadstope was prjmp
beef, the Peers were only fft for the knapkers, and
the Fourth Party was only a pidjeuloqs imitation
of human intelligence.
The Bligh Watchman never sleeps, what-
ever its readers may do. Listen to this:—“There
is more or less corruption in every Government,
and this will increase in proportion as the prizes
offered to unscrupulous ability are large an 4 the
means of detection in rascality imperfept. The
best safeguard against the perversion of power
by those entrusted with it is publicity.” There is
keenness of vision for you 1 Only in the calm
seclusion of Bligh could such a gorgeous discovery
have been made. “ There is more or Jess corrup-
tion in every Government.” Vast intellect I And
the publicity which is the best safeguard against
the perversion of power is, we suppose, publicity
in the Bligh Watchman—advertisements inserted
for cash or vegetables. Still the Bligh man is right.
Publicity is the true preventative of political
fraud. Look at the crooked little guinea that have
been exposed from time to time during the last
few years 1 Are any of those who took a hand in
these in the House now? Why, certainly not.
That is to say, scarcely. At any rate, not many.
In other words, there might have been more—
if some had not died since. But the breed is pro-
lific. It never dies, whatever the individual does.
There are some people born to live for their
country; there are others born to live on it. This
climate seems to suit the latter kind best; the
other kind dies early.
* * *
The Chinese have destroyed the French
cemetery at Canton and rifled the tombs under the
pretext of cutting a military road through the
place ...The Pope, in an encyclical, recommends
the faithful to offer up prayers against the cholera,
and also to pray for the independence of the Holy
See. His Holiness might as well ask people to
pray that the tide of democracy may be stopped.


The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O-
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &0., &c., by return post.*
Intercolonial Silt Mali
The 100-Guinea Trophy.
VICTORIA! VICTORIUS!!!
The great Intercolonial Rifle Match, which for
weeks has formed the subject of animated dis-
cussion and constant practice among the marks-
men of Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, and New
South Wales, was brought to a final issue at the
Paddington butts on Saturday last. The interest
taken in the annual match on the programme of
the N.S.W. Rifle Association was, on this occa.
sion, largely augmented in consequence of the
handsome prize attached thereto and presented
by the manufacturers and proprietors of that
world - renowned and unparalleled remedy Bt.
Jacobs Oil. The trophy in question—which is in
the form of a massive challenge cup, of the value
of 100 guineas—will form the subject of future
competitions under somewhat similar condi-
tions. Forty good men and true, forming a
quartette well versed in windage, elevation,
light, and the score of other little mysteries
that conduce to good shooting, answered to
do battle on behalf of their respective colonies,
the ranges being 300, 500, and 600 yards; ten men
a side, and fifteen shots at each range. At tae
first range, New South Wales headed the lisn
while Victoria made a bad fourth. When the
totals at the termination of the 500 yards were
announced, it was found that Victoria wm
coming up hand over hand, nine points aione
separating her from New South Wales.
long range, however, brought grief to man/
a score, the outer diso figuring conspicuously»
the targets in place of the bull’s-eye anxiously
awaited by the recumbent riflemen. Thercsun*
even to the last two shots fired, was in the balance.
Victoria eventually winning the victory ny
eight points. Thus St. Jaoobs splendid tro-
phy in the first instance is destined »
“over the border,” where, doubtless, lt; . h is
heartily received by a people among whom
name has become a household word througn
many and wonderful cures effected by ms gr
German remedy. In oonneetlon witn
recent Intercolonial match it may be worw
of note that a number of the c ° m P?*
have at various times utilised St. Jacob®
with the most beneficial results ;l ri ?J, e ™ e 2pjnif
peclally, constantly using the prone position, o * *
peculiarly subject to stiffness and pains m_ eSg
joints caused, to a great extent, by the dampu
of the ground, which, no matter how e b f , n0 jg.
weather, a’ways exudes a certain amount oi
ture.
Woman Items
At a Birmingham penny show a female
Infant, six weeks old, which is nine inches loDg
and weighs only ten ounces, is on exhibition. This
curious Liliputian baby is of local parentage.
Caroline Perry, aged 17, an English nurse-
girl, who had deliberately strangled her mistress’s
child with a scarf because it cried, was found
guilty of manslaughter only, and sent to gaol for
fifteen months.
The most unromantio elopement yet rer
corded is that in which tne matron of a Welsh
small-pox hospital abandoned her husbnnd in
favour of a Norwegian Jack Tar who had been
down *' with a bad attack of ’the direful disease
named.
Parisians have reduced poodle-shaving to
a science, One skilful operator goes the length of
figuring out the crest or initials of the owner on
the back of his canine pet. The next development
will be that we shall see the initials of every girl’s
favourite masher on the back of her pup.
Patti’s husband obtained a legal separation
from Patti because Patti was too fond of Nicolini.
Now Patti asks for a divorce, just to make the
thing complete. If she will sing her petition in-
stead of allowing the lawyers to write it, her
chances of success will be increased a thousand-
fold.
Patti’s divorce application has been heard
in Paris. Judgment was reserved. She is living
in her Welsh castle, and for a second time in two
years has given a morning concert in aid of the
Swansea Hospital. She sang four songs, and
smilingly responded to every encore. The receipts
much exceeded £lOOO.
Rejected Addressor : “ Yes, and she de-
manded back her letters, the perfidious creature.”
Chum: “Well, I suppose you’ll send ’em back.
She s serving you very cruelly, but—.” R. A.:
“ Stop; that’s not all, old man. By mistake 1 sent
her a bundle of letters I’ve been receiving from
another girl. Oh, woman, woman I ”
“Papa, you will have to buy me a new
silk dress very soon.” “ Why, it’s not long ago
that I bought you a new silk dress. What s the
matter with that one, my dear?” “It is badly
worn about the waist. It doesn’t look fit to be
seen.” “H’ml Isn’t that the second silk dress that
young Mr. Featherley has worn out for you—
about the waist?” “I—l am afraid it is, papa,”
replied the blushing girl. “ but we have one con-
solation, you and I. It must cost him a great deal
for coat sleeves.”
A terrible vice has crept in among the fair
sex of New York. Fashionable ladies enter drug-
stores, and call in silvery accents for a glass of
soda-water. Into this innocuous beverage white
crystals from a wide-mouthed bottle are dropped
and dissolve. The solution is gulped, fifteen cents
are paid, and the elegantly-dressed apparition
evanishes. These ladies are known as “ chloral
fiends.” The drug is now imported into New York
by the ton. This is, as a weakness, worse than
opium-smoking, and almost as revolting as the
hypodermic Injection oi morphia.
Maud: “Oh, how I do hate that girl!”
John: “You certainly do not mean that brilliant
Miss Hansom?” “Indeed I do.” “ But you just
this moment kissed her ?” “ Well, I had a good
chance, and could not resist the temptation; I
hate her so.” “ Really, Maud, you speak in rid-
dles.” “Do you see that oval sallow spot, full of
ugly brown freckles, on her right cheek ?” “ Why,
so there is. What a fearful disfigurement I But it
is strange I did not notice it before.” "It was not
there before; I just kissed the powder off.”
There is no severer test of feminine beauty
than a plunge in the deep blue sea. Full many a
belle of purest ray serene, whose dazzling loveli-
ness in the ball-room has caused many a masculine
heart to twitter, has emerged from the briny deep
like a half-drowned scare-crow with weedy hair.
Old Neptune loves not falsehood. Paint, powder,
and puffs all melt within his damp embrace like
ice-cream before an ardent lover. Well might
Ben Jonson, gazing upon the made-up watering-
place beauty of his time, exclaim :
“ Give me a look, give me a face,
That makes simplicity a grace.”
There were powder and bangs in Rare Old Ben’s
day as there are now.
The ultra-fashionable thing at certain
European watering-plaoes is for ladies to have a
bathing-man. To he in perfectly correct form,
this interesting person must be French. He should
answer to the name of Alphonse or Emile. His
duty is to receive Madame or Mademoiselle from
the hands of her maid, lift her up tenderly, march
with her in a dignified manner into the foaming
surf, and plunge her artistically, but delioately,
into a breaker. In the case of very thin ladies,
Alphonse’s duties are comparatively light. But
where his mistress weighs ten stone or more, he
must, in addition to a broken English accent, be
possessed of muscle. The bathing-man should
also be qualified to teach his patron to swim, float,
aud perform other feats of aquatic strength. For
the right man it is a comparatively easy task.
It was in London. He had been “ keeping
company ” with her for nine months, at the end of
which she wrote him heartlessly and ungram-
matically thus:—“ Harry, I write these few lines
to tell you I don’t wish to keep company with you
—only to treat me as a friend. I have wrote, so
you know what to do, and you can have the box
or the money, and the money I owe you I will pay
you next month.—From your affectionate friend,
E. Griggs.” Then he—his name was Harry Hall,
and he was an artificial flower maker—sat down
and wrote a letter, which was found in his pocket
after he had drowned himself:—'“l write these
few lines to let you know the reason for it. I have
got no work, and now I have lost one who is my
all, so now Ido not care what becomes of mo. So
I have done this. Tell Esther 1 wish her well; that
I forgive her as I expect to be forgiven. Good-
bye and God blesß you all.” Miss Griggs appeared
at the inquest, and said that, as deceased had been
out of work for two months, she had thought it
best to break off the engagement. It was not
through any fault of deceased that he had been
out of work, but through slackness in business.
Deceased was of sober habits, and she owed him 3s.
Verdict, temporary insanity.
“With regard to the Fortescue-Garmoyle
breach of promise case, concerning which so many
ridiculous statements and contradictions have
paen made, the following,” writes a man who pro-
jl,e#se 1 s to know, “ may be taken as authentic. The
will come on for trial, and there will be no
defence; a verdict will be given for the plaintiff,
Mid It will then be relegated to the Under-Sheriff s
Count to gqpess the damages. As for the sensa-
tional witnesses, &c., we have heard of, it is all
bosh.” Let us nope, in the interests of the em-
pire, that fair and square justice will be meted out
to the lovely breature. In other words, let us hope
that when the jury assess the damages they will
«imember that her name is not patrician Fortes-
zsuu. but plain Finney; that she is merely a good-
Joo(png young lady, who is by no means a good
actress, inasmuch as her talents, beauty, and all
ffto rest don’t command more than £8 or £lO a
week; ami tlrnt even that amount of money would
in all probability not have been earned by her, any
more than it is earned by a great many more of
her more talented professional sisters, had it not
been lor the tempOxary notoriety gained by her
on account of the announcement that she was
engaged to her alleged faithless lover, the pudding-
headed son of a covenanting legal luminary, who,
though an able lawyer, is a social parvenu.
Here’s a little thing Ave scissors out, smli-
ing all the time Pew women go into the eurf
at the fashionable Long Branch; they simply dress
like pictures and paddle about on the Golden
Shore. But one dashing young lady is superior to
society’s rules. She is a bewitching brunette, ac-
companied by her maid, and her ‘ bathing man.’
She calls him Arsene, The maid places the camp-
stool under a portable awning on the sand. Every-
thing being ready, the mistress throws off her
mantle, tosses it to her maid-servant, and stands a
beautitul picture on the golden sands. She is en-
cased in light red merino from her neck to her
knees. Her arms and lower limbs are covered
with silk, of a glove-like tightness. Her short
tunic is edged with lace. Her lustrous black hair
is unbound, and floats out on the wind. Her bath-
ing man, at her command, lifts her up in his arms
and carries her with stately step into the sea until
he is knee-deep; then he suddenly plunges her
under a big breaker. She comes up with a sputter
and the usual femiDine shriek. Arsene smiles and
speaks to her assuredly. He submerges her no
more, but gently floats her over the waves for
MISS M. C. DAWES,
First Lady Master of Arts la England.
five or ten minutes, and then carries her out. Her
maid throws a cloak over her wet form, and they
retire to her hotel, where every night she appears
in a toilet that makes men wonder and women
wild.” Funny item, isn’t it ?
Among the Javans, if the wife be dissatis-
fied, she can obtain a divorce by paying a certain
sum. In Thibet divorces are rare, and neither
party can re-marry; in Morocco, if a wife does not
become the mother of a boy, she can be divorced.
In Abyssinia no form of marriage is necessary—
you can be divorced and re-married at your own
sweet will; among the Siberians, to be divorced
from your wife, you have only to tear her cap or
veil from her head. In Corea they have an admir-
able system: the husband can divorce his wife, or
treasure, and leave her the charge of maintaining
the children—if she proves unfaithful, he can put
her to death. In Siam, you can divorce your first
wife and sell all the others; and in the Arctic
regions, when a man desires a divorce, ihe leaves
the house in anger, and does not return for several
days-the wife understands the hint, packs up her
clothes, and leaves. This system wouldn’t work
in Sydney, where it would take a woman a fort-
night to pack her clothes. Among the Druses and
Turcomans, if a wife asks her husband’s permission
MRS. SOPHIA BRYANT
First Lady Doctor of Science in England.
t@ go out, and he says “ Go ” without adding “ but
come back again,” she is divorced. Nor would
this style of thing suit in Australia, where it is the
husband who always asks leave to go out. In
China, “ divorces are allowed in all cases of crimi-
nality, mutual dislikes, jealousy, incompatibility
of temper, or too much loquacity on the part of
the wife. he husband cannot sell his wife until
she leaves him and becomes a slave to him by
action of the law for desertion. A son is bo 'nd to
divorce his wife if she displeases his parents.”
But, you see. there’s nothing in this clause to allow
of a man being divorced at the behest of his
mother-in-law. John knows too much. Hook-i-lal
nosaveel
Looking over the Gustave Dore-like illus-
trations in the Town and Country Jernil which
so impartially depict the recent railway-opening
shivoos of Tamworth ind Mudgee, we notice that
every saddle horse belonging to the latter town is
drawn without a rider, whilst those shown in con-
nection with the former city are all duly mounted.
Evidently some deep and sinister sarcasm is in-
tended here, but, as Alfred’s literary intentions
are about as inscrutable as the ways of Providence,
the sting of the thing is, to use that distinguished
litterateur'B own words, “at present shrouded in
Egyptian darkness.” Possibly, Alfred’s aboriginal
artist may have intended to insinuate that the
only portion of the Mudgee cavalry corps sober
enough to attend the splurge were the horses, or he
may have simply meant to hint that the riders
hai crept down their steeds’ throats in order to
shelter themselves from the pouring rain, or to
take refuge from the blood-curdling fraying of
the local brass band, with regard to the Tam-
worth equestrians, the only explanation we can
give is that, seeing the great " upheaval of
political charlatans aud blacklegs ’’—vide Sir ’Enry
Parkes—which has suddenly taken place, they
very prudently sat on their horses’ backs in order
to prevent the “upheaval” from removing their
saddles and briales to the nearest pawn-shop.
However, as we before remarked, the workings of
Alfred s giant intellect are as mysterious as the
contents of the average pork-sausage, and so there
is nothing l6ft but to turn down our hand and pass
the subject for the present.
One of the Briton’s proud boasts is that
under English rule every man is held to be inno-
cent and entitled to be treated as such until he has
been proved guilty by due process. The gaol
authorities, however, know a deuoed sight better
than that. The other day, a prisoner, on being
committed for trial, asked the Bench, through his
solicitor, for permission to be supplied with a
change of his own clothes. The stipendiary made
no objection, but it was stated that the gaol
authorities have objections to receive the property
of me:<i awaiting trial—“ and so the poor dog had
none.” This is surely a little matter in regard to
which the gaol authorities may be said to have
taken the bit into their mouth and bolted clean
out of the proper running! Why should the un-
convicted, and perhaps innocent, poor devil of a
prisoner be denied a change of clothes, or a book
or two, or his other reasonable requirements?
They are not matters that in any way effect his
safe custody, which is the sole concern of his
gaolers. The Colonial Secretary’s people should
see into this, straight, and take order for harmon-
ising prison facts (so far, at least, as the uncon-
victed prisoner is concerned) a little more with the
proud boast of the Briton anent the presumably
innocent.
Does death end all? Just at present we
are half inclined to think it doesn't. The good
that men are capable of doing for us seems to die
with them, but it is by no means certa n that the
revengeful dead are apt to forget old sores, or that
they are at all precluded from giving their enemies
who happen to be still in the flesh a “ nasty jar ”
(as they call it in the spirit world) whenever a ia r
opportunity presents itself. This is no “diluted
insanity ” theory at all, but one that is founded on
real facts. Exempli gratia : Some few years ago a
gentleman crank named Guiteau was sentenced to
death for the murder of his President, and no
sooner was the sentence uttered than he leaped
from his seat, shouted “God will punish you all
forthi*,” and then let loose a string of maledic-
tions upon prosecutors, witnesses,>nd jury, strong
enough to freeze the blood in the veius. Shortly
after this Mr. Guiteau had his neck so badly
sprained at his temporary lodging} that the
authorities found it necessary to bury him, and,
for a time, the world jogged along as cheerfully as
if suoh a man had never lived and died within it.
Regent events, however, tend to show that,
aJthoiigh tac world cruelly forgot Mr. Guiteau
tnat gentleman remembered his part of the con-
tract, and worked it out so faithfully that since he
was choked the District Attorney who worked ud
the case against him has lost his office, and is now
®w ne ' b /'!! ie / ", *,? tbe iand ; two jurymen are
dead, two failed in business, one is hopelessly in-
sane; three doctors who declared Guiteau insane
are dead, a fourth is himself insane; and, lastly
the chemist who traced poispn in the bouquet
sent Guiteau on the morning of his execution has
been committed to a lunatic asylum. That lot
™ conclusively proves that death does
not end all, and that Mr. Guiteau has taken his
° Ut ° f the frlends ;he 80 abruptly left
At Muninderra the long-headed selector is
?iJI arw A th the bulb-necked squatter. For some
selectors have made continual com-
plaints because of their roads being obstructed
in a like manner the squatter has complained
* ceB u b 2 ing v destroyed. Last week the
crisis was reached when the squatter appeared in
Queanbeyan to answer a criminal charge of ob-
-BtJX°tmg the highway. In the early morn there
gathered at the temple of justice-an old and
tottering building—a number of the really repre-
sentative selectors. Men with the wrinkles of
trouble on their brows, a glare In their eyes, and a
surplus amount of hair on their heads. From
pointed, withered chins, sprouted the growth of a
weeks. None of the broad-cloth of leaders
of lashlon was wasted on them, but honest crown
moles and the appreciable ancient tweed covered
the finely-moulded forms of the lordly “cocka-
toos. When the examination of witnesses was
partly through, the true type of the struggling-
selector was called. He was a lank individual! and
bore the l°°k of a martyr—to truth. With a pair
of shoulders broad and bony, long sinewy arms, at
the ends of which spread out like hams a hard
and brown-looking pair of hands; and having a
solid countenance, he looked as though he could
screw up, without the slightest exertion, all the
squatters in the neighbourhood. As the sergeant
u «ea the book to swear him, he wared him off
j b , iB hand, and remarked to the Bench,
I decline ter be sworn yer wuships; its ’gainst me
conscience.’ After affirming that he’d tell the
truth or d- well roast, he stated that through
the road being obstructed he could not cross over to
church I When we hear a man stating his disbelief
in the Bible, and then affirming that his religious
training is neglected because of road ohstructioa,
we feel inclined to howl out for something extra,
too. We would like to ask this witness—
“ What track do you expect to take,
When once you quit this hole ?
Mayhap you’ll tramp (and not forsake)
The one that ends in coal I"
During the fourth week in September,
Anno Domini 1884, every third man to be seen in
the streets of Melbourne city was a parson. Satan
must have run riot in Victorian country towns for
seven whole days, to judge from the number of
smug-faced gentry who journeyed to the capital
with the double purpose of attending the Church
?-*S n^J and , Ass P mb , ly , and having a knock round
Little Bourke-street. They swarmed everywhere.
The weary clerk hurrying along so as to “ get in
before nine was checked in his mad career by a
myriad of divines just turning out from a “ small
and early prayer-meeting at one of the metro-
politan Gospel mills. Later in the day the pretty
shop-girl, glancing up from under her hat with the
laudable ambition of doing a mash during luncheon
hour, trembled for her virtue when her bright
eyes rested upon a sea of broadoloth. And at even-
tide the sinful city man, dropping into the Coffee
Palace Hotel, Collins-street, for a shilling tea and a
smile from fair Phyllis, found one half of the
dining-room dedicated to his pastors and masters.
A screen placed nearly across the room divided the
sheep from the goats, and represented as it were
the gates of the Kingdom. The mercantile goafs
remained on the outer side and gnashed their teeth
against the ragged odds and ends of the refresh-
ments, while the clerical lambkins slipped behind
the sacred barrier and devoured the tit-bits.
Strange to say, this anticipation of the Judgment
Day didn’t at all meet the approval of certain
among the goats. They argued that the parsonic
shilling was no better than the lay “bob," and
gave free vent to tneir discontent when the sanc-
timonious snuffling from the Kingdom proclaimed
that one of the elect was indulging in “ a few
remarks’’ over his chop. One bald-headed old
sinner pricked up his ears, and remarked patheti-
cally that he never could eat while another fellow
was praying, but his mournful protest availed not.
A bolder spirit, though, cried “ dry up ” in such
clarion tones that the reverend orator hastily con-
cluded his discourse, and the clerical tea concluded
likewise. As the last child of light passed sorrow-
fully into the outer world, the screen was taken
down, and the goats remained masters of the
situation. It’s safe to bet that when the next
session of the Church of England Assembly comes
round the brethren will not venture upon gather-
ing themselves together in a publio shilling tea
room. Clerical orgies are best adapted to churches,
and there are lots of ’em in Melbourne.


Now is the Time
IT is at this season, when the diseases of the
blood and skin are most active, that Disfigur-
ing Humors, Humiliating Eruptions, Itching Tor-
tures, Salt Rheum or Eczema, Psoriasis, Tetter,
Ringworm, Baby Humors, Scrofula, Scrofulous
Sores, Abscesses, and Discharging Wounds, and
every species of Itching, Scaly, and Pimply Dis-
eases of the Skin and Scalp, are most speedily and
economically cured by the Cuticoba Remedies.
HUNDREDS of letters in our possession (copies
of which may he had by return mail) are
our authority for the assertion that Skin, Scalp>
and Blood Humors, whether Scrofulous, Inherited,
or Contagious, may NOW be permanently cured
by Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally, in one
half the time and at one half the expense of any
other season.
To Purify the Blood
CHA.S. HOUGHTON, Esq., lawyer, 38 State St.,
Boston, reports a case of Salt Rheum under
his observation for ten years, which covered the
patient’s body and limbs, and to which all known
methods of treatment had been applied without
benefit, which was completely cured solely by the
CirriCURA Remedies, leaving a clean and healthy
skin. Sworn to before the British Consul.
FH. DRAKE, Esq., Detroit, Mich., suffered
• untold tortures from Salt Rheum, which ap-
peared on his hands, head, and faoe, and nearly
destroyed his eyes. After the most careful doc-
toring and a consultation of physicians failed to
relieve him, he used the Cuticuba Remedies, and
was cured, and has remained so to date. Sworn to
before the British Consul.
To Beautify the Skin
The HALF HAS not been told as to the great
curative powers of the Cuticura Remedies.
I have paid hundreds of dollars for medicines to
cure diseases of the blood and skin, and never
found anything yet to equal the Cuticura Reme-
DIES _ Chas. A. Williams.
Providence, K. I.
YOUR CUTICURA REMEDIES outsell another
medicines I keep for skin diseases. My cus-
tomers and patients say that they have effected a
cure in every instance, where other remedies have
failed.
H. W. Brockway, M.D.
Franklin Falls, N.H.
GUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Core (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging "Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
It. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Bab;
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-9aay Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 60 cents ; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
W.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
O
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia. -
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices tor Cash ; or Easy Terms.
W ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
V. H. PAUNG STCO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK Q NEW SOUTH WALES,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading- and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., 4c.
T H £.s at^ r , 1 ? g J an< l s P le Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Lunoheons
and ail kinds of demonstrations.
the oitv D Q^, nc Lr KE F ? E i SHly f J KNT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest In
1 5,® Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties un-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
£. D. TOLLEMA.CHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac*
luring Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
■with the latest improvements,
£3 l©s. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pit Ist., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, '
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU, WAIT I
GENT.'S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ .. 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 103.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
ESP” Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE IK SUM ED.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening off New Show Rooms.
Mu RUE, LLOYD St CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland
FIRST GRAND BHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOWOF TEA GOWNS.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gow^i?ldomhig N Wraps*' Cash
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Crocks. (The most complete stock ever’shownT ’ ohildreß *
ERIN-GO-BRAGH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING* | LONDON MACHINE-MAT)E TTWDFRrr nTnTMn
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES UNDERCLOTHIN <*-
Aq arrß y beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NETT
SOUTH WALES.'
BRANCH OFFICES.
80DTHiB>r District, N.8.W.;
Goulburn
Yasa
Bowning
Bin along
Harden
Young
Cootamun&r*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hangring Book
Culoairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
WiaiTBHH District, N.8.W.:
C&pertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngran
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymasree
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northrrs District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
lirewarrina
Tamworth
UraJla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Limb;
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Teulba
Cambooya
Cwttral Lin*:
Rockhampton
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
fiavenawooti Junotion
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH * CO., LIMITED.
HT" Agencies In all narts of the world.
Fosier’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE AT/W t
The BEST ALE and STOUT In the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINWI
MERCHANTS. 'VINES
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
■
M. A. BROWN A CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
-'6O GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-btreet.)
From the Strand, London.
Sa
w
%
ma a
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated Arm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
QATTELL Sc CO, Bole Agents.


Died from it.
J. W. Adams, Newark, Ohio, says: “Ccticura
Remedies are the greatest medicines on earth.
Had the worst ease of Balt Rheum in this country.
My Mother had it twenty years, and in fact died
from it I believe Cuticura would have saved her
life. My arms, breast, and head were covered for
i hree years, which nothing relieved or cured until
I used the Cuticura Resolvent (blood puriiier)
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap (the
great skin cures) externally.” Every ipecies of
itchiDg and scaly Skin Diseases cured by the Cuti-
CURA Remedies, the only infallible Skin Cures,
Blood Purifiers, and Skin Beautltters.
READ XT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buclui, mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
' ‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
4 these Bitters are invaluable, being
• highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
4 wait until you are sick, but if you only
4 feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
-4 dreds have been saved by so doing, at
4 a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge them to
4 use Hop Bitters.”
44 Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
4 drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
4 without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous JDeblltty and
, _ . Physical Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor.
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 62 Castlereagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis*
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-strnet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Fac-simlles of Han (lw riling for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED Rv
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
ofo racing
y "a cuf" ertgrras?eb op (IJype /*\efc
a£ Ey pfto'To-cfjemicaP nrtea.ny.
9"H f mourLtecj Type ar\cL.
car? 6e yeti m
cmc| pripfecl ‘prom. ay ordi—•
nary r i n.Ti*n. prey . 9r? aj&pect-r—
-arjce tT reyeiviSiPe/ \?ery ciosefy
a cooob cuL an.d| \j to
saperyede To a cj*reaf~ exte
tfiaf <sPouo a rip cosffy
oj? engrcwr\cj . NVe c
qrreaf" i ncjiicenn-erLiy fo a£f? coßo
u/e cu£/ -j?or , P r ice
> or cugpy
<§ld\?er / Tiy*i ng parpye. our
es n matTey cxncj
■?;
m_e tTuocL
cap o^er
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
o
o
sn
ilitiihifilMiilt
BOLE AGENTS FOR THE 3 “
SMITH OEGAIT.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT BTS.EET
i
£-
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed hv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in t> minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes I!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes 1!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony: a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
teßted by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P-,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHlLL—da,ughter of the Duke ol
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and Bister ol
Lord Randolph Chuithiil, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
4ST Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’* Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, <b Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
Crewkerne, Xuv. 12, ISSO. v
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of I)r. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she yets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, (j. p. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.E.
From Dr. Lemprtkrk, D.C L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
Gentlemen,—l have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is.
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances. The
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, C. Lbmprikre, D.C.L., &c.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
These Brushes oan be obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storekeepers, or will bo forwarded
direct to any part of N.B.W. or Queensland upon receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orderß, Stamps, or Curroncr. Cheoucs can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia, toe that the name of Dr. Scott is oil thoßoi,without which
none are ffenuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.O. BOX 22,. 44 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The lowest depths of depravity have at
last been sounded. Only a few short weeks ago,
our Melbourne exchanges were full or the fact
that His Excellency the Governor of \ ictoria had
frequently to go short of create, owing to the
cows in the gubernatorial paddock being milked
during the night by tramps. And now, right on
top of this, comes the heart-rending tale that our
Vice-regal tables are often short of omelettes
through the dastardly conduct of some fiends in
human form who get into His Excellency’s fowl-
house beforel dawn, chase the hens round with a
stick to make them lay before their time, and then
march off with their ill-gotten spoil, and subse-
quently smack their lips and drink the Governor s
health in flowing bowls of egg-flip. Sodom and
Gomorrah never equalled this.
We of Australia, writes our London cor-
respondent, are apt at timis to imagine that we
have among other good things, almost a monopoly
of the gold-mining of the world, How many of us
have ever heard of the wonderful “El Callao”
mine, which, situated in Venezuela and owned by
Englishmen, most of whom reside in London, is
annually giving vast fortunes to its lucky pos-
sessors ? Here are the figures:—
RETURNS FOR THE PAST NINE YEARS.
In 1875 tlie produce was 31,278 oz., value £119,508
„ 187(5 ,, 43,512 „ „ 183,545
1877 ., 48,188 „ „ 181,041
„ 1878 „ 49,838 „ „ 189,8)8
„ 1879 ,, 4e,308 „ „ 154,010
„ 1880 „ 53,806 „ „ 201,020
„ 188 L „ 84,883 „ „ 243,230
„ 1882 „ 104,811 ,, „ 392,290
„ 1883 „ 117.360 „ ,. 469,440
And for the six months of this year 96,854 ounces,
value £377,416.
In 1871, El Callao was first started with a capital of
£4800. Additional capital was shortly added to the
extent of £8080, the combined issue representing
£12,880. In 1873, in consequence of the good pro-
spect of the mine, the capital of the company was
increased to £51,510, and in 1883 converted to 32,203
shares of £K) eaco, or say £1,288,0C0. The conver-
sions already described show that the original
capital, which in 1871 amounted to £12,880, has been
increased a hundredfold. The dividends paid by
the company on their actual capital of £1 288,000
have been 19 per cent, per annum—that • is to
say, low per cent, on the original capital. The prr-
duct on of gold is Increasing, in January of this
year, the return amounted to 14,000 oz.; In Feb-
ruary, to 14,500 oz.; in March, to i7,000 oz ; and in
the first fortnight of April, to 10,000 oz. From 1871
to 1883 inclusive, El Callao has produced 618,389 oz.
of gold, representing an approximate value of
£2,381,550. augmenting at tlie same time the Re-
serve Fund to £49,000. l'ney are now erecting
more machinery and sinking new shafts, and they
look forward with the utmost coutldence to doub-
ling the yield of gold, and, consequently, more
than doubling the dividends. Yet, iu 1873, the pro-
prietors. being then greatly discouraged, the colos-
sal value of their mine not being yet manifest,
offered to sell half of it in London tor £100,000; but
no one would buy. In 1879, they offered naif of it
to the Rothschilds, of Paris, for £400,000; but the
representative of the latter Arm happening to
arrive at an inopportune time, the offer was de-
clined; and a similar result attended overtures
made to other bankers. It was in consequence of
these refusals that tne company decided to recon
stltute itself, the 32,200 shares, amount-
ing to £1.288 000, which are represented by the
market price of to-day at more than two millions
sterling. The returns for June last amounted to
17,099 oz. of gold, valued at over £70,000 sterling.
Only a fraction of the entire mining area has as
yet been worked. The figures as to the average
yield are no less wonderful: —From 1879 to 1881, the
average yield of gold per ton of quartz was 3 oz ;
in 1882, 4?4 oz.; in 1883, 6 oz.; and the first six
months, of this year, 7 oz. As already indicated
it is estimated that shortly the output of gold will
be increased to 40,000 or 50,000 oz. per month, as
against the present monthly yield of 16,000 to
20,000 oz. The July dividend was £1 5s. 7d. per
share, equal to £15 7s. for the year on £40, or at the
rate of 38 per cent, per annum. The £40 shares
now stand at £100 In the market. Our correspon-
dent adds that Mr. “ Nicky ” Williams, who is well
known at Charters Towerc, has an appointment of
£2000 or £3003 a year, as manager for a London
syndicate Interested in Brazilian gold-mines. Also,
that it Is very likely, indeed, that most influential
people will buy a large share in the new gold-pro-
cess (already described in these columns) invented
and promoted by Messrs. Morgan and Longden (of
Charters Towei s) and Jordan, the London mining-
engineer.


THE
IGNO
Piano.
Igfelfipp
■mbwrisw i ' fm pp
“ i
liiijr*1 = , : V;
waem
■. nJ iW'
iiliiimiiiiiwwn'" "i~r
•-v
NICBOLSOH m CO.'S
TAMOUS
JVligmon
PIAWO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
(guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
nigholsoTT and go.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it 13 possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I*rlce Im. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
RKOIRTKRRD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, &SPEEDT CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that wring’ from lack of nerve force, aa Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousnoss, Indigestion, Loss of
*nnetlta, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Priee, fa. 6d.. or 255. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARBH ALL BROTHERS, M.P.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 16* aDd
10* Marget-street. near Hyde Park. Bydney, and
5 Pitt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO BUBBTI-
- MTTE.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair maybe darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Brtcher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but lor the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely’bald.”
,T. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
{Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within niv
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began_to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procuretli, I have used AVER’S Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing frcm 18 Kim
St., Charlestoion , Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly vised but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use if occasionally as
a dressing.”
"We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
PREPARED BY >'
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggistß.
KLLIOTT BROS., 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, hGaling, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’_, ssy and per-
manent brown or black, wbicV; colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith’s Latest Afove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 390 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY OOODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, E IC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in thoiE, to expedite
removal of his enormous stock.
C 3?" The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
m
TSBOOTI
j! /^EQUALLED
PfSYDNEY
J EUTHETR FOR
PRICE or QUAUT>i|
.404
CEORCES
BLEND
JMAfUS
] TRADE]
Ji
fe/S
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This Is a BLEND
of the PUKEST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining; fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & OO. t Bolc
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
’CfLEBR^I
if*!
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
|ar* MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
pr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
New south wales.-monster consul
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£250; starters, £250; non-starters £500—£2500.
Fi Bt prize gift, £600; second prize gift, £300; third
pri-'e gift, £150; 10 at £5O, £500; 10 at £25, £250 j
20 at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Bum-
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.O.
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard o
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectui
by application.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
Z
E
a
s
£
a
%
m
<5
£
O
B
\
o
to
a.
£
4
r
9
r*ft
tk s
cn
%
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Tla.e KeHafbl© Bugg-ies I
\
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
IST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
£ TOOK
lillPbßTfeßS
l&iBl
\
%
ft
S’!
'ft
X Well
Mil §«*[s f
- °f atl Pi
r, l Q toc 4{ _ ~
r CARDS .CHEMICALS f? d l%
Iqents top »m^\
iw-’ W.JOHNSON &.SONS [PAP£R~i
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLDT^


INDIA CHIPS IN.
“ Campbell Hospital, Seal dab, Calcutta, March 16,
1884:—Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of ST. JACOBS OIL in cases of sore
throats, pains, &c., and suffering while in this in-
stitution with a sore throat, I obtained the per-
mission of the medical officers, who attended me
for small-pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in
stating that a single application gave me much
relief, and in three days, using the oil twice daily,
I felt rid of the sore throat. I have no hesitation
in recommending the use of the same to ethers,
and feel sure they will find the oil give instan-
taneous relief. I would also here mention that
with the sore throat I had a severe pain in the
jaws, which was removed after only two applica-
tions of ST. JACOBS OIL.— (Signed) E. A. Pereira,
Head Inspector of Post-offices.”
FURTHER POSITIVE PROOF.
Montague’s Fancy Bazaar, 58 Princess-street,
Dunedin, oth May, 1884. Messrs. Neill Bros., Dune-
din. Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in testify-
ing to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil in a severe
case of neuralgia in the face. After trying many
so-called remedies without obtaining relief,
nothing did me so much good. After two or three
applications the pain entirely disappeared, and am
glad to state I have had no return of the trouble
since. I cheerfully recommend it to others suffer-
ing from the same painful ailment. I remain,
dear sirs, respectively yours, Julia Montague.
HE SUFFERED ACUTELY.
D. Benjamin, Esq., the well-known wholesale
Jeweller and Importer, Dowling-street, Dunedin,
writes cheerfully as follows Dowling-street,
Dunedin, 2nd May, 1884. Dear Sir,— Being a firm
non-believer in patent or proprietary medicines,
my testimony may be of some value to you. Last
week I suffered acutely from severe contraction
of the nerves of the neck and shoulder. A friend
laughingly suggested St Jacobs Oil, and Unvested
in a bottle, rubbing it well in at right before re-
tiring. The feeling of warmth and counter-irrita-
tion I experienced almost immediately was very
strong. And I am pleased to state that I awoke
next morning with hardly any trace of pain. A
second and less prolonged application cured me
completely. A bad chilblain on my ear was re-
moved with one rubbing. You may mention my
name as an authority on St. Jacobs Oil.i
I remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours.
D. Benjamin.
oJ\nttCAsTLE£s%
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
A RAGOUT OF RECOLLECTIONS.
Strange, is it not, how the rnere mention
of a name, the smell of a flower, the echo of a
song, will call up ghostly memories from the
buried past? [This is a very original sentiment-
in Plato— Ed. B] We have even known a little
writing on a small sheet of blue paper stamped
with the royal arms to awaken recollections that
seemed to be dead and forgotten. This time our
mental palimpsest [Eh?— Eo. B ] has been cleared
by the agency of cayenne penper— cayenne pepper
at a lecture. The lecture was deli vered in Adelaide.
The lecturees was Miss Ada Campbell. Somebody
threw cayenne pepper on the floor, and, of course,
there was temporary chaos. With this we have
nothing to do, except that it was the cause of a
paragraph in the papers embodying the name-
sweet name! —of Ala Campbell. At the sight ot
this name we saw a ghost in the glass—the ghost
of ourselves as we appeared eighteen months ago.
We may mention here that our personal appear-
ance is not what even our most partial friends
would call majestic or even moderately beauti-
ful. Eariy Neanderthal would be, perhaps,
the best description, [ft must be distinctly
understood that the writer is here speaking for
himself.-Ed. B] So that when we tell you that
eighteen months ago we were even less lovely
than we are now,you can fancy that we were not the
ideal of a maiden’s dream. However, we don t
pose for our pettiness; we pose for our genius.
Well, eighteen revolving moons ago we had an
inspiration—an inspiration to travel. There were
reasons for it, too, but these are only interesting
to ourselves and a lew others who are probably
dead by this time. We had read of Marco Polo
and Mungo Park and Julian Thomas, till we were
bursting with enthusiasm to go and see the world
as they did. Therefore, we packed up what we
considered a comprehensive outfit —consisting of a
pack of cards, two pipes, aad a crutch for contin-
gencies—and taking a last moonlight view of the
house we were leaving, climbed over the back-
fence and departed for distant lands, our first
intention had been to go to Thibet and interview
the Graud Lama (the dearest desire, by the way, of
poor O’Donovan, who died in the Soudan). We
had a plan to propose to him—a very practical
plan, too, we considered it at the time. It was to
issue a mandate to the Buddhist world to the
effect that he considered it a desirable thing
that a Holy War should be proclaimed just about
that time. The number of Buddhists capable
of bearing arms we reckoned at about fifty mil-
lions. AVe should take command of this little
brigade and commence to soread ourselves over
the Orient in the manner of Genghis KhaD, Tamer-
lane, and other interesting personages. Fitst, we
should pour a detachment of ten millions or so
down into India. The British garrison there would,
we calculate, make about one collation for these.
The Viceroy we should carry away in chains, with
the view of torturing him when we tve re in want
of light amusement; or, perhaps, if we were in a
very element mood, we should make him our
bottle-bearer. (N.B.—We should always have a
distillery on wheels to accompany us in our cam-
paigns.) As for the well-connected Indian Civd
servants, we should promptly promote them to the
cemetery. After this, «e should descend upon
the Carnaticffwberever the Carnatio may be), and
having completely conquered India, amalgamate
our victorious forces and proceed rapidly to de-
vastate Persia (principally, we will own in confi-
dence, to get possession of a pipe worth £BO,OOO,
which the Bhah is said to possess), and on our
way to the Mediterranean seize Jerusalem and
turn it into a universal pawn-shop, wherein
we should “put up” the Three Kingdoms on the
first opportunity. Then, having thrown a bamboo
bridge over the Dardanelles, wc should ass'.milate
Europe in the course of a fortnight. It would be
too much trouble to cross the Atlantic in any force
so we should simply send over an armed dredge
which, after it had burst up the American navy,
we should order to sack New York and bring over
the President aud the leaders of the Democratic
Party in irons. While this was being done, we
should free Ireland, and then wait for a week or
two in London—which we should also sack at our
leisure—for the first Irish Patriot to come over
.and offer to sell his country back into slavery
again. We should alwavs keep whisky on the
premises to meet those advances. All these things
being satisfaetbrily settled, we should return
and make our metropolis in Rome. Of course
—as a compliment to the Grand lama as the
head of; a faith—we should pension the Pope,
and see that he never wanted tobacco as long
as he lived. Having conquered the world, we
should calmly lay ourselves out to feed the
Grand Lama on Mackay rum until he died. The
next proceeding, of course, would bo to proclaim
our own apotheosis. What would follow upon
this, we hardly know, but probably' the first time
we went out on foot we should be run over by
a dray. Splendid programme, wasn’t it? We
walked along the street that night enveloped in a
haze of visionary glory, which was only dispelled
when we stopped under.a lamp and examined our
exchequer. It was not a dazzliDg sight, nor yet
an altogether disheartening one. We certainly
could not see the Grand Lama on it; but it would
run to gazing on Hanby of the Newcastle
Herald, and that was nearly as good. So we
booked in the Newcastle steamer a place for our-
selves, and one for our advance agent. Speaking
of him, we must tell you that we had decided to
give a course of moral and religious lectures in
the towns on the Northern line, and that, with a
view of carrying out the affair in a thoroughly
professional manner, we engaged a gentleman of
considerable culture and a crooked leg. Indeed,
it was said by some of his friends-who, perhaps,
were disposed to be too partial—that his leg be-
came crooked through too much cultivation of
his intellect. However that may be, he advanced
before us when we got out at the Newcastle wharf
—a place of sepulchral squalor - and immediately
commenced to load himself with the liquor most
in fashion among coal heavers and journalists—
that is, the liquor of which you can get most for
your money. The consequence was that when, in
the course of time, we came round to the hotel we
intended to stay at we found him with his feet
upon the kerbstone snd his head in the gutter just
opposite the hotel door. He had been fusilladed
out, and his luggage, tied up in a large red hand-
kerchief with white spots upon it, thrown after
him. The laudlord was standing in the door-way
as we came up, and asked us if we knew anything
of “that man;” and we basely denied ever having
seen him before. He slept in the cemetery that
night, and was very nearly getting into trouble
with some of the corpses there whom he awoke
with his hlocuping. Three days of Newcastle
satisfied ue, under these circumstances. We never
lectured, but we went to hear Miss Ada Campbell
lecture. (You see we have not forgotten what we
started about.) It was not an. exhilarating per-
formance We sat in the middleof a row of grimy
gentlemen who chewed nailrod and stared at
the platform with savage despondency, as though
they were satisfied in their own minds that the
lecturcss would never turn ?*?. or that, if she did
turn up, she would have pe ’»ng to tell them that
they wanted to hear. An A tor a while, it seemed
as if they were right. But after a time a small
child in furbelows and pantalettes came demurely
upon the stage, and, alter several ineffectual at-
tempts, at last succeeded in climbing upon the
music-stool, and commenced to assault the piano.
There was a sort of subdued fury perceptible
among the audience while this was going on. At
length a signal was giveD, the furbelows and pan-
talettes climbed dowu from tbe stool, the back
seeno opened, and Miss Ada Campbell glided in
upon the stage After a stately obeisance to the
audience, she proceeded to the table, drank half a
glass of water, and then, coming to the edge ot
the platform, smiled slowly and began. We for-
get what the lecture was about, but we remember
that it was fluent. Mies Campbell is clever, and
has a fine set of strong white teeth, which flash
but once across a steak and it belongs to the past.
We had some conversation with Miss Campbell
after tbe lecture, and discovered her to be an ex-
tremely well-informed woman, with a strong lean-
ing to Republicanism and a partiality for par-boiled
eggs. She was staying at the hotel whore we stayed
If we were in any sort of spirits T even methylated
spirits—we could tell you some amusing things
about our adventures in Newcastle. But there is
nothing iff the house but furniture-polish, and
after one or two trials we have come to the con-
clusion that there is no inspiration to be got out of
that. We came back from Newcastle to find that
our agent was in the lock-up for travelling on the
steamer without his fare. We bailed him out, and
then went away and hid ourselves for five weeks.
We had taken such affectionate adieux of our
friends before leaving, had received such enthu-
siastic encomia from them for our dash and
courage in starting on such an expedition, that it
was more than our life was worth to present our-
selves back again three days after. Anyhow, this
ended our great Northern expedition. Since then
we have never gone beyond one section on the
tram-line—and that mostly a penny one.
A Shroud reporter was reading about the
wonderful memory of De Blowitz, the Paris cor-
respondent of the Times, and was carefully tick-
ing off the points of resemblance between that
scribe and himself. He read on: *“M. de Blowitz
never has headache’—H’ml no threepenny drinks
for him; ‘ he can sleep at any hour of the day or
night’—that’s me; ‘he can eat at any time’—strik-
ing coincidence! (biting off three inches of cold
sausage), ‘ or fast, as required ’—don’t mention it!
(with a hollow laugh); ‘he seems to enjoy life’—
so do I, seem to; ‘he rarely takes notes, and his pencil
Is a trinket attached to his watch-chaiu.’ ” Here
his hand went mechanically to an empty fob.
There was a deep sigh, and the current of his
thoughts turned wistfully to the vanished glories
of yore.
At the late University conversazione the
following curious exhibits were on view :
“An automatic stone carver ; model illus-
trating perpetual motion; a diagram shew-
ing all the principal stars of the heavens,
each in its correot position : a copy of the
Evening News printed on rich toned hand-made
paper; a phial containing a gramme of atmo-
spheric air, solidified at a pressure of 13 atmo-
spheres and zero Fahrenheit; microscope shewing
section of the eye of a protozoa; instrument shew-
ing the functions of the pancreas; pair of com-
passes for squaring the circle; new kind of tele-
scope for examining the reversed hemisphere of
the moon; section of granite consisting of quartz
crystals only; a fossil marine fish from the
Hawkesbury sandstones.”
This illustration shows a pretty pattern of pelerine, and bonnet with flat peak. They
are very tasteful, and are composed—the pelerine of brown lace and ornaments of
brown guipure, tbe bonnet of brown straw and bows of sarsenet ribbon. A row of
large marguerites is placed at the extreme edge of the flat peak, which has a very
becoming effect.
Mr. H. P. Hubbard, the advertising agent
of Newhaven, Connecticut (U.S.), from whose
establishment was issued a Newspaper Directory
of the World, which is a monument of exhaustive
compilation and in every respect the most re-
markable work of its kind ever issued from th 9
Press, has asked us to express an opinion as to his
style of transactingadvertisingbusiness. We have
no hesitation in complying. We have had many
dealings with Mr. Hubbard, and every transaction
has been conducted in a business-like way which
has compelled our admiration. The organisation
of his establishment must be exceptionally perfect
judging by the clear and oomprehtnsive style in
which orders for advertisements are conveyed.
And his settlements have on all occasions been
prompt and accurate. Having settled the basis at
the outset, Mr. Hubbard never attempts to go
back from his contracts, but remits to the last
penny agreed upon, and prompt to the time sti-
pulated.
Barring Sladen’s sentimental poetry and
the love-letters of Peter Campbell, the funniest
items out are the high-flown mottoes taken by
some of our country saveloy-wrappers when read
in connection with the soul-stirring local news
that follows. For instance, a jabbering journal
down South started off last Wednesday’s issue of
his rag by piously observing:
“ Be just, and fear not:
Let all the ends thou aim’st at be thy country’s.
Thy God’s, and truth’s.”— Shakespeare.
And the very first end we caught on to after this
informed us, “ We regret to say that larrikinism is
once more rampant amongst us. On last Monday
night, some dastard fiend in human form, after
poisoning tbe dog of one of our most respectable
citizens pourecl a quantity of filth under his back
door, and then endeavoured to pull down his pig-
stye. Failing in this, the despicable wretch
then stole a doormat valued at 10s. Buch deeds
as these are a scandal,to the age.” If the above
should meet the eye of William Shakespeare, he-
will, no doubt, feel inclined to exclaim once more,
“ To what base uses,” &c.
One of the good old Identities of tlie Deni-
Uquin district is a lord of the soil called King Billy,
a gentleman who might be considered good-look-
ing, if his head were taken off, and who rejoices in
the possession of the champion thirst of Riverina.
Feeling anxious to test the depths of Billy s sto-
mach, an inquisitive bagman recently offered him
a quart of beer, provided he would first drink two
quarts of water. Billy at once surrounded the lot
without turning a single hair; and then, looking
round the bar, coolly inquired, “Any odergemmen
like t’ see me do that job ag’in ? Now’s yer time,
sahs.” A few days ago his Majesty was hanging
round the bar of the Wanganella Hotel on the off-
chance of getting a nip, when the coach pulled up
and two gentlemen wallsing into the parlour called
for drinks. Being followed in and annoyed mr a
white loafer, Billy at once perceived a golden
opportunity to improve the shining hour, and
accordingly brushing in he grabbed the bummer
fore and aft, and, indignantly exclaiming ' Heah!
whasser a blank blanker like you want pokin yer
nose in for when gentlemen’s drinkin’ ?” he shot
the dead-beat out of the door, and returned wiping
htslips so significantly that ho was at once supplied
with a well-earned skinful.
Kempsey, ever in the very furniture-van
of progress, has now a whole baggage train and
caravan of it promised. The Macleay Herald has
changed hands, and thus tbe new vanman harnesses
up his mule: “Although in undertaking the pro-
Erietorship of this journal we feel that we are
eavily handicapped, nevertheless we have entered
upon the enterprise nothing daunted.” And then,
bringing the handle of his bullock-whip a regular
banger all the length of his ribs, ho pants out be-
tween breaths a sentiment that mules can appre-
ciate: “Although not giants in journalism, we are
not wanting in nerve and musoular power.” Not
giants, quotha ? Very Goliahs. my masters. Why,
look here, in the following six lines— modus operan-
di, vis inertia, a la tapis (to say nothing of a la
tapioca, reserved), There’s vigour for you! Nor
is the important matter of horse-breeding to go
without encouragement, for it is said: “ And w 6
will do our best for the entire of the district,” and
“ we will do our best for this district in advancing
its social, political, and religious improvement.
Knowing that the Macleay is already a beacon
bright and rare in having as the head of its social
and political matters so great a man as R.B (’twere
blasphemy to speak the last name in this connec-
tion), we applaud the Herald for its forethought
in re its “religious development.” And now
everything is in good hands up that way, sub-
scribers will oblige by remitting,” &c. In other
words, “ now for the collection.”
Nowra (wherever that is) is happy in the
possession of the smallest paper, perhaps, in the
world—the Weekly Pickwick of that ilk beiDg
just large enough to stuff a hollow tooth with, but
it would require three Pickwicks to make an
infant’s kite. The appearance of the Pickwick is
peculiar enough; but its get-up is not one quarter
as eccentric as its letter-press. Here now, in its
delicious entirety, is the Pickwick’s first par:—
“Roger Mao, the Yerriyong masher, can be seen
wending his way to the single Oake’s abode in his
leasure (sic) time." It must be said fer the Pick-
wick that the whole of its contents are almost, if
not quite, up to this brilliant literary standard.
The poetry, perhaps, rises in style one rung of the
literary ladder above it. For instance:—
“ He enters into Mr. Bralian’s,
And you’ll hear him shout oe'r (sic) at Graham’s,
Did you see the Pickwick ?
He will laugh and shout,
Aad run about until he weary grows,
Then to slip H's honse (sic) he goes,
To steer (sic) and seek some sweet repose.”
This is, unfortunately, the only piece of verse
published in our number; but we trust the editor
will encourage this poet in a moderate manner.
For it would be a pity, would it not, if, intoxicated
with success, he should be induced to wag
away from the wool-washing ? A startling item.
comes from Kiama. Here is some of it:—“Two
young men disagreed about black Molley, up
the lane, with a pink ribbon in her hair, the red
head pug and the flat head German, and the red
head Pug run against the lainp post, and the great
Butcher followed him, and Mr. B. B. got stuck in
tbe coal and cc uld not come to the red head Pug’s
assistance.” In another place we Jearn that “ Alf.,
the bank boy, is doing a great mash with little
Maggie, the little rag-tacker” (!); and, also, that
Bob, the Rose Valley masher (always “masher”),
“ is doing a great kill with the Darlington Belle.”
Further, a writer wonders “what the cook was
doing in the reserve;” and another item sets forth
that at “ a pub. fence in Nowra any night in the
week, little J. M. might be seen doing the jam pro-
perly with the young man from over the way.
Yah (sic).” The appended par., however, la, per-
haps, the gem of the collection. “ The little Cho-
colate [!] says, since the return of the ‘ White Gin ’
[II] from Sydney, her bouncing manners has (sic)
become almost unbearable, and she can’t suffer it
much longer. ’lts (sic) her foolish ways that’s all.”
We think we have given the prominence to this
noble publication to which it is justly entitled, and
we have only to congratulate the proprietors upon
their enterprise in letting loose such a glittering
publication upon the face of the earth. We should
rather like to see the editor of the Pickwick -to
gaze upon his classic lineaments, before he dies of
a hob-nailed boot.
For years past, Mrs. Frank Leslie has been
one of the best catches in America. Young and
handsome, widow of the founder of Frank Leslie’s
illustrated paper, and now possessing an enormous
income—she is, at last, Jiancte. The man is a dude
—he is the Marquis de Leuville. It would be hard
to describe him better than in the words of
“Flaneur,” between whom and the Marquis, there is
a bad feud. The fact is, the jaunty journalist
pokes fun at the scented dude. Says he, I have
always regarded the marquis as one of the most
extraordinary and unique creations of heaven.
Added to a form and face which has no counter-
part on earth, are all the attractions that can be
bestowed by unlimited tailors, indefatigable bar-
bers, corset-makers, boot-makers, and decorators.
“Louisville” is an admirable illustration of the
combination of art, mechanism, and nature.
Twice, lately, I have run on to the marquis. On
both occasions he has glared at md as loDg as it
was possible for him to do so, and I suspect that the
result will be gore. When he trotted into an ele-
vated car a short time ago, carrying Mrs. Leslie’s
fan, poodle-dog, parasol, wrap, and morning paper,
I ventured to smile. I had not fairly got the
manamvre under way when I was obliged to
abandon it and look serious under the fierce gaze of
the marquis. He sat directly opposite me, beside
Mrs. Leslie, and stared at me with an air that
meant that if I smiled again I would die with
the smile on my lips. Stumbling out, I ran
against a man who had been watching the
panorama, and as he didn’t swear, I looked up. It
was Amos Cummings, the writer. He said: “ That
must be Louisville?” “It is.” “Well,” said
Amos, “ I’m glad I’ve seen it. People have often
mentioned it. I have seen unique, uncouth, and
curious objects on the face of the earth; but I
never saw a combination like the Marquis, when
he’s wearing his corsets and his cigarette.” The
nobleman wore his usual serene and haughty look;
his nosG was held high in the air, and the radiance
of the neighbouring gas-lamps was caught in the
oily locks of his beard and hair. His single glass
dangled over his bulging breast, and his feminine
gloves and boots were of the usual Immaculate fit
and infantile dimensions. This morning, as I came
down town, the train stopped, the door flew open,
and the conductor winked to tne car. A moment
later the doorway was darkened, and the marquis
trotted in. His raiment was gorgeous. His
shoulders were wider than ever, and one could
almost span his waist. His hair was artistically
banged low on his brow, and his white felt hat
balanced on the back oi his head so as to exhibit
his front hair, or hair front—l’ve forgotten what
the girls call it. He took a handkerchief from his
pocket, as he sat down directly opposite me, and
delicately touched the banged hair over his brow.
Then he daintily caressed his whiskers, smiled
sweetly at his boots, and raised his eyes. As he
raised his eyes, he detected me in the act of engi-
neering the same unholy grin that had incensed
him once before, and as he scowled he accidentally
dropped his cane. It—the cane—fell directly in
front of me, and I bad a mometary impulse to pick
it up; but I restrained myself, and looked coldly
at the marquis, who, I am sure, had a smaller waist
than usual that morning. He looked at the cane,
and the animosity died out of his eyes, as the
awful fact presented itself to him. Tbe other men
in the car who were looking on caught the situa-
tion at a glance, and no one offered to pick up the
cane. He raised his finger and beckoned to the
brakeman, but that functionary made some impo-
lite remark and continued whistling. At last, with
an effort, the marquis set his lips, bent over, and
reached for the stick. He grew very red, puffed
heavily, suddenly straightened himself again, and
involuntarily put his hand to his side; then he
made another fierce effort, grabbed the stick,
threw himself triumphantly back, and panted
heavily, while a subdued murmur of applause ran
around the car. The marquis still Moats about
town. I dodge him.


Ingham’s
jig, Uueensland Cure
Couchs,
•if ■’V Prepared only by
iL&omas Ingham n
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes Bennlrs neatly exe-
autaii
m.
BORTHWIGK,
i Importer of
111 *' S,lec< ’ aml Ornamental fcilass,
* COLOR MERCHANT,
INTER AND decora - tor >
v erer, Beveller, and Embosser.
stock of Paperhangings of the most
%*».. 81 £ns ever seen in the colonies.
Se ht post free.
iSI street,
Hunter Street.
WBYANDCO.,
King-street.
’■ “ k
it?'??; 1 ' at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
quality or finish.
for Winter, large variety, lowest
new and stylish shapes.
’ u ffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
& CO., 96 King-street.
a
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing. and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
NGLO - AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital £103,570.
Reserve Fund £5OOO.
Directors:
Esq., J.P., Chairman.
ht, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
| J. H. Newman, Esq.
?. I Benjamin James, Jr.,
j Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call Five per cent.
3 months .. • • Five and a half per cent.
6 Six per cent.
” 12 Seven per cent-
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS:
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 13)4 per
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
Henry Gorman,
Hon. Fred. A. Wrig
C. C. Skarratt, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Paper* and Magazine* received by
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
SEASOIT, ISS4.
f*EAPES and SHAW
*«»E
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
HOW OPENING FOR THE COMBING SEASON,
ING MILLINERY AND STRAW GOOD?,
> all the newest dress materials,
IDS’ PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
i, **eal and Imitation LACE GMOODS,
White, and Black, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
Ala °. NEW GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
M SILK HANDKERCHIEFS
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
Our Plain Drapery Department
Vi
e< l'Wifch an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for the. Season, and we are
‘JUite sore our prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
uillO UUI pi »T lA* v- pin v ... 4i - -
n *lB. Towellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &c
Gentlemen’s Departments.
Scarfs ; all the latest.shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
e ’ and colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing ; Gentlemen's White
!*., HEADY-MADE CLOTHING.—We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Hoys’
n R> cut on the most scientitic principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
(, HINg DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
and Coloured Shirts of every description,
Moderate Prices.
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 326, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
Atu, m PALMERSTON BUILDINGS, OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
■A-re Op>ean..
k
CCLEERY’S HOTEL,
° or aer of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
, R. RHcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
“ Tt: car up-stairs.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole A (rente for Heidsieck & Co.. Reims.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
v Cha rges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SuftetoN DENTISJS 106 MARKET ST E.
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJ" rxcLertalrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
3=33
S 3
k
ill
zi
Mill
m
>nwil»mil|
ffii
O
INVALUABLE
h. -feSinratt*
\ottJ
u
vb
ife
mm
8$
LI
m
-~^-i !1 r,, ;1
ADAPTED FOR THE
Australia h Colon ies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
■
Bole Agent. for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE e»TRE.E T ,
N.B.— Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D'RID&E’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
ET THE PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DULY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 Seorge Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Exp crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you got it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED srACTOF PARLIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq*
General Manager: I Secretary:.
P. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhali-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel.K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. H. .Ariel! & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Trescle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
yi, 14, and 11b. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 BCcnf Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
a\HY BUKGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from ltis. (id. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 1.70 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for seSi-measuring
forwarded to anv part of the colony
■ ,'i
AFTER CEFORE
Copyrighted,
MOUSTACHE and WEISEEE3.
l Boyd'* Beard Elixir did this, and
I t oiU do it on either bald head or
1 bare face. Forces heavy Mou*>
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young tuen already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkti. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3 s. ( id.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.8.0., Sydney,N.S. W-
EEFOnC A PTE ft
Mm
Copyrighted,
Packet* 3s. C d.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
Robert butcher & oo
(Late William Long),
mr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoclve prompt attcnt


-A-fg'llSUllilStSLXl O-Old. J" lloxy •
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
PMM HUH JEWELLER?, CiPE GOLD WATCHES, k,
LATEST FASHIONS.)
WATCHES, PEOM 30®.
Special Novelties, &c.
Country Orders punctually attended
s FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
\ FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
( ALL CONVALESCENTS,
v. At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT I
drink 11
DRINK iT '
dri^ ii!
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYAEI) STREET.)
JLVniUjSfihC* t£JO£l. 2ElteL€i3 i lS.liiS3L<Siilltl.»
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Sup- rior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Winces and Spirits.
The most Comfortable anc Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Oo.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
t:
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRRSSIN^
91 King-street.
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD-
RY’S
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FEY & SO3STS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
OHW.
jitOßir*;
iiOHN-JE;
* y
wmd'
v«
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HIGGDT’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being: of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-atreet, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELV flTand SONS’
Edinburg n Pale Are.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQEARtE-STREET SOTTTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS,
General
JOINERB,
BHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory : COWFERWHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S 1
STEAM
H. P.
£* f
17 PITT sTP
STDNE I> !
ARE SOLE AGENTS F °
and have in Stocfc an
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMP 8
:pu»
’ANK OR LIGHT SEE
IINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR& C1B
TANNERY PUMP®
UGAR-HOUSE P^ pS
VACUUM PUMPS ptfjlP 9
)EEP-WELL-SINK1 N
•
END FOR PRICES ANP
ptfl
i
CATALOGUES P°
,P pP -
OILS.
Office: 330
STORES:
-if
N.B-
-O.U
. ROWLA
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer off ail kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor 0
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for L ,( f u
