

hhueki i sms,
THE POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
1,6 only Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
V©
ode goods, and give ode customees the edll beneeit aeising theeeeeom.
HORDERN AND SONS
*IACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY,
P
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
WIITTEB GOODS
hi.., in tlie Australian Colonies.
EMPORIUM, Haymarket, is celebrated for the Best and Cheapest Boots, Clothing, Overcoats, Mantles,
, “bankets, Flannels, Linens, Calicoes, Woollens, Merinos, and all kinds of Dress Goods.
jUjj - EURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOW WARE, of the best English manufacture.
The y ER Y BEST VALUE FOB THE LEAST POSSIBLE OUTLAY.
HORDERN AND SONS,
4;w Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
providers. universal providers.
The Bulletin
New Series


Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
»
%
ft
t.Vi-
-1
a
-
y
mm
ell
CAMERAS; 'Nb;
>V
w
... •-V i> I** t- 1 vn o, • l u *-0q w>.. ■
:; r oAftPs;cH emi gals y^m
\tis\WLwiS\
-
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; ITraMAUgIOHI STREET, WAGGaTmACQUARIE
blxviiiiij L, 1.) u 13330*.
EF" Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Bovs’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J. o.
470 GEOIIGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets,
TUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Lateqt Stvino nn^
HosiEKy -
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.-OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLT.NE RY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great rariety.
3- BATHERS—Tn all qualities.
STRAWo—In ail now shapes.
„ . Ha vinp engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stent t, .
and London markets, wo are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Mour KichiSi from the Paris
above line. A large stock of FAn'cy GOODS, consisUng of Sunshades Fans Purses ° °dB J rl tho
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c. d ’ * an9 ’ 1 UI8oa » Morocco, Russia,
Note A-ddress—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STIIICTLY'wirOLESALE PRICES.
f IATER’S system of importiDjr all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
V.-' prices, Is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasing trade. wnoiesale
French millinery, mantles, costumes, silks, satins, laces gloved amn
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.’ E 3, AND *
■
Oiir introduction of Glove-fitting at, the counter as done in Paris is a o-reai
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged. ’ a iea >'
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND REST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
sucsoss We have
"W- "W. CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being Close to Post and Telegraph Office. Theatre Tramway
Sup- rior Accommodation for Families and Commercial GentlemenT Flret-elass Wine?
The most Comiortablo ana < ommodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S Mandoraum Ptf’Ji i, Sp Ufl '
supplied. Sporting telegrams: from all parts of the colony posted up Sand Co ’ 8 telc Krams
ML A. EROm & GO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Isond-»^reet.)
From the Strand, London.
Ghampageie
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Bole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims,
C. B. HOOllii,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
BUaSntS'’«”* OEOKdSCTKEP?. 0
stock of Table and Pocket Just re!
ceived. All work and repairs executed emmi tn
any European workmanship. equal 40
BRISCOE, DRYSOALE & CO,
M, MB, and HI
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT -r A Kl
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, EN^A
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF -
Engineers* Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship ChandW’ j
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agric
Implements.
ENGINES’
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Yertical Fixed.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal,
MACHINERY. n( j
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING- MACHINERY. q .
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret »»
Joiners and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-P®
001*
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows Cultivators Horse Hoee,
Hakes, Heapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Tbr
f
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenwaro, Leathers and Furnishing -
T , , Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. „uei< C °^
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Gd* o** 0 **
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. .
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, liaddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing a O3
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. if#
Looks, Hinges, Nails, Sorews, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenter 8
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
397 George Straat, Sydney.
(fl>
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*'
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WH. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
W* Agencies m all part, of the world,
Foster’s Bugte
GUINXESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
The BEST ALE and STOt^ 10
BOLD
Yirgoe, Son, &
agbnts.
p? gpf ,f
invkstment'comp^ 1 A
capital, £l ® v &wM
Allow Interest, as follows vjjg.
on fixed deposits for 12 mo"
and UPWARDS for shorty v tWf 4 1“’
CENT, on sums from £1 . fa oA^ f y
Branch, Payable on Deman
y. WAR 1
<r
V.
5$
ma a
<4
urivi^V
BOAR’S HEAD STOBT^
of Stout selected w u-
best of the brewings ot
Arthur Guinness and pro ew
cannot be excelled.
CATTELL A CO* Sole A*®* 1


THE
BULLETIN
VoL 2.-No. 61.-New Series.
SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1884.
Prioe—6d.
The Annexation Craze
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1884,
The evidences which have been afforded by
reoent cable-advices that these Oceanio
region#, so long slighted by the Powers of
the o:d world, have at length come defi-
nitely within the scope of political con-
sideration, seem to occasion some uneasi-
ness. There should, we think, be no ill
effeots from this sudden prominence. Every-
thing will depend upon the degree of sense
and fair spirit with which the new condi-
tions may be acoepted. Hitherto, at least
during the last hundred years, the Pacific
Ocean and its archipelago of populous and
fruitful islands have been practically
neglected by all the European nations. It
was no wise prevision of the present import-
ance of Australasia which prompted the
Government of George 111 to hoist the flag
of England upon a corner of this vast con
tinent. By the sheerest chance, what had
been selected for a midden-heap, proved to
be the entrance to a hidden treasury, com-
pared with which the most glittering con-
ception of oriental imaginings was but
paltry. France alone, our old competitor
by land and sea, has hitherto had percep-
tion of the value of our lodgment here. On
this territory she has never offered to inter-
fere. Fhe made a fair attempt to anticipate
us in New Zealand, and, being foiled in that
direction, abandoned the entire territory of
three islands which has since grown into a
splendid colony. In other directions, she
has made some lodgments. These have been
as honest as our own. And with respect to
these early acquisitions there have been no
disputes. The Dutch early hoisted their
Uag over the northern half of New Guinea.
No other nation has yet established an in-
terest in these seas, if we leave out of con-
sideration the Spanish settlements in the
Phlllipines and Moluccas, which indeed have
precedence in point of antiquity over all
others.
• • •
It is only sinee Sjir Thomas MTlwratth
made his sensational grab at New Guinea,
and by so doing attracted the eyes of all the
civilised world in lliis direction, that there
has been any trouble. Following closely
upon that attempted stroke of policy, the
ambitions of the Presbyterian missionaries
in the New Hebrides, struggling to curb the
growing pretensions of the French, because
behind, or in front of, the French, came
the priests, opened a fresh trouble. And
next the plea which Sir Thomas MTn-
wraith routed out as an after thought,
lu order to justify liis grab, has been taken
up by the Victorian Premier, with appar-
ently no excuse at all. To Queensland the
question of New Caledonian escapees was of
some moment. It was invariably upon the
coast of that colony that the adventurous
evades were cast by the trade winds. But
Victoria lies clear out of the track—albeit
Mr. Service, for reasons of his own, yells
with surpassing loudness, arid seems to de-
sign to nail himself to office by two clamps
of very different design—an Annexation
Agitation clamp and an Anli - Recidiviste
clamp.
* * *
The business has been needlessly, and,
we think, designedly, confused and involved.
The question of national acquisitions of un-
owned countries, of federation of the Aus-
tralian colonies, and of resistance to an
influx of expiree or escaped criminals, are
in their nature entirely distinct. Yet they
have been mixed up into a sort of devils-
brew or witches-porridge till the ordinary
observer finds it difficult to distinguish
separately the ingredients of the very mixed
policy which the Victorian Premier is at-
tempting to thrust down the throats of the
Ministers of Great Britain and the peoples of
Australia. We will endeavour to separate
the mixture, and to explain how the es-
sential substance appears to us to affect
the Australian colonists. Colonial Federa-
tion is, to begin with, a very desirable
object. It is essentially a domestic matter,
and can be effected without reference to
any foreign power, at any moment when
the several colonial Governments are able
to agree as to the terms of <he union. Or,
on the otherhand, itmight possibly be nomi-
nally effected by a decree of the Imperial
Legislature, although that is doubtful, and
would, in any case, be an undesirable prece-
dent to call into existence. It is not likely,
however, that, under any ordinary circum-
CAPTAIN O’KELLY, M.P.,
THE INISH MEMBER or THE HOUSE OF COMMONE, WHO WENT IN QUEST OF THE MALLDI.
stances, anyone colony would be constrained
to an unwilling union with others. There is
some apparent disposition to carry things
with a high hand with respect to confedera-
tion, not merely of the Colonies, but of the
Empire, but this is not yet sufficiently de-
veloped to furnish material for criticism. In
fine, the present position with respect to
Federation appears to be that there is no more
urgent necessity for the union to-day than
there was a score of years ago; that there
is an abstract approval of the conception,
but that there are many practical obstacles
and occult objections. The strong motif is
lacking, and Federation remains still a hspe
in the future, although it temporarily forms
the theme of a spasm of loquacity at this
moment.
•• ■ *
With respect to the Recidiviste question,
the alleged intentions of France constitute
if carried into effect, a very substantial
grievance—a grievance which any commu-
nity would be justified in resenting by force
ot arms. Singly—that is to say, even if
federated for the purpose—Australia is
plainly impotent to wage, unaided, offensive
war against any one of the Great Powers of
Europe. To imagine the contrary is the
most fatuous exaggeration of national, or
rather, of provincial, vanity. The matter
becomes, therefore, one of Imperial concern,
and its immense importance here dwindles
when it takes its place among the many
subjects of international diplomacy.
* * *
The last and greatest question is that of
Annexation. Prince Bismarck has chipped
in quite unexpectedly, and, as is usual when
he does raise his voice, very much to the
point. It is only necessary to divest oneself
of national prejudice, and to take a dispas-
s.on ate view of this subject, to perceive that
Bismarck is—although the censure comes
with the worst possible grace from so flagi-
titious a grabber as he—pretty nearly in the
right. The pretensions lately advanced in
our behalf in these latitudes will really not
bear candid examination. We claim in
effect that, because we are here in pessession
of the bulk of the oceanic territory, we have
a right to all the rest. In other words,
that because we have already more than our
share, we are entitled to all that remains!
This is certainly liable to be challenged as a
grab-all style of argument. It is almost
useless to go into the details of the very
various grounds upon which our pretensions
are sometimes supported. Sometimes, as in
the New Hebrides, the claim is that our
missionaries were first on the spot and had
bought up strategical positions, harbours
and islands for considerations, variously
stated as being the benefits of civilisation,
the light of the Gospel, sundry bushels of
Bibles, and occasional invoices of Manchester
goods or Birmingham wares. If this plea
were once seriously advanced by the diplo-
matic representatives of Great Britain, it
would inevitably follow that thenceforth
a missionary would be regarded as quite as
significant an official as a military or naval
man at the head of a detachment or with a
British ensign in his pocket. No missionary
could thenceforth go forth into savage lands
until a formal understanding had been ar-
rived at between the Powers. He would
become a political factor, and would be re-
strained as such. The plea, in fact, would
be absurdly inconvenient.
« • •
But, brushing aside the fiddle-faddle
gossip of the Liliputians of politics, let us
stride to the essential question, what would
it profit Australian colonists to establish
claims to, and even settlements on, every
group at present unappropriated in the
Archipelago? We believe, implicitly, that no
worse thing could happen. Here, concett*
trated in this vast and sea-girt continent*
island, we have room for centuries of expan-
sion. We, who hold and who develop the
resources of this grand territory, must, if
our manhood and intelligence be equal to
that of other peoples, dominate the whole
region. The Australians will be masters in
Oceania, no matter who holds and oocupies
the minor lands scattered throughout these
seas. Already, within our own boundaries,
we aro strong enough to resist aggression.
Every day, thus concentrated, we become
stronger. We begin by being safe, and will
end by being formidale. But, let us dissi-
pate our strength, let us distribute the
population that might be ours alone*
throughout countless islands; let us distract
ourselves with the task of simultaneously
developing scores of new settlements, each
differing from every other in conditions,
and climate, and products; let us entangle
ourselves with a dozen native ques-
tions in half a dozen places’at once; and,
in order to procure these exercises for
our energies, let us commence by estab-
lishing a standing quarrel with two or
three powerful old-world nations, and pro-
voking the jealousy of all what, then,
would be our strength and our prospects?
We would have bartered concentration for
diffusion; in other words, strength for
weakness. In view of being vulnerable in
the minimum degree, and accessible to
attack only where strong to repel it, we
would everywhere be vulnerable, and our
scattered limbs would provoke and actually
invite attack. If Australia is to be great in
the future, it will be by magnanimity and
greatness of mind in the present. If the
counsels which would lead us to exhibitions
of greed and jealousy prevail now, it is
quite probable that even our present pro-
gress and prosperity will be checked and
marred by not long-deferred hostilities, and
that our future, in lieu of being calculable
and assured, will be determined by the pro-
verbially uncertain arbitrament of a war.
A Little Parallel
The S. M. Herald has rallied the Minister
for Education upon his apparent disinclina-
tion to dispose, without reflection, of the
matters submitted to him by the Secularists
deputation. They asked simply for equal
permission with other religious bodies to
appoint representatives to impart to the
children of their members attending Public
Schools special religious instruction in ac-
cordance with their views. Mr. Trickett


B. KENT AND 80NS’ BRUSHW.-JRE.
Jt having come to our knowledge that certain
inferior goods have been stamped with our names,
G. B KENT and SONS—namely, Sash Tools—and
have been circulated as of G. B. Kent and Sons’
manufacture (we make only one quality, THE
BEST), we suggest that persons using our brand
of brushware should procure from responsible
houses only.
Wo have this day registered as our trade mark,
under the Trade Marks Statute, 28 Victoria, No. 9
the name,
G. B. KENT and SONS,
and should we discover anyone, after this notice,
using our said mark, we will prosecute them under
the penal clauses of the said statute, without
further notice.
The registration of the trade mark applies to
all classes of our manufacture, namely : -
Fancy Brushes, as Hair Hat, Cloth, Tooth, Nail,
Bhaving, Bath, Ivory Goods, &c.
Painters’ Brushes, as Sash Tools, Ground Brushes
Distemper, Stipplers, &c.
Household Brushes, as Brooms, Scrub, Shoe, Stove
Furniture, <kc.
Stable Brushes, as Horse, Spoke, Water, Dandy, &c
Messrs. HENRY BROOKS and CO., 359 George-
street, will be happy to communicate with any-
®ne on the subject of our Brushware.
Signed and dated in Sydney this 14th May, 1854
G. B. KENT and SONS,
11 Great Marlborough-street, London.
T AIRITZ’ HHEUMATTC CURE.
±J PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS
extracted from the bark and comb
of the flr tree, consisting of Pine
Woo! Wadding, Oil, Extract lor
Baths, Needle LozeDges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protec, or?.
Kneecap?, and Body Belts. Anever-
-1 ailing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
t CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
T3RIAN BORU WHISKY is manufactured from
tho fl aest Irish Grain. When well matured
by ago, Is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in
enormous quantities to all parts of the world.
Australian consumers will And this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Wh'sky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a suffiobnt guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENT,
THE LAMNERHUIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Ei?” This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG , Change Alley,
SOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. do
Brandy in case and bulk, * and ***.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass's Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 25 Flinders-stfeet East.
Adelaide Office; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Bert Cure for the above la Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
tar pure ru u,
Extra Strong,
If. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartuent,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ed.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thu host Wholesome or all Bbvuraoks.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
olynblish” WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT.
2b. per bottle.
EENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Bs. ttd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
iHarket Street, Sydney.
presented, on the whole, a hostile front, hut
he has been censured by the S. M. Herald
because he was not round enough with the
deputationists, and did not instantly dis-
miss them with a flea in their ears, as repre-
senting a species of dissent unrecognised by
law. It will not be necessary to enter into
controversy regarding the Herald’s own
arguments ou the point, or to dispute its
statements that Christianity is the reli-
gion of so large a proportion as ninety-
nine out of a hundred of the popu-
lation of the Colony, and that religion
is a ttrm which is popularly under-
stood to mean Christianity alone—or, in
other words, that religion is a term which
excludes all religions except the Herald's
religion. It will suit us very well to accept,
for the sake of argument, the posiiiou that
the i?eeulariHta’ ideas in religious matters are
not recognised by the law. As all the
varieties of Christian sects have that re-
cognition, accordiug to the S.M. Herald, it
follows that the Secularists are now the only
“dissenters” in the sense of the word as
formerly applied in England to all sects out-
side the Established Church. Thus the
Herald obligingly places at the service of
the Secularists the w hole literature of non-
conformity, and furnishes it with a complete
armoury of logic which cannot consistently
be controverted by the Herald and the
sects of which it is the organ. It will te
significant, therefore, to observe how that
logio bears upon the casts in point.
* * ♦
Mr. Tbickett, although not sufficiently
arbitrary in his style to please the Herald,
was in the main sympathetic with the ideas
enunciated by that journal. He snewed
himself indisposed to entertain the idea that
any body of theologians could be recognised
as “ religious” unless it was constituted on
the old models and regulated in the pre-
vailing fashion. He wanted to know if the
Secularists had a church and a clergyman—
thus giving expression, in a sort of way, to
a doubt whetlitr, in the absence of a church
and a parson, any religion could have an
existence. This is a very venerable expe-
dient. The Papal Church employed it
against the Reformers, the Church of
England in turn used it as a device
against the Presbyterians of Scotland,
and every sort of dissenter in Eng-
land. The first device is to assert that
only the Church (for the time being) can
ordain or constitute a man to be a pr iest,
and the next to declare that no minister of
religious teaching is a clergyman unless he
be regularly appointed. There is no violence
of misrepresentation which is now levelled
at the Secularists, and no disability to which
it is sought to subject them, which have not
been employed against the very sectaries
who now avail themselves of such devices.
A very few examples will suffice to establish
this position. We take the first book which
occurs to us—the collected Essays of the
Rev. Sydney Smith— and turn to the ar-
ticles in which that Episcopalian priest
treats of the dissenters of his day—the same
sects who are the orthodox of to-day. We
flud him proposing to the reader “ to present
him with a near view of those sec-
taries who are at present at work upon
the destruction of the orthodox Churches,”
and he draws his material from the Evan-
gelioal and Methodistic magazines for the
year 1807, publications which he refers to
precisely in the tone which such magazines
to-day resort to when mentioning the litera-
ture of the Secularists. “ i'heir circulation,”
writes the rev. essayist, “is so enormous and
so increasing—they contain the opinions and
display the habits of so many human beings
—that they cannot butbeobjects of curiosity
and importance. The common and middling
classes are the purchasers ; and the subject is
religion—though not that religion, certainly,
which is established by law and encouraged
by national provision.” This is entirely with
the views expressed [by the S. M. Hehald,
“It is what is popularly known as religion
—Christianity, in fact, and nothing
whioh the Act makes special provision to
teach,” writes the Herald’s parson. Go
back ninety-six y ars, and you [have the
Edinburgh Review’s parson expressing
exactly the same sentiments, with this small
difference, that it is the Herald’s parson’s
religion which the Edinburgh REVitw’s
parson pronounces to be antagonistic to
“what is popularly known as religion—
Christianity, in fact.” “We shall,” writes
the bigot of leo3, in exquisite ignorance of
the tremendous iash he is plaiting for the
bigot of 1834 ‘we shall use the general
term of Methodism to designate these three
olasses of fanatics,” (Arininian and Calvin-
istio Methodists, and the Evangelical clergy-
men of the Church of England,) “not trou-
bling ourselves to point out the finer shades
and nicer discriminations of lunacy, but
.treating them all as in one general conspiracy
against common sense and rational Orthodox
Christianity /”
* * i
We have thus demonstrated that were the
Hbrald’s principles just, that the name and
privilege of religion should only be per-
mitted to what is authoritatively and poou-
larly recognised as such, it would in 1808
have been lighteous policy, and no injus-
tice, to deny to the professors of the very
theology it advocates to day, recognition of
any kind by the State, and permission to
teach on the same footing with the regular
olergy of that time the principles of their
sects to their own children !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Sheer Mockery.
Mr. A. G. Taylor was in error, when, in the pro-
foundest writhings of his self-imposed abasement,
he declared that no reparation was possible be*
yond mere verbal apologies for the outrage he had
perpetrated on our representative institutions.
To grovel in wordy humiliati n one day is as-
suredly no remedy for having wallowed in bestial
degradation the day before. If it be an indignity
to the country that one of its pseudo-representative
men ictlict upon its Legislative Assembly the brawl,
iug blackguardism of the pot-house, it Is assuredly
not less an affront that the brawler of yesternight
should assert that he has made all possible repara-
tion by making a fresh exhibition of himself as a
limp and demoralised repent int. Had Mr. Taylor
been truly penetrated by a sense of the injury he
had inflicted upon the community, he would have
comprehended—unless, indeed, his superficial and
tlashy smartness fails to rise to power of compre-
hension—that the floor of the Legislative Assembly
of his country was no more proper a platform for
an exhibition of “ awful example ” business,
than it was for the staggering eructations of
spirituous truculence. It is just as much an
affront to the country for a man to cringe
in the Assembly with his mouth full of dust
and ashes, as it is for him to roll into it with his
skin full of whisky. Had Mr. Taylor been truly
repentant, his course was clear. He need have
added nothing in words to his confession of un-
worthiness. But he could have suited the action
to the word. He could have resigned his seat in
the Chamber, on the grounds advanced by himielf,
that he had shown himself unfit to occupy it; and
he could have declined any ill-considered invita-
tions to stand for Parliament, till, by years of
sterling conduct in a private station, he had
worked out his penance and proved to himself as
to others that his self-control and conduct were
adequate to insure him and his country against
fresh lapses and renewed humiliations.
4
Mr. James O’Kelly, M F.
Mr. James O’Kelly, M.P., whose portrait ap-
pears on our front page, was born in Athlone
some 35 years ago. For the benefit of the unknow-
ing, we may say that Athlone is the spot which
topographists agree is the centre of Ireland. It is
built on the Shannon, a portion beiDg in West-
meath, and the remainder in Roscommon. The
town has witnessed some strange sights in Irish
history-at times splenaid triumphs, at others
dark disasters. Had Ireland had a Macaulay, the
Bridge of Athlone would be as famous as that
which Horatius and his comrades guarded in “the
brave days of old,” for one Sergeant Custume,
with six soldiers, held it for hours against the
armies of the English crown. Whether it was this
story, or some other tale of heroism, that stirred
the blood of O’Kelly, we are not in a position to
say; but when James Stephens, the Fenian chief,
was spreading his “circles,” in 1864-5, O’Kelly
was taught in the net, and quickly rose to
a position on the “Supreme Council” of
the Brotherhood. Everyone knows how Fenian-
ism collapsed: and it will be sufficient to say
concerning O’Kelly that his escapes from arrest
and penal servitude were simply marvellous.
“The States” are the refuge of all revolutionists,
and thither O'Kelly went. He secured an appoint-
ment on the New York Herald, which, under
the elder Bennett, kept far ahead of its rivals.
Having been commissioned to Cuba to report on
the progress of the war between the islanders and
SpaiD, O'Kelly continued his work until his cap-
ture by the insurgents as a supposed spy. He was
taken out to be shot, but, grasping the stars and
stripes, he dared the intending murderers to fire,
and was saved by the plucky act. In 1879, Mr.
O'Kelly visited Ireland to report on the famine,
made Mr. Parnell’s acquaintance, and in 1880 was
put forward by him for Roscommon. His oppo-
nent was The O’Couor Don—the lineal descendant
of Rhoderick O’Connor, last King of Ireland—a
man of wonderful attainments, immense wealth,
a Roman Catholic, and possessing groat influ-
ence with the clergy of that Church. The
tide of agrarian discontent was just beginning to
rise, and, being a landlord, the O’Conor Don
retired from the battle a defeated and humiliated
man. He was beaten by 3to 1. The world went
smoothly with Mr. O’Kelly until October, 1881,
when, with Parnell, Dillon, Sexton, and others he
was arrested under the Coercion Act and sent to
Kilmainham. We should have said that Mr.
O’Kelly was suspended several times in the House
of Commons—odco for giving the Irish Secretary,
Mr. Forster, the lie direct. It is rumoured, also,
that he managed to convey a challenge to mortal
combat to the member for Bradford without
rendering himself amenable to the law. After
seven months in gaol (during which time, by the
way, ho lived on prison fare), Mr. O'Kelly was re-
leased and took his seat in the House immediately
afterwards. As Mr. O'Kelly is not an orator, being
possessed, indeed, of an intense aversion to speech-
making, he is seldom beard of, and his record
since his release presents few noteworthy features
When O’Donovan had cease! to write, the Daily
News people prevailed on O’Kelly to take his
friend's place in the Soudan. It is said, however
that, knowiDg his ardent Irish temperament the
manag(ri exactel a promise from him that he
would lender no assistance to the Mahdi. With
O Kelly in the Soudan is young Rochefort, a son
of M. Henri Rochefort, of the Intransegeant and
La Trance. Mr. ft Kelly lived lor a considerable
period in Paris, and speaks the French language
admirably. This acquirement has been of immense
service to the cause he advocates, enabling him to
enlist on his side the sympathies of the Parisian
prfssmen. O’Kellv’s literary style is keen, polished
and logical; and he can u- ake a good speech, too!
when roused. His somewhat affected manner
and English accent do not tend to increase his
popularity with Irish crowds; but those whoso
acquaintance does not end with the public display,
have a deep faith in his professions, and large estL
mation of his personal qualities. Under the aver
age height, of powerful build, massive shoulders,
large neck and head-a single glance from those
deep-set, searching eyes, convinces you that tb«ir
owner is no common man. Silent, almost sullerr
to strangerr. amongst his friends and comrades
James O Kelly isa prince! Pity thatoneso largely
gilted, so splendidly endowed—a cosmopolitan i i
every thing-should bo characterized by some as
heartless and cruel in his domestic relations; by
otbe/s as singularly unfortunate I But these
things are not for the public eye.
When we read • the Salvation Army held
their service in the Protestant Hall last night in-
stead of the Exhibition Building—Mrs. ('attain
W ” 8 abB ®“ t ' owing to the stormy state of the
weather —we thought instinctively of those pas-
sagesfrom “The Chimes,” “ You’re in spiritsto-
iight, Tugby,’said his wife; .. . ‘No ’’said
Thf rm, particular. I’m a little elevated.
The muffins came so pat.’ . . . ‘S’# it's blowing
and sleeting, and threatening snow ; and it's dara’
and very oold,’ said Mr. Tugby, looking at the Are’
and reverting to the cream and marrow of his
temporary elevation. ... 4 Hard wea her, in-
deed, returned his wife ” Now, if there’d been a
„,^ t n. on^ rmy >o those days, it’s short odds but
what lugby would have been a Major, ttleast.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-dr
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed .]
“Subscriber”: Sir Hercules Robinson is
rrish—as Irish as Brian Boru, or Dan O’Connor
“ Ayoa” : v\ e have framed your poem “ If.”
Nothing like it has come under our notice since
we were a neglected-nosed infant in frilled
drawers. The last verse—
“ Rude we may grasp the honey bee.
But for the thoughtless act soon grieved are we;
’Tls in a moment dead, but the sting it gives
In sharp pain the day outlives,”—
contains a profound truth familiar to all growing
lads. Yes. poetry is your line. Send us as much
as you please. No one will be the wiser “Von
Clematis”: Very good. But (pardon 1) is it original ?
So many try to “ get at ” us with good things they
didn't write, that we get older, uglier, and more
suspicious everyday “Topman”: We have no
opinion, good or bad, of the Professor. We know
nothing about him, and level in our ignorance. ..
“One of Them”: We are glad to hear it “Joe
Proctor”: Your poem, ” The Wandering Bachelor
Bushman of Australia,” found us out. We’ve been
on a howling “tear” ever since. When we came
to the last verse—
“ At length the bushman tries a wandering life,
And resigns himself to a place with strife,
As marriage is said to be bis last thought,
And only when everything necessary can be
bought,”—
we bought an axe and assaulted the furniture
“Tyro”: The Y.M.C.A. are always confuting
sceptics. Still, Freethought thrives. It is a sturdy
beggar —“John Bull”: With her present limited
military organisation (compared with other States),
any force Great Britain could put upon the c >nti-
nent—assumingshe got them thereatall—woul.in t
make a decent mouthful “Bill”: There’s no
doubt that Mr. Buchanan knows mere of the
matter than Herbert SDencer. Spencer is good
enough in his way, but for depth and grasp is not
to be compared with our man “ Balmain The
woman suffrage question was finally decided by
the Pyrmont Debating Society, the other night.
It was about time to set this irritating matter at
restforgood “Bushman”: Don’t believe him.
Paris is bigger than Parramatta, whatever he says.
“American”: It was in Nevada, we be.ieve,
that Boss Tweed opened his first bank. He had a
crowbar “ Workman”: On the shoulder is
the proper place to carry a hod. We have
seen an exile carry one in his mouth, but
the plan has certainly 6ome drawbacks
“ Jam, Satis": Right you are. The party is Scotch,
and actual head of a broken county family. Au
reste, cosmopolitan and embued with the spirit of
the Christianity of Christ—not the modern corrup-
tions Honniker Heaton is not connected with
Wright, Heaton, and Co. The grammar is, of
course, incorrect.
This is the sorrowful ta’e of a minister, a
drummer, a publican, and his dog:. It appears
that the Western train was just about to start
from one of our mountain stations for Dubbs
when the drummer, nho had slipped over to the
pub. opposite to “ kiss the baby,” came tearing
along at a pace which led the affrighted railway
people to believe that a regiment of infuriated
“sojur ants ” had just lodged somewhere on him,
and Intended to stay there for the night. Just as
he neared the station, a sore-eyed, rat tailed,
yallor dog ” (the property of the publican) tied
himself up in a knot round the runner’s legs, and
when the porters subsequently picked the un-
fortunate lellow up he looked like a tipsy elector
who had called a steam-hammer names. Maddened
with rage, the man of many parcels was locked in
hi-* car, and then, leaning out of the window, he
yelled aloud that he hoped the tooth-ache, facc-
ache, ear-ache, and stomach-ache would jump on
the condemned owner of that gory dog and stick
to him as long as a master tailor’s memory.
Presently, the miserable publican slid up
alongside the Wesleyan minister of the place
(a venerable old soul, who happened to
be waiting for his aged wife to arrive by
the next train), and whispered as he pointed
to the howling drummer, ‘ See that young man
over there? Sad case. Completely out of his
mind. Friends taking him up to some private
asylum.” Meantime, the policeman’s son had
passed by the supposed lunatic’s car, and ob-
served, “ See that old joker talaing to dad ? Weil,
that’s tne owner of th' dog that bust all the stuff-
in’ out of yer.” Just then the parson walked over
to endeavour to soothe the maniao with words of
Christian consolation, but the drummer, reaching
out, sent him keel-up over a coop of fowls, and
into an open case of eggs, and yelled, “ Oh, you
sanguinary old son of a swamp yahoo, if I could
get out of this truck I’d job that muddy ding > of
yours down your gory throat, and then I’d dance
him out through the cracks of your crimson ribs,
I would.” By this time the parson, who was
tastefully mosaiced with middle-aged egg-juice,
got away to a safe spot, and, watching the lunatic,
kept up a running string of “ Poor afflicted soul I
And he so young, &o!” while the drummer shook
his fist out of the window and cursed. So the
train left, and the minister’s prayers and the bag-
man’s oaths mixed up with the engine's smoke, aud
wore wafted along to glory.


Don't Die in the House— “ Hough on Rats,’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaohes, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olivo Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at Od.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
i Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
1 Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
The Rev. Mr. Fletcher attributes all the
vioe now so common amongst colonial youngsters
to the fact ©f the schoolmaster not teaching religion
In the schools. We wonder if it over struck tho
rev. gentleman that perhaps the “ vice ” is not so
much due to a lack of religious teaching in the
schools as to the influence of b id examp'eat home,
set by the very kind of parents who are holding up
the hands of such men as the Rev. Mr. Fletcher,
and paying them a salary that keeps them fat aad
sleek 1 It may not have struck Mr. Fletcher lhat
way, but it has gripped us like that often, when
we have had an eye on our God-fearing (?) neigh-
bours. •
Up at Maitland, the other day, the Salva-
tion Army band was playing “ Hold the Fort,"
when a secalar band passed in an opposite direc-
tion tooting away at “ We won’t go home till
morning.” Of course the din and discord were
something frightful, and the citizens complained.
One of the soldiers explained it in this way :
“There are two bands,‘playing—the Lord's band
and the Devil’s band.” The “ Devil's band,” it is
needless to state, succeeded in knocking the holy
jim-jams out of the Lord’s outfit, and now some
of the critics will be wanting to know why the
Almighty don’t furnish better music for His
soldiers to march by.
The New-Chum and the Wasps’ Nest.
(Dedicated, without even asking permission, to the Right Rev. Bishop Barry.)
MRS. NEW SOUTH WALES: "DRAT THE BOY! DIDN’T KNOW ENOUGH TO LEAVE IT ALONE; AND NOBODY BEEN TROUBLED WITH IT THESE SEVEN YEARS!” (“Gives it him.)
The Secretary of State for the Colonies has
not the reputation of being a waggish man. What,
then, does he mean by sending out to Australia, at
the present juncture, live copies of the medical
works of the late Dr. Sibson ? Observe, first, that
that is a copy for each colony of the group. Ob-
serve, secondly, that the five copies are sent for
distribution to Victoria. If a dig at our livers
docs not underlie that donation of his /ordship
but, wait. Why, a large part of Dr. Sibson’s
treatise is taken up with improved methods for
treating the ins me. It's there his lordship is on
to us, is it? Well, no matter! we’ll not slacken a
bit in our annexation demands. Not even if he
supplied themedicine, as he does the advice, gratis.
He'll have to try some other way of getting at us.
The Newcastle Common Council has been
discussing the practicability of borrowing money
in the home market. Don’t do it, gentlemen. No
lasting benefit can be derived from such a measure.
We have tried it time and again during our career,
and the result is that we ha-, a had to change our
home about once every twelve months. Not that
the market grew dry, exactly, but because they
wouldn’t let us milk it any longer. If you must
borrow money, keep away from the home market.
Go amongst strangers. If you don’t, you’ll find
ere long, what we have found by wide experience,
that it is easier for an elephant to climb a tree
than for a man to borrow money where ho is best
known. It may not look so to you, but it’s a fact
all the same, and one worth remembering if you
aro on the borrow.
Quoth the Rum (in review of the work
done by the Melbourne Age New Guinoa explora-
tion expedition; Twelve rivers in a journey of
130 miles is pretty good. If they really existed it
would prove that the rainfall on the New Guinea
mountains must be nearly 1000 inches per annum.”
Twelve rivers in a journey of 130 miles is nothing
out of the way. In New Zealand, for instance,
there are many stretches of 120 miles in which a
fellow has as many as twelve rivers to cross, and
yet the maximum annual rainfall of entire Maori-
land is 881 inches below the Rum’s sarcastically
meant “ 1030.” As the crow flies, it is about 130
miles from the Kowai to Tiraaru—a distance inter-
sected by a dozen rivers. On the west coast of the
middle island you come, on an average, upon a
river, every ten miles. Possibly, the same sort of
thing oocurs in Papua.
A strong agitation has commenced in
Wallsend for a Telephone Exchange there, to be
connected with the Exchange in Newcastle. The
agitation has been inaugurated principally by the
women of Wallsend whose husbands are in the
habit of going down to Newcastle for an occa-
sional spree. In a short time the following dia-
logue, or something like it, will be heard rattling
over the wire:—“ Hen-er-rey.” “Cooee! What
do you (hie) want?” “I want you to come home
at once, or I’ll be down there with a broom-stick
in less than an hour. You’re drunk again.” ‘‘No,
I’m not, me (hie) dear. Hain’t tasted nothing (me)
the whole blessed day.” “ Don't lie to me, sir I I
smell your breath.” (Henry, aside): “Good Lord I
This telephone ’ll be the ruination of men. Didn’t
know you could smell through the blamed thing.
I must swear (hie) off. Swear off what? Drink-
ing ? Not by a jolly (hie) good sight. Swear off
talking through telephones. ’S easiest way, you
know.”
Religious equality (says Estcott) is a watch-
word that strikes a responsive chord, not only in
the workmen who go to chapel, but in those who
go to church or who go nowhere. To tbe Church
of England, as a religious community, they have
no antipathy at all. The Establishment is another
matter. They know its political history. They
know that, from its highest officers down to its
obscurest subaltern, this great army of political
clergy has never lost a single great opportunity of
taking the side of tyranny against freedom, of
privilege against equality, of stagnation against
improvement; that they have hated and resisted
every proposal to oxttnd religious freedom and
civil equality; that they looked coldly on while
other men fought the battle which drove slavery
from our possessions; that they did not lend a
finger to mitigate the inhumanity and atrocity of
the criminal code; that they spoke no word on the
side of the common people in the great battle for
cheap bread. It is no wonder that the active and
leading minds amongst English workmen look with
suspicion and disfavour on an institution that has
so unhappy a record.
At the hospital department of the New
York Veterinary College, on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, sick animals are examined and treated
gratis. On those days, the entrance to the hospital
presents a lively appearance, with tbe numbers of
candidates for free treatment being led in—here a
number of lame and otherwise incapacitated hack
horses, there a string of dairy cows, women and
boys bringing along sick dogs, goats, and even
cats. Horses form the great majority of the cases
brought in. The opportunity presented for free
veterinary treatment is not only a great boon, but
it also tends to prevent that cruelty to dumb
animals, which results more frequently from in-
ability to pay an ordinary veterinary fee, than
from any inclination towards inhumanity. In
addition to the free examinations and advioo
given twice a woek, commodious stables, with
every modern appliance in the way of slings and
other accommodation for sick horses and cattle,
are provided for such oases as require more
lengthened treatment; for these the fees are ar-
ranged upon a nominal scale, the veterinary at-
tention being supplied gratis.
A letter writ by Charles Lamb apologising
for having been overtaken by good liquor has just
been published for the first time by the Athenaeum.
It breathes of Elia, and of a time when under-
neath your table you were bound your guest to
land, and no man rose to go until he was sure he
could not stand. Here be some extracts from it:—
“ It is an observation of a wise man, that 4 modera-
tion is best in all things.’ I cannot agree with
him ‘in liquor.’ There is a smoothness and oili-
ness in wine that makes it go down by a natural
channel, which I am positive was made for that
descending. Else, why does net wine choke us?
could Nature have made that sloping lane, not to
facilitate the down-going? She does nothing in
vain. (This like the argument of the man who
said that if God had meant us to take snuff he’d have
made our noses nostrils up.) Still there is some-
thing due to manners and customs, and I should
apologise to you and Mrs. Aebury for being ab-
solutely carried home upon a man's shoulders up
Parsons LaDe, by the Chapels (which might have
taught me better) and then to be deposited like a
1 dead log at Gaffer Westwood’s, who, it seems, does
not ‘ insure ’ against intoxication. Ariel, n the
4 Tempest,’ says:—
On a Bat’s back do I fly
After sunset merrily.
Now I take it, that Ariel must sometimes have
stayed out late of nights. Indeed he pretends
that ‘where the bee sucks, there lurks he’—as
much as to say that his suction is as innocent as
that little innocent (but damnably stinging when
he is provok’d) winged creature. But 1 take it,
Ariel was fond of metheglin, of which the Bees are
notorious Brewers. But then, you will say, what
a shocking sight to see a middle-aged-gentleman-
and-a-half riding upon a Gentleman’s back up
Parsons Lane at midnight. Exactly the time for
that sort of conveyance when nobody can see him,
nobody but Heaven and his own conscience; now
Heaven makes fools, and don’t expect much from
her own creation; and as for conscience, She and
I have long since come to a compromise. But
still you’ll say (or the men and maids at your house
will say) that it is not a seemly sight for an old
f gentleman to go homo pick-a-back. Well, maybe
tis not. But I have never studied grace. I take
it to be a mere superficial accomplishment. I re-
gard more the internal acquisitions. The great
object after supper is to get home, an 1 whether
that is obtained in a horizontal posture, or per-
pendicular (as foolish men and apes affect for
dignity), I think is little to the purpose. The end
is always greater than the means. Hero I am, able
to compose a sensible rational apology, and what
signifies how I got here ? I have just sense enough
to remember I was very happy last night, and to
thank our kind host and hostess, and that’s sense
enough, I hope.”


Personal
Items
By a slip of the pea in our last issue, we
described Mr. Critcbett Walker as “Chief unler-
bferk” trt the Colonial Secretary. The proper
Style is Pr ucipai Under-Secretary. Mr. Walker's
position is the highest in the Civil Service.
Hillman, man of God, commenced the
parson biz. as a Wesleyan, then ran the Anglican
ticket, and is now pushing tho Independent trade
Jq East Melbourne. Were it not for the physical
peculiarities demanded by Judaism he might have
gone in lor thesnuggor billot of Itabbi.
John O’Connor, D.D., Missionary A postolic
and brother of the medical Morgan, of Wagga, liai
Joined tho majoiUy. He died at Pau in April last.
Father John diu u big slice of missionary biz in
N.S.W. some years ago, scooped in a lot of coin,
and held his own manfully in many a friendly'
bout over a jorum of “ hjt with,’’ as John Nagle
Ryan could testify if put on the table more
Hiberniso.
The Dukeof Cambridge has become patron
of the National Hospital for disease s of the heart,
and paralysis. Not hulf so appropriate a patron as
the last, Prince .Leopold, who might have been an
inmate without any undue favouritism, and actu-
ally died of the complaints However, tho Duke
of Cambridge lias at least this to urge, that ho has
for years exercisoJ. a paralysing iuliuence on the
British Army.
Says an exchange:—“A terrible scandal is
reported from Dublin, in which a judge, a magis-
trate, a solicitor, a priest, three Presbyterian
clergymen, and a post-ollice official arc involved.
Dublin society is much upset about the affair.”
Lord! that’s nothing. We don’t know who tho
Dublin “she” is; but we bavo a little Darling
Point affair that would sum up even handsomer
than the Dublin business.
“Reddy” Sbaunon, a Philadelphia steve-
dore, has saved 103 men and boys from drowning.
This licks Bennett's record all to pieces. “ Reddy,”
whose own boy was drowned while a crowd of men
wtro looking on, says that people are always a
tumbling in about his tenement near the wharves
and that it’s his nature to drop in after any cove I
he sees in tt ouble. From his practice and profes-
sion, we should say Reddy had a right understand-
ing of the golden rule.
It is reported that Orlando, the sly-grog
informer, lias been getting himself unpopular in
Newcastle. They say that under the guise of
friendship, Orlando used to lure the shanty-
keepers into selling, and then inform upon them.
You can believe this or not about Orlaudo, “ As
You like It.” If Orlando served us this way, we
should land him, in a brace of Jaques. One who
would do this kind of thing is the sort of man who
would sing psalms all day, and at night betray his
Saviour for a circus-ticket.
“I have had the pleasure of being upset
seventy-seven times,” said Judge Cope, in the
Melbourne County Court, during the hearing of a
“carriage accident” case. This, somehow, sets
our mind running on the schoolboy's rather
mixed account of the death of Jezabel—“And
when J,ebu came into the town, he said‘Throw
h|er down.’ And they threw her down. And he
said,‘•Throw her do.wu again.’ And they threw
her down again; yea, even unto seventy times
seven. Last of all, the woman died, and they
picked up of ihe fragments twelve baskets full.”
Judge Cope appears to have come off a bit better
tlfcan Jezabel, anyway.
Mr. Mark Meiford, author of “No Mercy,”
has evidently no mercy on “Dr. Julian Thomas,"
for writing to the Era on the subject of tho “ No
Mercy ” drama produced in Adelaide by Dampier,
Mark mellifluously observes:—“ Permit me to
state on behalf of Mr. Erie Bayley, who has pur-
chased the colonial rights of my work, and Mr.
Frederick Wright, who is touring the English pro-
vinces with the same, and with acknowledged suc-
oess, that the ‘Melbourne failure’ is in no way
connected with my drama, being a totally dis-
similar piece. My title only has been utilized in
this case, and by a gentleman who happily pro-
fesses to be ‘ a local vagabond.’ ”
“The Dukeof Manchester has purchased
town lots in Palmerston, and country sections in
the Northern territory.” The affability of these
nobles is past believing, now-adays-they'll buy
almost anything. Some of ’em have secured
allotments in b .
THH DOOK.
He from his giddy diical height
Has graciously stepped down,
And purchase d (oh, it is polite!
Some little lots in town;
Then, not content with that, he, spends
His coin in “country sections”—
We marvel that he thus unbends—
Just think of his connections.
“Happy Maria” Moran,a Melbourne “ Hal-
lelujah lass,” was selling the War Cry for the
Board, when her eyes lighted on James Taggart,
and she lx sought him to lay out a penny ia salva-
tion. So, alter Indulging in a little badinage with
his fair supplieint, James chucked her under the
ehin, and said he would bo glad to save his soul
lor a penny. Tendering a shilling, the gentle
James took inexchango one War Cry and eleven-
pence, and left Maria engaged in prayer on his
behalf. Those prayers (alas!) weroj transformed
Into Salvation curses, when the confiding girl
found she had been rushed with a halfpenny
silvered ovor. And the magistrates, intidels that
they are, treated James’ wickedness as a lark, and
let him go.
Dr. Morgan has been delivering a lecture
down at Newcastle on “The Air We Breathe.”
We hope the doctor will come to Sydney and de-
liver that lecture. We will secure an audience of
one for him, and that one ii the man who sils
behind us at the theatre, and goes out between
the acts. If the doctor will give that man a pro-
per turn, and a prescription that will kill him
besides, we’ll publish his portrait on our front
page, and hand his name down to posterity as one
of the great purifiers of the air we breathe. That
man's breath is so strong that the man who sits in
front of us complains of it just as loudly as wo do,
and there s eyrry prospect that he’ll do something
towards “tipping ’ the doctor for his philanthro-
pic efforts in our behalf.,
John Moore paid a visit to Merino town-
ship (Vic.), the other day, to look up his friends
and purchase a bottle of rum. Next morning,
John was discovered lying In a hut on a neighbour-
ing station. Quietly reposing by his side was the
rum bottle, with half of the contents yone. So was
John— he was dead, in fact. Awtul tding is drink
—especially Merino rum.
A viotim to the cup that cheers,
John sleeps beneath the wattle;
Tbo’ his spirit’s lied this vale of tears,
There’s some left- in his bottle.
One-half he down his throat did pour,
Nor was the thirst diminished—
But, e’er he’d time to finish more,
Poor Moore, himself, was finished.
Lord Randolph Churchill is married, as is
well known, to a wealthy American lady. Lady
Randolph has an uncle, Lawrence Jerome, known
to his intimates as “Larry,” just as our own dis-
tinguished boxer condescends occasionally. When
Larry Jerome was in London last summer he was
passing the shop of a funeral furnisher, during a
ramble at the Bast-end, when he saw displayed
this sign—” Every requisite for a funeral. ’ :
Solemnly entering the shop. Mr. Jerome observed,
in a sepulchral tone, “ I wish to procure a corps s!” i
♦•Whose corpse—what corpse?” stammered the
attendant. “A ny corpse will answer,” retorted
the imi.erturable “Larry;” “ you see I wish to get
up a funeral, and as your sign says * every re-
quisite lor a funeral furnished,’ and as the lirst
requisite is a corpse, I thought I would i. quire.”
The Grand Duke of Hesse is now wrig-
gling ignotniniously in the endeavour to get out
of tne morganatic marriage he contracted the
other day. The rapidity with which he changed
his mind leads directly to the idea that he has been
offered something to do so. i here are hints that
he got tipped to break off, by a very gruat person-
age, and that a marriage with his deceased wife's
sister is still kept in view. Anyway, it is now
said that the Pope had not sanctioned Madame’s
divorce from her ex-husband at the time when
the Duke “marriod” her, and that, therefore, tho
marriage is null and void. This is too transpar-
ently an excuse, and not a reason. What has the
Pope’s sanction to do, anyhow, with a “ morgan-
atic” marriage, which is itself a mockery, surely,
of tho sacrament which the Church of Home pro-
nounces marriage to bo ?
Mr. S. G. Kingston, of Adelaide, seems to
to be a very volatile cup of tea, even for a solid
tor. When clients are scarce, Mr. K. slip 3 a pea-
r.tie into his side pocket, aud strolls about town
looking for game. Ho brought down soinetbiag
vary big, the other day: it was a cabman, and Mr
K. was awfully pleased with hiSßport. After pack-
ing off cabby to the hospital, the eager solicitor
ran against a party named Hills, and made a
sportsmanlike offer to put a "bullet through his
hat,” mentioning, by way of inducement, that
“ he had just had a Jark shooting a cabman,
who was bleeding like a pig.” Such is the irony of
fate, that Mr. Kingston Is committed for trial, all
through that lark of bis. The poor gentleman
is own brother (as a sporting paper would put it)
to the new Attorney-General, which makes his
little indiscretion doubly distressing. Now, if he
had only shot a policeman— but it's useless to re-
gret the pastl
Of Canon Hole (the author of the “Six of
Spades” and "A Book About Hoses") it is said:—
“There is nothing spontaneous in thu Canons
oratory; it is ail art, and high art. Ho abounds in
quotations from the poets; be suits the action to
the word, with gestures that have all been studied.
Now he lays one hand on his breast and looks up-
A BULL.
MANUFACTURER (who has had a row with his foreman): “GOING TO LEAVE! WHY,
O’KANE, YOU ARE ENGAGED TO ME FOR FIVE YEARS, AND”
MR. O'KANE: “I KNOW THAT, SOR, BUT I’M TRINKIN’ AFTER WHAT’S PASSED RE-
TWANE US, SOR, THAT THE SOONER WE BRING THEM FIVE YEARS TO A CLOSE
THE BETTER FOR THE TWO OF US!"
ward at the dome, while he repeats some majestic
verses from the late Lord Derby’s translation of
Homer’s ‘ J Had.’ Now be brings the ample sleeves
of his surplice together, and, folding his bands as
he loans right over the pulpit, smiles radiantly at
his congregation, and dismisses them with a tender
couplet from Robert Browning. There was never
such a volco as Canon Hole’s for modulation It
compasses every < ctave, from the deep note of
the bassoon to the softest tremolo of the silver
flute.” Like Whitfield, he can brirg comfort to
the soul by the more utterance of the word
“ Mesopotamia.”
Under the sub-title of “The Mob, the
Scum, the Dregs,” Mr. Bradlaugh has issued a
pamphlet giving some disagreeable facts regarding
the head of the Churchill family. In this pam-
phlet he says:—“Whenthe ‘noble lord’ who now
sits for Woodstock abused his Parliamentary
privilege of free speech in order to insult my con-
stituents by railing at them as ‘ the scum ana dregs
of the nation,’ I most carefully examined the
electoral roll of Northampton, but have failed to
discover the name of even one Churchill amongst
the voters t» justify the epithets. Debarred of
my right to reply in the place where, and at the
time when, the indignity was offered to those who
trust me with their return, I present this essay to
the people, that they may judge whether a decent
reticence may not in future be more becoming In
V l ', 8 ' nobl® lord,’ until, at least, the memory of
John Churchill’s villanies shall no longer be kept
alive by a perpetual tax on the earnings of the
people. ’
Mr. T. W. Glovar, not content'with the con-
version of his tatooed Majesty King Tawhiao and
his courtiers, goes up to New Zealand shortly to
push the Temperance buiiness among the whites,
but whither he will wander after “ doing ” Maori-
lind is yet an open question. According to the
Melbourne D.T., a first-class authority in these
®ert 55. “ overtures have been made to
Mr. Glover to induce him to remain in the
colonies, and, if arrangements can be carried
through, he will return from N.Z. to Victoria.
Otherwise he will go on to San Francisco, and
after holding meetings In some of the principal
cities la the States, return to England.” Well, if
the “ overtures ” at nil resemble those made to
Mr. Booth— four or five hundred pounds In a lump
turn—wo guess that Mr. G. will, like his confrere,
discover that he hss a divine mission to complete
In Australia, and remain among us. So wo trust
that arrangements will be “ carried through
partly in the interests of the colonies, and par-
ticularly in the interests of Mr. Glover.
The Itev. E. J. Watkin lectured recently in
Hotham, Vie., on “The Superstitions of our IVire-
fathers.” Of course, the rev. Wesleyan had it all
to himself. And he did give the dads of our race
a slating. Tf the old boys could have got on their
elbows and heard Watkin, they would have blushed
for the ignorance in which they lived. But they
didn’t get on their elbows and they didn’t hear
Watkin, and thus possibly their ignorance is bliss.
In two ways it seems, however, that the world is
advancing at a mighty rate. Just to think of
those forefathers for a minute, and then to think
of Watkinl The difference is stupendous. “I
hold,” said the Hibernian in the House of Com-
mons, “that the present generation infinitely
transcends the past. Why, as compared with me,
my father was a fool.” Seems, however, also that
the next generation will step a-head, and will turn
round a d Jecturo about Watkin and us. No mat-
ter. Watkin, you and we will be dead thon, and
will care as little about the lecture as our fore-
fathers cared about yeura in Hotham the other
night.
At Timaru, N.Z., the Grand Jury threw
out the bill against Joseph Mackay for alleged
embezzlement of Government insurance money.
The common jury owe the “ uppah twctve ” a
debt of never ending gratitude. Had the case
come before them, Joseph would undoubtedly
have eleoted to conduct his own defenoe, and the
cross-exainioation of witnesses would probably
have lasted till Doom's day. In reality, there was
no case against him. The N.Z. Government owed
him money, and he had to send about five hundred
telegrams every lime he required an advance. On
the last occasion, a sum of £l2 was sent to his
oredit at a bank 100 miles from where he was
working: and as he could not go there to lift it, he
retained £6, of money he had collected, to pay ex-
pense! with, and instructed the Department to
recall the £l3 remitted to the wong place. The
next thing he heard of the matter was his arrest
at midnight in a hotel in Timaru, on a charge of
embezzlement. And now, of course, there is a high
old action pending for false imprisonment. The
damages are laid at a million, or thereabouts.
Joseph values his liberty at a tall figure; but
then, what’s a million sterling to the N.Z. Govern-
ment ? Truly, a mere bagatelle.
The question, raised by the toadies who
want Valentine Baker restored to the rank he dis-
graced and forfeited, are not at all likely to suc-
ceed. Says Modern Society, a very out-spoken
London paper:—“Jt appears that the injudicious
friends of Valontlno Baker prepared ovation* for
him on his arrival at Dover and Charing Cross
Station. Small, but well-organised groups of per-
sons were placed in conspicuous positions, and
cheered lustily. Possibly they leceived so much
per head for the job, and in all likelihood at a
similar price they would have shown equal enthu-
siasm had his Satanic Majesty himself stepped out
of the steamboat or train Several shouted ‘Well
done, old Baker 1* but they refrained from tell-
ing us whether their approval applied to the ex-
colonel’s attack on Miss Dickinson in the railway
carriage, or the terrible defeat he experienced at
the hands of the Arabs through his own military
bungling. Valentine Baker would certainly act
discreetly in checking the misplaced enthusiasm
of his friends, lor any attempt to obtain restora-
tion to the rank he once held in the British army
will be strenuously opposed in the House of Com-
mons, and cause disclosures to be made whioh may
■ot redound to the ex-eolonel’s credit.”
Wesleyan parson Nall recently visited
Chiltern (Vic.) on a Sunday, and grievously was
his spirit saddened at beholding upwards of a
hundred young men out playing cricket on the
afternoon of that blessed day. Takiog up his
parable against the central city of Nortn-eastern
Victoria, Nall (beeause of this cricket business)
declared it to be the most godless plaee he ever
■aw. It must be desperately galliog to a parson
who has come primed to a gospel-shop with a cut-
aud-dried discourse all ready for delivery, to find
the men of his flock out on the green sward play-
ing cricket, and the women looking on. Swearing
under such circumstances is excusable. Nall may,
therefore, be forgiven his blasphemy this time, on
the condition he don’t do it again. We would just
remind him, though, that cursing is a habit that
grows on a fellow. If he gets his holy linen
out, and f nathametizes because people prefer
healthy physical exercise to unnatural mental
exercise, struggling to follow a ranter through
the complications of a theological composition,
what on earth would he do were something l really
grievous to befall him? We tremble to tbink of
It. Let him learn to keep a guard on his tongue.
Mrs. Lynn Linton, the youngest child of a
High Tory clergyman, was l orn at the foot of
nkiddaw, by the border of Derwentwater. For
some years, the Lynn family lived at Qadshill
House, whleh, after the father’s death, they sold
to Dickens. Herself her sole educator, Eliza
Bjp l * L U P an uncompromising Democrat.
What she deems the two great honours of her
life, are (1) her well-known friendship for Savage
Landor; and (2) the fact that Dickens, in a list of
capacities and contributors given to a new editor of
A A L u TH .F XFA® Round, set her name at the head
of the list, Mrs. L. L. good for everything, and
thoroughly reliable. As a Saturday Heview-
erees, she madea mark with her “Girl of thePeiiod”
and other cognate sketches. She has lived a good
deal in Italy, and, once during the Austrian occu-
pation of Lombard-Venetia, created a “muss ”at
a table dhole, by passionately declaring, coram
publico, I will not sit next to an Austrian soldier
in Venice. Her principal works are the “ Atone-
ment of Learn uundas,” “Eatricia Kemball” the
True History of Joshua Davidson,” “ Under
ch £ ord? ” World Well Lost.” “My Love,”
The Rebel of the Family,” “ Lizzie Lorton of
Greyrlgg,” “.Sowing the Wind,” “ Within a Silken
Thread, &c., all of them works of power.
No stronger evidence could be given of
the warmth of the winter in the Southern capital
than that which Henry Brown, a Russian, sub-
mitted to the local court (Melbourne) one day
recently. Henry had slept in an Ellzabeth-street
restaurant on a night some little time previous
He went to bed in a dead calm. Others talked of
the whistling wind, and made of the heels of their
hands bulwarks for their noses, but Henry lay
down, and in his own expressive and truthful
language “sweltered.” The hours passed. Morn-
ing broke. The Russian rose. Still the same dead
calm. He thought of the wind of the steppes, and
wished he had the making of the world. What
steppee he would shape, what a wind he would
raise in the land whose winter was a shaml An
idea indents his Muscovite brain. Steps-why.
what is easier? Wind—why, what is easier? lie
lays hold of the blankets, and 10l there are the
steps, down the stairs in the early morning, out
into the yard, out by the back gate, round the
corner, into the pawnshop, and up to the counter.
All he wants now is the wind to be in possession of
a real Russian winter. Ha, he raises the wind
See, with the blankets. But the people who saw
Henry were mortified at his thinking so little of
their winter, and while he sat among his last-made
steppes with the wind about him, they jugged him.
> Wicked rumour says that some of the
Adelaide people were hazy about the c’rect style
of addressing Manchester. Perhaps they put it on
as thick as Billy Nicholl, the bookmaker, did with
the Duke of Beaufort some years ago. It was
down at Newmarket, and Connie Gilchrist’s “pro-
tector had a horse running that Billy wanted to
lay. Take my five monkeys, your Royal ’Jgh-
ness,” says’Billy. “That ain’t ’is right title,”
whispered another “ book.” “ Ain’t it ? ” was the
reply, “I thought the was a dook.” Nicholi
certainly was about the roughest diamond that
ever achieved greatness by means of leather lungs,
a leathern-covered book, and a metallic pencil—
which is saying a good deal. At the Nottingham
meeting once, Billy invited the Earl of Westmore-
land to walk round to the back of the stand, and
see ‘my old mother.” That venerable lady was
patiently waiting her son’s arrival, with his dinner
tied up in a pocket-handkerchief, and dropped a
reverent curtsey when she saw ‘‘company.”
Come here, yer old ; I’ve brought a real Earl
round to have a look at yer,” said the dutiful son-
then, in an undertone to his companion, “aint she
a beauty, my lord?” At that time, Billy
Nicholl was betting to bigger figures than anyone
in the ring, and a Nottingham town-councillor to
boot. Honour your parents, and you can’t go
wrong.
The Hon. James Balfour, M.L.C., was
placed in a very painful position on the occasion
of the anniversary meeting of the Young Men’s
Christian Association, at Melbourne. The Hon
James, in short, had to keep his place in the modest
retirement of the platform, while (with uplifted
eyes) he listened to such a panegyric on his virtues
as was calculated to make any Presbyterian elder
feei bashful, more especially one who hides his
hoiv light under a bushel in the persistent manner
that James does. But there he had to sit, vainly
endeavouring to dispose of his blushes, while the
chairman, Mr. M‘Lean, thus buttered him: -‘The
°i. saying put it, ‘ What can the man do who comes
after the king? That was his position Upon this
occasion, when sitting beside the last President of
the Association, the Hon. James Balfour. As a
merchant, he had the esteem of all the mercantile
c ?. l ?,F lu, ? lty \ aB a Chiistian, he had the regard of
a 1 the churches; as a politician, he was trusted by
all sections of political parties. Of all Presidents,
certainly the Hon. James Balfour was the king
Whether the M‘Lean next fell down and wor-
shipped the Hon. James, no one could quite make
out. A golden light feemed to play around tbo
form of the glorified Presbyter for same seconds
after this speech, and ordinary mortals became
dazed. Meanwhile, thry •nd-nvoured to form
some speculations as to wha<; the chairman miaht,
have said if called upo . to deliver a funeral
oration over Prinoe Leopold.
Corney Grain, the mimic and parodist
Singer and versifier, dramatist and actor, per-
former aDd composer, was born in ’44, near Cam.
bridge (Png) In ’66 he was called to the ear.
While waiting for briefs, he arausid himself in
g r & at ® theatricals, charades, recitals, &c., and so
drifted into his present position. He made his
debut in May, 1870, at the London Gallery of illus-
tration, filling t lie vacancy caused by the late
John Parry’s retirement. Corney’s thorough know-
ledge of fortign languages affords him a greater
range in the field of mimicry than that possessed
by Parry. The comic twist which he can impart
to any passing Incident constitutes his peculiar
genius. Although he can imitate the cries of birds
and beasts, as in his “Country Life,” and when ho
is at home’ is performing these or siDgingbis
selection of comic songs, he delights in really good
music, and is capable of rendering with perfect
interpretation the most difficult studies in classical
notation. He has, since 1870, produced no fewer
than forty sketches, thirty-three written bv him
i?° u privalled powers of “taking people
off he adds the clever mimicry of all sorts o?
musical instruments. With the aid of falsetto and
head notes, liis natural baritone voice appears to
command a considerable compass, and, in obedi-
ence to a singularly correct ear, it is Invariably
true. In response to your request for two.
favourite parodies on the glees and catches of
half a century ago, he will sit down and give von
e ?. e r ly V e F r J y w ? rm <” and that laughable,
catch. The Lamb Chops.” Since 1877, he, in con-
junction with Mr. Alfred Reed, has carried on the
management «f St. George’s Ha'l. -
One of the most ruing young artists of the
day Is R. Caton Woodville, who appears to be not
merely a clever painter-that alone would not
enable him to rise—but also a lick-spittle of strik-
ing natural aptitudes. He has “ wormed » his wav
}“f° by one of the most contempt-
ible aote of art-prostitution we remamber to have
read of. To this year's Exhibition at the Royal
Academy he has contributed an alleged historical
. Tel-el-Kebir.” in which the Duke
of Connaught is represented as gallantly charging
a furious and stubborn host of Egyptians n r ihi
head of his brigade, amidst a perfect tornado of
shot, and enter of exploding shells. It appeals
likely that the Queen is the only person in line-,
land who is not aware that Prince Arthur ancfhli
nothing to do with that most con!
temptible and easy “ victory,” unless standing in-
active, in reserve, be considered equivalent to a
dashing exploit. The Queen, it is well known
only what is selected for her, and possiblv
she does not know that the famous passage in Lord
Wolseley s despatch, to the effect that the Duke of
Connaught behaved nobly, at the head of his bri-
gade, was a courtly sugyestio falsi, as that brigade
“fver moved till the lines had been carried
f„ nd w™m firyptia ?K were bolting as fast as their
legs would carry them. As a matter of fact them
two n or a thmfi k thai ia th ® Duke ’ 8 brigade, and the
two or three that were wounded, suffered from
spent balls qr random shots, as the brigade was


J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MAEKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 18'4,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE CO LONE,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class QARMENTB to
order, well made, well ahruDk, and a perfect fit
guatantecd.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
power*, premature decay
and fuiluro ts> perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust healt h
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Ncrynua Debility and
, Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because bnsed on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor.
oughnes*. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 62 Caatlereagh St., Sydney
>
//7\V
hoVv^ater^baths
Htyß DRtSSINQ&WICMAKINt; ESTABLISHMENT
■' 137. 139 & 141 OXFoRD \ "S t . n
HALF HOL/oky Ft/L/f Y r/y///*SCAY
DE
COMFORTABLE teeth
The use of this valuable mouth wash Insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tluee kinds, distinguished by a
fellow, Green, and Ked 811 k Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the fellow stops Instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That witn the Green
is invaluable to pei6ons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth ana
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth dally,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Ked is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Melicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against / raudulent imitations,
see that each Label becuis the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London"
DE
ASTHMA, GOUGH, BRONCHITIS: 1
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly cheek tha
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medioine Vendors,
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations.
«ee that each box bears the name of “ WHeox and
Co , 339 Oxford-street, London."
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IP REQUIRED.
never in action or confronted by a foe. However,
Mr. Woodville has succeeded in “rising by helping
to make a fool of his Sovereign. The Queen
caused his picture to be bought for a round sum,
and it is to be added to the royal picture gallery at
Windsor Castle.
Sam Lyons, the Fitzroy (Vic.) lawyer, be-
lieves that “ human nature is human nature ” pur
et simple , and he has got pretty well the right end
of the stiolc lately. Hugh Kelly, the licensee of
the Beresford Arms Hotel, was hauled up before
the sapient Justices of Colling wood for the un-
godly offence of Sunday trading, so he fee d the
wily Sara to defend the case. Kelly has the honour
of holding a seat in the Collingwood City Council,
which he vacates in August next by effluxion of
time; and a local J.P. named Barnett his already
announced his intention of running the O’Kelly
for the confidence of the ratepayers. So, when
the Kelly case was called on at the court, Lyons
spotted Barnett on the bench, and suggested that
ho would bo exhibiting good taste in retiring from
his judicial position during the hearing of the com-
plaint. To this mild proposition the J.P. ref used
to accede, and remarked “I’m here to do justice;
to which the lawyer rejoined, “ But your worship
tees that you are announced in the papers to
oppose Mr. Kelly ’’ Then the dignified and learned
Marsden, J.P.. chipped in, “What if he is? lam
turo no gentleman upon this bench would be
influenced in the least by any such consideration.
Wo are here t/> do justice.” “Just so,” replied
the imperturbable Samuel; “but human nature
is human nature, and 1 confess that if I got a
chance to give an opponent a turn, I’d do it. It is
said to be divine to forgive, but I don’t belong to
the divine lot.” It was evident, however, that
Mr. Barnett, J.P., thought he did belong to “ the
divine lot,” for he still sat in the seat of judg-
ment, and refused to move; so the sceptical Sam,
to be even with him, asked for an adjournment of
the case for fourteen days, which was granted
/Vnd, after all, there is something in the lawyer’s
estimate of human nature. We have known libel'
court judges and magistrates, too, who have
l Very iikely: so have we, but they held court in
Siberia, or somewhere.—Hd B.]
We are iadebted to Mr. Levkitban Alf.
Joseph, of Sandhurst, for the following cablegram
Irom that most distinguished and highly influen-
tial Australian colonist, Mr. Joseph Thompson:—
“ London, June 14th. I am highly delighted with
my trip, although it costs plenty of money. 1
visited Paris to see the race for the Grand Prix. I
was betting and won. The race was a grand sight
I have been betting at the Ascot meeting, and won
£3OOO. Barny won £lOOO. Kespects to ail my
friends.” Poor Joel That native modesty, which
has ever been his stumbling block through life, is
evidently active yefe, and, like the villain in the
play, it “still pursues him." No mention, what-
ever, is made of the warm-hearted reception atvea
him by his bosom friend, the Dook of Kdinbifrgh.
who, by the way, wasn’t a bit too proud, whilst in
Melbourne, t > win a few quid off Joe, and quaff
goblets of gold-top fizz at his expense. Surely
Alfred would not go back on his ole pal now.
True, Joe’s ancestors were something in the pisca-
torial line, but wbat of that ? Simon Peter’s father
was a fisherman, too, and so also were the Pa’s of
Masaniello, and James and John the sons of Zebe-
dee. Being an eminent book-maker himself, Joe
must have also been introduced by that brilliant
littfrateur, Henniker Heaton, to Herbert Spencer,
Matthew Arnold. Cardinal Manning, and the rising
authoress of “More Leaves from my Diary, all
of whom wero no doubt much edified and favour-
ably impressed with their kindred spirit from the
Southern World. But never a word of these and
divers other similar honours does the bashful
Joseph even hint at. He simply won £3OOO, and, so
led away by his big brother's good example was
the guileless Barney, that he sailed in also and won
a “thou.” This leads us to enquire, of what use
are our Agent-Generals at home, if they cannot
manage to have the dolrgs of a distinguished re-
presentative Australian like Mr. Joseph Thomson
cablegrammrd to us in lime for the morning
papers? If Bir Sammy Wilson knocks the head
eff a blind boil, or Sir’Bnry Parkes succeeds in
manosuvring for a free feed, the news is at once
flashed throughout the world, whilst the man who
has done more for Australia than the pair of them
has no more notice taken of his doings than if he
was a darned old knot on a box log, or a common
C.M.G. This should be enquired into.
The Rev. Peter Cam—we beg his pardon—
Mr Peter Campbell, late Bush Missionary, Box
20i9 G.P.0., who for many years so successfully
wrestled with Sitan in the wilds of the Australian
continent, from Dan even unto Beerslieba, or
rather from V 4 arrna«bool to Normanton, has to a
certain extent, given up the business. We say,
advisedly, “to a certain extent,” because Peter
occasionally administers a sly dig in the ribs to his
old Enemy, from what he facetiously calls the
Fair-thought platform in Melbourne. But we note
with considerable satisfaction that the Rev. J.J.
Westwood is still on the war-path, and that he
manage! to keep the devil in check a good deal
and, consequently, the country m >y lie considered
safe. But, what we wanted to tell you is that
Peter has been scooping the pool down Melbourne
wav to the extent of £350. That’s the wholesale
sty le in which be now rakes in his Peter’s Pence.
And this is how it happened:—ln Melbourne t* ere
is a religious journal called the Vi«torian Ban-
ner which breathes forth the fire and brimstone
utterances of Presbyterianism and Orangeism
combined, and this eheerful publication is edited
and published by the ltev. Watson of Coburg.
Before the Watson regime, however, the Banner
passed through some queer experiences, especially
when Dr. Gilchrist filled the editorial chair, and
in those days the pious Peter used to dabble a little
in iournalistic jotting*, and frequently contributed
some of his side-splitting jokes and anecdotal
drolleries to that interesting paper. Since Peter
has left off active wartare with the devil,
and taken to the insurance “ biz.,” heseems, in the
opinion of the sanctified Watson, to have fallen
■wav considerably from grace; and his appearance
on the Freethought platform, even as the cham-
pion of Orthodoxy, did not give that satisfaction
to the pious editor of the Banner that it ought,
so he looked upon Peter as a renegade, or some-
thing. and slated him accordingly. And then
Peter inst»ad of exhibiting that Christian spirit of
meekness and forbearance which characterises the
humble follower of the Looard, brought the gentle
Watson before the Civil Court in Melbourne, where
he was awarded £250 damages. We congratulate
Peter on his success, and even forgive him for
publishing his book of jokes; though, at the time,
we felt far, far from gay over the publication,
seeing that we sometimes aspire to perpetrating
some funnities ourselves, and it looked litre cut-
ting us out. We feel better now.
The Arabic journal, El Zaman, gives some
curious details of the personal daily life of the
Mahdi, some of which will interest European
readers It says:—“All the weapons whioh have
been taken from Egyptian soldiers have been
diligently stored up in a special magazine by the
Mahdi in order that he may duly restore them to
the Egyptian Government, ‘whose prop«rtytbey
are ’ the Prophet says. The Madhi has always re-
ceived the ambassadors of Gordon Pasha with the
greatest politeness, and has bestowed upon them
marks of his esteem; while he has sent to Gordon
himself a red uniform, two elephants’ tusks, four-
teen Maria-Theresa thalers, two Mejidie, and a
talisman which he advised the General always to
wear about his person. The Prophet contents
himself with eighteen wives, whereas his Vizier
has twenty four. His adherents believe that he is
the mightiest potentate upon the earth. He never
undresses himself; even when he goes to bed he
wears his long red garment and his green mantle,
In the daytime he wears a turban with a white
veil and carries a rosary with a thousand beads
made of ivory. His first drink, on rising in the
morning, is not the usual coffee, but a large glass
of a sort of cider made from dates. He then
goes to the market, where he sits within a
booth and dispenses justice He hears all com-
plaints himself, like a primitive king, and informs
his Wekil what punishments are to be given to the
condemned. After this he goes back to his house,
followed by his servant, and inesnse is burned
dnrinsr th© procession. At his brcftkfflfltj which is
always public, there are frequently as many as
two thousand guests, including several Europeans
who wear the turban. General Gordon s ambas-
sadors attended this meal in El Obeid, and were
placed on his right hand, while his Wckil sat on
his left. After breakfast the Mahdi delivers a
sermon to encourage bis followers. During the
presence of Gordon’s ambassadors, he improvod
the occasion by enlarging upon the virtue of the
English Pasha. He has his time to himself until
an hour before sunset, when he assembles his
people for- the evening prayer—the Esclia. His
guests at supper are comparatively few. Two
hours and a half after sunset he sits upon a sort of
throne, and receives the heads of the.tribes, who
bring him the obligations of the day—dates, sheep,
goat?, clothing, or other gifts. The reception
lasts half an hour. The Mahdi then descends from
the throne and goes to his house, preceded by a
hundred men boaring torches- The writer asserts
that during the ten days he was at El Obeid this
same order was regularly observed from morning
till night.”
No sooner had Prince Edward of Saxe-
Weimar been allotted one of the highest military
posts, just after having had a long spell of another
—that is to say, the command at Dublin, after the
expiration of an unduly expanded term of com-
mand at Portsmouth—than another gross job is
Serpetrated by court influence. This time it ii the
avy which suffers, but the job is tenfold more
soandalous th<.n Saxe - Weimar's appointment.
Against Saxo-Weimar there was nothiug person-
ally. The impropriety of his appointments was
simply that wnereas he had seen but a brief bit of
service in the Crimea, the rewards of the profes-
sion were showered upon him, while war-worn
veterans, covered with scars of wounds suffered in
every quarter of the globe—soldiers who had
risked tneir lives in every war, great and small,
which for the last thirty years has furnished occu-
pation for the troops of Great Britain —were
passed over, or kept in exile in inferior positions
till they died in harness. As to Prince Leinlngen,
however, the case is different. Of all the Queen's
German relations whom the English tax-payers
have to support, Leiningen is the most detested.
He is now to succeed Admiral Hice in the naval
command at the Nore. Prince Leinengen has only
one notable event in his professional record,
and that the Hnglish people will never forget or
forgive. It was he who was in command of the
Queen’s yacht, when in the Solent, with Her
Majesty on board, in line weather and broad day-
light, the Osborne, steaming seventeen knots an
hour, ran down a sailing yacht, with the result
that three persons on board the latter, including
two ladies, were drowned. We remember the oc-
currence very well, and cm fully recall the popular
indignation when the jury at the coroner’s inque*t,
eontrary to expectation and to the plain facte,
brought in a half-hearted verdict, which enabled
Prince Leiningen to esoape without standing his
trial for manslaughter. There was no room for
doubt tint the collision was directly oaused by his
arrogance of disposition. It is etiquette for all
vessels to give the Queen’s yacht, when Her Ma-
jtsty is onboard and the Royal Standard displayed,
a clear berth. The yacht which was sunk had been
badly handled, and did not get out of the way.
Leiningen simply wouldn’t dsign to deviate or to
slacken speed, and sent the insolent intruders on
the path of Royalty to the bottom. So strong was
the popular indignation over the wholo business,
and so impossible was it to acquit Leiningen of
deliberate murder, except by admitting that he
was the most stupid, inoipable, and lubberly of
captains, that the latter plea was tacitly advanced,
and he was kept in the background for years. It
seems that the time has now arrived when it is
thought that he may be permitted to "bob up
serenely,” and a fat billet is accordingly made over
to him. How long, U Lord, how long ?”
A few people with long memories will,
perhaps, remember Dr. Rod way. This was the
philanthropist who adverthed that he would be-
stow solid gold jewellery upon anyone who would
forward him 3s. 61.; and announced, so far as we
can remember, pictures by exceedingly Old
Masters for scarcely anything at all. Dr. H. didn’t
do things in a small way, mind you; and it was,
Eerhaps, his magnificence more than anything that
rought him to grief. He Jived in one of Judge
Windeyer's houses in William-street, and omitted
to pay rent. This attracted the attention of the
learned Judge towards the Doctor, and one even-
ing he was “ lumbered ” while peacefully devouring
the vespernal muffin. In connection with the
jewellery business was a college, in which the
Doctor undertook to prepare tne youth of the
colony for every known examination. This seat
of learning, however, didn’t prosper much; for,
whenever anybody called round with the desire of
having instruction imparted (o him, the Doctor
would invariably be “out,” and the assistant would
persistently endeavour to sell him a plated watch-
guard. Well, Mr. Justice Windeyer got a lot of
people together who had sent Dr. Rodway (M.A.)
shillings, but who had received no diamond rings
nor geld alberta in return, and, in the end, both
Rodway and his assistant got 18 months in the jug.
Trading on the glory thus engendered, the learned
Doctor now hsues to the world a pamphlet of poems
of a sentimental character, which are very funny
indeed. In his preface, this Preceptor of Youth
modestly states that he does not claim for the
“songs and poems any merit beyond that which
attaches to them owing to the place where they
were written, and the method of composition.”
There is, in this admission, a specimen of self-
denial that is touching; and we wi'l be pardoned
if, at this stage of our notice, we hasten to the
jack-towel and wipe away a tear. From the first
piece—“A Haunted Cell”—the author’s majesty
of diction is easily perceptible. Mark:
“ A cloud of fear wraps all around,
A sense of something fell (sic),
Thrills through my heart and chills my blood
Within this prison cell.”
This sad state of affairs continues, until
“ . . . . Morning Star
Disperses sable night,
And pearly Dawn steals in the haunt
Of guilt-avenging sprite.” [!!j
And, to make things worse, the Doctor plaintively
sings that
“The gentle mice ne'er visit me.”
Fancy that! But the Master of Arts in jewellery’s
troubles are not over yet, beoause the villain pur-
sues him to such an extent that
“ E’en spiders shun the place.”
Then there is a piece to “ Isobel; ” a damsel whom
we knew well at one time, and who is reputed to
have lost her teeth in the Wars of the Roses—
“ We meet again—lost is the spell
That filled the hours with euphony,
Between us, Isobel.”
This is the sort of thing we used to write yards of
when the landlord’s eye became averted at the
fish-shop. But, while the doctor's humour chiefly
lies in his sentimentalism, we must not forget that
he c»n pen at will “ wholesome fun ” of a descrip-
tion that would delight Darley. In a piece bear-
ing the ominous title “1 May Come Back Again,”
there is an impertinent—we may remark casually,
—attempt to curry favour at the hands of the
editor of this journal. We do not quote this bosh,
of course, contenting ourselves with the following
sc'ntillation
" When Darlinghurst has work to do,
And giHs are never vain,
When Queensland rum is worth a sou
I may come back again. . . .
“ When Town Hall clocks keep proper time,
And Virtue’s without stain, ( sic!)
When native bears forget to climb,
I may come back again.
It is not, of course, for us to pass an opinion as to
whether Dr. Rod way will “come back again;” but
we can unhesitatingly state that he deserves to, if
not for his jewellery, this time, at any rate, for his
poetry.
At last, the effeot of the thundering
knocks which Charles Bradlaugh has dealt on the
portals of the legislature, and of the attention
which his denunciations of perpetual pensions has
aroused, begins to be apparent. No one can doubt
now, that from the first hour that a House of
Commons, truly representative of the ideas and
wishes of the English people, sits in Westminster,
perpetual pensions are doomed, auy application
for, or compensation for being prevented from
plundering or begging—for it’s either plunder or
mendicancy—will be laughed at. Some of the
First Robbers perceive this already, and are work-
ing- to ** unload.” That ornament to the bouse of
Lords, and noble exemplar of how a man should
live, the Duke of Marlborough—who, by the way,
is so gre >t and so mean a scoundrel that one is al-
most induced to believe that ho is, unlike the
majority of bearers of historic titles, really a de-
scendant of tho splendid and contemptible black-
guard and thief, from whom the title and the pen-
sion are derived—well, the prese&t Duke wants to
compound the perpetual pension of £4OOO a year
for a lump sum of £67,000. Tho real reason is,
however, probably not foresight. Peers, like
Sovereigns, are generally so corrupted by flattery
from their very infancy, that they cannot imagine
that the world could get on without licking their
boots. The fact appears to be that the late Duke
considered the present one—then Marquis of
Hlandford— as too great a spendthrift (of course,
his being a blackguard didn’t count) to leave tho
family fortunes to. So that all the unentailed
estates and personal property were left to
Lord Randolph Churchill. There is every reason
to hope that the present Duke will get his com-
mutation, squander the amount, and end in the
work-house, which is about tho proper sphere for
the whole family. The first Duke of Marlborough
had splendid military talonts, no doubt, but he used
them more to tho injury than to the advantage of
his country. There never has been a shadow of
doubt that he cheated his soldiers out of tneir pay
and provisions. It is pretty well understood that
he took bribes from the enemy on several occa-
sions. And, anyway, it is quite sure that he would
never have had the chance of displaying his mili-
tary genius had it not been accompanied by quali-
ties which permitted him to climb to favour by
tho help first of having his sister the prostitute of
one monarch, and himself the kept and pald-fcr
male prostitute of a great lady; and afterwards
by deserting the very king who had distinguished
him- and his sister. A dirty lot, the Marlborougbs,
first and last. Besides capiiali/, ng his perpetual
pension, the present Duke aotually proposes to sell
the Blenhvim collection of paintings, many of
which were paid for by the nation at a time when
the palace and fittings were voted to the first Duke
ns a reward for his “services.” The consent of
the Court of Chancery is required fr>r tho sale.
The pictures are estimated to be worth £40’,000.
It wouldn’t be surprising if the long-suffering tax-
payers were called upon to buy them over again—
for the National Gallery this time.
• • 4
.... Dick Steele once observed—and we
commend the remark to the most thoughtful con-
sideration of the Giraffe—that a true and genuine
imi udeuce is ever the effect of ignorance, without
theleast sense of it—a remark which about fills
A. G’s. little bill ...King Casey and the Duke of
Manchester were walking down King William-
Street, Adelaide, the other day, when the Duke,
being deep in tnought, commenced to softly
whistle. “ Don’t do that, for God's sake, Duke,”
quoth “J. J.” in agony; “ here comes some people
I know" We understand that the question of
Parkes resuming his professional career, on his
arrival, will, in a great measure, depend upon the
promises of support he receives from the Cumber-
land Times 1 A. B. Rae, of the Western Inde-
pendent is going (or has gone) for the Bathurst
Free Press for Jibel. According to the evidence,
A. B. is charged bv the F. P. with remonsl rating
with his nieces with a gate-hiDge. This is absurd.
If Mr. Rae wanted to inflict grievous bodily hurm
on anyone, hasn’t he always a copy of the paper
ready
Harris for South Sydney, now,
A place can never win it;
For he's ne’er opo'd his mouth, but just
To fire a something in it.
Acoordiog to GaunsoD, enfant terrible of the
Victorian As‘embly, Graham Beriy is a “wo.f in
sheep's clothing." And a let of people say that's
ju twhat Gaunson is—bar the clothiDg —Quoug
Tart has read that poelry is a drug in the market,
and as soon as his opium campaign is over it is
believed he will interview Mr. Stuart on tho
matter If Sala comes here to lecture, he will
not come with Smythe. Forbes regrets it. We
don’t regret Foroes This is the blasphemous
style the Bananamen talk of the man who was
once his country’s hope and pride: “Trickett, the
sculp r, intends to open a hotel in Rockhampton,
and hopes, by civility, attention, and the knack of
drawing a ‘long beer’wiih all the solemn gravity
of an undertaker’s muta at his mother’s funeral,
to merit a liberal amount of the public patronage."
What is fame? Sam Griffith and bi 3 “tony”
party, whilst at Townsville, the other day, visited
the local brewery, the gaol, and then the bone-
yard. Now, then, Brother Booth, figure out how
many others besides slippery Sam have done the
same grand tour, and remained permanently at
the last-named resort, since Christmas Gus was
honorary captained, to spare him the humiliation
of being junior to that most distressing of the
banes of an aristocratic corps, an olficer whoso
tastesand proclivities are not lah-de dah... Lord
Augustus Loftus suggests a light cavalry corps to
act as the eyes of the army, find out wh we the
enemy is at night, watch over them (whether
enemy or army not clear) to prevent a surprise.
His Excellency needn't have added that he was
not a military man Parson Osborne Lilley, of the
United Methodists, Brisbane, has (as we learn from
a Bananaland exchange) been handling bell in a
sermon in a masterly way. What if hell should
return the compliment, and deal in similar fashion
with Osbornejliilley ?
f l •
At the opening of the recent Chicago
Railway Exposition, Joseph Whitehead was intro-
duced to the committee. He served on the first
locomotive ever run in England; and drove the
Stockton engine in America 57 years ago. The
chief thing about tho Stockton was, that when-
ever there was a strong wind a-head the engine
had to halt until the wind wont down Hugo
Schenok, one of the two Austrian murderers of
servant girls, had pretended he wasa Free-thinker.
At the last moment, however, he cinfotsed that he
had been Christian, and was provided with the
usual passport to heaven, by the chaplain. Thue, a
serious scandal was averted from tho Ereethougbt
alherents..Bradlaugh, held by English Courts to
have illegally voted, that is to say, that his swear-
ing-in himself was not a legal administration of
the oath. How bad law will rhyme with Brad-
laugh Ludwig of Hesse has managed to get
what court flunkeys term, his obnoxious union
with De Koloraine’s relict legally dissolved, so
he s now his own man again. We beg to suggest
t@ His Grand Ducal Highness that he henceforth
take as his motto— “ Hesse quam wid{d)er-i" (with
our compliments to the shade of the departed
Weller, sen.). .When Mrs. Rousby was in her glow of
splendour it used to be:—Visitor to H.R.H. the
Duchess of Teck: “Where’s the dear duke?"
Duchess, with candour: “I don’t know, dear;
but I’ll send round to the Queen's Theatre and
gee.” Mr. Thomas Hughes, author of “Tom.
Brown’s School-days,” has contributed to the
Baker - Pascha controversy, a letter. As might
have been expected, bis contribution i 3 a manly,
and spirited protest against the idea of reinstating
the blackguard. /■
As shines a good deed in a naughty world,
stands out amidst the mass of trashy specifics and
deleterious concoctions, the pure, unadulterated,
palatable preparation known as Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The People Want Pboof. There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its suc<?es3
and superior virtue as Boschee's German Syrup
for severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effect before
buying the regular sizo at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one (hat uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup ana you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of sc-called Con-
sumption which doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks' Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
me. juris wee,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 12th,
in his great production of the
“ CREOLE.”
%ST New Zealand Tour Postponed pro tcm.
All communications en route.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Wmi.iAMSON, Garner and Musqrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
THE GENEVIEVE WARD SEASON,
COMPLETE SUCCESS of the NEW COMEDY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
anew comedy, in 4 acts, by Sydney Grundy, entitled
THE QUEEN’S FAVOURITE
Tho Queen's Favourite.
The next great feature of this Brilliant Engage-
ment will bo a Grand Revival of MACBETH.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Mr. Reeve has tho pleasure of announcing, by
arrangement with Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
th© fifth w©6k of th© Greatest Irish
Comedian that has ever visited Australia, JOHN
F. SHERIDAN, whose inimitable and unrivalled
impersonation of The Widow O’Brien, in the im-
mensely successful musical and farcical oddity,
FUN ON THE BEtISTOL, has scored a suc-
cess never equalled in Sydney. Enthusiastic and
crowded houses nightly. Saturday next, July 12,
and every evening, Entire Change of Programme,
Entirely New and Original Songs, Duets, and
Dances, by the whole ot John F. Sheridan’s lun
on the Bristol Company. Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Purchase tickets during the day at Theatre and
Loder's St. John’s New Brunswick Hotel (opposite
Theatre). Manager for “ Fun on the Bristol ” Com-
pany, H. J. Whittington; Representative of Mr.
John F. Sheridan, W. Hughes. Business Manager
for Mr. Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Bole Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majeroni.
FAREWELL SEABON
of
MISS JENNIE LEE.
and
MR. J. P. BURNETT.
JO
Every evening until further notice.
JENNIE LEE.
JO
Bucket ...MR. J. P. BURNETT.
Complete cast of characters by the Majeroni power-
ful Dramatic Company.
Important Notice.— This season beiDg posi-
tively a farewell one, it will be impossible to give
more than a limited number of representations of
each piece. Box plan at Huenerbein’s, George-
LlDDY—Business Manager for Miss Jennie Lee.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Evening Fashionable and Popular resort,
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, every Evening, at 8.
The most successful, amusing and refined Enter-
tainment in the Citv.
Tremendous success of the l areial absurdity, oalled
NEW GUINEA ANNEXED.
Admission-Fauteuils, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
s
UNDAY AFTERNOON
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20,3.40, 3, 3.20,
3.40,4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
QSi
Borax Soap,
Egg Powder,
Blacking,
AND OTHER SPECIALTIES.
76 Sydney
D
N
N
PKOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Claeses and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 451
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-streeL P.S.-
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
G. R. DIBBS.
SINGER & CO.
PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
MATRIMONIAL— Parents and those newly
married may obtain muoh valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W-, Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
NOW LANDING AND FOR SALE BY THE
UNDERSIGNED.
Ex "KENMORE”—
17 Cases of RoWclifte's celebrated Woven
Wire Spring Mattresses.
Ex"CABAL”—
63 Cases of Tombs’ Iron Bedsteads.
Ex "SIR WALTER RALEIGH”—
73 Cases of Holt Bros.’ Iron BedsUads.
Ex“PANMURE”—
61 Cases of Brierley and Sons’ Iron Bedsteads.
Ex“SUSAN GILMORE”—
305 Cases of Chairs.
Ex “SAMUEL PLIMSOLL”—
73 Cases of Albert Phillips’ Iron Bedsteads.
Ex "THOMAS STEPHENS”—
60 Cases of Phillips and Sons’ Iron Bedsteads.
18 Cases of Toilet Glasses.
Ex “ S.S. RAVENNA ”
30 Bales Satteen Ticks.
10 Tons of Ceylon Fibre.
Per “ PATRIARCH ” to arritw-
-68 Cases Tombs’ Bedsteads
3 Tons Curled Horse Hair.
Per “ HAWK®BURY ” to arrive-
-35 Cases of Peyton and Peyton’s Brass and
Nickel-plated Bedsteads.
Per "CROWN OF ENGLAND” to arrive-
-47 Cases of Black and Brass-mounted Bed-
steads.
j Per “ ETHIOPIAN ” to arrive—
-58 Cases of Children’s Cots, all sizes.
Per “ S.B.*PORT DARWIN ” to arrive—
-11 Bales Horse Hair.
Per “JACOBUS JOHANNES” to arrive-
-835 Bales of the Best Java Kapok.
Per “ ORONTEB ” to arrive—
-34 Cases of Peyton and Peyton's Half-tester
Bedsteads and Swing Cots, all sizes.
Per “ GLENOCHIE,” s.s., to arrive—
-6 Bales of Belgian ticks.
Per “TRAFALGAR” to arrive—
-60 Cases of Black and Gold Bedsteads
30 Cases of Iron Folding Chair Bedsteads
30 Cases of Winfield’s Cots.
J. LAWLER,
Importer,
60S George-street.
Medicated Vapour Baths
34oCnnwNS T SvnNEY
A r V.(//V M SVTf 'YG/ft -
FORBAD IECS,CONSTITUTIONAL
SKIN&BLOOD DISEASES Etc,
RELIABLE TESTIMONY,
To Mr. Cooper, 340, Crown-street.—After many
years’ inteDse suffering and failure of various
treatments. I am happy to certify that under your
care for 10 weeks I am perfectly cured, and I
strongly recommend anyone afflicted with skin
disease to avail themselves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge, Commercial Hotel,
King-street.
To Mr, Cooper.—l wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could got no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—For years I have been suffering
with pains allover my body, and for two years my
hands were broken out and sore. I could Dot
sleep; I consulted our best doctors, but got no.
relief, until I was persuaded to try you. lam now
quite well, and I have not had ache or pain since.
Thomas Smith, 75, Albion-street, Redfera.
Witness: Rev. Thos, Curtis.
Space will not permit me publishing further, or
I could fill a newspaper with voluntary testimony
from people living among us.
LAND SALE.
Grantham.
Tit Ptiflt’s £E Allotments,
Payable ss. per Month.
RIVERSTONE
TOWN BLOCKS,
200 FEE r DEEP,
commencing 250 yards from Railway line, directly
at rear of Station.
J3T" Illustrated pamphlets can be obtained free
on aoplication to the auctioneers,
BOYD & KING,
96 PITT STREET.
Offices open till 8 p.m. every Monday evening.
The great bedstead sale
at the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
A CASH BONUS of TWENTY PER CENT.,
or
Four Shillings in the £1
given to all buyers of bedsteads.
It has been our good fortune to purchase under
the most favourable circumstances the greater
portion of two consignments of Bedsteads, which,
in addition to our regular supply, puts us in pos-
session of, we may say, the largest and best as-
sorted stock of Bedsteads in the city.
This Immense Stock compels us to adopt some
measure to effect a speedy clearance, in view of
hav ng a large importation of our own direct from
the manufacturers, close at hand. We have, there-
fore. determined upon holding this
’ GREAT SALE
of
BEDSTEADS,
allowing a discount of twenty per cent, off our
advertised plain figure prices.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
4‘26, George-street, Sydney.
(Next the Royal Hotel).
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direet (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maokay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONO EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRA BOOL GAfiO LEURA
BUIIWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KIEILAWARRA YOU YANGB.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Btreet, Sydney.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’B
OlcL 2viEa.fo.recL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO/S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex*. ( vt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of biskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
osmeoßffs
I^SSKNCEogLirg
te only intamole remedy for
//ERybi/sJjEßiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil bis most sacred obliga-
tions In cases at 12s, or four quantities is one ior
365.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,«
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and iO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE onlv Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness. Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Eemale Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr.
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations whioh are beiDg made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless atsd possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
ase bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide:
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE MONTH
OF
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOTHING,
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING SHOPS,
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMARKET SHOP.
Come Early ami Secure Good Fashionable Clothing for Little Money.
J. J. RYAN, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 16G GEORGE STREET, Opposite Fruit Markets.


The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated, or counterfeited. This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notic.i in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B, with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ”or “Hops” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “ Hop ” or
* Hops" in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitatiens or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Heps on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
Remember that a little Hop Bitters saves
big Doctor's bills, and cures when all else fails.
Read.
Invalids should drink Hocking’s aged
High-class Wines, Nature’s Stimulant. Office, 143
Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious inseots. Tins, li.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60s Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Wells' “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney, General Agents.
Nothing is so reliable as Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral for colds, coughs, in short for any and
all derangements of the respiratory organs, which
tend towards consumption, in all ordinary cases
it is a certain cure, aod it affords sure leliof for
asthma and consumption, even in advanced stages.
A brilliant light.—Among the myriad of
remedies offered through the Press to those who
are sick and suffering, Bristol's Sarsaparilla
and Pills may well be compared to a brilliant
light. They so lar surpass all competitors In effect-
ing speedy and complete cures, in healing all sores
and in establishing sound good health.
Eat and Live. —Marshall's Tonio Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, hoffnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney. .
Books on Mining, by Mr. DeCouroy
Browne, Beresford Chambers, 53 Cast'ereagh-
street—The “ Miners’ Handy Book,” 2nd Edition,
relates wholly to Miners’ right claims—is. 6d.; by
post, 2s. The “Miniog Leaseholders’ Guide,” re-
lating wholly to MiniDg Leases, Mineral License
Holdings, and Mineral Condi 1 ional Purchases—
-2s 6d.; by post 3s. The “Manual of Minerals,”
commonly found in Australia : how to dis-
tinguish, test, assay, and value them—ls. 6d.; by
post 2s. J. J. Moore and Co., 554 George-street,
Sidney.*
One cold is sometimes contracted op top of
another, the accompanying Cough becoming set-
tled and confirmed, and the Lungs so 6trained and
racked that the production of tubercles frequently
follows. Many existing cases of Pulmonary Di-
sease can be thus accounted for, and yet how many
others are now carelessly allowing themselves to
drift through the preliminary symptoms controlled
by the fatal policy of allowing a Cold to take care
of itself 1 On the first intimation of a Cough or
Cold, or any Throat or Lung trouble, resort
promptly to Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, a safe
curative of long established reputation, and you
may avoid the consequences of such dangerous
trifling. To be had of all Druggists and Siore-
keepers; and wholesale by Elliott Bros , Pitt-
street, Sydney.
mm
■
?.*■
■
■■■ i
The Autophone!
m H E ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
I have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Mus'.cal Invention. Call and
see thorn.
Georgo Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, aDd exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of i*s music, which at present conrlstsof
over 900 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas.
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music whioh suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHEIIE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, fromtho ORIENTAL, GOLD COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling: metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
Pee our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POST FRBIS,
AND AT UUK RI8K:-
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitairo
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s , and 12s. 6d
per set
Bamo as above, only Half Suites, 35., 4s , ss. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitairo
Suites, 10s. per set
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent's handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d. f
fs , and 10s. each
Gent's elegant Seals, real Btones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
rach
Gent s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
end 12s. ttd. ( aeh
Gont's very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
20s , 253.. 275. tkl .and 30s. each
< hoice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-ohased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. tid. to 80s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, 6s. to 255.
Ladie.;.’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d , 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 155., 20s ,and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 63., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choico Necklets, from
12s. 6d. to 30a.; l adies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
Jss. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chataluines, 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockers and Necklets, 20s. to 405.: Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert . .. ..£2 4 8
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladles' Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glatses, witn
handsome Orienlal Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 17 9
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 2 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 6.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Alb.rt £5 6 0
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levcra £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
No. 9
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. •• •• .. ..£6 0 8
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10
We import our watches direct from the manu
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared witn prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we caij
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost le6B than £8 to £lO.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Obskrvk.—lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this Is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the triflo
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watoh
sold by us will be rated and aoeompanfed by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gobi Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROYAL—"Queen's Favourite” t». 8
Opera House Jo ’* ••••••• ; v ,• • • •
Gaiety Theatre— Fun on the Bristol .... id.
ACADEMY OF MUSlC—Federal Minstrels ib.
We -went to see Jennie Lee in “Jo,” at the
Opera House on Monday night. “Jo,” you know,
is an adaptation of Dickens’ “Bleak House; but
there wasn’t anything bleak about the house on
Monday night. Since Signor Majeroni took the
management of the place, he has re-fltted it and
made it look as bright and cheerful as a bonnet
in a new band-box. And the audience was large
and fashionable. We were there. Then we had
our feet with us, and that helped to make it large.
There isn’t much plot to the play, and Jo, who is
the principal character, seems almost out of what
little plot there is.
* * *
We like Jennie Lee’s Jo. In the first place
because she has made a thorough study of the
street arab’s character, and plays so naturally that
you are carried away in spit® of yourself. Wo
only have one fault to tind with the character,
and that is, it is painted too good. Jo doesn't tell
any lie 3, doesn’t smoke stumps, doesn't snavel
handkerchiefs, doesn’t put bricks under a hat for
anybody to kick at—in short, doesn’t do anything
that is common amongst neglected crossing-
swtepers. # *
There may be somebody who can play Jo
better than Miss Jennie Lee, but we d< n’t know
■who it is, and we don’t believe he or she's been
born yet. And, right herr, we might as well intro-
duce the character of Bucket, the detective (Mr.
J. P. Burnett, who “ adapted ” the play). The bills
say that Bucket is “a stoutly-built, steady-look-
ing, sharp-eyed man of about the middle age, with
an attentive face.” We know what the most of
that means, but, when it comes to the “attentive
face,” we’re clean out of it. We have heard of an
“attentive ear,” an “attentive listener,” an “at-
tentive servant orrworkman,” and a few things
like that; but an “attentive face” is beyond us.
He’s got a mighty long nose, and ears that were
evidently mado in a tannery where there was
plenty of material at hand, while his chin is
so long that he can’t spit over it at times. Other-
wise, his face isn’t at all peculiar. But we don’t
care anything about his face, for Mr. Burnett was
a capital Bucket and deserved the applause he got,
This detective even knows the Lord’s Prayer, and
tries to teach it to Jo, when the lad is about to
cast his little soul upon the Stygian river. He
seems to have a heart in him, too, and after you’ve
watched him for a while you actually begin to be-
lieve that you could trust him with your watch
and money during a temporary eclipse of the
moon * * *
Solange Navaro’s Hortense was also a
clever bit of acting, and the pastry was thrown at
her in sections by the audience. Hortense is a
typical French character, and one of the truest in
the cast. Before you’ve seen h?r act half a
minute, the opinion grows on you that you would
rather rub salt on the sore neck of a cinnamon
bear than try to wake up a woman like that.
* * *
Miss Ada Lee played Guster in a way that
made u 3 tired. The bills said that she was “a
loan young woman from the work-house, who has
fits, which the parish can’t acoount for.” In the
case of Guster, we were clearly with the parish.
She certainly had fits that neither the parish nor
anyone else could account for. When Chad-
band is delivering his tedious discourse, her antics
are so absurdly stupid that the laugh she would
provoke goes down into the boots of the audience
and wears crape around its left arm out of very
grief for the dead wit whose corpse only Guster
drags inti view. There may be something that
Miss Ada Lee can play, but she can’t play Guster
for sour apples; and, if kingdoms were at stakv,
she wouldn’t get a barren rock within 300 miles of
the New Guinea group.
* * •
Miss Marston Leigh played Lady Dedloek
with more than her accustomed ability, but, since
she was married to Bir Liecester Dedloek, and
had au illegitimate child knocking around in the
world, she should have been more careful than to
go about hunting for the grave of her dead lover
and giving herself away to Sir Leicester.
• • •
Mr. Snagsby, the law writer, was another
character in the play. It was taken by Mr. Ster-
ling Wtaytd, and, for weak-kneed imbecility,
eclipsed anything that we have seen Mr. Whyte
do. However, the role was played cleverly enough,
and, despke an occasional longing to throw brick-
bats at him for being such an old fool, you rather
liked the acting, which, after all, wasn’t so very
strange for a man whoso wife had made a business
of sitting on him every fifteen minutes for a good
many years “ Jo ” will be continued at the Opera
House until further notice.
* * * *
“Fun on the Bristol” oontinues to crowd
the Gaiety Theatre. We often have to laugh a
little, however, at the advertisements that Cole-
man gets up for the papers In the first plaee, he
tells you that the lessee is John Bennett, the sub-
lessee, Wybert Reeve; “Manager for ‘Fun on the
Bristol ’ Company, H. J Whittington; represen-
tative of Mr. John F. Bheridan, W. Hughes; busi-
ness manager for Mr. Wybsrt Reeve, G. A. Cole-
man.” Next week we suppose he will run in the
names of the ushers, of the scene-shifters, of the
fruit-pedlars who prowl about the front entrance,
and a lot of other people that we haven’t time to
enumerate just now.
* • •
And this reminds us of an aotor we once
knew who was an awful liar. One day he poisoned
himself, and left a note lor the coroner to that
effect, so that no innocent party might be
suspected. Well, they held an inquest on the re-
mains, and when the jury rsad the letter they re-
turned a verdict to the effect that the actor had
been foully poisoned by unknown assassins. They
s lid that since he had declared himself a suicide
the thing must be a lie, as “ Old Bill Simpson was
never known to tell the truth in his life.” So bis
fellow-actors planted him in the cemetery, and
came to us for an epitaph. We thought a short
one would do, and so wrote them this:
Here lies Old Bill Simpson, a wonderful clown—
For ly;ng he had an unrivalled renown;
He lied throughout life with a mighty good will,
And in death, rest his soul, he is lying on still.
This hasn’t mueh to do with the play, as we know
of, and maybe we’d bettor get back to the Gaiety*
• •
Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien is the chief
attraction of the play. Every time we see him on
the stage, we feel sorry that he wasn t born a
woman? He looks like a woman, talks like a
woman, acts like a woman, and unless you knew
him off the stage, you would swear, pr bet, or
both, that he was a woman. And he is so Irish
that a toad would die if he looked at it, or caught
it tying its tail to a stump. We don t know where
Sheridan was born, and don t care; but if he feels
anything like he looks in make-up, he must have
an awful hankering at times for a nagin of potheen
and a corpse to “ wake,” after the good old Irish
fashion. Off the stage, however, he is a bright
little rooster about the size of a saveloy, and j ou
have to keep an eye out all the time for tear that
you step on him and mash him clear out of exiet-
ence He is just about the right height to hang
on the tail of an ordinary kite, and you can’t coax
him to go fishing for fear that one of his com-
panions might mistake him. for a sprat and bait his
hook with him for mullet.
* * *
Bella Thompson (May Livingstone) con-
tinues to be a great favourite with the audience,
and is about as trisky as a Woolloomooloo fiea > on
a, summer day. She is just a little bit *oua ft t
times but you can’t help laughing at her Topsy-
like make-up and antics; and some of the songs
she siogs are very well rendered. Mr. J. A.
Meade’s Captain Cranbury is an absurd creation;
but the whole play is grotesquely absurd, so that
Cranbury only contributes to the eternal fitness
of things. He is just the sort of captain we
should like to see fall down a hatch-way
on to a lot of ploughshares; or we would like to
give him chloroform, and then put him to bed in
a threshing machine. And we want to tell you,
before we get through with him, that Mr. Meade
is a sculptor of m mean pretentions, and has,
amongst his effects, some very fair specimens
of work artistically done in clay and plaster. He
showed us a bust of the Widow O’Biien that he
had made the other day, and offered it to us as an
ornament for our library, but we declined. We
are Irish enough already, and it makes us thirsty
to look at such folks as the Widow.
** * *
We have been to the Minstrels again, for,
since we saw Signora Majeroni in “Mari® Antoi-
nette,” we have required the combined influence
of “ The Queen’s Favourite,” “ Fun on the Bris-
tol,” and the Federals to drive away the dumps.
And now you want to know what we 6ee
at the Minstrels that pleases us so much.
In the first place, we meet Col. Hiscocks at the
door, with a smile on his face so wide and warm
that it would make a winter overcoat, with
several yards cut to waste. Then wo meet Smythe,
who tried to lift the top off a bottle of gum, or
something, last week, and ran a sliver of
glass up Ills arm from the wrist to the elbow.
He’s got his arm in a sling now, and we can abuse
him all wo want without danger of being hurt.
We don’t believe that Smythe cares much about
the wound, only it is in the arm he's been in the
habit of hugging his girl with. Of course, if the
girl grumbles about the inexperience of the other
arm, Smythe feels bad, and wants to be well
again. When we go inside we behold the imps of
darkness on the stage, and they make us laugh
until we don’t know whether we are on foot or
a-horso-back. There are Keenan and Moynham,
and Kent and Carroll, all specialists in their lines;
and a very funny crew they are. Jf you can’t
laugh at thorn, there is no music in your
soul, and you might quite as well go off and
drown yourself just to get rid of a nature like
that. Presently the farces begin, and by the time
they are concluded you can’t take a drink for
laughing. So you go home sober; and next time
you take your wife or daughter, if you've got one
—or apmebod? else's, if you haven’t—and give her
a chance to enjoy the fun. There are thousands of
people just like you in Sydney, and that is the
reason that the Federal are playing to packed
houses every night at the Academy.
• • a
There are many people who can’t get out
to the Minstrels every week, as we can, and so, to
give them an idea of what has been going on there
for over three months, we to-day present you with
an illustration showing some of the characters on
the stage. You know who that man with the big
mouth is, of course ? Well, all you’ve got to do is
to walk right in and hang your hat up on ore of
bis back teeth. There’s plenty of room; but j oa'd
better take a lantern along, as it's kind of dark in
some of the back chambers of the cave, and no
guide is provided for the tourist. There are some
wonjerful crystals to be found, however, with
staiaoites ana stalagmite} that glint and glitter
in the rays of a lamp like frost-covered boughs in
the early morning sun. The gre»test d ifijulty
which the traveller experiences, however, is in
locomotion. The floor i f the cavern is of an un-
steady shifting character, and great care must be
taken to preserve one’s balance. Several venture-
some tourists, who undertook to explore this cave,
have never been heard from. Legend says t h at
there is a deep hole at the back of one of the
chambers, down which some of these victims
have plunged to destruction. We will give th
proprietor ertdit, however, of sending down after
them any quantity of potatoes, baked fish, bam
and raveloys, so that, should they be alive, they
need not starve. A great many bottles of ale have
also been contributed by mourning friends, and
presently a search party, well equipped with ropes,
grappling hooks, and other utensils, is to start iu
to see if it bo possible to rescue the rash unfortu-
natesifrom their subteir mean grave. If the .ven-
ture. terminates successfully, we’ll let you know
next week.
•• * •
Have you been t» see “ The Queen’s
Favourite” yet? If you haven’t, you must go
before Saturday evening of this week. We have
been to see it several limi s now, and have laughed
so much that wc are growing fat, and our landlady
is getting rich because wo don’t need to eat any-
thing to keep up. At least, she will be on a fair
road to riches when she gets what we ow«* her—
which, by the way, isn’t much for us to owe, but
will be a lot for her to get out of us alter crowd-
ing the Mercantile ball, the American picnic, and
the Masquerade all into one week. The more we
see of “The Queen’s Favourite” the better we
like it, and Sydney Grundy has our sincere thanks.
And this reminds us that up in Brisbane, the other
night, the standard of the stage was elevated in
rather a novel way. One of the “Tambour Major”
troupe, who had been imbibing a little ice-water,
or something which didn’t agree with him in a
warm climate, blew out the gas-jet in his dressing-
room under the stage. After a while, the singers
and some of the audience noticed that there was a
dead cat around somewhere, and just about the
dole of the ent rtainment a search was made
for it. The artless fellow who carried the
candle opened the door of that dressing-
room, and an explosion followed which hurled
him clear across the basement, knocking
several of his fellow-singers down as he passed.
Of course, they thought, he should have “moder-
ated his transports ” a little, but, by the time he
came to, they had forgotten all about it. Visions
of Irish Invincibies and American infernal ma-
chines flitted through the minds of the audience
when they heard tne report and saw the stage
heave like a blanket with a boy who had a stomach-
ache under it, and a panic ensued. The women
fainted, and tne men ran out as fast as they could
to fetch doctors, perhaps, to wait upon their
stricken sweethearts and wives. But we don’t
know that that has anything to do with the play
now on at the Theatre Royal; so, with your per-
mission, we’ll get back before the curtain goes up
and we miss some of the good points in the piece.
V * *
We told you last week that Mr. Vernon
was actiog splendidly in the r6le of Viscount
Bolingbroke. If you saw him as Sir George in
“Forget-Me-Not ” you would never expect t im
to play a character like Bolingbroke so capitally.
We don't believe, however, that the Viscounts of
170 years ago made fun of ttielr wives and retailed
their family troubles to mere ensigns and
shop-girls; but that is what the author
has made Viscount Bolingbroke do, and, as
he does it very funnily, and tho audience
like it, we suppose we shouldn’t find fault. Nor do
we believe that a shrewd and powerful diplomat
like Bolingbroke would be Kkelv to take into his
confidence a dear little simpleton like Abigail Hill,
who comes within one of letting the eat out of the
bag at every turn. After the Duchess had ju6t
about checkmated him, and walks away with the
Queen, Bolingbroke kisses his hand and calls after
them “bye-bye,” in that peculiar style which
belongs to the commercial traveller of to-day.
* ★ *
Genevieve Ward plays the part of the
Duchess, and all the while she is as bright and
sharp as a loose tack on your bed-room carpet
She takes tho button off her foil and goes right at
the Viscount like Professor Miller at a sand-bag,
and all the audience has to do is to sit still and
enjoy the fun. Miss Ward is an artiste in more
ways than one, and the attention which she pays
to details of make-up is not the least noticeable
thing about her stage-work.
* * »
Miss Flora Anstead’s Queen Anne is rather
an absurd creation, but we like her interpretation
of it better than at first. She is a weak-minded,
vacillating creature, who looks as though she had
been blown off the tree in a thunder storm and was
allowed to ripen in the sun.
Pdttie Browne, as Abigail Hill, was as
charming as a bunch of violets tied with a yellow
ribbon, and presented to us to keep us in a good
humour. However, Miss Browne has improved
wonderfully in her acting within the past year;
and as she is young and inexperienced, we suppose
she can’t help getting cross with the critics at
times.
** * *
Hart’s Happy Hours combination opened
the new Haymarnet Academy last Monday even-
ing. and gave their drawing-room entertainment
in tho presence of a fair audience. When we say
“ fair audience,” we don’t refer to its complexion,
but mean that it was neither large nor small, but
half-way between the two, and reasonably appre-
ciative. The entertainment is one that you can
see more than once without grown g w ary of it,
and we don’t know of a better place to put it than
in the Haymarket Academy. We asked Mr. Hart
how long he intended to lun it in Sydney, and he
said, “Just as long as it will pay.” Now you know
as much about it as we do, and only need to have
us recommend it to persuade you into going. ;
During the performance, Mr. Hart assumes a num-
ber of characters after the stylo of Maccabe, and
at times is as nimble as a stop-ladder with a broken
leg. Mrs. Hart, too, sings and danoes.
** » *
General Maclver concluded bis oourse of
lectures, entitled “ Under Fourteen Flags,” at the
Masonic Hall, York-street, last Tuesday pvening.
Life is full of disappointments, and no ■■■ knows
that better than a soldier of fortune likd Maelver.
and for that reason wo suppose he hasn't wept
a deal over the slim audiences he had to talk
to. It wouldn’t have done for him to weep a
?reat deal in the hall, for the chanctsare that a
air shower of tears would have drowned the
attendance and swamped the cash-box to boot.
However, those who heard the lectures wero well
repaid for the trouble of going, for General Maclver
is a good talker, and has a fund of experience and
anecdote to draw upon that few can lay claim to.
But we don’t envy him his travels the least little
bit. We fought under one flag once, and that is
enough for us. We wouldn't nave minded being
under the flag so much, only the confounded
enemy kept shooting at it all the time, and the
staff wasn’t big enough to hide behind. Maclver,
however, has gone all over the world hunting for
people to shoot at him, and, finding that he is
bullet-proof, he now wants to go to New Guinea
to see if the spears of the natives can penetrate
the heel of a modern Achilles.
•# # •
The professionals now in Sydney have
unanimously agreed that it is about time to give
Signor Kieardi, the siDger, a benefit, which is to
take the shape of an afternoon entertainment, the
programme being conti ibuted to by allthetroupts
nowin the city. It will be held at the Theatre
Itoyal, on tho afternoon of Saturday, July I9th.
Genevieve Ward, Hiscocks’ Minstrels, the “Fun
on the Bristol” Company, and the Jennie Lee out-
fit have all consented to.be present, and to favour
th'o audience with the best they’ve got in the
shop. After we have told you that Signor Kieardi
has been ill in bed for over six months, we need
say no more to ensure your presence and patron-
age—for Kieardi has delighted you more than once,
and is in every way deserving of public patronage.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Since Bishop Barry has shown a disposi-
tion to use moral maxims, gathered from our own
great public men, and has led off with one by
Parkes, it affords us great satisfaction to publish for
his benefit a few pearls, which have from time to
time dropped from the lips of our uoblestcitizens.
Sir Jack Robertson: “ No reasonable man can deny
the plenary inspiration of the Bible—and my Land
Act of 1860.” John Davies, C.M G.: “Virtue is its
own reward, and gets diamond rings and other
* perks ’ thrown in.” A. G. Taylor, M.P.: “Damn
the chair.” Dan O’Connor, M.P.: “The thran.
scindent importhance, Mr. Spaker, of the magni-
ficent importhunity which,” &c. H. M'Quade,
Esq., M.P.: “What’s yours, ole fellah?” Cupid,
M.P.: “Nothing so elevates a man as the con-
sciousness that he has not cringed in va?q.” G. A.
Lloyd, Esq. (ex-ex-ex-Colonial Treasurer—or thus,
XXX Colonial Treasurer): “ There's no such w ord
as fail.” The Hon. John Lucas: “Life has its
compensations-sometimes. ’ James AVatson (ex-
Colonial Treasurer): “An honest mans the
noblest work of the Supreme Court.” Tbe editor
of the S. M. Hehald: “There would be everj
reason for asserting the absolute truth of the
theory, were it not that there are many reasons
for believing it to be doubtful.”
♦ * *
Thus a late telegram: “ Prince Bismarck
states that tbe grasping policy of English colonists
is offenrive and irritating to Germany.” The deuce
it is! This is very sad. But we always notice that
when a German asks you for a pipe of tobacco, he
takes out a puffer with a bowl as big as a steam-
laundry copper, and crams it to the brim with a
ruthless hand. And look at a German at a church
picnic or sausage conversazione I Who is nearest
the end of the table where the solids are ? Who is
high-priest of the Jiiger ? Are these s'gns of
national character or not? And yet Prince Bis-
marck states—not thinks, or hints, or begins to be-
lieve, mind you, but calmly states—that our grasp-
ing policy offends and ixritatcs Germany—which
means, of course, Prince Bismarck. Well, we
shall not attempt to defend or exculpate ourselves.
There is an editor down at Nowra who can do
/'* C,n
AIR /?>£Wrs Cfnd/jT i/y!/rr/r/oh£
• fjxi/en f fo)'
rAe C CC Current O/ *>* Z> ~ '
A Bit of Colour.
SEEN AT THE ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
that. He took Bismarck out of winding before,
and he can do it again. Only v ait till that fencing
job is finished I
a • •
“Vigilant,” who writes the Assembly busi-
ness, eommenees by saying that he has been “atit
again.” He has. He considers Bob Cupid, Esq.,
to be " the best dressed mas in the House;” thinks
Hughey Taylor has a “ king-like form.” Mr. Smith
is likewise described as “a frownist.” But let’s
quota a little of him:—“Then there was Jack
M'Loughlin’s little Bill about the Judges, and then
everybody got mixed up, and then there was a
row, and then they made it up, and then—O Lord,
‘I can’t go on;
I’m almost sorry that I e'er began.’ . . .
‘ Go it, my pippins, read tbe Dext order of the day.’ ”
We wonder what this gentleman (“Vigilant”) does
when he is not writing. It would be interesting to
learn what he charges per thousand for distribut-
ing handbills.
• • •
The free granting of Crown lands to the
, sects is undoubtedly a most pernicious breach of
the principle of no-State-aid to Religion. Let the
sects buy what land they want. At present there’s
not a denomination but what has in hand some
little i. la syndi:ate swindle, by which they hope to
qet shekels for the sanctuary. If they wish to
speculate in land, let them do it at their own risk
and with their own capital. The State, in finding
them with the wherewithal, makes itself a party
to practioes which more often than not are of mos*
questionable complexion.
* * *
John Osborne was a Wesleyan minister,
and now thinks that there might be something a
bit wrong in Wesleyanism. Our pen shivers to
note his falling away. The pen may recover it
and be funny again, but we sball smile no more.
“The doctrine of the devil,” says John, as he
scurries home from the Masonic Hall, and makes
the boy fly upstairs with the notes of his discourse
(written the night before), is a relic of a barbarous
age.” Now, John and the rest sent us to the devil
long ago, and, being always thorough, we failed
not to hit it neighbourly with “the prince of the
powers of the air.” Just asking him for the tip of
his tail for a moment (to save a match), we put it
to him: “Are you, or are you not, a relio of a
barbarous age ?” “ Who told you to ask that ?” be
growled, as the flames reached higher and higher,
and the clouds rolled thicker than Taylor’s speech.
“ John Osborne,” we shivered. A smile as of rosy-
beamed summer, when violets speak their souls,
rippled down his scar-trenched cheek. Placing
his worn hand upon our head, he said, as a father,
“.Policy, sonny, policy! Me and Jack understand
one another.
e * *
BOOHI
A Rum man goes to interview Quong Tart,
and introduces his sketch as follows:—*' On seeing
us—we had met before at temperance lectures, tea
meetings, and other genial gatherings—the next
moment [sic///] we were taken cordially by the
arm, and received an effusive invitation to partake
of a refr> shing cup of Souchong or Bohea, but,
being the unhappy possessor of nerves [!l], we
were relieved from the o: deal of imbibing the
beverage on endeavouring to masticate its usual
accompaniment—scones.”
You may have nerves, we don’t say not;
But to a bat it would he plain
That if you’d be gauged by this rot,
You’ve notan atom of a brain!
There is, ctrtes, no putty-skull
Who yet eats his scholastic hash,
Who couldn’t shame this screed so dull—
Who couldn’t whip this trivial trash.
They let you live, whoe’er you are,
You “limpid” journalistic bore;
And for this, thank your lucky star I
Go, dullard, delve! and write no more.
“ The State has to deal with the nation a 8
a Christian nation,” says Mr. Jefferis. Lugging
out our longest pointer, and unfolding the maps
along the walls of the Fort-street Training School,
we scanned the rising generation, and held up a
sovereign. “Boys,” we said, “you are being
brought up in the grossest familiarity with the
multiplication table, and the handling of the verb
to love. This will ultimately lead the State to
infidelity, and one meal a day. Now, what we re-
quire to know is, where to find a Christian nation.
Hands up who takes the sa vereign and the pointer.”
No hand. “ Boys,” we shrieked, “ your salvation
depends upon it —where are yougoiDgtoget grub,
where are you going to get ” A red-headed
boy demurely seized the cane. Mr. Conway sat
down. The training staff were marshalled in.
Trickett paused near the desk. Dead silence. And
the poor red-headed boy fumbled all over the
map of the world; the pointer dropped from his
hand, and he said, “ Please, sir, there ain’t bo such
country.” “ Roll up the map of the world,” said
Trickett.
v * *
The Pyrmont Bridge is the People's now.
A little while ago only Sir G. Wigram Allen was
allowed to go over it free, and ho took more ouj
of that bridge—even if only by the hauteur of his
manner—than if he'd paid seventy times over.
On the structure being delivered up, there was
grand turn-out at the toll-gate, and all the hand-
satchels, knives, bunches of keys, neckties, etc.,
left in pawn by the reporters, were handed over to
the Government, who in all probability transferred
them to the drain. It is alleged that when a very
old knife belonging to one of Alfred's boys bad
grown venerable in the service, and was no longer
of the value of Id., the proprietor of that article
of cutlery, on being refused passage one night,
offered to leave his ear. This was declined, how-
over, as the tollman didn't happen to be in need of
a pair of sea-boots. A waistcoat, a tin collar-stud
a comforter, and a handkerchief with more gloom
about it than a shipwreck, fixed the little matter
up all right. He had alius, said the pikekeeper,
had a hankerin’ arter talent—clean or dirty.
< * *
Bishop Moorhouse made a sensational
splash, the other day, when be anathematised cer-
tain profane caricaturists of Jesus of Nazareth.
If the works of the said carieaturista were really
obscene, the cursed have nothing to oomplain
about. But orthodoxy is apt to brand as blas-
phemous things and works which are not blas-
phemous; and to stigmatise as caricatures sf Jesus
what, in reality, are only sarcastic reflections upon
the swaddling clothes in which Humbug and Cant
and Tradition have enveloped Jesus. For the men
NIGHT THOUGHTS.
[NOT YOUNG’S]
When shadows fall darkly o’er mountain and lea,
Foretelling the advent of night,
When the mists, grey and ghostly, sweep over the
sea,
And veil every wave from our sight,
Then a strange sense of sadness will steal over
me—
All gone is my gladness, all vanishc «l my glee—
While I think-ay, with madness—“his days are
but dree
Who walks not the way that is right.”
So long as the sun in the hoavens sits high,
Remorse slumbers still in one’s breast;
But awakes into life when the night time is nigh,
And Phoebus sinks low in the west.
Though in daylight forgetting my wild, wasted
years—
With their billiards, and betting, and rent in ar-
rears—
When the bright sun is setting, and eventide
nears,
My sins are, in silence, confest.
27ie» the dew of despair gently drops on my head,
And my cheeks, like the flow’rets, are wet;
The latter with big briny tears that I shed
For tbe bills that can never be met).
While the orb in descending makes sky and sea
red,
I watch the birds wending their flights home to
bed,
And—despairing of mending the years that are
fled-
cry, lowly bending, “My day, too, is dead!”
And then—l get drunk, and forget.


whom Moorhouse damned we are not pleading.
They may or may not deserve his episcopal curse;
but we contend that before a prelate who pretends
to be a Christian minister launches his curse at
those who caricature the most perfect sacred
figure of human history, he should have searetj-
ingly inquired whether or no that sacred figure is
no* more grossly carieatured Sunday after Sunday
by priests of his (the Bishop’s) creed, who tell lies
in His name, than it is possible for it to be cari-
catured in any other conceivable way. Moreover,
some so-called caricatures of Jesus are merely
caricatures of the Jesus of the Christian Church—
a very different person from the Jesus of Nazareth
whose life was one protest against the hyproorisy
of priest-craft. To ridicule the superstitions that
have gathered around the most sacred figure of
human history is not to ridicule the Man himself,
The “Mudgee Miracle," in His Great Double Act.
any more than it is a reflection on the simple re-
ligion He taught, to reflect upon the ecclesiastical
additions which clerics have made to it for their
own worldly and selfish ends. For a bishop to
inveigh against the caricaturing of Jesus is as
though Belial were to protest against some poor
devil of an inferior endeavouring in some small,
mean way to make the worse appear the better.
The Churches want a monopoly of the right to
caricature Jesus. It must be denied them and
the most perfect sacred figure of human history
mußt be rescued alike from the ribaldry of Holy-
well-street and the blasphemy of the cross sur-
mounted Temple.
The Victorian Express (W.A.) agitat«a,
with persistent consistency, ior the introduction
of responsible Government into the occidental
colony. It attributes to the staving off ot the
adoption of free political institutions, the gradu-
ally increasing emigration of West Australian
youth. “Let us,” it says, “once commence the
task of self-government, of building up our
future, untrammelled by Downing-street, and the
tide of emigration will stop, and the flood of immi-
gration set in. As it is only a few are content to
come to the colony and forfeit that politioal free-
dom which they elsewhere enjoy.” Which is a
true Bill.
Each spoke his speech softly, but there was
the eloquence of truth in every word, and the
hearts of the hearers bowed down in unquestion-
ing assent. “ I had hard work in getting the hand-
cuffs on him, yer worship, but at last I succeeded
in choking him, and then I got them on.” When
constable Booth descended from the witness-box
in the Melbourne City Court, the atmosphere
through which he passed held not a pennyweight
of doubt in solution. Moses coming down from
the mountain with his horns of light blazing like
gas-jets did not cut a better figure as a truth-
speaker. And ho was worthily followed by con-
stable Wardley: “I arrived on the scene of the
row, yer worship, just as it was over." Ah, the
days in whieh a!policeman’s oath was lightly
valued are passing away. Truth can now be found
in him just asjaurely as hair in hash.
From the American Tourist Gazette, a
railway publication, we extract the following
novel information about the “Australian Govern-
ment”—whatever that is:—“The Australian Colo-
nial Government has recently finished a railway
from Sydney to Melbourne, a distance of about
350 miles. A fast train runs from Sydney to Mel-
bourne by day, and returns at night; and aa it
would be necessary to have comfortable sleeping
cars for the run back, the Australian Cemmis-
sioners ordered two to be built as rapidly as pos-
sible-one to be named the Lady Parkes and the
other the Lady Robertson, after the wives of the
Governor-General and the Railroad Commissioner
of Australia.” Mustn’t King Henry have been
just going it in the land of the free ? But we
can’t understand why there isn’t a Lady Henniker
Heaton car.
“Stand back, man, or you’re killed,”
shouted the train-driver, who, recently, with
many blushes, admitted that he had occasion-
ally heard himself referred to as “ Grand
Flaneur,” The miserable, bare - headed man
to whom the warning was addressed, was hastily
seized by the head, and dragged back from the
track by a passing cabman. “Miserable man, that
I am,” yelled the rescued party; “I will never
survive this loss.” What loss ? ” queried bis saver;
“you’ve not got a scratch.” “Oh.it isn’t that at
all," moaned the wretched man; “ I wouldn’t care
much if a leg or an arm was lopped off. because,
y’ see, th’ Infirmary fellows would soon fix me up,
but there’s my only special reporting hat squelched
up by that infernal tram, and it’ll take me six
months before I can get another.” This is the
reason why one Rum reporter missed his snack at
the Lord Mayor’s banquet.
Ninepence is ninepence. So, evidently,
reasoned a high-toned member of the Legislative
Council of N.Z. He called at a railway station with
a small parcel he wished to send to a friend in the
country, and on ascertaining the cost of convey-
ance to be the above figure, he took his chin in
hand and retired behind his shirt-collar to con-
sider the question of railway' tariff. He cogitated
successfully, it would seem; for, just as the train
was about to start, he took his seat in a first-class
carriage, travelled four-and-twenty miles to his
friends house, delivered the parcel, enjoyed a good
luncheon, got home by the return train in time for
dinner, and the trip cost him nothing. After this,
where is the human jackass located who can say,
or even whisper, that our civilisation is a failure,
or that the Caucasian is anything like played ou,?
Not while there is an M.L C. left to uphold the
dignity and rumgumption of the race.
Senator Blaine, the Republican nominee
for President of the United States is not so sure of
election after all. It appears that the old fight
between the stalwart and anti-stalwart wings of
the party, which grew out of Garfield's snubbing
ex-Senator Conkiing, of New York, i? cropping
up again. Largo and influential meetings have
been held in New York and Boston, at which
resolutions were passed declaring against the
nomination of Blaine. Unless the party managers
succeed in patching the matter up somehow be-
fore November, Blaine is certain to be defeated.
Should the stalwart Republicans wheel into line
with the Democrats, a democratic president, and
a democratic congress are foregone conclusions.
This will mean free-trade, or next thing to it,
namely, taiiff for revenue only, and not for pro-
tection. Tha change, should it occur, will revolu-
tionise trade in the States, and its influence will
be felt in all the commercial marts of the world.
It. was “ lodge night ” in an ancient village
on the Sydney road, and, as the P.W.G.M., etc,
hurried home about 2 a.m., he suddenly tumbled
heels over appetite across what he thought was a
dead cow, and was proceeding to curse the animal
back a few generations, when, to his great surprise,
a voice called out, “Luk here (hie); loc’ oo up ’t
shault me li that—exercush’n ’f my dooty.” Strik-
ing alight, the bruised citizen propped the sup-
posed cow up, and, finding he bad struck the sole
guardian of the peace and another bottle of rum,
ho exclaimed, “Gramniverou3 Nfbuchadnezzar,
constable! is this you?" “ Blesh it I know,” hic-
. cupped the “ foorce,” “ till I goesh home an’ read#
d’scripshins.” “Never mind, o d man,” said the
Mason; “I'll see you along-,“ and off the pair
started for the lock-up. Nearing the station, the
rum-holder straightened himself up againsta wall
and sternly observed: “Shee here, my fren’; I’m
stonish'd ash yer • 7iic) — alters thought you wa6h
6hober. steady man—whyer devil can’t yer sthan
up? Ver’ sborry, but mush do ’er dooty-mush
locker up f’ drunk ’n dishor'ly conduct, ’sheen
Jangidgr, an’ sbault’n p’leece exercush’n dooty.’’
“Oh, get along,’’ roarrd the Good Samaritan,
“ and don’t be a bloomin’ ass.” “ U ash ’at y’say ?”
cried the man in blue ; “call me an ash! Now,
I’ll ’fuse t’ give y’ bail—you’re worsh case uver
met whole erspcricce.’’ And then, propping his
charge against the watch-house door, the P.W.M.G.
rapped, and cleared just in time to see the door
open and the peace-protector lumble over back-
wards on tep of his loviDgspouse, who, recovering
herself, hauled her loid and master into a vacant
cell, and, locking the door, lelt him snoring as
sound as a Cabinet Minister while a stonewall
Oppositionist happens to be enthralling the House
at 4 a.m. No married woman should be without a
vacant cell.


We heard of a man, the other day, who
lost “A Regular Plum” by being oxactly one
minute and a-taalf behind time; and as “a miss is
as good as a mile,” he might as well have made it
twenty years. Very likely he did not mean missing
it; and if he hid done as hundreds of others have
done, he would even now be “ chewing the cud of
asweel and bitter fancy” over that “Regular
Plum.” He would have been merry and not sad;
his pockets would have been full instead of empty
if he had only gone down to The Palace Em-
porium in the Haymarket and bought one of An-
thony Hordern and Sons' Waltham Watches. *
Should any eccentricity be observed in
this issue, we refer her readers for satisfaction to
Mr. G. H. Adams, 119 Sydney. This
is right on the way to our office, and parties com-
ing this way with bludgeons will save several
hundred yards by turning in at No. 119 and express-
ing their sentiments to Mr. Adams, who is colonial
representative of Kirker, Greer, and Co., distillers,
ot Belfast and Glasgow, where they produce
whiskies for the two nations. Mr. Adams sent us
a bottle of each sort, Scotch Lochdhu and Old
Irish. The bottle-boy can now call round for the
empties, and we wish it to be understood that we
have not a headache.*
Messrs. Lewis and Whitty don’t know
everything. They don’t know, for example, the
difference between this and the Shroud office, or
thev would not have sent us that packet of their
Borax Soap. There’s no credit to be got out of
us ia this line, whereas, had an advertisement of
Borax Soap in the Shroud been followed up by
thB apparition of a washed reporter in that neigh-
bourhood, look what a sensation would have been
caused! The Borax Soap beats rum. Itum can be
used in cold or hot water. Borax Boap can be used
also in salt water. It is guaranteed free from anv
irritant. But this is probably an error. A man w'e
know got a discoloured eye by simply holding ud
a piece before a Rum reporter.*
The best thing we have ever seen in the
way of a traveller’s guide book is a recent issue
entitled “The Orient Line Guide—Chapters for
Travellers by Sea and by Land.” It is a very large
book of 300 pages, half bound in morocco, with red
edges and an e'egant design in gilt upon the out-
side of the front cover. Anv amount of informa-
tion is to be found within its pages, and the letter-
press is interspersed with maps, charts, and litho-
graphs of the principal steamers of the Orient
Line, and of the principal cities of the world
which the tourist may wish to visit. The litho-
g-nnhs are of a high order of merit, and wer
executed by Messrs. Maulure and Macdonald ■ f
London, while the reading matter contains val *
pMo information on every subject pertaining to
travel that cannot fail of appreciation on the purr,
cf thetravelling public.* “
BRIEF MENTION.
La Republique is as intolerant of free
speech as L’ Empire. She would close the mouth
of the Congo.
A Soudan failure of thegum arabio supply
Is reported, owing, we presume, to the Mahdi
being such a El of a sticker.
A Walgett Orangeman hates temperance
because it is a cardinal virtue ; and, to prove his
consistency, is never quite sober.
Marbles are in at Junee, and the chief club
is at the Post Office. People now find it con-
venient to take their telegrams to Sydney by train.
They are striking a lot of solicitors off the
rolls in London, for sticking to various sums of
money left with them in trust. How many of our
but it isn’t safe.
Thomas Walker believes in moderate
drinking. For obvious reasons, no one had the
temerity to ask him as to the condition of his be-
lief in moderate lying.
A farmer at Horsham (Vic.), killed 1000
mice the other day. It isn’t difficult to tell wha
kind of saveloys he’s been eating, is it? Ech
answers: “ Mo-ow I ” Do you catsch on ?
The Gundagai Elwortht has an articl
“ For Ladies Only.” But there is nothing in i
about either the polite attendant or the liberality
of the management in the providing of hairpins.
Joe was quite surprised when he read the
review of the life of Henry VIII. in Saturday’
Herald. “ You wouldn’t take that Wolsey to be
as old as that by his picture,” said Joe, rumina
tively.
Sam Griffith, the Queensland Premier, has
sent Service a draft-bill to exclude from Australia
French expirees. Suppose the French passed
retaliatory bill to exclude the Speaker of Sam’i
choice.
An old joker enquires: “Why is F like a
bullock’s tail? Because it’s the end of beef.’
And now we want to enquire: “Why is P like a
pig’s snout ? Because it’s the beginning of pork.’
Easy enough, isn’t it ?
Says Dibbs: “ I think the Government are
very much in the position of the man and the
donkey.” How truol Dailey (or Trickett, since his
successful tilt with the denominational chiefs) the
man, and Farnell the .
MTver’s band of New Guinea explorers—
the band that Derby “bust” up—was largely recruit-
ed from “ the best families in Great Britain.” This
is why R. R. Smith sympathises so earnestly with
the disappointed brigadier.
A country paper tells us that “ Silverleaf,”
who contributes to the Shilling Gibbs is one
Mrs. Lloyd, of Terembore, Coonamble. For this
information, many thanks. But we get our things
done at the Steam Laundry.",
“It’s all right,” said a lawyer to a man
awaiting trial in Darlinghurst, “I’re engaged
Buchanan for you.” “ Then,” replied the prisoner,
calmly, “call to-morrow and you will receive
draft instructions for my will.”
The S. A. Cabinet accorded a public fune-
ral to the remains of tne late Justice Andreve.
The least the corpse could have done would have
been to sit up in the coffin and return thanks at
the grave in a neat little speech.
C. J. Becker, proprietor of the Central
Australian, died at Hobart, recently. His last
words were: “I have supplied a long felt wantl
Tell Perrier I forg.ive him!” But they were hard
even for the proprietor to swallow.
We trust the amiable dispenser of bohea,
etc., at the Arcade will kindly let us know, per
van, which he had rather be called in this paper:
Quong or Tart? We can’t stand “Mr. Tart”—
that's an acid thing. [C Ed. B.]
The Bourke Watchman states that Patti
is not only an “infatuating” woman, but one of
those tropical products with whom genius is in-
born. Well, on hot patties the Watchman is
perhaps as sound an authority as Alfred.
There is a female reporter on the Kansas
City Journal— a Mrs. Bees—who speaks four
languages, and is said to be sharper than a new
tack. Just imagine what a time her husband must
have when she opens out on him in four tongues
at once.
Granny thinks that the appointment of a
weak Under-Secretary of Public Instruction
would be a calamity. Hear, hear. The one we’ve
had was enough. Two negatives make an affirma-
tive, but two weeks /ort-nicht. [Let it go this
time.—Ed.B.]
Half of the front of the Melbourne Bulle-
tin office has been painted lately. If the proprie-
tors would only finish the rest, borrow a new hat
for the “chief,” and a pair of boots for the “sub.,”
folks would commence to think that the paper is a
paying concern.
Psychologists assert that the ha-ha laugh
indicates a refined mind, the he-he laugh a shallow
mind, and a ho-ho-ho-o laugh a gross mind. After
searching investigation, we have discovered that
the penetrating writer of this bunkum laughs
like a jackass. What’s that a sign of ?
Says the Melbourne Herald:—“ A man
named Thompson committed suicide in Lake
Weeroona this morning. He is an employs of Mr.
M’Devitt, produce dealer.” It would be interest-
ing to know in which of the regions—above, or
below—Mr. M’Devitt has opened a branch busi-
ness.
“Three-Star’’ of the Melbourne Licensed
Victuallers’ organ pays the following left-handed
compliment to the late Mrs. Uggles, of the Dover
Hotel:—“She was good; she was honest; she was
truthful; she has gone. I would we had many more
like her.” Booth and Co. will say ditto to that
sentiment.
Queen Victoria dines at 8.45 in the even-
ing, the Emperor of Brazil at one in the afternoon,
and the Emperor of Germany half-way between,
whilst a Bum reporter dines when and whereever
he can see the mystic words, “ Counter Juncheon
from 13 to 2.” Such is the difference between
royalty and genius, blood and beer.
Excited Hibernian, hailing a Bourke-street
’bus : “ Oi say, mate—d’ye go anyways near owld
Mungummery’B place, oi dunno ?” Driver:
“ Which Muhgummery’s ? ” Hibernian : “ Whoy
owld Dinnis Mungummery’s place—he’s dead
now.” “ No, I don’t. Think I.m drivin’ a b
hearse. Ger-rup thar, ’Possum.”
A wise Governor would soon settle all the
ructions, disputes and differences about the right,
privilege, or claim to entrie and precedence at
levees by puttmg all respectable persons, who
chose to attend it, on a perfectly equal footing,
and either receiving them in alphabetical order,
or on the principle of “ first come first served.”
Tho Rum, quoting some beastly British
fiunkey. says that Cambridge undergraduates
“are pluming themselves upen the tact that
H.B H. Prince Victor will complete his University
career with them.” Barring a few tuft-hunting
cads, Cambridge undergraduates ain’t such a lot
of measly snobs as the Bum would have it they
are.
Mr. Gilbert, the editor of the Lithgow
Mercury, was thrown from his horse and flung
against a house. Both the house and the editor
are now undergoing repairs. The proprietor of
the former says that though he has no virulent ob-
jection to seeing the Mekcdry on his breakfast-
table, he can’t stand its editor being flung into his
tea-cup.
A Conference to advocate Imperial Con-
federation is to meet in London on the 29th, the
prime mover in the matter being one F. B. Labil-
liere. Who the deuce is Labiliiere? Can it be a
certain insipid pamphleteer of that name, pages
from whose works are occasionally to be seen
enveloping the saveloy, or helping to give con-
sistence to the boo.-trunk ?
Bishop Barry has the simplest plan of
showing a majority for his side that was ever con-
ceived. In advocating Bible-ieiding as a regular
part of the Public School routine, he says thai
nine-tenths of the people would be in favour o 1
the plan— putting aside the Roman Catholic* and
the Secularists. Very good, Alfred. But si * .ose
they wouldn’t he put aside ?
The Only Jones has sold his share in the
Wagga Advertiser, and now journalism will
know him no more. This will be sad news, indeed,
to a great many brilliant authors, whose lucubra-
tions circulate chiefly at the Metropolitan. In the
mornings, now, perhaps, thpse*gentlemen, in the
absence of Jones’ Blend, will have to chip the fur
off their tongues with a chisel.
They look splendid when they appear at
the front of Alberto-terrace, in the full glow of
the noon-day sun, and step into the 300-guinea
chariot. But how do they shape when, in car ret
slippers and the silver grey of morn, they sneak
out the back way into the lane to cheapen gar-fish
with the hawker. “ Whath ! Two shillin’ a
dozensh! D'ye think I’m Crcesush ?”
The Johnston-Underwood pigeon-match
law-case will teach a lot of people a lesson. We
know the Botany Club well; but we don’t bvlong
to it. When we are tired of purchasing sapphires
and protecting une danseuse—de cards, we shall put
up for a member. At present, what with Is. 9d. a
pound for butter, and the kid kicking a pair of
copper toe-caps out weekly, our money pays itself
out.
The Auckland Observer is to be hauled
up at the Bar of the House for broach of privilege.
The editor already gloats over his anticipated im-
prisonment; his mind being centred ©ntne tooth-
some meats and fragrant whisky provided to
State prisoners. The people object, naturally, to
this gentleman being imprisoned and fed at the
public expense. They say they are heavily taxed
enough already.
“ Organist. A lady desires an engagement
as organist: no salary; open for a week. Address,
Lenore.” This is an ad. in Granny. Lenore best
knows the value of her own work. Since she fixes
it at nil it would undoubtedly be better for all
parties who have critical ears were her too liberal
offer to remain open in perpetuity. “Quaff, O,
quaff some kind nepenthe and forget this cheap
Lenore,” is our advice to those whom it may con-
cern.”
A Melbourne insolvent’s schedule gives
the following as the cause of his beiDg unable to
pay his debts:—“Marriage of two daughters, who
previously supported me.” It is possible that a
time will come when someone will go down
smiling to the little room Judge Noel calls his
Court, and will declare it to be his affidavit which
unfolds the cause of his difficulties, as arising
from the fact that his wife, who used to support
him, had basely run away with another man.
Over the name of “W. Harris ” (address,
Wallendbcen), the Cootamundra Herald recent-
ly published some ancient and hackneyed verses,
entitled, “ Why people go to Church.” Any paper’s
liable to be had in that way; but why, when a
fellow does go in for plagiarism, he should go in
for plagiarising weak pointless trash, is a staggerer.
Perhaps though, Harris knew that the C. Herald
had his mental measure, and felt that suspicion
would be aroused if his contribution evidenced
sense.
Bung, of the Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette, says that Bishop Barry’s letter to Booth
is the emanation of the brain of a Christian gentle-
man. In it, he goes on to remark, the prelate
‘quietly snubs ” the “fanatical charlatan,’’just as
“to quietly snub” a fellow were a criterion of
Christian feeling. But, then, it’s as absurd to sup-
pose that Bung should be competent to gauge
Christian behaviour, as to imagine that an a ngli-
can dignitary could be aught but offensively
supercilious.
Carcoar Mart, who on the strength of
coming out in a now mantle of fawn colour,
beseeches “a grateful constituency ” to enable her
to keep a shot in the locker, remarks (as the sting
in the tail of her wail):—“lf, however, our efforts
are not appreciated by our debtors, we shall inflict
a class of paper upon them which shall only be
surpassed in inferiority by that of the Evening
News.” A neat way of stating that Mary doesn’t
mean, under any circumstances, to alter the tone
and policy of her journal.
Karl Staiger, of Brisbane,[says the local
brandies and whiskies, &c.. are in m<my instances
highly adulterated deleterious rubbish. Our Mr.
Karl Watt’s his name says that our local brandies
and whiskies are not deleterious, and yet Brisbane
and Sydney are largely supplied with grogs from
the same firms. We beg to propose an analysing
contest between the two . carles, with an At
Parisian chemist for referee. Wouldn’t the result
be a sell for many a proud firm of swizzle con-
cocters ? Just a few—yes, a few do sell fusel.
ft is idle to complain of drought and bad
seasons, and the unemployed, and the trouble in
the Soudan, when learned men near at home are
getting untimely wrinkles on their frosty pows.
The Courcil appointed to deal with the incorpora-
tion of the Tasmanian University have, alter a
fierce sitting, dispersed without coming to a de-
cision. The heart-rending discussion was whether
the preamble should be “an "university, or “a”
university. Alas, if we had our way with these
venerable fossils, we’d [No. Alas is strong
enough.— Ed. B.]
Bishop Barry, re religious instruction,
quotes Parkes, to the effect that “no people
could become great without a profound faith.”
That’s a true quotation as far as it goes; but the
Bishop has forgotten the best Dart of it, which no
one really acquainted with Parkes would have
done. The people of N. S. Wales will always
respect Barry for quoting Parkes as an authority
in morals and religion. We all know the pro-
fundity and steadfastness of Sir ’Enry’s own con-
victions. But the maxim he recited to the Bishop
was that “ no people could become great without
a profound faith—in Parxes.”
The letters of the Princess Alioe breathe
sigh after sigh for her chronic hard-upishness.
Fact is, Alice, though goody-goody, was extrava-
gant. Yes, extravagant ! though she made her
own dresses and never gambled. She was extrava-
gant in maintaining an unnecessary staff of court
flunkeys, and in otherwise not cutting her coat
according to her cloth. Goodiness is often as ex-
travagant as fastness ; the difference is that while
the former whines because it can’t eat its cake and
have it, too, the latter takes the blows of fate more
philosophically, or, at all events, ;is not for ever
whipping the cat coram publico.
Writes “Cius” to the editor of that
“ littery ” organ the Camden Doust-bin:—“ It was
the ill-advised action of Colonel Baker’s own friends
that drew aside the veil of ten years, and once more
exposed to public gaze the well-nigh forgotten
picture of a woman’s ruin and a man’s shame, not
your unlucky contributor.” “Cius” started to
write before he or she was ready. There was no
woman ruined in the cas* referred to. Valentine
tried it on, but came off second-best. It was he
who was ruined. 80 that it's “Cius” who’s the
unlucky contributor. Well, a fellow could hardly
contribute to the Doust and not have bad luck.
The {esthetic soul of the Gundagai Bailey
is mightily vexed that the local undertaker,
through “ the callous indifference ” of the trustees
of the Church of England cemetery, is allowed to
dig graves “ wherever he chooses without any re-
gard to uniformity.” When, however, we explain
that Elworthy, the immortal, is one of the trustees,
everyone will understand how necessary it is to
take Bailey's strictures with many grains. Were
one of the Watson clique on the Board, now, in-
stead of Elworthy, Bailey wouldn’t care if the
local undertaker jammed the dead into a shallow
trench and turned his goat in to browze on the
floral offerings.
The boat catastrophe off North Quay
Beach, Brisbane, was described with simple pathos
in a telegram to the Melbourne Herald. Thus:—
“ The sailing boat, Seagull, capsized, owing to the
main sheet being made fast when the boat was
struck by a squall. The crew, excepting one man
named Brown, swam ashore.” And now comes
the pathetic yet simple explanation of why poor
rt-own -lid not emulate his comrades—“He was
unable to swim.’’
The wind was high, the waves in anger beat,
The Beagmll’s crew were terribly concerned;
Yet never fiought to loosen her main sheet,
And, consequently, she was overturned.
The crew swam sate ashorv—save onlv Brown —
'The Golden shore, we hope, was reached by him)
The reason luckless Brown, alone, went down
Was simply this—because he couldn't swim.
Tub Rates of Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6e. 6d.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch:
special position* in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements IQs. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 conseeutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
“ THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession. ]
It is the fashion, it seems, in America, for
pros to write “cards” of compliment, or condo-
lence, as the case may be, in the theatrical papers.
In the N.Y. Clipper appears the latest and most
elegant of these. Complete in its coruscating
rhythm, we give this dramatic gem:—
“ You’re going 1 May the laurels you have won
here
Follow you there,
Sailing far, from loved ones and friends,
You may never meet again.
“ It is joy to know that somewhere
There are lriends so true,
That they wish your gatherings there
May be as gleeful as they wore here.
„ , “ Your friend, N. E. D.”
Now, then:—
Why wail adieu in this sad strain ?
Why pile up agony on woe ?
When they read, they’ll vow you’re not sane,
And won’t they just be glad to go!
We know the cure, sweet bard, for you—
In fact, we have it always ready;
’Tis, N.E.D, a smartly-struck— one—two—
Delivered Ned, dear, with a “ neddy.”
And, what now ? For we can grind these items
out as butchers do sausages. And if the fame of
the “Endeavour Minstrels” (amateurs) has not
reached you, learn that they have been playiDg in
Cooktown, and be happy! The local Herald,
however, says: "The Cooktown Band, Messrs.
Robinson, Schmidt, Smith, and Tuflley, appeared
playing indescribable discordancies on native and
original instruments, and their performance and
gratesijue (sic) appearance was received wilh great
laughter.” This reminds us of Pope’s famous
couplet, which forms one of the mottoes to Byron’s
“ English Bards ”:
“ Such shameless bards we have, and yet ’tis true,
There are as mad abandoned critics, too.”
..And don’t overlook this—Byrne’s introduction
to his shows, in Brisbane:—
“I’m a Girl of the Period,
I’m none of your ‘ stereo.-d ’
And stiff and &ark old maids
Who think it a sin
To look and to grin
At dudes and dashing blades.
Quite a Peri I, ecod,
And a Girl of the Peri-odd! ”
To Bobby Byrne.
Chain up thy grisly bard! yes, once again,
Down in the cellar put him on the chain!
Bolt fast the door, so that there will be heard
Of all his writings not one single word!
Then, later, show to his astonished eyes
A dinner, and he’ll drop dead with surprise.
Then you must know that Hugh Conway and
Comyns Carr’s drama ‘ Called Back ” is a “go ” at
the Prince’s, where Edgar Bruce, who has struck a
Countess, rules the roast. It is said, however, that
there is a certain amount of signific >nce attached
to the permanent engagement of Alice Lingard,
by Edgar's patroness, which seems to bode ill for
E. B’s. pecuniary future. And, that reminds us,
ta king of Miss Lingard, LuscombeSearrealle seems
to nave iaded. But he hasn’t. What’s the betting
he does not, engaged at great expense, come out
here again to conduct his opera “Estrella,” and,
perhaps, after all, give another of his successful
children's files!!! By tho way, Hugh Conway is the
son of an auctioneer nameu Fargus. Just the man to
write a play that would “knock” the public.. And
what’ll they say to this ? John Wilson is coming
out here with a gigantic circus; but, let us hope,
no infernal steam piano; and learn that—this is
funny—“anew and original drama,” by Walter
Ueyßolds’ has been produced (for copyright pur-
poses) at the Sadler’s Wells! Walter is a splenoid
dramatist-only he is, to our mind, a little bit
" beyant” the age. And the news that Ix>rd Saver-
nake has married Dolly Yester, a chorus-girl at the
Comedy 1 heatre, pales before the intelligence that
our extremely own Bill Holloway has been doing
well in Queensland with what the Widb Bat News
calls, with characteristic humour, “the Holloway
Dramatic Company (sic).” And why should we
tell you that the authors of the “Silver King”
have written a new play called “ Chatterton, the
Boy Poet,” which was produced at a mating
(probably, like Waiter’s deathless piece, for copy-
right purposes,) and the play is stated to be a suc-
cess? Here is some of the genuine “raspberry”
which is spread on continually in London:—“Wil-
son Barrett played the leading r6le, and in the
death scene, which is the climax of the play, ac-
cording to a World cablegram, 4 held the audience
spell-bound for a few moment', sfter which the
peht-up emotions found vent in a storm of ap-
plause, broken by sobs.’” Talking of Barrett,
who has made such a bit in Claudian, Burnand has
written a burlesque upon it, called “Paw Claw-
dian ” It seems to be a great success Th?
Lawton-Minnie Hope Combination intend, we
hear, playing overland here. This company have
had offers, we understand, from over 250) “cour-
teous and indefatigable agents.” And what
wonder I Cela novsn’ ttonne pas... And while
Eass over the fact that Mrs. Langtry mad.? abif
aul in Toledo, U.S., in “Pygmalion,” and that
she has just invested another $20,000 in house pro-
perty in New York, we may dwell on the pleasing
intelligence that Johnny Hall has been doing
well in Hobart And wo have to announce
the farewell performance, in Maitland (last Wed-
nesday), of “ Mr. Charles Byron Marten, the emi-
nent tragedian.” Mr. B.M. gets lots of guiver
from some sources, and lots of jam from others.
Well, the critics can’t both be right! Yes; and
1 1 the Islington Grand they have revived Charles
Reade's “Never too Late to Mend;” and our old
Eai, Darrell, is not underlined yet. We wonder if
e and Walter Reynolds are destined to be the
dramatists of the future! Nothing would surprise
us. The versatility of thesepeople is surprising.
Just ask the people where Walter used to board.
At adapting a turkey into four acts, with a soup-
and-flsh prologue, he was a terror—This is whim-
sical:—“Professor Anderson, the Great Wizard of
the North,” and “ Louise Maude Anderson ” have
been at the T.R., Auckland, and they do the sus-
pended lady and the reading a bank-note biz. The
Professor (whose funeral we attended many years
ago) announces, “ Always something new.” We
suppose he alludes to the “ Enchanted Princess.”
But, there! that’s so old now as to be almost new
again. We wonder, by Jove, when we shall see
oar dear respected friend, the prismatic fountain.
pace morel What now? Oh, in Melbourne
things are pretty lively. Warner has given up
* ff° ne with DarKe, Grace Archer, ana
Addie Capper.and started a variety show at Victoria
Mfty! “Th® Grand Duchess” is at the Bijou,
with Emelie Melville, Farley, &c. Emelie seems in
? ° i Ur go - They all get struck on this country,
o e k ? , ate8 ’ now. He is back again from ’Frisco,
ana, at latest dates, was doing the jeune premier
Wiww Nelson and that brilliant Blue-
rtibbomst, Mr. M’Fadyen. in Auckland We have
not heard anything of the Lynch Family of Bell-
ringers, lately, and don’t want to: but the eternal
Kennedys have been “Twa Ouring” it in Mel-
bourne. At the Royal, Mrs. Jeffreys-Lewis, Alli-
son s American star, who is supported ty Mrs.
btammers and Lily (one of the f airy actresses), is
playing to—so they say—a brilliant display of ur-
a°d Marie De Grey is at the Princess!
still stooping to Conquer.” Mrs. Lewis's chance-,
tie papers say, has been spoiled by adverse dramr -
tic criticism. Evidently from this, Dr. Neild must,
ior the nonce, have dropped his carpet-slipper ana
warming-pan style. Says the Auckland Obser-
ver:— Pretty Mme. Tbeo’ has conceded an en-
gagement with Mr. Maurice Gran (sic) to make a
f° ur the States. Her terms are
±.120J per month, for ten months, or £12,(100 for the
tnp. This would be a Gran’ tour, and no mistake,
j I true, and Gran really existed. But he
don t. Grau ” does, though. By the way, Madame
l. is great on afternoon monologues in the man-
sions of the great. A kind of 5 o’clock The-0....
From aN.Y.paper:—“Mr Pickersgill was a pas-
senger to Auckland by the Manapouri. Is this
the genial Joe?” And is this fame! After all the
well-known eloquence,” t 001... Bohby Byrne,
equally guilty, calls Duke Laurent “ Mr. H. F*
Hardwood”—another insult; and the Auckland
Observer makes a referenoe to “ Miss Lily (sic)
Clay s company of ladies consisting of about thirty-
two in number.” Of course, it’s Lila And the
Herald notice of Miss Genevieve Ward’s” Queen’s
Favourite ” talks of it as “ Mr. Sydney Grundy’s
adaptation of Scribe’s comedy, ‘Le Verre D’lau’,’
(sic);” and also states that "the finesse with which
the Duchess of Marlborough and Henry Sir (sic)
John viscount Bolingbroke carried out the duel,
the reward of victory being Queen Anne’s favour.”
Can “Little Arthur’s History of England,” and
Ahn’s First French Course be out of print?...
And the lateft is that Irving and Ellen Terry are
about to be privately married We don’t know
what has become of Watts, A.R.A. (No. 1), and
Kelly (No. 2). They don’t seem to be bursting with
grief, anyhow L. M. Bayless, late of the
Gaiety, and the hero of a thousand courteous
episodes, is in ’Frisco, bringing an action
against; Nat Goodwin for breach of agree-
ment. We should say that if L.M.B. goes
on bringing any more law-suits he will bo getting
gradually and deliberately wealthy. A bit of baa
luck used to crumple Bayless right up, while when
he had a fortunate throw-in he would sit outside
on the pavement and b' ss the street. All we
regretted was--we liked him so—that he hadn’t a
more extensive thoroughfare to boss —in some
far and distant clime.
Here is a little story, so French, so subtle,
so very risqut, that the young man who reads it
out to his best girl had better go very slow. All
modest girls will cut it out and read it by them-
selves. A beautiful lady, going a long journey by
railway, began to be alarmed at her own solitude
in the carriage. She was thinking over all she had
heard of the attacks on lonely beauty, and its
helplessness to resist, when a handsome man, tall
determined-looking, entered with a heavy satchel,
and, as the train moved on, sat opposite, and fixed
her with his keen eye. She grew nervous. From
his pocket, he drew a revolver, and two chains
with padlocks. Still keeping his face towardslher,
he passed one chain round the door-post and
upright, and locked it firmly. Her nervousness
grew to terror, and starting up, she exclaimed,
imploringly, “ Oh, sir! sir! you will not, I am sure.
You are a gentleman—pray do not!” The band-
some man calmly walked to the opposite door,
proceeded to chain it also, but made her
no answer. He was evidently determined to
carryout a fearful intention. In a paroxysm of
fear, the trembling girl seized his arm; but he
shook her off, and, handling his revolver, ordered
her to retire to the opposite corner. Both doors
were secured; no scream could be heard above the
rumbling of the train, now approaching a long
tunnel. Half frantic, she sobbed out, “Sir! oh
sir! don't trust to appearances; I am not so beauti-
ful as yeu may think. It is not worth risking the
penitentiary for me. Sir ! after youj have com-
mitted the crime, you will bitterly repent, for I
pledge you my word of honour I am not worth
it —” He approached. Cowering against the
door, she continued, gaspingly, “And 1 warn you
I shall fight with tooth and nail. O, lam not so
easy a victim as you hope.” He seized her wrists,
and unprotected beauty sank back half-fainting as
he held her firmly through the long tunnel. Butthe
train slowed down in the daylight, and drew up to a
station, the handsome man relaxed his hold and
said, “Madam, pardon me causing you embarrass-
ment. You had entered the compartment specially
reserved for me. I am a messenger of the Bank
of France, conveying five million francs, and feart d
you might have been an accomplice to open the
door for others to rob me in the tunnel. I regret
mv precautions caused you some apprehension.”
Removing the door chains, the handsome man
bowed and lett. Then the tearful lady began to
reflect upon the unnecessary emphasis with which
she had asserted that she “ was not worth it.”


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear oomplexion ? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA..
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady in one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by whieh the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the Bame to her. She
made trial of b, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
rese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul breath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING,
gold by all Storeketpers and Chemists
Mk. DbCottbcy Bbowne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, <ss* Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in th© Dt partments and
Supreme Court.*
Dandruff.
For the last twenty years I have been troubled
about as bad as any one I ever saw with Dandi uff
My scalp was completely covered with scales,
sometimes nearly a quarter of an inch in size. I
considered it incurable. About two months since
I purchased Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, and
in about two weeks after commencing to use them
1 round the Dandruff entirely gone. My scalD is
now as free from it and as healthy as it could pos-
-81 b 'y be. I feel it my duty to both you and tha
public t© state the above facts.
THOMAS LEE,
. Sewing Machine Dealer.
No. 3376 Frknkeord Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
“ Buchu-pa.iba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney. Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses. Moss & Co., Genera. Agents.
Yass so long as she remained reasonably fond of
him and duly obedient. Four maids, in blue and
erea'm nun's veiling,/witnessedhis vow; and after a
beautiful breakfast at the bride’s father a, the
happy pair left for Sydney. Being married, the
lad v will never have a chance to be Sheckey again.
Wilcannia Masons had a ball in the West End
Assembly Hall on St. John’s Day, with all the cere-
monials of the craft. About fifty couples attended.
The Mayor of Melbourne, Mr. Charles Bmith,
gives a large ball shortly in the Exhibition—The
well-known solicitor, Mr. Llewellyn C. R. Jones
was married on the 2nd inst., at St. James’, to Miss
B A. Russell, who wore cream silk, and was
attended by some charming bridesmaids—The
Newtown Assembly’s fifth social took place at the
Oddfellows' Had, last Friday, and notwithstanding
the unfavourable evening, some twenty-six couples
made their appearance. Capital dancers came
from Station-street, Alice-street, Enmore Road,
and Stanmore. Sydney was represented by three
splendid dancers. All thoroughly enjoyed them-
selves; and on Friday evening, Ist August, it has
been decided to hold a ba11....At several country
townshiDS, the winter evenings are now whiled,
or rather wheeled, away at rinking, which is
very popular, Cootamundra indulges in it;
St. Mary’s residents have started in their Pro-
testant Hall ; and at Goulburn there is one of
the finest rinks in the colony, and a band plays,
presumably to deaden the sound of the groans
when the skaters sit down too suddenly. In the
metropolis, the Woollahra Private Skating Rink is
the only one at work, and is frequented by some
really good skaters. Last Monday, the lancers
Were done on wheels—rather erratically, it is true,
but that was owing to want of music rather than
want of 5ki11.... Melbourne feminity <s fluttered at
the news of a large ball to be given shortly in the
Town Hall there by the Mayor.... There is talk of
a Cyclists’ Ball, to be held in Sydney during the
present season, and it will be arranged, if possible,
on a date near the next large spoits meeting —A
first-class Oddfellows’ ball was given at Wagga on
the Ist instant, in the Freemasons’ Hall, and among
the company were representatives of almost every
kindred society; also the Mayor and leading
townsmen. Lilly and Broadhurst gave music, and
Mesdames Spring catered. Dancing till four—
Last Thursday, some young ladies of Camper-
down gave a nice social dance, and, with good
floor and music, fun preva led till after midnight.
A lady in black silk and broche, with cardinal
trimmings and pearls, was graceful; a pale blue
satin and black velvet was pleasing, and a tan-
coloured toilet unique ...The sweet singer. Miss
Alice Rees, was married at noon on July Ist,
to Herr Max Vogrich, in St. John’s Church,
Melbourne, by the Rev. W. Fellowes, whose
daughters decorated the church for the ceremony.
The fair bride wore cream moire and lace, and a
large number of guests attended. At the church-
door, the bride was handed a beautiful present
from a well-known lady amateur singer of Mel-
bourne. On Wednesday, Herr and Madame
Vogrich oame by express to Sydney. Last Mon-
day, a most graceful compliment was paid to the
bride and bridegroom.- After rehearsal at the
Cambride Club, about 40 members of the
Liedertafel went out in a large ’bus to
Elizabeth Bay, where they serenaded their con-
ductor and his sweet-voiced wife with several
beautiful songs, standing in the full moon-
light in front of the house. He thanked them. ...
To-morrow night, that is Friday the 11th, the
Balmain athletes give the last Rowing Club
ball of the season. It will be held in West’s
Rooms, Castlereagh-street, with the music of Mr.
L. De Groen’s string band, and ICripps’ catering.
Character dress will be correct, and no doubt some
good novelties will be seen On Friday, 18th
July, the Svdney Thistle Club hold their
annual ball in the new Masonic Hall. Fancy
dress will be permissible, and the Chieftains
aud clansmen will enliven the scenes with
their many - coleured tartan dresses. The com-
mittee, in their own words, “expect this ball
to be, and shall endeavour to make it, one of the
most enjoyable of the season.” We hope they
will succeed.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
11 R.T.J.”: Your paragraph is three weeks too old.
“S.H.P.”: With pleasure “F.R.”: Too
fragmentary, and you forget to mention the
place “Lad”: So the Advocate objects to
r ‘ gaieties ” being chronicled in this “ plebian ”
country ? Never mind. No doubt he can
construct splendid sub-leaders on the growth
of agriculture, commencing: “Some magnifl-
sent pumkins was left at our orflee too day.”....
“T.J.”: Thanks: we seldom give such items
now. ...“ Magnum Bonum”: Too dangerous,
how ever true.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) July 11.
Balmain R. ®. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms-).. July 11.
Amazon Plain and Fancy Ball (Hall’s
Rooms) July 15.
Sydney Thistle Club’s Annual Ball (New
Masonic H all) * July 18.
Petersham Social July 18.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....July 18.
Social of Fidelity Lodge, E.C. (Old Masonic
Hall) „ -July 22.
Sydney Bicycle Club Annual Sports August 2.
Buffalo Ball, N.S.W.C. (West’s Rooms)....August 5.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic (Botany)..Aug. 27.
[?]
' Sydney, Wednesday.
Mr Dear Belle, —Take my advice, dear, and
never, never trust your bijr brother to post a letter
for you. I tried it last week, and now you know
why you did not hear from me. His cool indiffer-
ence when he found the poor neglected epistle in
his pocket this morning, vexed me more than any-
thing. “He didn’t know,” he said, “that girls’
gossip was of such importance that I need fuss
over it so, and he was certain that you would be
only too glad to be spared a description of my last
new bonnet, which he persists in declaring is an
atrocious affair altogether.” Now, it isn’t a bonnet
at all—it’s a hat; but, no matter what our head-
§ear is, men always call it a bonnet—hat, cap, or
onnet, they never seem to know the difference,
and such ignorance does irritate us so much, if they
only knew it. But, what is Still more annoying, is
for a man to whistle Softly all the time you are
scolding, just as if it wasn’t worth his while to
retaliate-it does make one feel so small. I have
. two minds not to accept- the peace offerings which
he is sure to send, and I am quite certain I won't
unless it is something very good—a realsealskin
Jacket, for instance—as, in my present mood, I
don’t fe«*l inclined to bury the hatchet for any-
thing less. But, there 1 the thought of the jacket
has softened me already; so now I will tell you
about the American Consul’s ball.
The new Masonic Hall makes a far more cheerful
ballroom than one would expect. It was prettily
decorated with flags, and the nice cosy gallery was
quite a boon for those few who perferred looking
on to joining in the dancing. What a wet night it
was, to be sure! But, for all that, the room was
quite full enough; and I think I may truthfully
say it was one of the most brilliant balls of the
season. Mrs. Kahlo was becomingly attired in a
black figured velvet with white lace jabot. Mrs.
Professor Smith also favoured black—the ground-
work of silk with bugled net trimmings, thebodioe
was cut low and sleeves short; and the perfect fit
of the dress showed off to the best advantage the
fine figure of the wearer. Everybody agreed that
Mrs. Moulton's costume was the richest in the room,
but that is nothing new: a magnificent cream bro-
che train was bordered with large orange-coloured
ostrich feathers, and the whole front of the skirt,
which was of the orange colour, was covered with
deep pearl fringe that twinkled merrily through
the dances. It was a wonderful dress, but not
many could wear so harsh a co'our as orange with
impunity. Pretty Jennie Lee was there in a sort
of pale mushroom-coloured satin dress, short and
sleeveless, with just a spray of brown leaves on the
left shoulder and round the throat: such a pretty
neck and shoulders needed no other ornament.
The little lady seemed determined to enjov herself
to her heart’s content, and it was quite impossible
to imagine her as the poor, ill-used “ Jo.” Hanlan
was evidently her favourite, much to the disgust
of all the young mashers, who sighed and muttered
“ What a goed thing it is to be famous, even if it's
only for muscle I” Miss Ada Lee was in blaok, with
sunflowers, and long tan gloves. The Misses Cook,
in white dresses flounced to the waist and spangled
white grenadine back drapery, wore large wreaths
of violets on the left shoulder. Mrs. Livingstone
Hopkins was tastefully dressed in cream nun's veil-
ing and India muslin, draped with cream broche,
and ornamented with cardinal and cream roses.
Mrs. Davis’s dress was also much admired—a ruby
velvet short basque, with white tulle skirt be-
sprinkled with pompons. A simple and quaint
dress was a Dink striped tulle over an enormous
crinoline, with pink satin bodice. We liked it,
dear, because we know it was extremely fashion-
able; but the men said it looked like a very old-
fashioned picture of some of their ancestresses.
Made in exactly the same style was a smoky blaok
tulle with a dull green velvet Swiss belt, which
was most peculiar for a ball-room. Miss Bertha
Phillips looked ever so nice in white, with beauti-
ful sprays of crimson and white flowers scattered
in profusion all over the low bodice and skirt.
Miss Amy Koberts also wore white satin trimmed
with lovely fuschias. There was a black dress,
which was covered with such a number of garlands
of pink roses that the wearer was just like a
walking flower-garden. Mrs. Butter’s dress was
uncommon. It looked like a very fine white cash-
mere, and was beautifully hand-painted in numer-
ous floral designs, and here and there the American
flag asserted itself. It was quite a study, and very
beautiful, Mrs. T. M. Alcock wore a tasteful dress
of pale blue broohe, profusely trimmed with rich
white lace and oblong chenille pompons tipped
with pearls; long blue gloves, and silverbutterflies
in the hair. It is no use attempting to decide who
was the belle, for opinions were so various; but
my favourite wore a beautiful pure white satin
dress, with Elizabethan collar edged with pearls,
i Another beautiful brunette with powdered hair
also attracted much attention, and wore white
satin with sprays of flowers. A black net
dress with silver trimmings was rather nice,
and there was a magnificent broche of min-
gled maze and silver, with handsome crystal
passementerie trimming. Numerous pink and
crimson feather tips made a striking ornamenta-
tion for a black dress, and another remarkable
dress was of pink satin with the plumage of large
purple-black birds nestling in the folds of the
skirt. I hear the Masquerade Ball at the Exhibi-
tion Building was also a brilliant success, and a
pretty effect was given by throwing lime-lights on
the dancers at intervals. But th i wretched
weather was answerable for the comparative
failure of the picnic at Botany, and also for the
scarcity of nice dresses there. By far the best was
a seal-brown velvet, the skirt of which was
adorned with pieces of velvet cut diamond shape,
bound with crimson satin and in the centre a crim-
son rose-bud worked in silk crewels. Miss Bennett
looked very pretty in a moss-green costume
and brown hat and feathers; whilst Hanlan, in
brand new pants, was irreeistable. And now, my
dear, I think I have said quite enough about the
American festivities, even to please such an insati-
able little gossip as you. I shall count the months
Mil the next 4th of July comes round, for the
Americans are such nice people, and always man-
age to make their balls so enjoyable.
I am sorry to see that the old style cf wearing
gloves too small for the band, has been adopted
by some ef the would-be fashionables. It has
been carried to such a degree that ladies have
frequently been known to faint from the
effects of the over-tight glove, and some well-
known manufacturers are complaining that such
a senseless taste is tending to spoil their reputa-
tion. Now, I should have thought that it would
Buit the glove-makers exactly; for, of course, it
means that if ladies will not have their gloves of
sufficient size, they must be prepared to replenish
their stock oftener than if they were more pru-
dent and less fashionable. And, if the reputation
of one firm suffers, so must another. So, where is
the harm ? if we except the ladies’ pockets and
also their health—and, as the power to remedy the
evil is in their own hands, who can pity them ?
Electric bouquets are really and truly being worn
in Paris. The bouquet is fastened in front of the
corsage, and, by some ingenious mechanism, a
secret spring, hidden somewhere in the dress, is
touched, and- wild / the lady is brilliantly illumi-
nated. If the illumination is thrown over the face
as well, how about the paint and powder, I
wonder ? I have hinted to you before, dear, that
sunshades were about to become very prominent
articles in a lady’s toilette. And so they
are, for they are now making them more
gorgeous and costly than they have been
for years back. Lace, beads, embroidery, the
most delicate colours, the most expensive mate-
rials, and the most exquisite taste in producing
combinations are brought to bear upon them. The
last time Blue wrote me from Paris, she told me
that they were covering them (paraso’s) with tiny
flowers—for instance, a myrtle-green satin would
have over it a net-work of forget-me-nots; and
now she informs me that it is no unusual sight to
see white satin covered with pearl-bespangled
tulle, whilst a lining of some delicate tint is used
for giving a becoming glow to the complexion. I
faney I should think twice before using such a
luxurious article in our dusty city. To make an
ordinary plain sunshade look fashionable, it is
only necessary to have a real lace “slip,” which
can be removed at pleasure, and which will wash
and look as nice and fresh as ever. A few bows of
ribbon, or a bunch of artificial flowers, in colours
to harmonize with the foundation of the parasol,
and then you have as dainty an article as you need
wish for.
Quite a new industry in the fancy-work line
is to embroider the cover of your kettledrum
tables in colours to match the china you use. I
saw a beauty made of crimson satin embroidered
with narrow gold braid, and gold fringe for a
bordering. The china, of course, was crimson and
gold. Another pretty one was cream oatmeal
cloth worked with blue forget-me-nots; but, of
course, if you are not particular to have the covers
in keeping with your china, your choice of colours
is simply a matter of taste.
My favourite green rloth dress, with the large
gold braid buttons, about which I told you in one
letters, still lingers on the Block, and has
had—oh 1 I don’t know how many admirers. It
has been already copied dozens of times; but as
imitation is the sincerest mode of flattery, it is to
be hoped the wearer feels less annoyed than com-
plimented, and even I feel quite proud of my
judgment in being amongst the first to single
out of the scores of beautiful costumes one which
has become such an universal favourite. I hope
—I do hope—the style will not become too popu-
lar, and thus vulgarised, but I fear it will be the
case. For a quiet and yet stylish walking dress, I
like none better than the velvet skirt, with warm
homespun polonaise, with cuffs and collar of the
velvet. I saw one yesterday, the skirt of a beauti-
ful plum-coloured velvet, and the homespun silver
grey. A small princess bonnet, in grey straw, and
trimmed with velvet and plumes, completed the
costume. Old-lashioned ? Quakerish ? Not at
all. I tell you it looked as stylish as any dress on
the I dock, though it certainly was not gorgeous.
So much depends on the wearer, and, perhaps, that
was the secret of the pleasing effect of the dress in
question. Perhaps she wasn’t an Bnglishwoman,
for you know it is an old saying that an English-
woman never can put on her dress properly, no
matter how stylishly it is made—and I believe
there’s a good deal of truth in it, too. A French-
woman will look fifty per cent, better dressed in a
plain biege gown than any other woman in the
richest brocaded satin. Haven’t you noticed it,
too ? And now, adieu, ma Belle,
Your loving
MAB.
Woman Items.
“Ah, Mary, don’t you know me? ’’sighed
a pertinacious oft-rejected lover as his adored cut
him straight, “ I should think so,” was the reply,
“ I’ve no’d you so often that I’m full up of it.”
By a majority of 143 the House of Convoca-
tion at Oxford decided in favour of the admission
of women to honour examinations in the first
public examinations and the honour schools of
mathematics, modern history, and natural science.
Granny’s “ Stella ” declares that Madame
Alboni has discovered Madame Pasta living
obscurely in a villa, on the shores of Lake Como.
It was generally supposed that Giuditta Pasta died
in ’65. We shouldn’t be surprised if ” Stella” has
stumbled on a mare’s nest. Considering that the
Pasta was born in 1798, and so must now be 86, it is
unlikely, to say the least of it, that her voice can
suddenly burst forth into magnificent cavatinas
when visitors knock her up—that’s if she’s still
alive. If she’s not, it would be different. And,
does Stella mean Alboni or Albani ?
Says a New 1’ ork staymaker:—“ There are
some pretty figures among the Cuban and other
West Indian women, but they are short, age
rapidly, and soon grow dumpy; yet such as have
French maids manage to make up well. Refined
Irish and German ladies have fine figures on the
average. So do the Italian ladies. Holland and
Belgian ladies are rotund, and essentially well-
built. American fashionable women, though in-
clined to fragility as a rule, have naturally excel-
lent figures, but there are no other women who so
persistently deform and destroy what nature has
given them through tight lacing and generally
slavish obedience to the absurdest freak of fashion.
American ladies are the most unconscionable
lacers in the world. But, everything said and
seen, the British feminine figures are the best
models.”
An English paper affirms that card-play-
ing for money is becoming very prevalent among
ladies, and high stakes are common. One young
lady is said to have lost as much as £4O at one sit-
ting. The money had been given her by her
father to buy a new dress, and not being a pro-
fessional and not much of a business person, she
concluded after losing, that she wanted her money
back. There’s no very desperate harm done so
long as frivolous women gamble only among them-
selves. While social arrangements subsist, which
eiable one idle class to draw from the industrious
far more than is required for even handsome idle-
ness, the harems or drawing-rooms of the rich
will contain brainless women who find themselves
at a loss how to occupy their idle lives, and they
will gamble if the idea catches hold. But they
won t long be content to gamble only with their
own sex, or for moderate stakes. The vice is like
love of drink ; it grows, and takes possession of
some people. There will be lady plungers, and it
has to be remarked that the desperate male
gambler, will, in his effort to retrieve his losses,
stake anything! This is proved human nature, and
human nature is common to both sexes.
* * *
A shrewd old dame being asked: “ How do
you bold on the great question of female suf-
frage ? ” quietly replied “I hold my tongue.”
An Abgonaut writer makes a few remarks
on “the well-nigh incurable habit of engaging
dances beforehand,” and suggests, instead, “ a
natural and spontaneous selection of partners.”
This is a matter worth a little notice. The writer
condemns prior engagements by programme for a
number of reasons : In the first place, to get
dances, men must come early, and having en_
gaged, must perforce stay late. Second, half the
dance is often consumed looking for a partner
but, though both lady and gentleman have other
chances while the time is passing, they cannot
accept because held by their engagement. Then,
there is the difficulty a hostess has to find part-
ners for strangers, as the males evade an introduc-
tion by protesting t heir cards are full. They simu-
late quite a horror of being sacrificed to some poor
dancer. Not that they have, l,y any means, such
excellent abilities themselves, but they seem to be
under the idea that shunning all strange girls
until they are tried and reported upon, will give
themselves a sert of dancing prsstige—a, method
of reasoning peculiar to callow youth. Another
objection is, that partners, having engaged them-
selves, cannot be absent for more than a few
minutes, no matter whom they subsequently
meet, without breaking some engagement. But
it is not easy to see how prior engagements could
be stopped. Even supposing girls were taught,
while very little things, that it is very, very wrong
to engage beforehand, yet, it is feared,
they would ignore their mutual duty to one
another, and engage secretly as soon as
they got Old enough to know a nice young
man from an ordinary person. The writer
mentioned, however, thinks the system can be
stopped, and contends that in New York the best
and proper rule has long obtained at balls, where
a man may enter at any hour and be sui e of dances,
for none are engaged. After he has spoken to the
hostess, he doesn’t haDg about the stairs and way-
lay the popular girl for her card. It is his duty to
speak to the girls he knows as he meets them, and
he is expected to speak to almost every one he
knows, and dance with most of them. And this is
comparatively easy, because he may dance with
several partners in one dance, giving each only a
few turns; while, if a rest or promenade be de-
sired, both can take it with mind at ease, for they
have no engagement ahead. For the same reason,
the hostess can ameliorate the condition of the
wallflowers—men not having the excuse of “ pro-
gramme full ” to offer against being led up and in-
troduced. Circulation among guests is complete,
and danciog natural and spontaneous. This sounds
well, and the New York plan seems promising, if
practicable. It would be convenient for men, un-
aDle to devoto a whole evening to a bal 1 , to drop in
for an hour or two, find all the nice girls not mono-
polised, as they always are, and be sure of a few
dances. The idea of complete circulation among
the guests is a correct one; and it is in this very
point many balls are a failure. Cliques of good
dancers, who know one another, get together and
devote their attention to their own enjoyment,
while others are left solitary and negltcted be-
cause there is no general mixing. And yet, there
are reasons agaitst the “spontaneous” system
of partnering, which cannot be overlooked. Even
supposing the young Jadies displayed such an
incredible sense of rectitude as to refrain from
giving secret promises, the popular girls would be
just as much sought as ever, atd the dubious ones
as carefully avoided. At present, the popular
girl’s programme once full, she is left at peace;
under the spontaneous plan, she would be sur-
rounded by a battalion of beaux every time the
music struck up, each anxious to get first word
in, know log the dance could not have been already
promised. Again, it may grieve a hostess to find
that the dancing men will not go near some of her
girls, but that must always be so to some extent.
It i« rather unreasonable to expect a good dancer
to navigate the room with some heavy girl who
cannot perform a step, and yet who has not sense
enough to know what a burden she is. It is just
as well to speak plainly: ball-rooms are full of such
folks. A lady must surely know whethrr she can
dance or not; and, if not, she should either go and
learn, or be content as a spectator; it is simple
rudeness of her to inflict a quantity ef awkward
solidity on a man because he is courteous enough
to struggle unier it. There is the obverse side to
this picture—there are plenty of clumsy men, too;
and if a graceful lady is unfortunate enough to
fall into the hands of one of them, no one could
call her impolite if she declined to be his victim.
The primary object of balls is dancing, and, when a
lady accepts a partner, it is on the assumption that
he can dance; if he cannot, he is out of place on
the floor. Some honest, well-meaning gentlemen
labour under the delusive idea that they can com-
pensate for lack of delicacy and skill, by main
strength, and a cheerful willingness to exert it.
So, when a lady knows she is being accosted by
one of these mistaken people in a ball-room, she is
justified in evading an engagement. She may
even directly decline the “honour,” without
giving any reason, for she has a right to do so. A
man who seeks a reason is foolish. The lady
might give a hundred, and when they were all
exhausted, might still fall back on the most incon-
testable reason of all: “Ido not choose.” As to
dancing with several partners in one dance—it
would be well were the usage more general.
Dances, especially at private parties, are often
kept up for an inordinate length of time, and from
bravado some couples keep up long after they
have ceased to enjoy it. A break, or a change of
partners, would be a relief to both. Again, some-
times there is a vast majorily of girls overmen
present, and unless something in the way of divid-
ing dances is done, many girls will be idle most of
the evening. Under such circumstances, it is
thankful and courteous for a gentleman to halve
a dance, with two sisters, or otherwise. The best
dancers, who always have a surplus of partners
around them, will perhaps object to this view; the
less brilliant ones will not, and most fair-
minded girls would recognise the motive, and
appreciate the few turns rather than sit a
dull watcher of others’ pleasure. It, moreover
promotes the general circulation so necessary to
make the ball successful. But, to repet t, abolish-
ing the system of pre-engagement would, in spite
of some benefits, be neither wise nor practicable
The disadvantage of the system lies not in its
use, but in the manner and extent of its carrying
out. Pre-engagements are carried too far. Those
W", freo'icr't. various private assemblies, balls,
io* parties of Sydney, know it is so. Programmes
are obtained beforehand, and filled before the
! owner enters the door; before parting at one
dance, “all the waltzes” are promised for the next
a month ahead; girls dance six, eight, or more’
dances with one favoured partner, and will not
deign even to try a stranger who may be intro-
duced even at the opening of the ball; and these
eccentric thiDgs are done not alone by those who
do not know any bettfr, but by those who do, and
whose position should be a guarantee against such
social indiscretions. It is the indulging of the
well-nigh incurable habit of engaging dances be-
forehand” to such an extent as this, that renders
pre-engagements objectionable. It is a style of
behaviour any lady has a right to follow if she
likes. Occasionally, however, a question of taste
arises.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have thit index pasted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Thargominda J.C July 18,19.
Penritb July 19.
Deniliquin J.C July 32. 23.
Charter’s Towers J.C July 24,25.
Walgett R.C July 29. 30.
Jerilderie J.C August 5, 7.
Tattersall’s Club August 6.
Goondiwindi August 18,19.
H a wkvsbury August 21. 23.
A.J.C. SpriDg Aug. 30, Sep. 2. 4, 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
V.R.C. Spring November 1,4, 6,8.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27,28.
COURSING.
Viotoria Club. August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Sackvilleßeaoh July 24.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River July 24.
M.R.C. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R... .August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake.. August 27.
ATHLETICS
T. A. Noud v. T. Ellem, 150 yards, at
Grafton August 20.
Sir Joseph Banks Handioap (£300) September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Spring Meeting —Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports . .November 10.
CYCLING.
Wanderers’ B.C. Race Meeting July 17.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
N.S.W. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
M‘Cleer, of Brisbane, forfeited to Edwards,
of Melbourne.
“Cyclops” and the muchly-injured Eng-
ishman are “all same countryman.”
“Jumbo” took his gruel very badly on
Saturday last, and received a well-deserved
“ turn” from the onlookers.
E. Gardiner (23 yds.) and R. Jenkins (30
yds.) each shot five birds at the Junce Junction
pigeon handicap. Gardiner won the shoot-off.
A Queensland paper says: “ There were
more spielers than pigeons to operate upon at the
Bundaberg (Q.) races. Trumpeter won the Corin-
thian Cup, and Velocipede the Town Plate.
The following are the amounts won by
Musket’s stock during last seasen:—Martini-Henry
£4841, Trenton £609, Necklaee £327, Krupp £255,
Bscopeta £195, Mitrailleuse £195, Musketeer £lOO,
Carbineer £3o—making the respectable total of
£6652.
William Fleming, a bricklayer of Memphis
(U.S.), essayed to stand before John L. Sullivan for
four rounds for the champion’s standing challenge
of £2OO. The result was that he was knocked
senseless at the first blow by a right-hander from
Sullivan under the left ear.
Matsada Hogeree Sorakichi, the Japanese
wrestler, who introduced butting in America,
appears to have come off second best at his own
fame. He was, on May 5, admitted to the New
ork Hospital suffering from strains received in
his exhibitions with D. C. Ross, aggravated by a
severe cold.
A correspondent asks if Byrnes’ splendid
46ft. 41n. hop-Btep-and-jump, made at the recent
Thistle Club sports, has ever been beaten. In 1870
R. Knox, at Leith, covered 47ft 7in; and M. Mac-
donald, of Canada, in 1881, made 46ft. sin. On May
10 last, M- W. Ford won the amateur hop-step-and-
jump at the championship meeting, N.Y., A., with
44tt. IMin.
W. J. Peall, the celebrated English billiard
player, recently astonished the' votaries of the
game by making an extraordinary break. In an
exhibition game with W. Mitchell, at Cambridge,
Peall made the unprecedented number of 1989
points in a single innings. Of these no fewer than
1644 were accumulated by spot-stroke play. The
Srevious best break on record was 1839, by W.
[itchell.
Last Saturday, in the football field, the
"Wallaroos fairly ran over the Balmainiacs with 17
points to nil. Graham made a splendid run, and
Harry Fligg obtained a try, a very usual event
with him this season. Burwood beat St. Leonards
by 9 points to nil, notwithstanding a couple of
their best players refused to wallow in the mud;
and the University team made small bones of the
Redferns by no less than 19 points to nil.
Some time since, we stated the Wanderer’s
Bicycle Club were compelled to abandon the idea
of a complimentary meeting on the Association
Ground, on account of the stiff terms asked by
the ground committee. The Wanderers, however,
were not to be put off their little meeting, and
have decided to hold an afternoon’s sport on the
Military Road, North Shore. It is surely about
time the bicyclists started aground of their own.
We have often known people to go off
their heads with the maddening excitement of a
game of croquet, but, we think, Rockville Centre
chalks one in the way of accidents. An exchange
says: “ While playing croquet at Rockville Centre,
Ll., May 8, Alexander Driscoll was struck in the
neck by the ball, the blow causing spinal paraly-
sis.” But, now we think of it, we have, at croquet
matches, often seen a fellow hard hit—by a prety
girl.
We quite agree with the Cricket Associa-
tion in declining to vote money for a special
trophy to recognise the excellent performance of
H Moses during the past season. Moses certainly
did New South Wales great service, and his per-
formance with the willow beat record in the
colony; but the precedent would have been a bad
one. The testimonial and trophy racket is already
overdone, without the Association going out of
tkeir way to increase it.
We are glad to see the name of Langford
is not likely to die out of the list of Port Jackson
boat-builders- H. and R. of that ilk, who axe
carrying on business at Langford’s well-known
shed, Miller’s Point, have just turned out an 18-foot
skiff, to the order of Mr. Lockyer. The boat is of
good shape and finish; and boating men who re-
member the staunch craft turned out of Lang-
ford’s shed in the old days might give the young-
sters a turn, if only for “ Auld lang syne.”
Mr. A. Harper, the well-known Victorian
sport, and owner of Stampede, winner of the
recent Caulfield Steeplechase, has had to win four
races before he was able to claim the stakes. His
pony Polly was disqualified at Kensington after
coming in first; then, at Hobart, with Tandstickor,
he was again unfortunate, as Batty was put out of
court, after winning easily, for going inside a post.
At Williamstown, on Easter Monday last, Stam-
pede after walking in with the Steeplechase, had
to undergo the ordeal of a protest, the result being
disqualification. This was low down luck for a
straight racing man, indeed, but it is to be hoped
the tide has turned at last.
It is a hard job at the best of times to
pei-auade an “old ’un” that he has seen his day;
but Charley Mitchell, the English pug, dropped
upon an argument that old Billy Edwards found
stmplv unanswerable. Edwards, who was at one
time a popular champion of the American light-
weights, and now numbers some forty winters,
thought he could make a creditable show with his
young and clever opponent, and an immense
crowd visited Madison-square Gardens to see the
pan - tigh* four Queensberry rounds with the
gloves; but the sequel showed youth must be
served, as Mitchell knocked his man about to such
an extent that the police stepped in and stopped
the slaughter at the end of the third rdund.
It remains to be seen if the Maori walk-
over will teach our Rugby foot-ballers the value
of concerted and unselfish play in the field.
When the Japanese man-of-war was in the
harbour a friend of ours paid her a visit, but he
was not very much impressed with the little Japs ,
judging from the reply he made when asked what
ne thought of the vessel and crew. Well, he re-
marked, the vessel's all right, but as for the crew,
an average British tar would go through the
durned ship from stem to stern and not know
there was a soul on board. And so it was with the
foot-ballers from New Zealand. They went
through the fields and made their gcals with
almost as great ease as if the Welshmen were only
spectators now and then getting in their way.
The quill-drivers of the Lands Depart-
ment met the colour-mixers of the Survey Office
recently, at Moore Park. The trouble was foot-
ball. After a rash amount of hacking, slinging
and personal compliments, in which the most
religious joined, the ink - splashers wiped
the professionals out for the second time
this season. Marsh was the hero of the day, doing
great service with his head; Penny ran out of
that necessary commodity—wind—at an early stage
of the game; Dargan strolled over the ground
waiting to be assaulted; M'Donald played the
game as it is played in the Highlands, and Rowley
performed according to the Marquis of Queens-
berry rules. Should those teams meet again, the
Lands mashers vow they will run Larry Foley into
a billet, so as to make the thing even i?s regards
fighting strength-they don’t mind playing foot-
ball, but they object to ground and lofty tumbling.
Many have been the opinions passed as to
who was the best man that ever stepped into the
English prize ring, but take ’em for all in all, we
do not think Jem Belcher's equal was, or ever will
be, looked upon again. Jem was champion of
England before he was twenty years of age, and
held undisputed possession of the title for seven
years. When in the zenith of his fame, Jem met
with an accident in the racquet court by which he
lost one eye, and it was alter the accident, and
when but a shadow of his former self, that he
grew jealous of and fought his former pupil, the
erculean Cribb, then in his 25th year, and in the
hey-day of his science and strength. Notwith-
standing his one eye and shattered constitution,
Belcher had Cribb beaten to a standstill in some
12 minutes. Cribb's second, Bill Warr, who saw
his man was unable to come to the scratch if time
was not gained in some way or other, called out to
Belcher’s second he would lay him a fiver Cribb
BY THE SAD SEA WAVES.
SHE: “OH, I NEVER SAW THE SEA LOOK SO PERFECTLY LOVELY AS IT DOES TO-
DAY.”
HE (a sleamship owner): “MY DEAR, WE ARE OCT FOR A HOLIDAY, AND I WISH TO
GOODNESS YOU WOULDN’T TALK SHOP!”
won the battle, and prepared to fumble for the
money as if he could not find it. “ Time ” was
called loudly all round the line, and three or four
minutes were cut to waste before the bet wss
settled, quite sufficient for Cribb with his youth
and strength to pull himself together and beat the
lightning, though worn-out, flghfer. Had Warr
not had "savee ” enough to gain time, Tom Cribb
was a bvaten man.
in the last expedition of Baron Norden-
skiold to Greenland, the Laplanders who accom-
panied him asserted that they had travelled a dis-
tance of 270 miles over the ice in their skidor, or
snow shots, in 57 hours. The statement was re-
ceived with so much incredulity that the Baron
resolved on verifying it, and accordingly, on the
3rd of April last, he organised a skidor competition
at Quickjock—a curiously appropriate name—in
Lapland, and has commanicated tne result to the
French Academy of Sciences. An abstract of his
report appears in La France of the 30th April.
The distance traversed by the five Laplanders who
won the prizes which he offered was 136 miles out
and home; the first of the competitors ac-
complished it in 21 hours 23 minutes 5 seconds, the
third in 21 hours 33 minutes 5 seconds, the fourth
in 21 hours 59 minutes, and the fifth in 21 hours 56
minutes. Thus an average speed was obtained of
about six miles an hour. All the competitors
arrived at the goal in good condition, and betray-
ing no signs of exhaustio \ and each of them gaily
took part in the festivities which were got up in
honour of the event immediately afterwards.
Most of them had come into Quickjock on the
previous evening from places not less then 40, and
in some instances 60, miles off. The weight of the
shoes—which are in reality wide skates of thin
wood, covered with sealskin, and raised on both
sides—must be something considerable, but it
seems to occasion no uneasiness to the wearers.
The result for which we have so long
yearn' d has arrived at last, and we learn from the
Denver (CJ S.' Republican that the 6ix days’
n&atch between Edwards and Hart resulted in a
win for the Australian by 9 miles and 9 laps. Ed-
wards’ score was 426 miles 5 laps to Hart's 416 miles
10 laps. The many friends of <he Australian tramp
will, no doubt, be pleased to know that the cham-
pion, on the last evening of the contest, sported a
white shirt, with the Australian coat-of arms on
the front, white tights and blue silk trunks, with
sunflowers painted on the hips, and carried on his
head a basket containing a placard with the words,
“God Save the Queen.” The rig “fetched” the
numerous cull'd ladies present, and when aesthetic
William tripped gaily round the track with his
basket on his head, they cheered him to the echo.
Hart went to sleep shortly after noon on the
Saturday, and a few hours after his trainer endea-
voured to get him up, but the poor devil com-
plained of rheumatic pains in his back and knees,
and asked to be let atone. The trainer was inex-
orable, however, and got him out on his feet, and
found his joints so stiff that they popped like tire
crackers when bent, flubbing, bathing, and other
schemes were resorted to in order to get the man
ia condition to go on the track; but, after all
remedies had failed to bring relief, it was decided
to let him sleep awhile. So far, Edwards has done
nothing remarkable on the sawdust. His 436 miles
looks very so-so alongside G. Littlewood’s 831 miles
in 138 hrs. 48min. 30s»c.; or C. A. Harriman’s. 530
miles in 140 hrs. 47min.
Hanlan will take up his residence on the
Parramatta on Monday next, and settle down to
preparation for the first serious event which he
has entered into since his appearance among us.
Tho champion has accepted the offer of the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club, and will take up bis quarters
at their snug cottage at the Branch, Blaudsville.
Last Sunday morning, he started out in a club
skiff for a row up the river, to have a look
at his future quarteis. Hanlan shows great
mastery over nis craft, whether light or
heavy; and it was a caution to see the manner in
which, with a few powerful strokes, he slewed the
skiff round as if she had been a 14-feet dinary.
He did a spin across the Quay before starting
for Blaudsville, land appeared to get gretft pace
out af the boat, finishing with the jerk so pecu-
liarly his own. With regard to the coming match,
given both men are fit and well on the 16th
August, the odds should be about George-street
to a C.M.G.-ship on the Canadian. Beach has per-
formed well enough in private to satisfy his
friends, and may be all they claim for him,
but his performances in public have not been such
as to lead us to be very sanguine that Hanlan will
leave the Championship of the World on the Parra-
matta River. A common remark is that Beach
will, at all events, make him row te the very
finish ;|but this is simply rot. If Hanlan carries
him beyond his pace for a mile or a mile and a
half, lie will crack, as even Hsnlan himself would
do if a man could be found fast enough to carry
him along. To sum up, Hanlan is a phenomenon.
Beach may be, but, so far. he has done nothing to
warrant the assumption tnat he is.
“Pendragon,” in a recent issue of the
Referee, gives the better part of a column and a
half to the amateur cricketer racket, and wires
in to the English amateurs as well as the Colonials.
He winds up:—“At some sports and pastimes we
find a fairly liberal interpretation of the question;
at others we find an interpretation which is narrow-
minded, cruel, aud contemptible; at one we find a
mixture of good and bad, and at another we find
there is no interpretation whatsoever. There is
no more puzzled position than a man finds him-
self in when he, reading all about the Mvers
Inquiry and what has been written about men here
In England who became professionals because
they are paid secretaries, paid handieippers, and
paid reporters, ip suddenly confronted with the
knowledge that a team of bona fide amateurs from
Australia is visiting this country with the avowed
purpose of playing cricket at so much a game, the
money to be eventually divided among the bona
fide amateurs. And next, that a good many of She
English amateurs who are to meet them will be
paid likewise. Surely, if ever chaos was triumph-
ant, it is triumphant when, in addition to
the Myers business, we take the Henley
business, tho Swimming Association busi-
ness, and the exclusive and non - exclusive
wholesale and retail businets of the various pedes-
trian clubs; remember the difference between
frentlemen engaged in business and men employed
n trade, as settled by certain amateur deflners,
and then, turning to ‘ our great national pastime,’
find that an amateur can not only meet a profes-
sional on even terms, but when the time comes
for cutting up the proceeds of their meeting
the amateur as a rule takes double as much
as the professional." Now, coming nearer
home, and to a different class of sport,
the defination of amateur bicyclist appears
a mystery to us. In Sydney we hive men
who earn their living by the sale of
bicycles, and further still, by mechanical work on
bicycles, yet who belong to amateur clubs, and race
ia amateur races. If these men are not profes-
sionals, in the name of thunder where do you find
them? But as long as the bona fide amateurs don’t
object, we don’t see why we should worry our fat
about it. There was one phase of amateurism,
however, at the recent Union Sports which might
well be looked into by the bioyclists. We refer to
the practice of friends and trainers running round
the back of the course and advising their men how
to ride their race So far, it has only been done in
one or two cases, but when a big field of men
each take it’into tbeir heads to have a professional
trainer to follow with advice, and a bottle and
sponge, we suppose the powerp that be will take it
into their councils. The question of amateurism
must come on sooner or later, and we think the
Union would grasp the matter much better while
bicycling ia yet in its infancy, than by waiting
till later on.
“Captain” Williams, the officer who is
usually in charge at the boxing-matches in New
York, from all accounts has the rough element
completely “ under cow.” The Mitchell-Edwards
bo ’t at Madison-square Harden drew a bigger
throng than had ever attended an event of the
kind there before, notexcepting the great Sullivan
sloggiDg matches. But Williams was equal to the
occasion. An. amusing Illustration of the abject
fear with which he was viewed by the crowd was
furnished just before Mitchell and Edwards cams
upon the stage. Severa lhundr (d men had bought
for sums varying from two to five dollars,' tablet
a ®o chairs from the long bar-room in the southern
side of the building. These were ranged around
the reserved seats, and men mounted them. There
were about five hundred men in all standing upon
chairs and tables. They obstructed the view of the
people in the boxes, who expressed their dissatisfac-
tron by vigorous hoots. The men on the tables
refused to move. Three or four policemen at-
tempted to clear them away, but they failed
utterly. Then one of the men who had bought
SL.,,9 ox forced his way over to Captain
Williams, and explained matters to him. The cap-
tain glanced around. Then he steppod upon the
stage, pointed along and wicked-looking club at
*■“6 on boxes and chairs, and looked steadily
at them for a moment. The buzz of conversation
ceased, and absolute stillness reigned in the
. ea * The ten thousand men looked at Captain
Williams, and he looked at the obstructionists.
Then he raised his chin a little, and said in an even
and well-modulated voice, “Get down!” The
men fairly fought to see who could get to the
floor first. There was no real danger, as the cap*
tain was a hundred feet away from them, but the
struggle went on until the cries of distress and the
smashing of tables and boxes reminded one of a
riot. Ten feconds after the captain had made his
remark, not a man was seen above the level of the
floor, and the men who had paid heavily for the
privilege of securing a table or chair, were
mourning their loss, and secretly admiring
Captain Williams. At the termination of the
contest, Mitchell bad knocked Edwards down
a couple of times, and was about to send him to
grass for the third time when Captain Williams
jumped upon the stage and ordered the light to be
stopped. Mitchell made a lurch at Edwards even
after Captain Williams had told him to retire to
i 1 ©9 r ?,® D i and Williams shoved the pugilist back.
Mitchell threw himself into position and glared at
the captain. Williams smiled, and, stepping to-
wards him, put his hand against Mitchell’s chest
and contemptuously shoved him toward his corner.
Then Mitchell’s face flushed again, and his powerful
arm swung backward. He sprang at the captain.
He had evidently lost his head. Williams, too, was
thoroughly out of patience, and swung his im-
mense club up in the air. As be did so, an immense
shout went up from the crowd, and Arthur Cham-
bers and Billy Madden threw themselves upon the
Englishman and dragged him back to his corner.
There was one thing certain, and that is that if
the club had ever falleD, there would have been a
dead prize-fighter in the ring of the Madison-
square Garden; and there is not the slightest
doubt on eart’i that the club would have fallen if
Mitchell had offered any further resistance.
Taking one consideration with another,
the life ot William Sherrill alias Prussian has not
exactly been all beer add skittles during the past
few months. Our readers may recollect that
Sheriff was knocked out by Mike Cleary in the
limited period of lmin. 2lsec., but Sherriff put this
down to the battering he had just before received
in a desperate bout with Welch, and thought he
could reverse the state of affairs if he again met'
Cleary. A match was arranged accordingly, and
the men met on May 7, at Cambndgeport, U.B.
Both men were very wary. The Prussian led first
with his left, but Cleary readily countered him.
The blow was a short one, anyhow, and would not
have done damage. For half a minute following
not a blow was struck. Cleary sparred for an
opening resolutely, but the Prussian stopped him
well. The two men passed twice around the stage
by side-steps before Cleary got in one on the Prus-
sian’s right shoulder. It was a stinger and stag-
gered him badly, but he recovered and led for the
body, striking Ueary on the ribs. Cleary did not
pay any attention to the blow, though it was
capable of easy defence. Sherriff did not lead for
his face once. Cleary retaliated five seconds later
with a slashing blow on Sherriff’s right cheek. The
Prussian thought he saw an opportunity and lead
back with his left. This blow never landed, for
Cleary struck him a swinging blow with bis right
hand, and a cross-counter blow onfthe left jaw and
jugular vein that floored him. The poor Prussian
staggered and then fell heavily on his left hip; then
his head struck and he rolled over the stage He
tried to rise, making three attempts before he suc-
ceeded. Then he tell healvily again; rose only to
lunge against the ropes. In trying to reach his
chair he fell headlong through the ropes, and was
only prevented from breaking his neck by a
E lunge to the floor, five feet below, by friendly
ande, and he did not attempt to come to time in
the ten seccinds. He was used up for ten minutes
This right-handed swinger of Cleary’s appears’
peculiarly Its own, and, should he be able to with-
stand John L. Sullivan a sufficient time to get one
of them fairly od, the champion would stand
a fair show of going to sleep the same
as any other man. The blow reminds us of Tom
Hickman, who, under the soubriquet of “The
Gasman,” flourished in the time of Captain Bar-
clay. Hickman was one of the rough-and-tumble
order, and had but one blow, a terrific swinging
nght-kander under the ear, which, if fairly got
on, invariably finished the battle. Captain Bar-
clay, himself a most accomplished boxer, could
not relish the idea of a rough fighter doing so
much execution, and the upshot of it was he
backed George Cooper, one of the most finished
boxers in England, to meet the Gasman. George
had scarcely thrown himtelf into an elegant atti-
tude when Hickman got on his favourite cross-
counter, and in less time than it takes to tell
scientific George was lying insensible on the grass’
A second tjme the men met, and, to the Captain’s
disgust, Cooper was again placed hors de combat
in the short space of five or six minutes. A third
chance was given Cooper, but he fared nd better
than in die previous two, the only difference being
that it took Hicknaan seven er eigh» minutes to
put him in his little cot. Sherriff’s troubles did not,
end with Cleary, as we see he subsequently suffered
a smashing defeat in a match with Kilrain, who is
looked upon as a coming heavy-weight. The men
were very wary of each other at the outset.
During the first round Kilrain felt for Sherriff
with his right, but didn’t reach him. Sherriff in the
meantime planting one or two light blows on his
opponent. The second round was a repetition of
the first. The third round began with the same
light tactics, but near the end of it Sherriff braced
and planted a stinger between Kilrain’s eyes. This
aroused the latter, and he at once advanced on his
opponent Sullivan style, and planted a terrific
right-hander on Sherriff’s right jaw, lifting him
comp etelv off his feet. Kilrain then fought
Sherriff al around the ring, planting blow after
blow, finally laying his opponent out in a corner
Sherriff aroused before the expiration of the ten
seconds, and Kilrain sprang at him to finish his
work; but the police, seeing the man’s battered
condition, interfered, and the fight ended
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Wire fences do not agree with the hunting
men at Makikihi, N.Z. No lees than three severe
accidents occurred at a recent run with the countv
harriers Mr. R. Symmons has shipped from
Hobart no less than eleven thoroughbreds to be
disposed of at Christchurch, N.Z. They include
four of various ages by »t. Albans aDd seren bv
Manuka, one of the latter being a half sister to
the good performer, Tasman. . Ashton, a jockev
in the employ t f the Hon. W. Pearson, recentlv
Jost his life by a horse named Molrow falling upon
♦ * *
C. Wood, the English jockey, had a narrow
escape at Newmarket. While riding Ricochet in
the last race of the day, the saddle slipped and
Wood was thrown, but fortunately escaped with a
severe shaking.... John J. Tuthill, of Cutchorrue
L. 1., attempted, May 8. to ride a bicycle on the
three-inch-wide string piece of the wharf at Now
Suffolk Bay, when he capsized into the water Hfa
feet caught in the snoke* of the machine, and had
friends not promptly come to his assistance ho
must have drowned ... The steam-yaoht, UarclJese
in which C. T. Kottlewel), his wife, andafew
friends sailed from England in January, 1882 re
turned to Southampton, April 14, after a cruise of
more than two years, during whtoh nearly everv
part of the world, except the North Pole ««
visited. * J


Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
Tho Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c„ &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations. .. , _ a
The DINING'and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest m
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 pm.
E. D. TOLLEMA.CHE, Licensee and General Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
SOLE IMPORTERS OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
( R A M PTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
imz
im
M
m
SOLE AGENTS FuR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the p?culiar fitness of this application, wa
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. }gß~ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. ZW" GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF "WATER.
least possible wear of ropes.
77
''/////////
v/i
//
7/
ms
/////////
V//,
////.
jfa-
t3F~ SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. VST SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNES3 OF MOTION. tW FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators,
Political
Points
The foolish scribe who concooteth the
weekly oongeries of betises that the Armadale
Antill denominateth a leader, gives it aa his opi-
nion that “ the first act of legalised rapine on the
part of a Government, years ago, was the stealing
of the Church and School Lands. ..... The
Church of England has never recovered from this
modern act of sacrilege and robbery, ooupled with
the abolition of State Aid, though the others have
weathered the storm.” The previous act of legal-
ised rapine, by which, in 1825, the Church of Eng-
land fastened on to one-seventh of the entire ter-
ritory of N.S.W.—an act which, as old John Lang
Sointed out, repressed emigration, discouraged
nprovement, and lowered tne standard of morals
_that act isn’t even so much as alluded to by this
Armidale ink-waster, who, we suspect, has been
dragged up on Anglican water-gruel. The disso-
lution of the infamous Church and School Corpo-
ration in 1834, was as mueh a step to the front as
vas in 1884 the publication cf the Johnson memo.,
with the Trickett endorsement, a step to the rear.
On Sunday, May 18th, the Czarewitah at-
tained his official majority, according to the Rus-
sian style, being then sixteen years of age. There
were, of course, great “rejoicings.” At midday
the Emperor and Czarewitch drove in an open
carriage from the Amlchkotf) wherever that may
be) to the Winter Palace, and it is amusing to read
that they “ were much sheered by the people on
the streets. By special order all the windows of
the houses along the route were kept closed I
This reminds us of the popular rejoicings at Mos-
cow, during the coronation ceremony, when the
police took possession of every house within a
hundred yards of the route of procession, and
forty thousand soldiers in the dress of civilians'
were dispersed among the crowd. The S.M.
Herald only the other day, presuming, we sup-
pose, that people would have forgotten the exact
facts by this time, referred to those forty thousand
mercenaries as a guard of forty thousand citizens,
who had spontaneously rolled up. Fer a good
round lie to serve the cause of despotism com--
mend us to the S.M. Herald.
The Atkinson Government of N.Z. has
guttered a signal defeat at the hands of the hydra-
headed Opposition. The “ Major,” in one of his
recent pre-sessional speeches, made thefpathetic
complaint that there was no real Opposition
worthy of the name. This little complaint ex-
perienced a sudden and effectual cure, and the
Opposition demonstrated clearly that if they were
unworthy of the najpe, they were at least able
and willing to kick him out of office. The Atkin-
son Administration, however, dies hard. Instead
of resigning, Ministers have applied for a dissolu-
tion, and this has been granted by Sir William
J ervoi«» whoso action in the matter has boon
strongly censured as savouring too much of
Solitieal partisanship. The result will be that the
ew-Zealandes-s this year will have to pay for two
sessions of Parliament instead of one. Bach ses-
sion oosts the colony £60,000. But, then, New-Zea-
landers are proverbially the most liberal-minded
iot of schedule-fliers in the world. As long as the
colony oan borrow more millions in London.
Governors and Governments may go the whole
hog and scatter money about with a long-handled
shovel. They don’t care a jam-tart. They all ex-
pect. in fact, to pick up a few of the Dispersed
sovereigns in the general scramble.
Says the Rtm: “ What the Victoria Cross
Is to J British soldiers, the Garter is to our states-
men-it is the worthy goal of the ambition of a
life-time devoted to the service of Queen and
country. The Minister who has reached this
«T»>ted eminence must feel that he has already
received the very highest honour which it is in
the power of his Sovereign to bestow; and tfae
paucity ef numbers in the ranks of Knights of
the Order renders the distinction all the more
■coveted " A lot the Rum knows about it! The
Garter is not once in ten times conferred—it is not
even pretended that it is conferred-ferr service to
Queen and country I* is merely an aristocratic
bauble bestowed on Dukes, Marquises, and Baris
who are in a certain set. Look through the present
roll of the “ Most !Noble ,Order,” and excluding
Emperors, Kings, Guapd Dukes, and Royal High-
nesses what do we find? Why, only seven ribbons
bncludiDg Derby’s) that by the biggest strain of
the imagination oan be said to be the rewards of
political Service. Fonblanque said well when he
remarked that Swift’s simile ef “ blushing like a
blue dog ” must surely be derived from the wear-
ing of the blue ribbon-for what men have such
cause for blushing as those who give up their own
honour in exchange for the bauble sign of the
Sovereigns? But, then, Fonblanque only ran a
•iberal rag, and had never conceived the halter-
that journalism would reach under such a
tud *'-. -«vtion of Stfgginsism, Mawwormimn, and
combin. nlam a 8 t £ a t which is embodied in the
Chameleon
B ?A„ wv a dvaMce of Russia in Central Asia
„• an nexation of Merv can beper-
(tayd Malcolm M’Coll in his “Rus-
fectly j u stifled (says flnnexat ion of Merv becam e
8m Russia, to her great honour, cut
ior Vi vehhood o/hhat den of ferocious robbers
off Vow n JjaSrery and embracing within
the protection of her political system the popula-
te pr ° l „„ the Merv Turcomans were wont
sSSffefJS
WiiHßin thev have come to that conclusion less
from & own independent reflections than from
the fussy and fretful anxiety with which every
L of Russia in Central Asia seems to agi-
Sinn Of a handful of Cossacks beyond the Russian
frontier they may well think that the British lion
hTbegVm to y before the Russian bear. But
it is the alarmists who are responsible for that
result and not the men who regard the various
annexations of Russia, if not with approval, at
feast with the calm confidence of oonscious
strength.” . .
The latest kid of the Duke of Edinburgh
is a gi 1-we beg pardon, a Prinoess. Her name is
Beatrice Leopoldine Victoria. 'I he christening of
this interesting infant elicits from * koud<m P®per
the comment that ” the Royal tamiiy has long got
past all count, and whether "rbis is
four-hundredth addition to the Palace population,
we really cannot say. I No more oan we. Bd. B.j
But we do know Chat in the fulness of time the
nation will be asked to keep her, or to maintain
the do-nothing Prince she may happen to marry,
and this in the face of her father and mother being
immensely rich.” We don’t agree with this lore-
cast. In our opinion, the limits of John Bulls
patience in the matter of votes, pensions, grants,
nowers, and annuities to pnnoeungs are nearly
reached, and that, what with the growing annoy-
ance at the unquenchable money greed of the
Queea and her connections, and the Bteady drift of
political power towards the actual people of Great
Britain, the day is not very far remote when a
grant for a princeling, not discharging or likely
to discharge constitutional functions, will be re-
fused point blank by the House of Commons, and
the refusal very likely followed up by the appoint-
ment of a committee to investigate the numerous
increasing and scandalous abuses by which the
tax-payer is made to provide in the way of yachts
and palaces, and travelling expenses, for a whole
gang of the Queen’s relations and hangers on,
German as well as British, about twice the amount
of the civil list vote to which the Crown is consti-
tutionally entitled.
The few noisy people in the South who
wanted Christendom to think that they spoke
with the voice of Australia are beginning to
recognise that unbelief is everywhere rampant.
They had counted upon having their words passed
round the other colonies without dissent, upon
having their prayers accepted by Derby, and upon
having their menaces regarded with terror by
France. But their reckoning was all out. France
l aughed at them, Derby asked them to show some
evidence that the sister colonies trusted them, and
the sister colonies repudiated the boisterous brag.
And, unfortunately, the three things came to pass
at the same time. Now the noisy people have sat
down to think of the next move. Windy as their
intelligence is, they see that they must first sur-
render all claim to be the mouthpiece of Australia.
This is a sad surrender, but as men refuse to be
barefacedly gulled, it must be made. So far, so
good. Now, then, the noisy people jump up and
begin again to make profession of what they are,
and what they are going to do. They say now
that they speak for all Victoria, and that all Vic-
toria is determined to keep out French criminals,
and to have New Guinea annexed. The method of
doing the former is to quarantine every French
ship supposed to carry a convict. Premier rer-
vice thinks this a magnificent plan, and so it is
so long as there is no attempt to put it in practice.
And the method of alarming the latter is to
guarantee to Lord Derby £i5,000 a year, as being
the estimated expense of establishing and maintaii -
ing order in the island of New Guinea, recouping
themselves for the disbursed cash by the customs
duties and sale of land in the island. Ought not
Lord Derby wait to see whether these clamorous
people represent even Victoria? It is inconceiv-
able that a whole colony could give itself up to
such school-girl playing with questions of import-
ance.
“ A Manchester Conservative ” is thus
rough on the Lords in the Fortnightly “ What
have the Peers as a legislative body done for their
country? What measure of national usefulness
inscribed on the statute book during the last fifty
years have they laboured to advance ? What hav e
they rather not tried to mutilate and spoil ? What
sympathv have they ever displayed with any other
forces or principles of our national life than those
which are bound up with their own welfare ? The
Irish land question, parliamentary reform, reli-
gious equality, municipal and educational reform,
measures brought forward for the improvement
of the legal, social, and industrial condition of the
United Kingdom-in each of these cases the Lords
have delayed action as long as they can, and have
consistently declined to take a step forward, ex-
cept under the pressure of personal fear. More
than forty years ago, the Lords who boasted them-
selves to be the hereditary tribunes of the poor,
deliberately altered the Mines Regulation Bill to
suit the colliery owners, for the colliery interest in
the Upper House has always been powerful.
Eighteen years later, it was the Peers who struck
out .of Lord Palmerston’s Bill the clauses confer-
ring* on children employed in mines the educational
opportunities at the disposal of children employed
in factories. Later still, in 1880, they attempted to
cancel in the Employers’ Liability Bill the clause
making employers responsible for the acts of per-
sons to whom authority has been delegated.” And
so on. When a Conservative holds such views, the
beginning of the end of the Lords can’t be very
far off. The political Secretary to the Treasury,
Lord Richard Grosvenor, is a duke’s brother. The
Under-Secretary of State for War, Lord Morley, is
an earl. The Under-Secretaries for Foreign Affairs
and for Colonial Affairs are respectively sons of a
marquis and an earl. The Surveyor of Ordnance is
the son of a viscount; the Secretary of the Local Go-
vernment Board is nephew of one duke and cousin
of another. The Paymaster-General is Lord w olven-
ton, Lord Cariugton is the Captain of the Gentle-
men-at-Arms, and Lord Monson the Captain of the
Yeomen of the Guard. Of the political officers of
whom, in addition to peeresses, and Ladies of the
Bedchamber, the Queen’s household is composed
the Duke of Westminister, almost, if not quite,
the wealthiest man in England, receives £2500 a
year as Master of the Horse, and the Earl of Cork
£l5OO a year as Master of the Buckhounds. Lord
Kenmare has £2OOO a year as Lord Chamberlain;
while Lord Dalhjusie, Lord Torrineton, Lord
Methuen, Lord Kibblesdale, Lord Sudeley, Lord
Wrottesley, Lord Sandhurst, to say nothing of a
host of intimate relations of peers, occupy posts
of dignity and emolument. Finally Lord Sydney,
an earl, receives £2OOO a year, and Loid Breadal-
bane, an extremely rich man, has a salary of £9OO a
year. The Viceroy of India is a marquis, so is the
Governor-General of Canada, and so, till the
other day, was the Governor of Victoria, now
replaced by the husband of Lord Clarendon’s
nieoe. The destinies of Ceylon are presided over
by the son of a peer, and the Queen’s representa-
tive in the capital of New South Wales is Lord
Augustus Loftus, the brother of a marquis. Of
our five chief Ambassadors, three, Lord Lyonp,
Lord Ampthill, and Lord Dufferin, are peeri,
while of the remaining two one is a near relation
of a marquis, and the other a son of Lord Scar-
borough. Of the sixteen English ministers, below,
the ambassadorial dignity, in foreign capitals, four
are the sons of peers. When it is necessary to dis-
patoh a diplomatist to Cairo on a special mission
the man we select for the post is a cousin of Lord
Northbrook.
H. Ganein, Syrian Deputy in the Ottoman
Parliament, ’77-78, in his “ Europe’s Stake in the
Soudan,” says: “The causes to which the insur-
rection in the Soudan is due are of two kinds—
some Individual, and, so to speak, local, such as
the tyranny of the Turkish pachas, the mismanage-
ment of the Egyptian governors, the arrogance of
certain European functionaries intrusted with the
government of the country, the heavy taxes, the
black mail, and forced labour; otbeis arising
directly out of the apprehension excited among
the Mussulmen by the spectacle of wholesale
annexation which they have already witnessed.
This sentiment may naturally seem justified by
what passed between victorious Russia and con-
quered Turkey at the Berlin Congress. It might
have been supposed that the duty of Europe,
which bad constituted itself sovereign arbiter in
the matter, would be limited to giving the con-
queror his proper share of the spoil of the Otto-
man Empire. Nothing of the sort occurred. We
were already acquainted in matters of political
economy with tne famous piinciple of laisxez
faire; but now for the sirv ice of politics, properly
so called, a new princit le was invented, which may
be expressed by the formuid, laissez prendre. Be-
fore she came to the Congress, England had already
acquired Cyprus; and Austria in nor turn annexed
Bosffia and Herzegovina. More lately, France is
seen occupying Tunis while England
enters into possession of Egypt and Suez. Now-
adays, accordingly, the only queition Beems to be
Who is the first taker, as to any town or country
possession of which seems likely to prove advan-
tageous. Do you take that island, and I will take
this seaport; do you seize upon yonder spot, and
leave this other for me. No one can foresee where
there will be a stop upon this perilous course. . . .
Such a policy may sometimes be useful and profit-
able lo a nation when it is followed with prudence
upon proper occasions and in certain fixed circum-
stanegs; but raise it to ¥he dignity of an absolute
principle, or consider it as a rule of government,
and reason straightway condemns it.’ r
v * *
Mr. Berry said “federation was the only
weapon the colonies had to fight with,” referring
to the French difficulty. Ahd all the time there
was bis own tongue in his mouth The Geelong
councillors have determined to suppress Salvation
Army processions on account of their “useless
noises.” The full report of their own proceedings
is, however, reported f» eatenso.


SOCIAL
The Mercantile is essentially a youthful
ball, an occasion more looked forward to tor
dancing than for show. Last Thursday 8 was the
ninth annual of the Rowing Club, and the weather
was as bad as it could be, gusty ram through the
whole night. This made the company rather late
in assembling, and perhaps it made the attend-
ance smaller, for it was less numerous than in pre-
vious years. Sale and Dare succeeded admirably
in decorating and disguising the great expanse of
emptiness which is such a drawback to the Exhi-
bition as a ballroom: festoons of leaves drooped
between the pillars, sculls adorned the gallery,
flags of kindred clubs were displayed, and the dais
whereon the Young* Australians played looked
more presentable than it ever did before. A large
card-room was furnished at one end, and a lounge
allowing a view of the dancing floor opened be-
tween curtains on one side; the supper tables
being on the opposite. The music sometimes was
unusually slow. Now, the pace at which dance
tunes should be played is alway.i a matter of
opinion, some like them fast, others slow; but, as
a rule, what dancers gain in pjce they [ °Be in
grace, so we will not quarrel with the slow music
those eminent musicians gave us on Thursday.
Mr Thomas Cripps catered, and put plenty on the
tables, which were available from an early hour.
Upstairs, one half the gallery was a promenade,
the other half reserved for spectators, some of
whom stayed on till two or three o clock in the
morning watching the gay and ever-varying scene
below. In the centre of the gallery, a room was
screened off and furnished for the Press. For a
time it was sacred, but, later on, when fond young
folks thought t'r e reporters had been allowed a
fair time to do their s-ribbling, they adopted
it as a boudoir, and the last look we had about 3
o'clock it was being so well used for press pur-
tSAore rffrerienee - f* 07n
?* r ?*Lojnet,l a
**‘Xz£y
Mrs Cd?one} <s7os£f
7ras T/c/ify I
li SA 7 *'* 7 ydress&(.
s/t-t'ee bqysje-
/fni*t£s /ti,cl&
tfa’n. belt/
■ere Af//
/^/o>Ye>'s( es / 3i! -
tally . S
>t^fyl
ZLo serre sc* nr &, o *eU t
(ytlsfie Ouf
<s£ts?
'l(‘U 3/y
4, &'»'*e. roafo/yyun's
e<y .
•^ r 'e / e,f l y > "' > *"t~/n e£/
•J 7
Vv v
v' ./
/■
//
t
ff>' v
ii <**c/ Qj &A
y^ 6re, S ,r *‘>/S
--4;x^ A * e r
A Social Item. The Amurrlkan Ball.
poses that we hastily trod on our own toes, and
Sacked blushingly down stairs again. Of course,
the fact of no fancy dresses being worn. consider-
ably limits the necessity for descriptions, but
some of the evening costumes were very hand-
somo. Mrs. Eaton wore a sleevele sdressof straw-
berry broche, and train, ivory satin skirt, it was
trimmed with pink feathers and parrots Plumage,
and a larere spray of black feathers over the hip.
Her sister, Miss Beal Prescott, wore a conspicuous
and handsome dress of black broche covered with
iet beading. It had a high ruff neck, but was cut
with open front, and sleeveless, with a charming
result. Two Surry Hills sisters known for their
excellent dancing wore black satin and net, with
deep golden sashes and trimmings, and looked ex-
ceedingly well. A young lady from Annandale
w >re blue satin and white lace; and a similar
dress was worn by Miss Higinbptham, a slender
young lady who was at a premium on the pro-
grammes. The wife of a young doctor fromßal-
main wore a handsomely made dress with pleated
skirt, all bright cardinal satin, set off
with white lace. A cream veiling, bunched, and
trimmed with swansdown, was in capital taste. A
voung lady from Cockatoo was a flashing dancer
fn black broche, and lace that was suggestively
transparent Mr. Hardie, the Mayor of oydney,
arrived early, and with Mrs. J. D. Young as partner
opened the ball in the leading set vis-a-vis to
C. Pearce and Mrs. Jessie Pearce, who was
mrettilv graceful in cream veiling and satin,
jvir and Miss Olliffe, and Mr. Young and Miss
Modini completed the set, _ the latter lady
wearing a coral pink veiling that was one
of the handsomest dresses in the room. En-
joyable dancing, for which there was plenty
of space, then continued without a mar of
any kind till four a.m -the programme,
a diversified one, comprising three quad-
rilles, three lancers, seven polkas and mazur-
kas, and eight waltzes. Rendezvous, as pre-
viously, were indicated by the suburban names
on the I lamp globes, such as Manly, Balmain, Dawes
Point, &c. During the evening, Hanlan Msited
the ball, having only arrived from Brisbane a few
hours before. When he went away and callously
commenced to play cards ifor h ® bad had a
mauvais voyage, that did not fit him for light
fantastic freaks), the girls could have cried; but,
UtoSXbSSrevived. as the thoughful secretary
was seen proudly leading him out again. For his
partner, Mr. Hanlan naturally selected a young
lady who lives within a splash of our splendid oh-
give-it-a-rest harbour. He mostly confines him-
self to square dances—perhaps, because he i 8 so
“square in everything. So he did a lancers. We
watched Hanlan dancing with much interest
When the music starts, he generally catches the
fl or quickly, and at once moves off with a long,
sweeping stroke, keeping his eyes fixed on his
partner’s toes, to avoid treading on them. Indeed,
he handles a lady with great consideration, and,
though we should hardly call him a champion
dancer, it is fair to say that he was the best in that
particular set. After this, we think it prudent not
to mention the others. Miss Florrie Dind, as
usual, wore a Dure white dress, that was perfect in
taste, while different from any other present. The
tarletan skirt fell strait from the waist, where it
was draped with a satin sash, and spread, bell
shape, very wide at the bottom, where it was
bound with a dozen rows of narrow satin ribbon,
nodice of satin was cut low, and the shoulders
covered with light fabric; ruched satin collar and
arm-bands. The only relief to the white was a
little bird on the left shoulder. The wife of a
Glebe atchitect was richly attired in white a.na
crimson; and two sisters from that locality added
grace to the room. A little maiden, who was, to
use the poet’s words, “just as high as my heart,”
looked very pretty in white satin, simple, but
symmetrical; and a lively maid, with short hair,
wore a charming toilette of white broche, with
dotted tulle waterfall, and bouquets of forget-me-
nots. Miss Graves was a nice little blonde in
lavender satin and white lace. Only two remain
on the list.—
Of course, the other lady is in contrast, thus re-
lieving us of the distressing responsibility of mak-
ing comparisons, which are ojus—
The birthday of Mr. Gannon, of Gannon s
Forest, was celebrated a few days ago in a social
manner. In the afternoon, a number of ladies ana
gentlemen assembled to lunch, and the hosts
ealth was proposed by Mr. Leeder, duly drunK,
and answered. In the evening a large company
tripped their toes happily, among whom were
noticed particularly a lady from
Paddington, who danced admirably; two laaies
attired in ruby velvet and silk, f rom Oxford-strett;
two sisters from Ultimo, and others. A lady trom
Kmeraldville, Cook’s Kiver, accompanied the
singers and dancers on the piano very efficiently,
and the evening’s hospitality, altogether, was quite
appreciated.
For weeks the question has been —what is
the Masquerade Ball going to he like ? Now it is
over, it is fair to say that it was one of the most
brilliant and best-conducted balls that Sydney
hasseen. They premised to make it a grand specta-
cle, a unique pageant, and they did; while it was
free from anything objectionablo. Decorations
were similar to those of the previous night, but
were added to by many national devices ;. the ren-
dezvous were named after American cities, such
as Denver. New Orleans, Brooklyn, Baltimore,
Chicago, New York, &c, and above each was a
shield bearing the arms of the State. Above the
bandsmen's platform was an immense coloured
painting, in which a large number of American
gentlemen with white wigs were seen gathered
round a table with a document on it —presumably,
they were in the act of “ cutting the painter. If
the virtuous King George could have had his way,
no doubt these influential citizens would have had
to be represented without either wigs or heads on
them. Conspicuous on a high pillir perohed the
great bird of freedom, with a banner on his breast,
and in his mouth the motto, “ E pluribut unum.
For the benefit of suburban alderman and others,
this may be translated “ One out of many,” and it
applies to the United States; more especially, to
the very united state in which that great Ameri-
can, Brigham Young, lived. American flags, of
course, predominated everywhere, and America
was personated by a number of dazzlingly beauti-
ful girls. On the programme, seven dances had
th > word “ lime-light ” against them, which indi-
cated that they would be danced under the glare
of coloured calcium lights, turned on from four
powerful reflectors in the gallery, and the effect
was charming. Now a soft, mellow sheen seemed
to soften the tints of the lovely dresses, and then,
chameleon-like, the hues would change to a deep
rich blue, suffuse the satins with a cardinal blush,
and again fade into palest pink, or show them
warm in an atmosphere of glorious gold. Descrip-
tion would not convey the scene; sometimes the
dresses gleamed light and shiny, as though covered
with a sheeting of ice, and next, a change
would deepen them till they looked like solid
blocks of colour; when the eyes of everyone
under the curious lurid beams radiated the
light like diamonds. The eyes of a dead fish
would be almost pretty;under the calcium. It was
a novelty of the most successful kind; but the
Americans could not adopt it for every dance,
because they don’t want t o increase their national
debt just now. Most people arrived ready masked;
only an exceptional few came undisguised, and
rooms were provided for ladies and gentlemen to
arrange or change their fancy costumes as desired.
All through the night fresh characters appeared
continually, the wearers either having changed, or
being fresh arrivals. Some came from the various
theatres in stage wardrobe; and some dropped in
from the other ball, thus doing the two in one
night. Among them were Messrs Dibbs and Good-
ehap, in robes and masks which disguised them
so effectually that they were recognised immedi-
ately they appeared. At about 11 o clock, during a
pause, a curious figure entered. With tottering
step, and pausing anon as he leaned on a staff to
look around in a half-dared manner—with tattered
elothes and long white beard—Rip Van Winkle
slowly made his way down the vac int floor. His
appearance was mauaged at a well-chosen moment,
and the personation was so real-looking that for a
moment there was a hush, and then a buzz of
interest and admiration showed the success of the
clever make-up. It was Mr. William South, the
eomedian, and the character scored one to him.
In striking contrast was a grotesque figure repre-
senting Topsy. Topsy’s principal clothes con-
sisted of a sujee bag, through which a pair of bare
black arms protruded, a huge pair of slippers, and
some straggling curl papers in her wool. The
•haracter was taken by Mr. Chipman, junior, who
was early on the scene, and with extraordinary
antics carried through the character splendidly all
night. Equally popular, but more sedate, was Mr.
Howison as a Fijian Chief, the get-up being correct
down to the smallest detail. With him was an
elaborately dressed Queen of the Night in black,
with stars and moon* all over her. Uncle Sam,
Jonathan, and such characters, typical of the New
World, were repeated fully a dozen times among
the characters, and it was really difficult to say
which excelled where several were so good. The
country’s defenders were represented Dy Lieuts.
Wilson and Owen in uniform, and by other
less famous warriors, and by several gallant
rulers of the Queen’s Navee. About mid-
night, the great event occurred, and America
fairly culminated in grandeur. The floor hav-
ing been cleared, and everyone requested to
Join in the procession, the band struck up, and the
pageant of the night began. First came the
triumphal car, drawn by Mr. E. Hordern s well-
known team of four black ponies, the head or
each being held by a glorious American gentleman
covered with stripes and stars. In it, dressed in
the national colours, in satins and smiles, with
helmets and flags, sat two ladies representing
America, or Columbia. They were Miss Lily Linden
(Mrs. Clark) and Miss Olive Watson-one driving,
and the other usefully employed waving the
banner of the States—and very handsome they
looked. Three Uncle Sams followed the car be-
hind, so.it was pretty well looked after; more
especially as Mr. Hordern, junior, walked beside
it, with one eye on the family ponies and the other
fixed with great discrimination on the ladies in the
car. Other characters followed, and then came a
striking feature of the procession—in the costume
of a Digger, with large black hat thrown boldly
back from the face, and leading a “bronco or
donkey, such as diggers have, laden with swag, tin
dish, and gold-seeker’s equipment, walked an
exact representative of that splendid race of men,
the Roo ry Mountain miners. It was one of the
most realistic things of the evening. Among the
other curieus figures were Alf. Moynham as a
Chimpanzee, in brown tights, with the head and
tail of that animal, and running along on all-fours:
and by his side was Sam Keenan as Uncle Tom, in
correct plantation clothes, with venerable grey
whiskers. A French Cook, all in spotless white,
was Captain Spieski; a Page of Louis Xi V. was
there; J. Barker was Jack of Clubs; J.C. Beeler
was St. Jacob: W. Bush, a Harlequin; J-T. Brown,
the Doge of Venice; and Mr. Nagel, a N.Y. Fire-
man. Nearly all the company marched in the
procession, as it went round the building many
times, in twos, fours, and eights, joining and
dividing again to either side, while the coloured
1 ghts were shed on the moving stream of mas-
queraders, and the band played a spirited grand
march composed for the occasion by Herr
Kopff, and blending the airs of Old tolks at
Home," “Hail Columbia,” “ Yankee Doodle,
and “ God save the Queen,” one after the other.
The whole thing was picturesque and successful,
and hearty oheers came from the spectators who
thronged the galleries above. When the proces-
sion finally marched off, an interval came tor
supper, and small tables scattered around the side
of tne building were soon filled with ladies, while
waiters flitted round to supply their wants. Apart
from this interval, however, refreshments were
obtainable from the beginning of the ball to the
end, T. Cripps doing the catering. A now thing
was the variety of drinks which were at hand, and
it was easier to drink most of them than to re-
member what to call them. Kopff and Austin’s
band played the dance music, and performed some
of the pretty tunes In an exquisite manner, among
them being the Molly Darling Quadrilles, and the
following waltzes, Waldteufel’s Pomone, Brune
au Blonde, Horn mage au Dames, also the Dream
Faces, Brisede Nuit, Blue Danube, Gloire de Dijon,
and Venetia. An innovation on Sydney customs
was tbe calling out of the figures in the square
dances by the M.C., Mr. George Hunt. The Exhi-
bition is really too large a building for this, but it
is an American custom, and the Americans wanted
it carried out this one night in the year. Mr. Hunt
proved a thoroughly capable and courteous master
of the ceremonies, and his colleague, Mr. J. B.
Laing, was equally hard-working. The pro-
grammes, which were double-folding cards, de-
signed for the ball, with the national eagle and
shield of stars and bars, bearing a picture of a
masked beauty on one side and the list of the
committee on the other, contained 25 dances, some
with novel titles. The Royal Irish Quadrilles,
however, were merely ordinary ones, to which the
Shaughran music was played; and the 81eigh Bell
polka was fitted with the Cyprus. The Waltz
Quadrilles, though rather unusual, are well-known
to daneers, being the ordinary sets waltzed all
through, and they were fitted to the Billee Taylor
melodies. The Virginia Reel, at half-past four, was
much like our old friend Bir Roger. It is impos-
sible to give all of even the nmt prominent char-
acters present, but some deserve notice. The
Rooky Mountain Miner, Mr. M. C. Speer, first
appeared in the burlesque dress of striped long-
tailed coat, starred waistcoat, and tall hat, as
Father Jonathan, and his third appearanoe was in
evening dress. Mr. E. K. Lambert, as the border
scout, Buffalo Bill, was admirable, though a trifle
small for such a wholesale Stocker of graveyards.
An Indian chief—a villainous-looking heathen, too
1—■ was complete In style: he was Professor Gib-
son. Mr. Skinner was a Court Jester; Mr. P.
Cool a rather thin Pharoah; General W.T. Bennett
was in evening oosturae. Paddy from Cork waa
One wao the darkest of daughters of Judah,
And regal of mien;
No one who saw her could doubt having viewed a
True Hebraic Queen.
Itaven-hued tresses, and eyes all a-glisten
With scintillant light;
Eyes so imperial, well might you christen
Them “gems of the night.”
Type of all beauties a lineage could lend her
That’s oldest of old,
Graceful brunette, who was garbed in a splendour
Of crimson and gold.
The other, some tastes might prefer
to see put first,
She was so fair, this darling her
from Darlinjhurst.
In macerated strawberry bro-
che, she showed well,
And many would no further go
to seek the belle.
She was as fair as any sov-
’reign; and each dude
Found Lily was a magnet of
great magnitude.
A radiant blonde, who really pos-
sessed charms, and ah!
Her neck was low, and so she was
a real low’d star.
A sort of girl who never stayed
“ against the wall,”
Her sort was one whose dancing made
her sought by ali.
Yes, at the shrine, full many bowed,
of her we praise;
Her vision lingers like a cloud
of lovely Hayes.


P”
H
BNITURB SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Bydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS, 9nd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
YERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for (dubs, restaurants
Bmoking rooms, &c.
Bedroom complete in various woods.
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring ana O’Connell streets, Sydney",
Eight-Found bedroom suitEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
- - " IDLEY
Tables, with Drawers,
NEWTON, and LAMB.
from 508. BRA I
£
• •.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWUU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASION:
Tapestry,
ABLES, elegantly finished
broidery, Plush, Ac.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V 7 just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(VConnell-street.
EASY OCCAf
DRAWING-ROC
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, tor
•OM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
hi the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
BRA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
BED. Very handy and inex-
CHAIR
LOUNGE, or
pensive.
T w#»
marble top, 80s the pair.
[OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
‘ ' swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINTNO-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Mar one Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
Pelf-adjusting hammock chaii-
Patehted.
S
%
Bfeate
r.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in ite}
construction; works automatio&lly. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but Little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only tee pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
Pr ‘
when folded. Price 80s."
and LAMB (only).
BRADLEY, NEWTON
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
tHBAMEWOEK; for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
,and T~ '
Open
Inspection
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions ait lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
W
GARDEN SEATS, 20s : Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete-
Assortment; best make, lea ost prices.
perfectly done by Mr. A. D. Ludlow, and fortun-
ately Paddy’s shillelagh was not required tor
active purposes, he being amiable all the time. A
tall and portly figure with thin grey hair and
solemn visage was said to be a Bishop, and he cer-
tainly did have a rather dissolute look. Of the
evening dresses, worn by ladies, the best of the
ball was, undoubtedly, Mrs. Freshman’s, in those
pretty popular tints which are so difficult tu
exactly name. Chiefly, it was of salmon pink
broche, sleeveless bodice and long train, combined
with rich broche of tile colour, a band of which
reached down to catch up the skirt draperies,
trimming of ice white beading which made it
delicately rich, and decked with leathers of apricot
pink. Pretty, also, was a somewhat similar,
in two shades of rich terracotta broche, of shapely
cut, fashionably puffed, and with a mammoth lily
on one side. It attracted much admiration; and
so did the fine ivory broche so gracefully worn by
Mrs. Alfred Burne. Mrs. Lane was the Electrie
Telegraph, in electric blue satin, over the skirt of
which played white streaks of lightning, and on
her head was a small silver battery coil connected
with a wire, aud the conception bad a capital effect.
Mas Clarke perpetuated the memory of the Maid
of Orleans, Joan cf Arc, in blue satin and silver
armour and helmet; Miss Honey was merry and
sweet as Voting England, in red, white and
blue ; Miss Berry was Nancy Lee, and her
sister, Stella—all b autiful dancers. Miss M. Fell
was Cornflower: Miss F. Fell, Folly ; Miss Hem-
shard a pretty Quakeress, not too demure to be
enticing; Mrs. Cool, the United Stales; Miss Hull,
a Polish Girl; Miss Emmie Jones, conspicuous for
her brilliant dancing, in the colours Kendall was so
fond of—green and gold; Miss Lily, in an elegant
ivory broche, witn ruff neck, but smooth feet; Miss
Parker, as Folly, in cerise and blu 1 , a belle in
bells; a character supposed to be Autumn was
dark satin bodice, and skirt in various shades of
golden brown, trimmings and wreath of poppies
and cornflowers; the White Cat and Claudine were
from Princea-street, as charming as chatty; Miss
Fogerty. as Mousse, a particularly recherchi-look-
ing Cat in Girl; Mrs. Hunt, a captivating Gipsy;
two fair-headed girls in demure drab were objects
of unlimited regard as the Two Orphans—they
were Misse? Nellie Wallis and A. Healey. It would
be hard to guess the fancy character assumed by
one of the most brilliant dancers, for it had as
many fragments of colour as a crushed kaleido-
scope, but the most conspicuous colour seemed to
be the interesting blue rings visible between a
very ehort skirt and a very elaborate boot, of
which the lady’s dancing activity afforded a most
favourable view. One dress was covered with
small national flags. Several ladies carried flags
and represented America, but none looked so well
as Miss Olive Watson who rode in the car. Youth
and grace set off a costume that was charming in
itself; and, if Hanlan has as much taste as he has
skill, the oarsman of the world must have been
proud of the pretty little partner who helped him
through the lancers. Most of the masks were off
soon after 11, for they are not comfortable to
wear; and, moreover, unless a lady's face has been
singularly neglected by Nature, a mask can hardly
improve her. There are only few people who are
better looking when they have their faces covered.
Tn short, masking is not favourable to mashing.
Dominos are eenerally shapeless and baggy,
though useful in concealing a drees. Two entirely
white, with hoods to match, looked neat; and one
of apple-green satin ulster-shaped ;was decidedly
pretty: so was a golden domino. It wasj nearly
five o’clock on a blustering winter’s morning when
the brilliant Masquerade Ball came to its latter
end.
• • •
In the old Masonic Hall, a social reunion
was held by the Lodge St. Andrew, 358, 8.C., and
there were enough members and friencs to well
fill the large hall. A short concert came fir. t. Mr.
Booth sang “ Wrecked and Saved;” Miss Chapman
and Mr. Elleroamp sangsolos; and Miss Cowley,
her ever pretty “ Caller Herring.” The two ladies
also blended in a duet. “ Oh, mayest thou dream of
me;” and Mr. Hugh Duff was accompanist, on a
rather rheumatic piano. Then chairs were moved,
and the floor was spermed till it looked like a
snow-storm, and all gathered round to see Pro-
fessor Hughes present Brother Davies with an ad-
dress, which he did in a speech of wonderful
verbal embroidery. Its general tenor was that
Brother Davies is one of the finest men in the
world. The music corps then began on a list of
18 dances, and the reporter st rted to write up the
girls on his shirt-cuff. First came a wee mite ia
Satin white, who frivolled along like a loose
leather. Tuen, genteely sedate, was one of the
neatest of little eligib'es, a brunette in cream
India muslin, the bodice straight-pleated from
shoulder to waist, and broad flounced skirt. With
an iogenuous expression on her petite features,
another brunette was interesting in pink, with
white apple-blossoms for trimming. A little blonde,
a bride of only half a day, was interesting from that
faot alone, and looked well in white; and her sister
in pink in the same style. From Redfern came the
wife of a prominent Mason in a handsome dress
of garnet velvet, trimmed down the front with
pink satin, and a triple row of pearls for coronet.
A recently-engaged young lady from Moore Park
—-the sparkling brunette of many a gay ball—wore,
perhaps out of compliment to the scotch Constitu-
tion, a silky plaid costume, sleeveless, and bright
with steel trimmings, and was a fascinating part-
ner. From Pitt-street, a smiling blonde had come,
in high spirits and ivory broche; and a tall, dark
dan scl in pink danced beautifully. The stateliest
figure was robed in cardinal broche tunic and
train, with front tablier of pure white net; arose
or two, and a ruff collar, completed a rich ensem-
ble. The charming little vocalist from Enmore
wore simple white, with real ivy leaf trimming;
and a bright fair-haired girl from Newcastle, in
ruby velvet bodice and cream brilliant skirt, was
lovely and lively both. The daughter of the Grand
Secretary danced skilfully, in black velvet and
white tablier ; and a slight blonde was rather
bewitching on account of the large amount of
style she managed to crowd on her little person, in
the way of cream Madras lace, and a cage-like
skirt. Brother Moon spread a capital feast under
the gallery, and the reunion was cheerful to the
pad.
* * *
A ball was given in Gunnedah on the 27th
June, by some of the local geutiemen. About 60
couples availed themselves of their invitations.
Many pretty dresses were seen, the most striking
being a pink satin trimmed with cream lace, worn
by a young lady who was up top when Nature dis-
tributed beauty. Two young sisters looked charm-
ing in white. A squatter’s daughter from under
the range was very neatly attired in creamy white,
and her dancing was admired. A very pretty pink
silk enrobed the lively figure of a Murrurundl
young lady. There were so many charming faces
that it was hard to decide on a belle, but the fasci-
nating sister of a local Government official seemed
just a little ahead. Dancing was kept up till thiee
O’clock, when all dispersed, highly pleased.
• • •
A reunion of the Bourke-street Literary
Society was well attended on the 2nd, although the
weather was bad. Ladies were numerous, and
dainty little programmes printed for the evening.
The Rev. George Brown opened with an address,
pointing out that people may be good, without
being glum, and that social pleasures help life
ulong. That's why we put in these little pars,
every week. The secrel ary’s report was a model
of conciseness, read by Mr. S. A. Byrne, and mis-
cellaneous items followed. Mr. Oscar Ostland re-
cited “ Beautiful Snow,” with considerable pathos,
and Miss Siminonds sang, sweetly and dearly,
two ballads—’ At the Ferry,” and the “ Lover and
the Bird.” Messrs Armstrong and Wallis recited,
and John Bradley sang. The editor of the society’s
journal not being present, Mr Byrne read for him
a pithy piece, well selected for the occasion, about
the hollowness of much of the so-called courtesy
shown to women. It spoke some truths. There
is little earnestness now-a-days; it is “bad form.”
Its place is taken by the thin and threadbare style
of flattery which seems the limit of the modern
masher's conversation, and which is as destitute
of real respect as of merit. And yet these carpet
knights are good enough for the girls who listen
to them. Miss Nellie Wallis recited “ Imelda ”
with a good deal of tasteful expresoipn, and was
much applauded. But when a young lady recites
immediately under u chandelier, she ought not to
wear a Rrge bat for it tantalizes people to think
that a pretty face is lost in impenetrable shadow.
Among the audience at the back was a very hilari-
ous youth who ought to have been at the Minstrels,
where a large mouth kept constantly open would
serve to catch the jokes. Perhaps the Minstrels
might not think it « orth while to joke to a gentle-
man whose face represents a vast expanse of
vacancy. Mr. and Mrs. F. T. Smith were valued
accompanists.
* * *
A good concert was held in the Assembly
Hall, Junee Junction, on the 4th instant, in aid of
the Anglican Church, in which local genius was
ably assisted by Messrs. Morrison and Paris from
Wagga, the former being comic. Other vocalists
were Mrs. Bronsdon, Misses Thompson and Jones,
Messrs. Trelan, Bushell, Marshall, Davies, Mort-
lock, and Jones, in glees, solos, &c After, a few
remained by invitation to dance, and kept circling
till the morning. Sombre colours were mostly
worn. A late bride was tasty in black. Misses Gray
were in dark costume, Mist Roberts in black, the
daughter of a caterer in navy blue, Mrs. Hum-
phries in dark green.
* * *
At Bourke, they have balls sometimes,
where the native vigour exuberates, even if grace
be not conspicuous. A£ a late Oddfellows’ ball
there, the popular way to grasp a lady was to put
both arms round her waist, and then swing her
round in a style that looked preparatory to throw-
ing her out of the window. It reads strangely, but
it’s a way they have up at Bourke; and some
people even allege that the girls like it. And it’s a
peculiar fact, that the less good-looking a girl is,
the more she wants to bo swung. There were twice
as many ladies as gentlemen, so there was a good
deal of clasping and swinging required. One
athletic young squatter, who did his fair share, re-
marked afterwards that it was just like hand-
drafting sheep. Only they always catch sheep by
the hind trotter.
* * *
Despite the inclement weather on Wed-
nesday week, a number of Rugby worshippers
assembled at the Cambridge Club to enjoy a smoke
concert, under the auspices of the Redfern Foot-
ball Club. Mr. Coghlan, V.P., chairman. There is
an abandon about these concerts which gives them
a peculiar attraction for free-and-easy and thirsty
spirits. They are very popular, and not too classic
for footbalers to understand. The audience
maliciously encored a gentleman who sang “ The
Bugler;” but, though applause was deafening, the
astute chairman perceived an undercurrent of
irony in the long-continued vivas, and, after
silently kicking himself in order to maintain a
solemn face, declined ihe encore on behalf of the
warbler. Cansdell wrestled with “The Midship-
mite,” but, though mighty in strength, his voice
isn’t equal. “Jumbo” sang, and Mr. W. Marshall
gave an encore song in 999 languages. Host Rain-
ford gave two recitations, and Mr W.nban was
heard in the “ Powder Monkey,” the evening being
a very jolly one.
• • i
A grand Birthday Ball was given at Bris-
bane, in the Eshibitiom Building, on July Ist, by
Sir Anthony and Lady Musgrove, Government
House not being large enough for the large hos-
pitality of the popular Northern Governor. * ver
a thousand invitations were sent out. It is evi-
dent the vice-regal establishment at Brisbane must
be a dreadfully small place—the Gavei nment House
here is quite largo enough for the balls that are
given. The band of the Nelson provided dance
music at the affair, and the officers of that redoubt-
able war ship felt that their lines had fallen in
pleasant places among the Brisbane belles—in fact,
they were beaux-lines. Special trains were also
run for convenience of guests, and the ball was
one of the most successful ever held in Queens-
land.
* * *
No doubt there is not much to choose be-
tween kings and queens, either past or present.
Perhaps the most that can bo sa'd of the best of
them is that they were a little less despotic and a
little more inclined to listen to the cry of the
people than were the others. After all, however,
Caesar and Pompey are very much alike, especially
Pompey. But did It ever occur to you which one
of the Lord's anointed who in ihe past swayed the
destinies of England (that is the correct phrase, we
think) most took your fancy, or rather, least ex-
cited your antipathy. Perhaps Alfred the G reat is
your pet, because he hit upon the device of sub-
mitting unfortunate defendants to the tender
mercies of jurymen. Then we know you are
either a Supreme Court Judge, or that wonderful
individual who combines the dual characters of
nightman and Clontarf juryman. Somebody whis-
fiers that it was Henry 11. who is guilty of having
nstitutsd the palladium of British justice. Never
mind; let Aide and ’Arry share the disgrace be-
tween them. Maybe your favourite monarch is
Charles—no matter which. Then you must be a
Calvinist parson, to whose soul there comes no
balm so sweet as the prosecution of a decrepid
apole woman, or a mildewed barber, for breaking
the Sawbath. But it d es not take much balm to
fill your soul. Or, peradventure, you swear by
Henry VII., because as a boy you wished to live in
his reign, so that you would not have to learn
the names of Mrs. Henry VIII. Or Richard
111. takes your fancy: that’s beoause you are
hump-backed, and were born with teeth. But for
our money give us George 111. Why, where
would have been the bird of freedom, whose
wings stretch from Sandy Hook to the Golden
Gate, if there had been no George III? The
Declaration of Independence would have been
unknown, not to mention wooden nutmegs And,
above all, what place la history would last Friday’s
picnic have occupied ? Positively none. Onl* for
George we might have been leading one little class
at Sunday school (and they are sucb good boys) to
a picnic on terra-cotta pies, instead of whirling in
what Artemqs used to call tho “ messy dance.”
And who could not whirl with such an excellent
band, and such charming concomitants? A con-
comitant, of course you know, is a woman. Fancy
a waltz with one io black merino skirt, and
stamped velvet body, an Orange satin waistcoat,
and American colours at throatl Or a mazurka
with another in slate coloured serge and black
velvet bodyl Then there were also black satin,
with black lace, black hat and feathers of the
American colours, a brown cloth dress with
feathered trimmings, and a claret broche with
cream lace. Of course, this being a dinner to cele-
brate the 108th anniversary of Yankee Doodle there
was something to eat. And it was a dinner. No
cast iron ducks, and old-maid fowls, but just such
a square meal as your mother used to give you.
General Bennett ocoupied the chair, and in the
course of a quarter of an hour a heap of goo 1
things, like duck and peas, &c., ocoupied General
Bennett. And when his occupation was gone, he
arose and made an excellent speech; but, beho’d,
is it not written in the chronicles of the land ? The
: usual toasts were drunk, but nobody else was.
Hanlau responded to that of “Our Guests,” and
told the company some items of news, such as
he had never been beaten in rowing, but he did
not always expect to hold the palm. By tho bye,
we forgot to mention Hanlan’s dress—Tight
Javendcr pants, dark vest, walking-coat with
,wo buttons on the back, and boots and socks to
match, we believe, but we did not see them. “ Toe
Ladies” toast was duly honoured, and a nice-
looking yopng gentleman responde \ for the dears:
no doubt his speech was the wittiest ever beard,
and he could hardly eat a bite through nervous
anticipation of the moment when he should utter
it, but such a shower of rain rattled on the iron
roof that we oould not hear it. And it did rain.
Very likely some spiteful fog, generated in Eng-
land in 1776, was the cause of it. We know some-
thing about metereology, and you can rely ou this
assertion. The ’Murkans and th* ir friends re-
turned to town about dsuk, to dou the masks for
the evening ball. So, hurrah for the bar-tangled
spanner—no,the tar-bangled sparrer—no, hang it!
the star-spangled banner.
• • •
The fourth re-union of the Orange Mer-
cantiiers was, like the previous ones, a success,
notwithstanding bad weather. Over eighty pre-
sent, fair sex in majority, floor slippery, music Al.
refreshments better, programme of about 16
dances—broke up 13 o’clock. The honour of belle
could be claimed with equal right by a tall bru-
nette in black satin from Anson-streef, and a viva-
cious one in pink nun’s veiling, intermixed with
frosted tulle, with pretty effect. A stranger,
attired in cream, attracted attention, as did
also a visitor from Bathurst, appearing in
a very handsome dress of black satin. The
younger daughter of a local auctioneer looked
bewitching in light silk, while the sister of one of
the energetic committeemen from March-street,
in black and cardinal, exercised her usual happy
influence An Anson-street blonde in blue was
admired for her graceful dancing. A trio from
Sale-street, and a popular blonde from Summer-
street, in pale blue skirt and black figured velvet
bodice, looked nice. Two petite sisters, beautiful
waltzers, were much in request. Two cousins,
one a brunette in handsome skirt and black velvet
bodice, the other in a tasty toilette of black re-
lieved with pink, and a charmer in fawn from the
corner of Anson and Byng-streets, who made her
first appearance, were much admired,
* * *
The London Savage Club, which recently
entertained the Australian cricketers at dinner, is
now almost world famous. It is not strange that
its house dinners, smoke concerts, and balls should
be high class, for the first essential to membership
is that the candidate should actually earn his liveli-
hood as an actor, singer, painter, musician, author,
or kindred occupation. This alone ensures some
ability among the genial fellows who compose it,
and keeps the doors closed against the gilded
duffers who swamp most social clubs with their
nincompoopish presence, and blackball everyone
who has more brains than themselves. What the
Savages say or sing is always worth listening to,
and sometimes they have some of the most bril-
liant bohemian talent of London present. A brief
outline of the night “ our boys ” were present will
convey an idea of one of their evenings. Mr. W.
Senior (who was head of the Queensland Hansard
staff) was in the chair, and numbers of Australians
were present: Mr. Lett, of Sydney; H. Hedley, of
Melbourne; Judge Paul, of Queensland; also the
former Chief Justice, Sir. J. Cockle: George Rig-
nold, the irrepressible Henniker, hero of the secret
despatches, etc. After dinner, Boyle replied for
the team, Alexander being, like Elijah of old,
a man of few words, and the concert eom-
mencsd. One of the brightest stars of the evening
was E. J. Odell, the comedian, who recited
“Lance and his Dog.” As an after-dinner
speaker and humourist, he is celebrated in London.
The cricketers insisted on hearing him again, when
he gave a unique nautical ballad called ‘ ‘Aboard the
Calabar.” Mr. F. Wood sang “ She wore a wreath
of roses,” and Mr. H. Pyatt “The Village Black-
smith.” It was Mr. H. Hedley, of the Melbourne
Age, who recited Gordon's “ How we beat the
favourite” with such effect that half the news-
papers have since reprinted the poem in full.
And, curiously enough, Mr. Philip Beck, a noted
young actor and elocutionist, next recited a piece
which, though written by Mr. Mowbray Morris m
Adelaide, named “Under the Trees,” was eften
ascribed to Gordon, and was actua ly published as
his in Melbourne under the title “A Voice from
the Bush.” Mr. John Proctor, the artist, gave a
silent mimetic display; Mr. D. Arderson. author
and journalist, told a story; Mr. Brandon Thomas,
dramatist, sang a ditty of bis own composing; and
Mr. C. Townley, both singor and composer of his
own songs, gave the company what is called the
Prince of Wales’ favourite, “SaidAaro .to Moses,”
in which the celebrated lawgiver discusses with his
guileless brother divers topics of the day. One
vei se is—
“ Those special correspondents, too,
How grand their warlike prose is!
How well they picture things they do,
‘And things they don’t,’ says Moses,”—
and as Townley, as he sang it, looked straight at
General Stewart of El Teb fame, and Mr. Burle’gh
the war correspondent, just returned from the
Soudan, roars of laughter followed. Numerous
other items were gives, and the team was, of
course, besieged by members, Bannerman being
in special request among the artists, poets, and
painters of the Club.
** * *
St. Vincent’s Ball will be held In the Ex-
hibition on Wednesday, the 3rd September, and,
like the Mercantile, the ball this year will be con-
fined to evening dress only. As before, Messrs W.
H. M‘Carthy and A. J. Brady are to manage the
affair. Last year’s ball netted £417 for the Hospi-
tal.. From the'quarterly meeting of the Londoners’
Club, it is evidently flourishing. Members now
number over 300, and have comfortable club rooms
in Elizabeth-street, opposite Hyde Park; Dr. Bel-
grave is president, and Mr. T. A. Smith, hon. sec.
.. The Lyceum bazaar was continued three days
last week, and closed on Wednesday night with a
ball. There was a fair attendance, some of the
children appearing in fancy dresses, plenty of
refreshment, and room to dance. So, as it was in-
expensive, and m< st present were acquainted, the
ball was pleasant Pickwick Club started in
Maitland The other night some roving blades
coming home from a foot-ball concert amused
themselves by ringing the bell of every house on
the road, and then humorously running away.
But one of the gay jokers who rang was startled
by the door being instantly opened by an athletic
young man, who promptly “plugged” him with
devastating effect between the eyes, tore his
clothes, rolled him in the muddy gutter, and told
him to go home with a kick. The gay joker
went home, and carefully omitted ringing
any more bells in that i treet. His companions
showed discretion, if not courage, by a sharp and
masterly retreat directly the battle began
Last month, a ball attended by about 70 guests,
was given by the Narrabri Ciicket Club in the
Mechanics’ Institute ; Birney spread a supper on
tables adorned by the challenge cups won by the
club, and piano and violin merged their melody
for the dancers After installation of officers ®f
the St. Clair Lodge, Adelong, thei e was a dinner,
followed by a ball in Hodgson’s Hall. Simpson’s
band played, and several neighbouring townships
sent some of the guests —The Glen Innes Ama-
teurs performed “ W ithered Leaves,” and the
farce of “ Billy Doo.” It was in aid of the club
funds, and the lccal people supported it well. All
the Gles Innes girls, until they get like the leaves,
enjoy the “Billy do” kind of performance and
don't oare about making a farce of it either.. .On
the occasion of the 21st birthday of his daughter,
Miss Lucy, the Hon. G. H. Cox “stood ” a ball to
his employes at Winbourne, and opened it with his
daughter. All the servants invited their friends...
At the birthday party of Mr. Charles Oeitz,
Temora, the novel inducement to try matrimony
was held out by a speaker, that those who tried it,
might, if all went well, in about 23 years, hope to
give their son his party on coming of age. There
are two objections; it is rathe* long to wait, and—
it might not be a son From the Moruva Ex-
aminer, it appears the Bodalla Brass Band has, in
twelve short months, attained such a proficiency
tnat the general public are “ astonished as well as
perplexed ”to know how they did it. They gave a
bah to their friends last week in the Bodalla
Assembly Rooms, when complimentary speeches
were made, and acknowledged by the bandmaster,
Mr. Lemon. The proficiency has been obtained
by “going in Lemons.” —On the 15th July, the
Albert Hall, Petersham, will be opened by a con-
cert, ball and supper, and tickets are fixed at a
very moderate price To-night (Thursday), the
complimentary soiree to Mr. \V hay man takes
place at Mrs. Martin’s Academy, Pitt-street ...
Last Wednesday, theGunnedah Amateur Minstrels
gave their first performance in the School of Arts.
First came a mixed concert, in which every item
was encored, then “Stratagem,” songs, and “The
Lawyer’s Clerk.” Messrs. Tozer, M‘Diarmid,
Cohen, and Godhard were leading men, and Cane
was decidedly Able. About £ls to the looal hospi-
tal On 2nd July, Miss Godhard, of Gunnedah,
was married thereto Mr. G. A. Barry, in a very
crowded church. Bride and maids all interesting and
pretty; and alter breakfast, ihe new pair started
for Sydney and Blue Mountains for honeymoon
Being of the inferior sex, there were certain
sacred precincts of the Exhibition building, dur-
the Mercantile Ball, on which we dared not in-
trude; but we are assured that the ladies were
most considerately treated by the trim hand-
maidens in their own sanctum, who were civil and
smart—On the Ist, Mr. John Rogan, of Young,
vowed to protect and cherish Miss Sheekey, of
(Continued on page 13.)


a®
M
I
Eczema on face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOE EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
8$
m
Scrofula
PIMPLES to SCROFULA!
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
neum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by tho Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticora end Cutictjra Soap
externally.
Hal Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagoua Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pynemia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impcveaished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One nundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to Shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and grot no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri ■
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonoa*
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutieura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulceus, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutieura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o '•easy Skin.
Cutieura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 90 eents per hex, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shavtmj
Soap, 15 cents; Cutigura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.B.A.
Palace Hotel,
‘ (LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, BYDN* „
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit license, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRBT-C*jASS HOTEL In conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for oountry
visitors 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMOREp Proprietor.
• AM
AND CO. (Limited)
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BT THE RENO WEED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
tW ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PA Line & Co7 (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALE®,
FACT AND FANCY
FOCUSSED
“No ver Wortchups,” said a policeman
i n _„ lir V nut West “the prusner paid no more
attention tometban if I was a dumb baste talking
to him.” And then the boozer s flnetjacked up
four-fold.. The new Cobar Municipal Council
v, i i \x7it)i a nwimrinur ftdvGrtiscniGDt for &
Town We°rk, who will wife into things, and not be
like a lot of the old drowsy-beads who bold such
positions throughout the country. They want a
man of “ go”-a man who knows the respect due
to a Cobar alderman, and a Cobar Municipally
aSd such a man they wVI have. The salary is £7O a
vear At Kiandra, on June 30th the thermome-
ter stood at l p below cix inches of
arm wwy on the crround.... The Kev. Dr. Jfiiiis says
that he was brought to a pi ay erf ul state ot mind
by readin“the OU w g orks of infidels, remark is
the converse of Byron s observation that an
anxious study of orthodox works m proof of
Christianity had made of a friend of his a perfect
atheist .. Queensland police on a crusade against
Yankee Grab. Might as well try to put dowa
courting shrugging one's shoulders when the
frnwrabU Speaker Groom is referred to, or any
other ingr habit. -The Government tove
SSWSfd-Sely
form erd y Co Hector of Customs. Uri?baie, died last
vS Years ago a clerk in Survey Office, Sydney.
p«rkes seTonely unconscious of the part he
played in the Hashemy affair, assured the Cobden
Blubbers that Australia would never, “ever, never
lcirinlflto in a spirit of hostility to the moth r
country: item, that there was no depth of leeliog
in Australia in favour of protection (a remark
couallv r“ugh upon Victoria and Luscombe)....
F?ve co onies wdl contribute towards defraying
Screw of a New Guinea “Lord. High.” .. At revol-
ver practice at Farina (S. A,), trooper Brown acci-
dentally potted trooper Spicer: latter paralysed,
former fffiicV..German Syndicate mean pur-
chase of Samoa Plantation Co.
• * *.
Japanese cremation: Corpse in a barrel;
barrel placed under heavy matting of wet straw
and over a few dry fagots of wood; tagots ignited,
as the barrel is burned away the straw matting
falls In and covers body; cremator feeds with
fresh fuel never allowing corpse to be
view after three hours every particle of flesh
burned away; bones and teeth handed to relatives
for sepulture; cost 28s. if body is burned by itself,
if with one or more others about Aslf that sum.
It is rumoured that Mexico means to buy Cuba of
ttDain which rumour might possess a grain of
truth ’had Mexico either cash or credit. Some say
thut u.ripn goes into the speculation merely as a
self again to Uncle Sam and pocket a fat
commission An American Rugby School is to be
started at Rugby, Tennessee, on the lines ot Lw-
Sheriff S old foundation: Governing body to
consist of a Visitor, and a Council of Twelve (four
Englishmen, four Americans, and four Rugbians
nf either rationality). Thomas will oe on©
of the Council. For head master Thotnaa Arnold
Wise 8.A., 1 .te schol ir of Lincoln College, G-xford,
and of Rugby School has been choseu... Keble
College Oxford, recently founded to be the
©xamicatlcm 1 oB Faffh
“ploughed”’ . tW Wa t d b dy < ! S qV! 8 M a E>.‘ (for* Edfn-
House of Lords on the ground that it would
nrove a blessing to the Church of England!....
the New York banks, which failed nearly
at the same time as the Oriental Bank, was that of
Hrantand Ward, of which General Grant and his
teff usa?*ff ass? sfsw’affss-jis w
Commandments, and the duty of man to his neiafa-
bo ur. Then to those who are w f® *'
books, il u trated papers, &c. Both Puritans and
H»«hWchmea sneer at his Gam s.
lege'” *ay the saintly Ecclesiastious. Vet for
in® his work is good, since it makes
fnr the’ UD ifting of a bit of humanity
OM h haswarued the Lords that if they threw
out the FraSse Bill they may expect hot coffee.
TtVanpp means uerm&oent c ccup&tion of lftnia-
four other Malagasy ports... Talk about
sfag« a props.” Read the following clip ftom an
Ttnflan naper, touching the sale by auction of the
sfflan C ? on vent at Plat joys, Tuscany: “ Among
the effects to be offered are relics of St. Peter, fet.
Clement, and St. Athanasius, and a weeping Ma-
. d with holler spirit Ump* and tuoiflK» in
S trder.” P Now we know why Madon-
nas weep and water costs a penny a bucket la
Svmo tarts of Italy... 2nd Battalion Duke of
r 8 Light Infantry (old 46th Pool) ordered
tn Kench north of Assouan. Ihe battalion is
*°, ikwV Sava “under the command of
Colonel St.fart.- General Stuart is full
A Mr. William Kii g has lett £lOO,OOO to “J.
tianrirf'H Hosnital What he died of is not stated.
Butfconsidermg that he willed also £150,000 to bis
modl«l attendant, we are not surprised that he
died. .
Michael Ready, Esq., J.P , of FiGAEO law-
■u t c aim renown, baa gracious.y retired from the
ranks of™the Great Unpaid, and Justice must now
log along as well as she possibly can without his
valuable forei sic assistance. ligaro seems little
the worle for hi s recent tussle, h jwever, tor, under
the heading of “Reguhe Generalis, he now ob-
servesit is slated, but scarcely on o.iicial
autho ity, that the appointment of magistrates
«iii he left bv the Griffith Ministry in the bands ot
the Supreme Court Judges, provided the foil tice to
reoulcv gwurcLli# are agreed upon' •
be auoointeJ who can read, write, orsp-11. 3. Wo
(ustice to be appointed unlesi, at 1 last, t*ice con-
victed of drunkenness. 3. No Justice to be ap-
pointed unless he shad be knowingly of bad char-
acter amongst his neighbours. 4. No Justice on
anv account to be appointed who shall net have
beeifsuspocted of prize-fighting. 5. bo Justice to
bTSopomted who has not politically served the
nartv 6 No gentleman to be appointed.
£ r L® I thoroughly honest and reliable man to be
Innninted 8 No one who has ever been known to
mv a good word for Sir Tt omis M Ilwraith to be
avmointed. 9. Five convictions to secure honour-
able mention for a police magistracy. 10. Ten
convictions, and a vacaucy to be at once made tor
tne aoP Jntmont. 11. Political services to be at all
JSS-, PP «maidered paramiunt, and to over-rile
every consideration of suitability. 13. No Justice
whose chaiaoter cannot induce a libel action to be
oonsideiel eligible. 13. No Justice who has any
idea ol Justice to be in the swim.
Service claims to be a politician —nay,
more, a statesman, a federal statesman. Hearken
to this statesman: —“la New Caledonia there are
some 18,000 men trained under the French con-
script system to the use of arms, and with four or
five thousand officers in charge of them, nothing
would please them better than to loot some place
where they knew plenty of gold was obtainable.
Fancy a French statesman in cold blood enunciat-
ing his belief that in the event of war between
En?land and France, the former country would
arm her criminal population, officer it, and send it
to ravage French territory. Yet that is what Ser-
vice asserts he believes France would do werewar
to break out between her and England. Were
Service an English statesman, such an imputation
on a friendly state would not improbably lead to a
rupture of amicable relations. Luckily, Service
is only an Australian political tinker with a bee in
his bonnet, whom France can well afford to con-
tinue to ignore.
Says the Gtmpie Miner, anent the patent
swindle in connection with a recent Clermontland
sale: “ No such discreditable act, no such audacious
piece of open bribery has hitherto stained the
political annals of any former Colonial Govern-
ment. As to the Minister being ‘ hart, as the Tmve-
giiaph airily puts it, by Higson—we doubt it. The
Minister was not ‘ had,’ and nobody believes that
he was. The country was ‘ had,’ that s what s the
matter. ...If the Minister has been got at
so easily, there is no reason why he shouldn't bo
got at again, and to a mueh greater extent besides;
wbat may not other equally disinterested and
patriotic members of the Higson class expect l to
what Government allotments may they not aspire l
4 Jt’s our turn now,’ said Mr. Griffith, on assuming
office—and he meant it. . . .
Critics may cavil and the country chafe
We’ve lost live hundred„ pounds— but Higson s
safe!”
We shall next hear of Sam instructing his Wes-
leyan Attorney-General to go for the Miner for
blasphemy in speaking evil of dignities, and then
of Harding J., instructing the jury to sympathise
with the prisoner, and a verdict of not guilty.
The general tenor of recent advices by
cable and by mail alike would lead people to sup-
pose that the Egyptian garrisons in the Soudan
had been all either destroyed or withdrawn. The
London Echo gives a list which puts quite a differ-
ent face on the situation. According to the latest
reports, the position in April was as follows:
Garrison. Number. Position.
Dongola .. 897 .. Untouched.
Kassala .. .. 1259 .. Untouched.
Armadah .. .. 881 .. Untoucheu.
Sennaar .. .. 3891 .. Untouched.
Kalabat .. •• 593 .. Dnknown.
ElFasher .. .. 4862 .. Untouched.
Khartoum .. .. 2419 .. Safe.
ElDuem .. .. 1087 .. In Khartoum.
ElKowali .. .. 500 .. In Khartoum.
Fashoda .. .. 21-*1 .. In Khartoum.
Bahr Gazelle .. 886 .. Safe.
Gondokora. .. 2131 .. Safe.
Massowah .. .. 2442 .. Safe.
Sinhet .. .. 1571 .. Safe.
Ghizeh .. .. 501 .. Safe.
Harrar .. .. 3595 .. Safe.
Berbera .. .. 306 .. Safe.
Berber . .. 616 .. Joined Mahdi.
Souakim and district 1800 .. 4flo slain at Sin-
kat, rest safe.
32,440
Many of these garrisons are not even assailed.
Most of the others can hold their own till the
Autumn, or longer. At any time they can make
terms with V ahdi, which is the best thing they
ca*> do, if 32 Oj of them can’t hold their own
agaiust what Gordoncallsa “Irumpery ” rebellion.
Up to the present time, only the small garrison at
Sinkat has been destroyed; and surely the Arabs
have paid for that ?
In connection with the proposal made by
the Bishop of Sydney, that Public School teachers
should be subjectsd to a test of their fitness to
convey “general religious instruction” by ex-
plaining the Scripture lessons in the school books,
the following excerpt from an essay on Toleration,
written with respect to the Dissenters from the
prevailing religion in 1811, is worth read ng, es-
pecially iu *iew of the fact that the Secularists
and Roman Catholics are the Dissenters from the
prevailing religion in this colony. We have in
one placi substituted the word “teacher” for the-
word “minister”-the substitution is in italics:— It
can never, we presume, be intended to subject
dissenting teachers to any kind ot theological ex-
amination. A teacher examined in doctrinal
opinions by enother teacher who differs from him,
is so very absurd a project But without
reference to the magnitude of the effects, is the
principle right ? or. What is the meaning of reli-
gious toleration ? That a man should hold, with-
out pain or penalty, any religious opinions-and
ehoose for his instruction [or his children’s in-
struction.— Ed.B.] in the business of salvation
any guide whom he pleases—care being taken that
the teacher and the doctrine injure neither the
policy nor the morals of the country.” [Mem.—
The Secularist deputation to Mr. Trickett asked to
he permitted to give instruction to their children
in at least three things—namely, the duty of the
child to itself, its duty to those with whom it came
into contact, and its duty to the State. Under the
first head they taught personal cleanliness, regu-
lar habits, temperance, economy, industry, and the
laws of health and self-preservation. Under the
second head they taught courtesy, politeness, re-
spect to their superiors, self-denial, and the culti-
vation of those principles that tended towards the
general good of the community, in effect giving
the greatest amount of happiness to the greatest
number. Under the third head they taught the
child to acquire a knowledge of the laws of the
country in wiich he lived, the penalties for viola-
tion of those laws, and the rights and privileges of
citizenship.] “We maintain that peifeet religious
toleration applies as much to the teacher as to
the man taught; and that it is quite as im-
moral to make a man hear Thomas who w ants
to hear John, as it would be to ma .e a man pro-
fess Arminian wha wished to profess Calvin istical
principles. What right has any Government to
dictate to any man who shall guide him [or his
children —Ed. B.] to heaven, any more that it
has to persecute the religious tenets by which he
hopes to arrive there ? You believe that the here-
tic professes doctrines utterly incompatible with
the true spirit of the Gospel; first, you burnt him
for this—then you whipped him—then you fined
him—then you put him in prison. All this did no
good.” And now you would deny to him the right
of instructing liis children in his own belief, a
right conceded to all “ orthodox ” people.
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or c counterfeited. This tB es-
pecially true of a family medioine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
b? the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medieine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induoe suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expectieg to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
whioh the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induoe people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.


Dyspepsia, biliousness, nervousness and
miserablenees all cured with Hop Bitters. See.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No eommission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purohaso on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
u
CTJ
SB4,
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTER” COMPANY
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PRIZES: .£5975 FOR STABS; AND £4025 FOB HORSES.
Flan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (Winner of the “ Melbourne Cup” ... £l5OO
Second. Horse ... ••• ••• •** ohTK
Third Horse
• ••
First Star
Second Star
Third Star
£lOOO
500
250
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
;10 Stars of £5O eaoh; 17 Stars of £35 eaoh; 30 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns ef £lO each.
Astronomical and Township Prizes:
Cetus
Menkar
Diphda
Phoenix
Alpherat
Betelgeaux
Southern Cress
Castor
Pollux
Regullus
Deneb
Bootes
Berenice
Altair
Aguila
Ophruchus
Algenib
Andromeda
Perseus
Medusa
Mira
( assiopea
Pisces
Avies
Fornax
Edidanus
Camelopavelus
Tauruo
£5O
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
Alberton
Albert Park
Alexandria
Alfredtown
Allan’s Flat
Allan’s Ford
Alma
Alphington
Amherst
Amphitheatre
Anakie
Apollo Bay
Apsley
Ararat
Arcadia
! Armstrong
Ascot
Ascot Yale
Athens
Arenal
Avoea
Axedale
Baarmutha
Bacchus Marsh
| Bahgallah
i Baillieston
i Bairn sdale
i Bald Hills
£lO
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
Beeehworfck
Been as
Belfast
Bellarine
Belmont
Belvoir
Belleven
Benalla
Bendoe
Berembolae
Berbfci
Berwick
Bet-Bet
Bethanra
Beveridge
Big Hill
Birregurra
Black Hill
Black Lead
Black Springs
Blackwood
Blakeville
Bobinavarrat
Boggy Creek
Bolac
Bolvarra
Boraang
Bonegilla
$
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
1«
10
10
10
10
" . 77 , .. , ihol , a i ,„nnnrt thnt ho has received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Programme
“ ADAM A STOR.intJbankinphiB subscribers forthell has been induced to lessen the number of prizes, consequently making them of more value,
the for the future, will be iu Albury, New South Wale..
“ APAI/CASTQB.” Care of X*.
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W,
SARAH'S NOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“J A. Christian and Miss S. A. Lochlin,
members of two highly respeetahle ftorihes of
Madison, were to have seen married last Sundaj.
On that morning Christian received a letter from
the ladv, sayin# that she had lied the country
before daylight, and that, as the moment of the
marriage approached, the dread of the develop-
ments of the married state drove her mto such a
state of cowardice that she could not meet it. She
Inclosed $5 to pay for Christian s trouble in getting
a licenser-Exchange. This is rightmto our plate
We sit in our voluptuous room, and get princely
sums for writing colossal lies about respectable
neoDle. The betting is that this young girl was, m
truth, a splendid heroine in any ®J tU and Vedliwav
the higher heroism was required, and tied awaj
from her approaching nuptials from a sense a
high and rare sense—of maiden modesty. But the
incident don’t affect us that way at all. We see
sticking out. and a Machiavellian smile
breaks out on our mug, and we get out our burdy-
o-nrdv and tip you a version of the little nuiet sne
sent him—all out of our own head. Keep your eye
on us, and listen how it rips along :
This here is the gist of the letter:—
“ Dear Christian, I ve lit up the He
In the lamp just to say that for better
Or worse’ isn’t quite in my style;
And I send you this brief tear-blurred missive
(I couldn’t write straight for my life)
Just to say that I can’t have the bliss of
Being that institution, a wife.
» I’ve decided it’s better to blurt out
Eight here all the things that I think
(And 1 beg, Chris., you’ll not get your shirt out,
' Or take to bad language or dnnk-
For drink, in the long run, will kill you,
And swearin’ will kill your P°°r soul
So you won’t get too ropeable, will you t
But exercise some self-control;.
Well I thought you the best thing in mankind
' The first time that ever we met,
And your conduct to me was more than kind
It was princely,. I’ll never forget
How vou looked, in the sweetest of collars,
That nteht in the stalls at the play.
And howf after, you melted your dollars
In oysters for me and poor May:
My poor sister May 1 She was star-eyed
And rose-lipped, and every way sweet,
And, three years ago, she got married
To Jukes—you remember his feet,
They were boomers. You also remember
How those same feet kindled your ire,
When, on one freezing night in December,
He stuck them in front of the fire.
“ Just last week I’d a letter from May, that
Made me quite wild, thinking upon
The all-fired fantastical way that
That husband of hers carries on.
In these days he don’t talk of gazelle-eyes,
Or liken her hair to spun gold,
But quite often inquires What the h is
The reason his slippers are cold t
“ He don’t go in now for endearment,
Or study poor May’s lightest wish;
And tho’ then he scarce knew what beer meant,
He takes it to now like a fish. , ... ,
Three vears back he was always here, calling
And prowling for May, late and soon.
Now. before the night well begins falling,
He steers off to Ryder’s Saloon,
“ Where he talks of elections, and guzzles,
And oft gets his head on the wall
Belted in, and it seriously puzzles
Me how May puts up with it all.
lust imagine one’s monarch and master
Coming home very queer on his pins,
And one having to run out for plaster
To cobble his eyebrows and shins!
“ And that’s not the worst by a plateful
Of poor sister May’s many ills,
For his meanness is something most hatelui
Concerning her drapery bills:
He tackles each store-note, and tots up
The items, and nothing can ’scape
His eye, and he yells ‘ Blazes! what sup ?
Why, May, here’s live cents down for tape t
“ He makes her bust wood for the oven
When,on Tuesdays and Fridays, she bakes;
And then lie—once so powerful lovin
Runs down both herself and her cakes.
Yes, though I once thought V ay bore a prize off
In Jukes—who was really nice—
She declares that his feet— and the size of
Them’s ghastly—are colder than ice.)
“ After that night, I saw your attendance
In church soon got better a few;
And that none of the push, in resplendance
Of toggery, came up to you.
I could guess, of course, what you did that tor—
My wits weren’t fooling around;
I could tell what you lifted your hat for,
And blushed, with your eyes to the ground,
“ Whene’er or wherever I met you—
I saw through you just like a book:
I know all the symptoms, you bet you,
Of Love, andlhow big cases look!
And I said to myself—it was wicked,
I know, but I said to myself—
‘ He’s in love, and he votes the whole ticket
If I can tell china from delf!'
“ And, that Fall, you called in to see father
Quite frequent to talk about ’Change.
Do you say I encouraged you ? Bather!
I never felt bashful or strange:
’Twas my duty, you know, as a hostess
To make you feel quite at your ease—
And now, even now, my poor boast is
In that rtfle you thought me the cheese I
“ For while papa said ‘ What a dull dog! ’
(Poor papa is always irate).
And talked about freeing the bull-dog
And leaving him inside the gate;
But my pa, when his daughter beseeches,
Is wax. Though we now go alone,
Recollect what I’ve saved you in breeches,
And, as Lovelace said, 4 Let this atone I
“ So you grew to be very attentive
To me through the following Spring,
And you read, while the roses flung scent off,
The—Fiddles, I think- of the King.
With your yellow hair split down the middle,
And whiskers like butterflies’ wings,
I thought you looked a bit like a fiddle,
And I knew that your purse had the strings.
“ And all through the ‘ season ’ you carted
Me round to the swarrys and shows,
And you know, ere the Summer departed
Like * Lothair’s ’ girl, you gave me a rose,
And stated that nothing was surer
Than I was far sweeter than it,
And ten thousand million times purer.
Then, seeing the palpable Lit
“ That you made—that your speech ‘ gave much
pleasure
To all ’ (slang from over the pond
T’other side—that’s the way you express your
Thoughts out in the Little Beyond)—
You told me your heart’s juice just boiled with
Your love for one maid cast compare—
(And I twigged that your hair had been oiled with
Even more than your usual care.)
“ I admit that upon that occasion
I let you catch on to some hope:
I could see that my card was evasion,
So I gave you unlimited rope.
You were really too steady a worker—
You always were close to my side —
And no girl that’s been much in ‘ ’Murker ’
Will let a good purse-bearer slide.
“ And I neither denied nor admitted ,
Your suit, but I—well— 4 strung you on, _
Till another chill Winter had flitted
And another bright Summer had gone;
And then one more Winter and Summer
Slid away, and found you, as before,
Quite a regular caller and comer,
Whose knock seemed a part of the door.
“ Well, such steady, unflagging devotion
In course of time touched my young heart,
And I cherished the dangerous notion
That you’d always be willing to part
With your 4 greed ’—so, at last, I consented
To wed you; and, up to to-night—
The last chance to cave in—l meant it
Honest I Chris.,—the whole hog !-black and
white!
44 But, to-night, after you for the last time
Had left me—that’s just what you said—
I got my trousseau, just for pastime.
And spread the things out on my bed.
4 Satan still for the hands that are idle
Find« mischief’ (you’ve studied old Watts),
And the dress of the lot—that’s my bridal,
Which, papa says ran into noughts—
“ I beheld at a glance that one plait in
That dress, was on slightly askew.—
You observe, my dear Christian, that Satan,
As usual, was leagued against you.—
Of course I could not be the butt of
The females in church with that plait,
So I said 4 This consarn must be put off
Until I can get things put straight.
“ Then I looked up the rest of the dresses,
And found hardly one of them right,
So I said 4 The intention, I guess, is
To put me on view as a Fright:
I’d admire to see anyone try it—
That’s while I’m aware of it, too —
So I lit my own desk-lamp, and by it
I sat down to write this to you
44 When I dug out the gilt-edged, to scrawl on
It something for you to enjoy
In the morning, there happened to fall on
My lap May’s note, stamped 4 Illinois.’
When I started, my notion was merely
To say that the hitching could not
Come off yet; but that note made me clearly
And finally 4 jack’ on the lot;
“ And I felt most condemnedly nervous
As I sat there, and thought of that plait,
And the strange life beyond the strange Service
In that strange matrimonial state.
Yes, that note set me thinking, and thinking,
And this thing came into my thoughts,
That if ever you started on drinking
You’d find your wife spryer than Lot s.
44 Sitting there, all alone, until late in
The night, I could plainly discern
An averting deep whisper of Fate in
The fall of May’s note, which said 4 Turn!
Turn away!—ere the warning is wasted:
Turn at once!—ere the chain is made fast:
For the cup at your lips, if once tasted,
You drink to the lowest and last.’
“ And I answered the voice, and said 4 If he
Should try any nonsense on me,
In the most microscopical jiffey
He’d find that spec, gone up a tr?e!
He jogs on quite smoothly as lover,
And shows not the sign of a rub,
And I don’t think he’d tyrannise over
Me much when I’ve made aim a hub.’
44 Said the voice, ‘Run again through the letter,
And see if poor May finds it so:
Take my tip, ’twould be wiser and better
To let the whole carnival go.
Some folks will Ctis a matter of course) court
Distinction, whatever the price;
But what they sell in the Divorce Court
Is too high-priced—that’s my advice! ’
“ Then I looked the whole case very fully
And fairly between the two eyes,
And concluded it mightn’t bo bully
If t found the male species told lies—
If I found that your words were delusions-
That your love wasn’t what it was once—
In the Court you’d unveil the delusions,
And who’d have to fork out the spons.?
“ If you didn’t belt up all the firewood, ,
And kindle the fire every morn,
The infliction of punishment dire would
Make you wish you had not yet been born;
If you didn’t make home a youDg heaven,
And light it like gas with your smiles;
If you strolled down the town after seven,
Yon’d be better cremated, by miles.
“ If I found you inclined to be giddy,
Or chatty with churchwardens’ wives—
If you did the least thing I forbid, I
Would lead you the rummest of lives!
If your views were the slightest dash Mormon
(You listen while I mention this!)
You’d find that your house was a warm ’un—
(l’m writing the truth to you, Chris.!)
“ If your life wasn’t every way blameless,
If you smoked or attempted to swear—
Or went to the ballet (it’s shameless!)—
I’d lift you outside by the hair.
I’m aware what I say, Chris., will pain you.
But yet it had better be said:
I am certain I’d get up and brain you
If you came with your boots on to bed!
“ As the wedding-day comes up so near me,
It sheds half its luminous paint:
I feel fit to faint—Chris., you hear me ?
But I never was much on the faint.
Yes, my pet, as it wobbles up closer,
The prospect don’t look quite so sweet:
And, tell me this, how can 1 know, sir,
The Fahrenheit heait of your feet
“ I have deeply considered the matter,
And this is the way it pans out,
You oan still, if you like, as a hatter,
Continue to cart me about:
Such attenijons as yours I will look for
In vain, tnrough my heartbroken life
If you cut me, because I won’t book for
The whole journey through as your wife.
“ Mrs. Christian, like one Mrs. Harris,
Don’t oome off By gum I it’s near day,
And I, fancying I might embarrass
Your movements, am shifting away.
Ere the dawn I’ll be out of the country—
I regret that I can’t, ere I go,
Make some larger return for the bounty
You always were free to bestow.
“ But I know, my old pet, what a high sense
Of honour you have, so I just
Send five dollars to square for the license—
Don’t say you won’t take it—you must:
Please don’t drink it, or gamble, or worry
Your heart out—show grit, like a man;
And excuse this short note—l must hurry:
Yours—no, not yours, by heaps
“SARAH ANNE.”


In this par. we are going to let you into a
few of the mysteries of the Press—mysteries, per-
ehance, not unallied with humour. Listen! We
belonged to the Evening Christopher, once. At
that time Alfred was a feeble youth in an under-
taker’s suit of shiny black, and, when he wanted
a little relaxation, was wont to leave a memo, on
the old man’s desk to the following effect:—
“ Dere farther, can I have a noliday to go
to cowder with a picknic.— Alfred.”
In those days the paper was sub-edited by a feeble
old chap (since dead) who kept a cabbage and
onton-shop in Sussex-street. His namo was Rush-
ton; and, during our time, he was, we grieve to
state, disrated for mixing up a Queanbeyan tele-
gram about a testimonial to the pound-keeper,
with the war cables from Europe. In those days
we earned our thirty-five bob a week conscien-
tiously. Our little day’s work would be, not un-
frequently, apportioned out as follows :-7 a.rn.:
Round of the lock-ups. 8 till half-past: “ Wolfing ”
a herring and a roll in Hyde Park. 9 a.m.: A glance
at the contents of the dead-house. 9.30 a.m.:
Chat with Jim Punch re sporting news. 10 a.m.:
Police Court. 1 p.m.: Three courses, with bread
a discretion, for 6d. 2 p.m.: Inspection of a patent
manure manufactory. 3J4 p.m.: Flower show at
Government House. 5 p.m.: Writing up block,
depicting Hong Kong, for the Jernle. 6 p.m.:
Roll and coffee, 3d., at the Bciler Club. 7 p.m.:
Biscuit-trifling, and “the longest allowed by the
Act, at Jim Punch’s expense. 8 p.m.: Theatre,
with a busted paper-collar, and derisively received
by the ushers. 9 p.m.: Bar guest of an aetor, who
WShed to be sent along. 10 p.m.: “Mushget-
homsh. IOSOp.m.: Lock-ijp. The old man used
Die Macht am Pacific.
RARL DERRY: "BUT, I GOT HERE FIRST, AND I MEAN TO STAY !"
RISMARCK; "DAS MACTH NICHTS AUS BETTER YOU LOOK A LEETLE OUT, OR PLL BOTTLE HIM OOP EVERY DROP, AND DAKE IM HOME."
E. D. "OH, IF THATS'S THE WAY YOU FEEL ABOUT IT, PLL GO ROME AND TEAR UP MY DESPATCHES."
(The [?].)
to say, in those days—" What we want is short and
sharp local matter: accidents, offerees, and things
of that sort. Get these, young ’un,” he emphati-
cally remarked to us—we were, we may state, at
ttot time in the full zenith of our youth—“get
these and I will not grudge something extra.” We
slept upon this gorgeous promise, and from that
time the paper teemed with exciting incidents of a
local character. The following is a sample-
doubtless “extant,” and of course written in
“ohoice” Saxon—of one of our most successful
efforts:—
APPALLING CATASTROPHE.
About half-past 10 this morning a youth of
respectable parentage (wegather this from his
father and mother haviDg for many years sub-
scribed to the Town and Country Journal,
and having cheerfully forwarded their extra
fouroence when il 4tait question of rolling and
glazing)—a youth, we say, was crossing at the
intersection of Market and Castleraagh streets
carrying over his shoulder along but slender
bar of iron. Before, however, the youth was
half-way across the road, a ginger-beer and
cordial cart, coming at a terrific pace round
the corner, caught the end of the iron in its
wheel, and canted the blacksmith’s apprentice
through the window of a pawnbroker’s shop.
The horse, taking fright, dashed the oart
against the kerb-stone, overturning it aDd
scattering the ginger-beer, raspberry syrup,
lemonade, etc. etc., in wasteful streams over
the pathway, while the driver was thrown,
with some violence, on the side-walk. He
fortunately, however, fell upon his head, other-
wise the consequences might have been serious.
When raised to his feet by a posse of sympa-
thising by-standers, he tearfully assured them
that he had not taken to the ginger-beer cart
business of his own free will, but had been
forcibly apprenticed to it by his parents. We
have not been able, so far, to gather further
particulars respecting the fate of the boy and
♦he bar of iron. Active enquiries, however,
are being instituted, the result of which will
be published in this popular journal; together
with the result of the Bungendore badger-
drawing, which is exciting to so great an ex-
tent, the public mind at the present time, in
a second edition.”
And, yet, would yeu believe, there was no boy, no
bar of iron, no ginger-beer cart, no driver, and
not even the reflection of a pawnbroker’s
window. But that didn’t matter. The items
were well received, and the Echo editor
used to remonstrate, in round terms, with
his reporters for not being sufficiently on the alert
to snavel all this attractive matter. These were
gay old times, anyhow, when Chris, used to fold
papers twelve hours at a stretch, and Frank used
to pass the day, in an oil-emblazoned canvas suit,
down in a kind of well underneath the machine.
One night, by command of the editor, we wentand
slept in a haunted house, out at the Glebe, in
which the ghost of Old Haneoek was stated to
appear nightly. This was a great sensation, and
on the articles being written we were presented
with “two bob ” by the proprietary; which largesse
Alfred and we expended in a couple of lunches at
Roberts’s, where you get—orused to—four courses
and a “ maiden’s-blush ” for a shilling. And now,
to think that Chris, has a coachman in cotton
gloves, and Alf. but, hand us down the duster,
and let us weep.
The Auckland Observer has changed hands
again. The clergymen who succeeded Rathbone
(member of the Savage Club—they’re all in it—
even Henniker and A. P. Marten I) have resolved
once more to trust to the hat-and-plate trick as a
means of subsistence, and the new boss states —he
is probably a grocer-that “ the patronage of the
public is respectfully solicited.” He also an-
nounces that “a greater attention will be given to
matters particularly interesting to ladies, ” and
that ‘ toe aim of the proprietor will be to obtain
the best literary aid the colony contains.” A
sample of the contents of the Observer, under its
new management, will convince even the most
sceptical of the truth, not only of the latter an-
nouncement, but of the attention on the part of
the editor, to’“ matters particularly interesting to
ladies.” Here are one or two extracts:—“ Lamp-
post Bob ought to choose a more suitable time to
make love to the little dressmaker. . . . Fred
says he has a show yet. Not while Pills is about,
though The next time that Bella goes
to borrow a tub from Yorkey’s to scald a pig in,
she had better take her .brother ;to carry it home
•, • • Who is going to win the day with George ?
Os jilted love or the bird-catcher's daughter ? ”
This is the sort of thmg that gives us especial
Pleasure, because the editors who pass this kind
of copy ” always end their careers eccentrically.
Some have been known to collapse at the sight of
a square meal; others have succumbed to an over-
dose of boot; white-this is a fact—a former
society editor was found one morning “stiff”
and cold in a fruit-box in the central market, the
only property found upon the body being a slip
with • Mary and the rorty postman on the corner
doorstep again,” written upon it, half a clay-pipe,
and a letter °f Introduction to Alfred. They are
droll fellows, these servants’ scribes and cooks’
chroniclers! On one accasion, a representative of
this noble army penetrated, disguised in a waiter’s
suit and a corner-man’s necktie, into a house at
Oarling Point, where a grand ball, attended by Vice-
Koyalty, was being - given. As he entered the hall,
it was easy to perceive that he ha-l a cateract of water
m his eye, an inflamed ponum, and an explosive
hiccup. But he was not turned out. When his
paper was published, a glowing description of the
festival appeared—the costumes being accurately
described. Every detail was exact—having been
supplied by the fair owners of the finery. That
da y the editor inked his socks with redoubled care,
and stuck up his half-pint with a more than
usually majestic air. Later in the day, jauntily
swinging his half-penny cane, he called round at
the house to see how they liked it. They invited
him into the garden and told him that his article
was the funniest thing they’d ever read. In cor-
roboration the cook was called, and emphatically
stated that it was “ loverly,” the four housemaids
chorussed that it was “heavingly," and the butler
solemnly stated that it was as neat a piece of work
as ever he’d see’d a man put a pen to. . . . It
was not until the family had played upon him with
a garden-hose, doused him in a horse-trough, and
Jet him sleep for a couple of hours on the manure-
heap, that it dawned upon the Society chronicler
that, instead of describing the elegant doings of
the aristocratic guests upstairs, he had been led
into devoting three columns of frenzied adulation
upon the impromptu “hop” got up by the ser-
vants in the kitchen. It is not, perhaps, easy to
say, with accuracy, what will be ultimate fate of
the new editor of the A. 0., chiefly because we
cannot quite gauge the intelligence of the Auck-
land community at a jump. Were we to insure
bis life, however, we should, in order to protect our
comnany, insert a clause which would ensure, in
the event of death occurring by means of either
suffocation at meals or the human knuckles, the
policy’s becoming null and void.
We’ve often been puzzled to think how
the seedy and needy members of the English aris-
tocracy manage to find their way to the colonies,
but the following ad. from the Church Times, the
organ of the high church party in Great Britain,
throws a fitful light upon the subject. Listen to
the appeal:—‘‘The Rev. F. Garrett, vicar of Par,
Cornwall, asks for help to enable him to pay the
passage to Australia (about £l5) of an ex-army
captain, destitute through misfortune, who has
been constant and kind in all church work.”
There now. And it is just about likely that he got
the necessary funds, too, for, last week in Mel-
bourne, one of these “good-familied ” men faced
the music in front of Mr. Call, at the City Court,
charged with having no visible means, or insulting
behaviour, or something. He had, it appears,
occupied some position in Her Majesty’s forces,
but through misfortune, &c., his finances were
reduced to such a low ebb that if brick houses
were selling at a shilling a piece he couldn't buy a
door knob, so he tried a new method of raising the
wind. He would lay for those bearded and fear-
less warriors, the majors and captains of the Vic-
torian War Department, when returning from
drill at night, and, having button-holed them,
would proceed to give his opinions on their uni-
forms, suggesting an improvement here, and
an alteration there, besides rather sternly
criticising their tout ensemble, with a certain
I amount of disparagement in comparison with the
officers of the Imperial forces. And then he would
insinuate that the loan of half-a-crown would not
ES&Ji® gladly received, but gratefully acknow-
ledged. It could hardly be expected that these
sons of Mars would stand much of that sort of
thing; it was bad enough to have their military
trappingsi crltised, but when it came to touch their
pockets they became irate, and had the indigent
soldmr of misfortune “run in ” by a handy peeler.
In answer to the usual mild interrogation of Mr.
Cali, as tojthe reason for such a line of conduct,
.““fortunate prisoner replied: “ I regret that I
a «tateof lmpecumosity.” a sufficient reason.
Id think, for even criticising the dress of a
General. But we are not Mr. Call, unfortunately
“[otherwise, and consequently the ex-Tmperial
officer had the choice ot paying a fine of 40s or
accepting Mr. Magee’s hospitality for a fortnight in
the Government chateau in Victoria-street and
we ve a strong notion he fell back on the Hatter
Pi°s W -^ Und 1 rst S ndwhy . Rev - Garrett wanted
i-15, and we also have an inkling of how we happen
to be honouied with “well connected ” loafers in
this bright and suuuy southern land.
One of Barnum’s troupe of Australian
boomerang throwers died recently at Cleveland,
U. 8., and the rest being refused permission to hang
their dead comrade to the limb of a tree, struck
work for several days. If Barnum had been at all
sharp, ho would have taken that fellow out to
Kanzas, and persuaded him to steal a mule. He’d
have been hung to a limb then, beyond any ques-
tion, and the strike would have been averted.
SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inver ell, December 10, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results’
Jw't 18 “y eldest daughter, 13 years of agej
that I wish to tell you. she retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scnbed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar
she might never recover her speech again
a fo rtni ?ht, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken fil—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
fsv® the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
ir on ner tliroflt. Next mom iny wo woro
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever
and has been able to do so ever since. ’
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.


THE
IGNO
V v -
PFIwaWIP
• - ■■- /, ’ 'to
ffi
THE
IFI-A-STO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Mig’noii
K-A-iTO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Oetaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
FX-AiT©
fs the BEBT and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
Wilmer
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
"W" ilmer
E^-AXT©
fr Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
ILMBR,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUBE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
PA
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
**-URAL«IA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC XE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALP 3, &c and
taken internally cures DIARRHtEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other mtfarna aches
tod pains.
Price, 2/- Soldi Ererj’Where,
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPfiiTOR,
MELBOURNE . DISTEY.
PAINT
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE]
REGISTERED.
ABAFB, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
w>at spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss 01
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
s®® soothing effects it at once removes all craving
ior Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
*t>NIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
Joe whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
sverywnere Bo'e Proprietors. MARSHALL
UROTH ERS. M.P.S., Manufacturing and consult-
is£ _ Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
Rvdnev. w D.—All Imitations I’lega l .
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
AYER’S PIUS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause hum** suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayeb’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medieal profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or auy other Injurious Ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me ta
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. PAGE, of W. li. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St,, Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pilas In number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
j. T. Haves.”
Alexia, Texas, Jane 17,1882.
The Rbv. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use Of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until sopie months ago 1
began takiijg Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to tho
whole physieal economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell,MasSr
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitic taint,
by its use.
All experience the wonderful
beneflciill effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
may be made healthy and strong
Sold by all Druggists; ?1, six bottles for ?5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depend* in a great measure upon the
soundless of the teeth and thetr freedom from
deoay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as eflicaeieus for polish-
ing the teeth and beeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-grttty teeth powder; such Row-
" , B* ““"J vwwwm pvuuvi I BUtU IVU W"
lauds Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EURONIA is a beautifully
the lid a certlfloate of purity from Dr. Red
Ph.®., F.C.8., &». Sold m three tins : white,
and cream.
EOWL4HDS- MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fafr o r golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sices.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Bcriott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
9
MR- F. W AHE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
VS~ Teeth
ASther
painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
DEAFNESS ! T Bescriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford.
Auckland, New Zealand.
W
Office.
ASTE PAPER, Hoop iron,
Cases for Sale. Apply Puf
and Empty
er, Bulletin
&©L III?
BLEND
MAR&I
—dl
BLEND WHISKY.—This is ft BLEND
ty of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bmtag Maes, ot body. “co"J
of taste and flavour
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORG*E STREET.
WHOLEBALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for KL d g
celbrrathd
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
general
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to mutch,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0,
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-et.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, 011 b, Paints, Colours, Va
nlshes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
E>
i
=5l
13
miir
m
fi
9
Or
NVALU
BLE
m
u
C 5
m
Ner
VQii
otnP
m
ss
Ge
1 a p E CI A L 111
FOR THE
AuSTRALIANvCOLONIES
Lry
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
*1
$
6^
Jk
oo
3EOE
Kkiliiufe
eoptte «TFee
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
KellaTbl© B’u.g-gries I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
igr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMI2TG, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
jgg” Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, BlaeksmlthUnr
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes lio-ht
wholesome bread, tea cakes. an™?S y !* ght d
Tbe Wide Bat an*d Burnett News, in
reporting Professor Baldwin’s legerdemain enter-
tainment at Maryborough, says:—“The Professor
takes a pack of cards into his hands, baring his
arms up to the elbows; shuffles and re-shuffles
them, showing from time to time and frequently,
that the red and black are thoroughly intermixed.
The cards all this time are held mid-air in the sight
of the audience; then they are packed, and after a
couple of moments more the pack is divided into
two equal divisions, containing respectively all the
red and all the black cards. This was the only
trick that was not explained by the Professor.
Very likely. The thing explains itself to anybody
but a country yokel who never played poker or
saw the inner mysteries of a pack of cards. We
can do that trick ourselves, and we’ve been known
to lay down three kings and two queens to a bob-
tail flush. And we’re going to tell you how the
trick may easily be done. Get a pack of cards,
and separate the red ones from the black. Then
take the red ones (or the black), and slightly round
off the corners from the centre of the long edge,
making the cards slightly oval-shaped and wider
at centre than at either end. A very slight shaving
is all you will need to pare off, and care should be
taken to have them all exaotly alike. Then bare
your arms to blind the audience, take up all the
cards, and begin shuffling. Show the spectators
from time to time that you are mixing them.
Finally, clutch one end of the pack edge-wise be-
tween the thumb and fore-finger of the right
hand, and with the left thumb and fore-flnger
clutch it—not too firmly—at the middle, edge-wise
Then pull gently, and you will find that all the
black cards will be drawn into your left hand, and
all the red ones into your right. We don’t know
whether that is the way the Professor does the
trick, but that is the way we mean to do it when
we start out as a card-sharp.
Our illustration shows two graceful morning dresses; one with velvet skirt trimmed simply with
bias stripes piped with cashmore, and bodiee and drapery of cashmere foule, whiist the other is a
short wrapper with yoke, which, if made in a rich material, can be worn on many occasions not
included in the iden of a "wrspper." A treble box-plent ruche, lined with silk the same colour
as the lining of the wrapper, trims in addition to a silk balayeuss the hem of the skirt. Rieh lnce
goes round the neck and frent of the robe condealing the button close; the half loag sleeves are
trimmed with similar lace, The back is drawn an arthetwarst by a band starting from the side
soains.
This toilette of a light woollen, or silk, skirt and
dark velvet spencer is extremely lady-like and
shows a most fashionable style. On the model
robe a silk waistcoat corresponding with the
fevers and sleeve facings, is also seen . If wool-
len material be taken for the skirt the orna-
menial parte may be of coloured satin. The
long pointed tudio is draped high at the sides
and fastened with cord and tassels.
, This is the kind of thing which is becom-
ing popular, and which is heartily encouraged by
Alfred. In the suckin ’disbun of the classic whicn
he has so long and brilliantly edited, we find the
following:—
‘‘Boots—Crabbe.—ln loving remembrance of
father, John Crabbe, who departed
this lire June 22, aged 99 years; also the beloved
grandfather, Alexandra Jamvs Bocria.
“ A loving father, true and kind.
Who proved to be in heart and mind;
A tender parent, too, as well,
When he on earth with us did dwell.
But now his spirit it has fled.
And he is numbered with the dead.
[Country papers please copy.]"
should the country papers copy? Wi y
should they crowd out an encomiastic notice of
the travelling dentist, and a critique on the colossal
carrot, to g'orify “John Cratb9,” who, anyhow,
flew in the face of the Scriptures by living 39 years
over the time allowed by St. Peter. Then, who. in
thunder, is “ Alexandra Jfemos Boots, also the be-
loved grandfather ?” Whose grandfather was he.
anyway ? Not John Crabbe’s. surely, “ who was a
loving father, true and kind,” and “ departed this
life aged 99 years ?” We should like a little eluci-
dation here. When we flutter up, all we want
painted up is this!:—
Lifted on a golden cloud.
He’s gone where he’ll need no shoes;
Where, perchance, he'll see the Shroud—
Where he’ll never read the News.
It would be a funny thing, anyhow, wouldn’t it,
to meet Sam up there, chartering with St. Peter,
and for him to offer us Mfire Christmas number of
jPtctoral Paradise, price Bd., with 4d. extra for
(glazmg and rolliQg the picture it nineteen colours.
etfUJipefitively drawn by the e.tyeis >
The Rev. Dr. Ellis relies upon the follow-
ing- effort at syllogistic reasoning as the basis of
his utterance against Scotch immorality;—
i.
Major Premiss: The neglect of an undoubted
law of the New Testament and the Primitive
Church must produce disastrous results.
Minor Premiss : Frequent communion was such
a law.
Conclusion : The neglect of it will be disastrous
in its results.
ii.
Major Premiss: Such a neglect is seen in the
Roman Catholic Church, and other bodies which
have followed her practice in this respect.
Minor: The Scotch Church is such a body.
Conclusion: Disastrous results must ensue in
that body.
The viear of Bt. Paul’s, West Maitland, is
weak as a logician; his first major premiss is a
petitio principii. By the same sort of argument, it
could be proved that he and his flock are in a par-
lous state of perdition, thusly—
i.
Major Premiss: External conformity with an
undoubted law ef the New Testament and the
Primitive Church inevitably produces hypocrisy.
Minor; Frequent Communion was such a law.
Conclusion: External conformity with it will
produoe hypoorisy.
ii.
Major Premiss: From the time of Laud to that
Of father Kemmis, suoh a oonformity is seen in
t*e “ High section of the Anglican Church.
Minor: Ellis and flock are of that seotion.
Conclusion : Ellis and flock are hypoorites.
We submit this to Ellis without prejudice to the !
statement that the Sootoh are immoral, reminding j
ham at the tame time that Burns, who had a devil-
-11“ $£ ener knowledge of Scotch character
* of ? aul ’ s seems to have, ex-
piessly attributes the immorality of his fellow-
country men and women to attendance at Com-
raunion. Does ho not expressly say of Holy Fair
” An’ many jobs that day begin
May end in houghmagandie
iome ither day.”
is a Professor of
English Language and Literature, and, having left
England some time ago as a fir Pt-class saloon pas-
senger in a clipper ship, and landed in these dismal
latitudes with nothing sticking out but a heart-
rending big screw and a comfortable bouse, has
tound tuna to erect his banishment into Exile. He
published a volume of verses called “ Poetry of
Exiles ; and when we reflect thfit we strolled here
in an immigrant ship, and landed without boots,
and so tramped it to the diggings, we naturally
hiccup a sympathetic yearn when we think of this
poor Exile. Heweepeth:—
“ A poetry of Exiles—we are exiles
From the hoirlooms and oradle of our youth.
We cannot go to some thateb-roofed farmhouse.
garret in a ruin overhanging
The high street of a mediaeval town.
And say “’tis here that first his eyes saw light.”
Ah, no, a world of ocean shuts us off.”
& hO J„ t 7 ue ~A°w, dreadfully affecting I
nnu e on the heirlo oras of two chairs
and an old blind cow we inherited, and reca'l how
w£7* d L e «2 f l ,ur / outh - whi ch was a scooped flour
to , furnistl the cheerful blaze that
r + wa ff ry how il carries us back.
t° fhe grand old days when we had
meat nearly every Sunday. Yes this is the true
key-note. In the poem, “ Westering,” what a glow
of, of—what a glow, In short—
“ la infancy he’d golden hair,
Golden halx-, free from care;
His brow was furrowless and fair,
Though frowns would sometimes gather there
In watching the sun’s glare.”
Not content, however, with this head of hair, the
neglect of which is so affectingiy alluded to by the
simple little Saxon words, “free from care,” re-
lentless Fate pursues this nameless atom, for—
“ When summer came his hair turned, brown,
Turned brown ere he was grown;
The comers of his mouth grew down,
And on his forehead reigned a frown
And made his brow its own.”
But the corners of our own mouth have at this
stage come down, and are flapping near our waist-
coat pockets. Pass we on to brighter fields. Here’s
a “ Fair Maid of Kent,” bless her:—
“ But sun in the sky is not more distant,
And stag in the moorland is not more wild
Or shy of existence co-existent,
Than this queen girl—J had almost said child."
We shudder to think what might have happened
if he had said that fatal word. Possibly, we should
never have had the ode to the Nyngan Railway,
or the sonnet to the R,ev. J. Owen, of whose good
lady we are informed—
“ Bhe nursed me through a fever, found in me
A chance seed of the flower «f poasie,”
which redounds to the infinite oredit of that good
lady’s penetration. But our eyesight is getting a
bit dim just here,
“ And thou, historic borough,”
le the fiery opening to a sonnet to—Parramatta*
Then follow beauty, gloom, rippling waters*
sunshine, flowers—everything but ginger-beer
and cloves, while this exiled bard (with a
month’s screw in his pocket, and a good
supply of champagne and cold fowl in
the basket) sits down on an overhanging rock,
and, while the plaintive wail of the asthmatic con-
certina floats up in the crystal air of this far-off
Austral land of exiles and bullock-drivers, the
inuse, attired in silken sheen, comes shimmering
up to him, and he sings the song of Katoomba, the
post and rail fences of Falconbridge, and the
glories of Bowenfels, Mr. Piddington, and the
•mey-sounding name of Zigzag—a word, by the
way, our author ought to impound before it be-
comes too common for poetical purposes. We
regret we cannot quote further, but as
the favourable opinions of the press wind up this
little book of 88 distinct drivels, we conclude that
Mr. Siaden’s work will be read and appreciated in
circles where Shakespeare is unknown. We be-
lieve the butter-sellers have absorbed the first
edition, but a second i« being clamoured for by
the reading public of Rookwood and the Necro-
polis.
The Cooktown Independent means a real
upright and down-straight independence, and no
mistake. Listen to its latest utterance “We
shall make arrangements for being represented at
all local entertainments, but (note this but) the
members of our staff will be independent enough
to pay for their admission, like other men (this
this is sarcasm, indeed — 11 like other men,” ha! ha'),
and this announcement will save the secretaries
the labour of sending passes, aDd us the trouble of
returning or tearing them up ” And. in yet an-
other fashion does the Cooktown Independent
essay to show that its thoughts are not as other
journals' thoughts, nor its ways as other journals’
ways. A general consensus of Press opinion ban
poked soorn at the alderman, made fun of him and
hie little Peddlington ways, and constituted him
the chronic target for the shafts of satire. Away
lr ®f n these notions has the Independent tern it-
seil, to constitute itself the champion pf the
aignity of the status of alderman, and this is how
™ enced to fix up its defence of that long
upon dignity “ Long before Magna
as extracted, at the point of the Barons’
swords, fromthc fickle and treacherous John, and
before the strand of England was desecrated
iIT Norman keels, or its Saxon Ceorls were trodden
b iB. o< * y Hastings by the mailed
j Conqueror; there were “ Eolder-
hin«nho^nB^? n<i J lia ’ wlj at think ye of that, ribald
SJ?P were chosen to represent the
ShoJ; ™IS theWitenagemote, or convocation of
3>fP ?K en - S axon Parliaments could meet
when the members pleased, and although the King
could convoke he could not dissolve them. After
tvra'i!! 1 , 11 * the feudalism of the Plantagenets the
oY, ran °f, the Tudors, the treachery of the
Quarts, and the ignorance and incompetency of
tbe Huelphs; British representative government
has strode back (strode back, hear ye that, ignorant
believers in the fetish of progress?) for centuries,
and our modern Municipal Councils and Divisional
SPSTr 8 ? r Pu CO / ls^ i, ;Ut e d and conducted on a basis
similar to that of the liberal and free Saxon Parlia-
Putter wrapped in such sentiments
should command a high figure, indeed.
In the Wentworth Advocate we were
pleased to stumble aeross the following startling
"~Z I n our . next issue we purpose
publishing the first portion of a review of Mr
George s oelebrated work, ‘ Progress and Poverty
m which we shall attempt to present the objects
w n hl 0f * th v at book ia a different light to
ha t has hitherto been written upon it. In view
of the unsettled state of the labour market, not
only in the Australian colonies, but all over the
world, an impartial criticism of Mr. George’s book
mlmi'WJ, 1 wl.a the
different pointofvtei ?w P l".'"' ® totally
& a S« ! W^ste^sS»&S
theories on the n h^li Henry * Ge v rfire ’ 8
had been disonsßnH P r °biems of the age
every conceivable standout™ H nt ? d pom fr °m
don’t know everything vvTo’ *^ er ®llt we
view a h nd q ran on e&y *SBB&g*"**!*®*
things general] v- thron«TOl c^ a l? cter; he
with jiSt a thVn filmT rum Idherinv fo
z rs r e iz xsS 55 jars
of the Berkshire iiroßrt Pn tbe Cultivation
wards the payment ofrack rrnta" £8 a factor to-
in a Nagambie (Vic ) paperawn^f’h a W^ lch *u Ppeared
days or our boy booth r a ' ,ay back m the sunny


PURE country milk.
MILk SUPPLIED by the
resb Food & Ice Co., Limited,
®*y be relied upon as being 1
e Jt Wats pure,
f ?' om the country districts, as
® irom city contaminations.
Butter.
Bonti! t^n ®<i' I |rn^ a ?i!? fa l P tured at their own depS
utll 6ra butter-makers in th
i.oniy I S o 2' idc twice dall y. Sundays excepted,
CV cart; delivery is made. Butter by
eekiy, wty, daily; suburbs, three times
f *** Food
& /ce Co., Limited,
** ®arbour street.
lias
CTUDT BCONOMT
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Uverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
8
Vr\
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is Bot the clearaew
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
nrnflt reDresent the common beers referred to
as ecuaMn quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& cl) . Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
p EAPES and SHAW
respectfully invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS
os follows
'L.» as follows
Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
ftota l2 a L a , nd TAILOR-MADB ULSTERS,
® Uineas
h»? y Dolma! 60 / 8 TJlstert » ffom ss. 6d. to 30s.
f lt Vwt aped ulste **. New Cloths
,J in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 3Ts. 6d
LADIES’ -WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jors-y Jackets
Broeatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
PEAp ES and SHAW~
Standard
Tweed
PEAPES and SHAW.
Clothing;.
for the the most cxtoßSive aaa
n . CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recon
01 the various classes of goods enumerated below.
It^?t UJOATS - cut LONG,
:r Cf| l'w iss ITALIa N CLOTH, 255., 80s.,
STERS ' LINED WOOLI 3 ° B -’
«!« and OVERCOATS, 635.
mroi Ol Vv overcoata ' suitable for
a J&«» Suit, 42a., 505.. 555.
tBAC SUITS are
9 UT > FIT, STYLE, and
be8 urpasae3 lor Good Honest Value
** 4& a ?L AS ft FOLLOWS :
• ** 8 -» 505., 635. the SUIT.
Kij]
Vest, ,50s.
est of England Broadcloth),
v „ u <& u rf Black Doeskin, 255„ 30s.
6 ' BhrUnk and weU madc *
Sirota GOWN S, in Felt,
111 SOs. to B§. *’ bcotch Knicker, Quilted
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sown Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING.
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 535. -id.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. 6d.; the
Suffolk, 12s. Od x ,
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. Bd., Bs. 6d.
9s. 6d.,-10s. 6d., 11s. «d„ 12s. tid.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
H&tsandCaps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
r antf SHAW,
street. f
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
Sz Sori’s
Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
ZtTo'w Opeaa.
HOTEL,
C<ltlle * of KING and CASTEEREAGH STREETS.
*** v *f*nJ?" (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
UP-STAIRS.
9 oo\
iSS
tH E ONLY GENUINE TINTAG;
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
stand
- hIQ( Cq -JIKST in the estimation of judges ot Tobacco.
h. teror ’ Bir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture,
1 . CONOTTTJ’Wrnj o-nrl TCA RT/V RTRX» hnlrl a hifrh nnnitinri
"^UnSSSSE
CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
Cljrars, and all Tobacconists' Sundries.
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY*
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Palingr’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort!
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vert ft,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Soli.© Sazaax
352 George Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HOBN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will-soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
ja Warranted first quality
v Char^esstrictlyA7QD£/?4T£
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists i.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modem apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics,
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing- and
hunting-. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment's notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magpitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Cmms,
TT n d-exteufeor,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
O 3"
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO. , . ~ ~
Brand Registered to prevent JffiJ&tlQß. Manu-
factured by H w norrie.
Factory and Warehouse.
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY
IRT BURGIS’ £3 3a. Suits, to measure. Trousers
, from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
flTgood, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams fpr
forwarded to any part of the colony -
T
The Mercantile Bank of Sydm
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 187 i
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund ....£132,500
C.M.G., Chairman
[.L.C,
_ Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Directors
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, Jd
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilaon.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyng-an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-atreet.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Eaq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. Sc C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUN/
For Price and Quality ave no equal
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
igr c. cowles, 407 georgk strf f
N .11.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. ilriell 8z Co/:::
AGENCIES.
SWALLQW & ARTELL’S prize Biseuits, compris-
ing a variety of Tt kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Floor,
Tre.-cle and Golden Syrup, in all si»o tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prise Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 601 b.
and 3001 b. hfttfa,
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
i 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’^y'lLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Autoir^tlf
SUont
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an t
wringer, $i lM
MANGLES
WASfUNO
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shejlor3
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAlwijt
Woop,
*O. &c. &0.
HEBBLEWHITE & C 0.,
116 GEORGE STREET.
R£G!t*fiLD TCIBS,
TEACHER OE THE PIAKO.
Communications to bo addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
m
hted.
MOUSTACHE aadWEISEEES.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did thi*,rn\s
will do it on either bald fat'd fir
bare fiutq, Em rc§ faavy Jdoun-
iiicfa />'«»# Sl° i <Md never
Jails, jiO,ooo young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. jN r o injury, etieily applied, tertuin in effect,
each, 3 for to. I*l., post paid, sent undet' cover, free from
rAddrtsu, Trunk buuglim, Sole Agent,Box 7!lO, o.l* OSydney, Jv.o-n •
DfcMR3
9ft
K' 1
Copyrighted
Packets Is. M
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind sill old customers and the
public generally that he has a largo assortment. of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, aim
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited,
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery,
English paper* Magazine* received tiy
every Mall.
BO7AL ABCAP9. GBOBGB ST* 4M SYDNEY


(REGISTERED.)
a
<?
~V
O*—"■
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 KOYAL ARCADE.
Pill WE Jim. CAFE ID WOTS, k,
LATEST FASHION 8.1
Special Novelties, &c
LAROCHE.
aoAOoa
UflOA MSV
J.J SI
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER, PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed In the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or Indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
<3-IS-A.3iT3D
J
di
THE PEOPLE'S CLOTHIER
fr#
IB OPENING tit, ......
U REGATTA.'jHI]MS, COLLABS, TIKB, and nvo*«*- iQ both - fro
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. insuect the St° c * c nooS 0
tar- Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and I’ gy p N gy
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLO F eV eRY pES
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING j <
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street,
** r near Mari'- 011 ..
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, pear
RY’S MALTED COCOA
I
J. S. FEY & SONS,
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the aoi avo
Bristol, London, and Sydney.
i of Malt than a pint %f the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a deeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TQDMAN & CO.,
YORK BTREET. SYDNEY.
T, JONES and CO.,
Go, MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS,
SMB
E3ES
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can he recommended as being of the highest
duality, and superior to any imported.
Q TUCKJEK & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street. Sydney.
m~ BEST ENGU SH LEVERS.
ITIHE LIVERPC /OL & LONDON
Watch. Company
have REMOVE ;d to those most
extensive pre' aiises at Corner of
Royr j, Arcade,
296 Pit t-st Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH I /EVER WATCHES
Reduced t( , £3 log.
Sent to all parts of the c , o lony Free of Charge.
Each watch warranted j or p V e years, and Kept
in repair free of charge.
C. SX7j£MAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note iJilr e above Address.
MASOW BROTHERS,
V,
mi
•m
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
EVA RTHENWARE,
Y/INES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T, GA YEN’S
f Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVWand SONS'
Edinburg n Pale Aie.
TJOBErt butcher & 00.
(Late William Long),
B3T”. WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT*
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYIMtET’
Cf mntry Orders receive proßWJtr;attenti<m«
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
V
foiwi'
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contacts of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into- New South
Wales in small bottles. „ ,
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
■TirelOßNß HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
t.he other brands, when they will a aifference
nf at least 10 per cent, m favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VI, WOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HiaaiN's
Prize M edal Salt
FOR DA IRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 modajd> and obtadned first honours
ovory pairy Show Exhibition*
SOLE AGENT FOB AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
JARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will *nd m ACOOMMODA-
LON, at MODERATE CHARGES.
ear Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. Q. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345. S
if
of
BLAKE'S
{I
steam p
’. GBEGOBV*
ce fi
/
H. P
17 PIT T S
T? {P**
ARE SOLE AGENTS
andhavemßtoc^^
FIRE PUMPS
boiler-feed pIJJI ft ylCF
TANK OR LIGHT S
MINING PUMPS OJj A'
COMBINED AIR &CI
TANNERY P uMP ® pS
SUGAR-HOUSE P p ** F
VACUUM PUMPS
deep-well-sinR 1^
aKD A^
BKND FOR PRICE 3 A
CATALOGUES F o^
PAINTS-
OILS-
0
o
Office: 330
store 9 :
N.B*
Vl 6°*'
LAQ?JS ROWLANDS & LEWIS, -
Manufacturer of alt kinds of JEratad W aters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor 01
BA LLAPiAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 H UNTER STREET, SYDNEY. *,
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for /t ‘rated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liq ue
