

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 80.—New Series.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 22, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1884.
To Loafers.
A correspondent, who opens his letter
pleasantly by announcing that he is “a
loafer,” writes:—
“ What I want to ask you, sir, is: What chance is
there of Henry George’s theory coming into
swing in Queensland ? when is our land, which
those tew thousand old idiots, yclept pioneers )
risked their lives to open up, to be divided equally
amongst us? Agitate for it, sir, please agitate
your tallest: I and all other loafers will help you,
and stand by you and George when we get our
share.”
Before addressing ourselves to satisfying
our correspondent’s curiosity, we will re-
mark that; he sails under false colours.
Although an intelligent loafer might well be
stirred to wrath on obtaining an idea of
Henry George’s theories, his angry satire
would be differently expressed. And, more-
over, a gentleman who writes so vigorous
and nervous a caligraphy as the hand-writ-
ing of our correspondent, could not loaf if
he tried. Our correspondent is full of
energy and action; and is more likely one of
the pioneers he writes about, than the loafer
he pretends to be. To come, however, to
the serious question satirically conveyed in
his communication, our impression is that
our correspondent cannot have read
George’s works. Otherwise he could
scarcely have failed to perceive that, if the
plan advocated by George could be brought
into operation, it would be calamitous to
loafers—that is to say, to men who are too
lazy to work honestly. But this is, after all,
a narrow definition of loafers—although we
conceive it defines the sort of loafer our cor-
respondent had in his mind. We believe we
will satisfy him by assuming that the loafer
he means is a seedy person, who will not
work and to beg is not ashamed ; in short,
the loafer as commonly understood—a
party whose laziness is as a rule only
equalled by his thirst. Presuming this to be
the sort of loafer our correspondent means,
we are to understand that the application to
an Australian territorial division of Henry
George’s agrarian system will be pleasing
to persons of this class. That is to say, that
it will appear favourable to loafers. In the
first place, however, it is requisite to distin-
guish a little. Our satirist conceives that
Mr. George’s project is to “divide the land
equally between us all.” This is an unfor-
tunate misapprehension, because it shows
that the satirical gentleman wrote before he
had read—a proceeding strongly deprecated
by no less an authority than Dr. Samuel
Johnson. Before challenging the system
propounded by Henry George, and jeering
at us with so much severity, our critic should
surely have been at the trifling trouble of
ascertaining what he was challenging, and
the reason he had for breaking out into
satire.
• • «
We feel, somehow, as though we were
teaching an infant school, or a class in which
there were some troublesome dunces, who
required the most elementary instruction
repeated over and over again, when we find
it necessary, for the information of our
rather rash critic, to once more epitomise
the proposals of Henry George in this par-
ticular. In the first place, then, George’s
proposal is not, as our correspondent im-
agines, to divide the land equally among all.
It is not to share out and partition the land.
It is (here our critic will oblige us by elevating
his doubtless am pie. ears)— exactly the oppo-
site ! The author has been even’at the pains
to put the proposal in italics, and in a con-
crete form, so that those who read his work
may not miss the point. Really, our poor ’
correspondent should try the effect of read-
ing a work before squirming at what he
conceives its contents to be. Here, then, we
have it. Book vi. chap. 2 ;
“ We must make the land common property.”
Not partition it, you see, but communise it.
And, as to the method, here we are. Primer
for children and for critics who laugh before
they learn—
“It is not necessary to confiscate land. It is only
necessary to confiscate rent. ”
This is horrible, of course, and cannot fail
to shook all right-thinking people. Only—
this is curious—what George proposes is
very nearly identical with what every Aus-
tralian Government is doing in respect of
pasture lauds at the present moment. They
do not recognise that those designated by
our correspondent as “ the few thousand
old idiots called pioneers” have, by priority
of occupation, by expropriation and slaugh-
ter of the native inhabitants, or by long es-
tablishment, acquired a right to hold their
tracts against all the rest of the community
and for their heirs against posterity. Aus-
tralian Governments are, indeed, permitting
such exclusive claims to be built up with
great rapidity, and for quite inadequate
consideration. They permit men to obtain
such titles by a system of alienation ludi-
crously conducted. The tea tuts of the com-
munity are actually invited to compound
for future rentals by paying down to-day
as a capital sum about as much per acre as
will be, generally speaking, a fair annual
rent in a score of years.
♦ * ♦
But, so far as lauds still communised are
concerned, what the State is doing is pro-
fessedly what Henry George advises that
all States should do. It is confiscating rent.
Professedly, the community charges the
pastoral tenant with the full market value
of the lands he occupies; that is to say, all
that it will yield to his industry beyond
what he requires for his reasonable subsist-
ence in comfort. As a matter of fact, this is
not obtained. The tenant pays, notoriously,
for less than he could afford for the
“natural opportunities” embodied in the
land leased to him, and can almost always
obtain from other persons a very large
lump sum if he desire to fell his lease. When
Mr. James Watson was Colonial Treasurer
of New South Wales, and hard times threat-
ened to affect the revenue, he estimated that
something like a million sterling could be
added by a readjustment of pastoral rents.
And he proposed to do so. Now, what he
proposed was exactly in accordance with
George’s propositions. Primer for children
and critics, again. Lesson ii. : —
“What I therefore propose, as the simple yet
sovereign remedy, is to appropriate rent hy taxa-
tion.”
That is to say, where private claims to ex-
clusive property in land have been set
up. In Australia it need never have
been requisite to do more than exact
full rental for the public lands. Had
no lands been alienated—neither town,
country, nor suburban —the Australian
colonics would have been, as States, the
richest in the world. We might have been
lending from our income instead of borrow-
ing capital. But, some may say, industry
would have been at a stand-still, and there
would have been none of that progress
which alone has made property valuable and
rents high. Would not there? There would
be no squatter?, for example, unless there
were freehold squattages ! But two-thirds
of the squattages now are leasehold; and
even the freehold estates are not, as a rule,
worked by the men who own them. And as
for city properties, for instance, how many
business men in Sydney, for example, ate
the owners of the premises in which they
conduct their business? Not five per cent.
Probably not one in a hundred! Who would
be worse off to-day, if the State were receiv-
ing all the rents in the city of Sydney and
the full rental value of the leased lands up
country? Not the tenants in the first ease t
because it’s nothing to them to whom they
pay. In the second case, the pastoral lessee
would be worse off, and everybody else
better off. That is to say, there would be no
such thing, for instance, as a custom-house
or stamp-ofiice. There would not be so many
loafers of the sort meant by our correspon-
dent, because comfort would be within the
reach of all, and disheartened, reckless men
would be the exception. And there would
not be so many loafers of a kind not meant
by our correspondent—men who live in idle,
ness, on the fruits of the industry of othera
or by monopolising what should be common
property. If one wants to see loafers, Aus-
tralia is not the best country to refer to.
We are not civilised enough yet. A quantity
of our land still remains communised. Even
the S.M. Herald, conservative to the back-
bone as it is, is perpetually warning publio
men of what will happen when the land is
all alienated; that is to say, when we retro-
grade from communism in land to universal
private property in land. The S.M. Herald
has announced any time this twenty years
that, as the receipts from land alienation
have been used up, we have been living on
our capital; and also that, when the process
is complete, recourse must be had to heavy
taxation. Now, taxation of the typo of
which Great Britain has set the example
which would naturally be followed, is taxa-
tion which presses heaviest upon those who
are least able to bear it—taxation which
presses upon the worker and exempts the
land-owner. When our land shall ne un-
communised, we shall commence to rei-embio
England, and the day of loaferdom will com-
mence with a vengeance. In England, wo
would remind our correspondent, there is a
remarkable body of loafers, who with a few
exceptions never do a day’s work from year's
end to year’s end. That body is composed of
asetof parasites wholivo entirely upon what
they are able to extract Irom the pockets of
labouring men. The name they go by is—
The Peerage.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mrs. Joshua.
There arrived in Australia in August last,
a man who is without any exception the
greatest literary genius who has ever hon-
oured this continent with his presence. On
the occasion of his first lecture in Sydney
(on a week day), even the S.M. Herald,
which prefers Princes and'Parsons to Men of
Genius, preluded its notice thus : —
“ Gerald Massey, the English poet, whose ascent
from a lowly beginning, and triumph over its
cramping environment, has placed him among the
heroes of literature, came face to face with an
Australian audience last night for the first time, in
the delivery of a lecture on Shakespeare, at the
Freemasons’ Hall in York-street. There is little in
the superficial aspect of the poet to suggest mental
wealth and culture, but a closer scrutiny finds
trait* of his quality, and he stands before us a
brilliant embodiment of the truth which made
Gray sing eo exquisitely of the ocean gem, with
the added fact of acknowledged and valued lustre.
In the upper portion of the countenance are
features quite in harmony with the vigorous con-
centration of the student and the active fancy of
the poetical writer. Mr. Massey is of small stature,
but of hardy physique; has a free, ready manner,
without gesticulation, and handles his subject in
the .straightforward style of one devoted to hard.
MK. J. L. PtJKVES, THE LEADING BARRISTER OF VICTORIA.


TEE POPDLiR BRAND
I
BRIAN BORU
NOTB.-TOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle-
tors of BRIAN BORG WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot hoast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PUBE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
Ill ID Will,
when matured by ago, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
BOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE BUM,
Extra Strong,
M. FIB IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Diigli Bottle Dejartnost,
MARKET BTBIIT,
WHEN YOU VISIT S YDNEY,
GO xo
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
where you can obtain for
e<5L.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of euoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RND or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
18 sold in this department.
THB MOST WH0LB80MB OF ALL BBTBBAGBS.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
to. 6d. per bottle.
0LYNBLI8H WHISKY
Ss. per bottle.
VBRDKILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per. bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Ss. per bottle.
HENNBSSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. w. ROBERTS
j/tlarkei Street, Sydney.
The Rates op Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 8s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch s
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
The poor-law guardians of St. Saviour’s,
London, have been discussing the quality of parish
coflins, which has been severely criticised. One
guardian produced some coflin-llds, which he en-
thusiastically held up to the admiration of his col.
leagues, exclaiming, “ The me re you look at them,
the more you’ll like them 1” Which reminds one
according to the papers, those who die in the
burgoo-establishment controlled by the Lewisham
Board of Guardians are often buried without the
presence of a single mourner. It used to be the
rule to allow some of the Inmates to attend the
funerals of their brother paupers; “but,” ex-
plained the local Bumbla, ‘owingto the mourners
returning in a drunken state, the inmates had not
been allowed to go recently. In the present case
the brother came to the workhouse to see the
body, but said he had not time to go to the funeral;
and as the deceased had only been in the house a
few days, he had not made the acquaintance of
any of the inmates.” It was agreed among the
guardians, who seem to be all parsons, “ that in
future, on the occasion of a pauper’s funeral, at
least one of the inmates attend as mourner, and
that it be an instruction to the undertaker to con-
vey him to the cemetery and bring him back
again.” Just think of the joy attendant on being
an English pauper, and getting out, unmuzzied,
f or a ride po top of a hearse!
practical thought and treatment In his several
studies. He was introduced by the chairman, Mr.
Justice Wlndeyrr, as the llrst English poet who
bad visited us, to an audience which crowded the
hall to excess, and which represented tairly the
culture of the town in this class of subjects.
This is oold notice compared with the recog-
nition Mr. Massey has won in literary circles
at home. From an English magazine we
clip:—
“ The bov was at work in a silk-mill or at straw’-
plaiting when he ought to have been at school.
The progress he made when he had set to work to
educate himself was miraculous, and at an early
age he showed the stull that was in him. Thrown
amongst ‘The Men of 'Forty-eight, he with voice
and pen espoused the cause of the down-trodden,
exhibiting a fiery courage which was approached
by no contemporary in the same cause heroic
Ernest Jones probably excepted. . . . No notice
of Gerald Massey’s career would bo complete with-
out a recognition of his splendid explication ot the
• Sonnets of Shakespeare.’ The germ of this great
work first appeared in the Quarterly Review, to
which Massey contributed for some years. Many
so-called literary analysts had attempted to solve
the mystery of the Sonnets before he undertook
the task, but without success. It was he who found
the key and let daylight into the dark chambers ot
Shakespeare's complex secret—a fact which Ger-
man and French critics have not been slow to
acknowledge. ‘A Book of the Beginnings (the
second part of which is entitled The Natural
Genesis’) is simply the most extraordinary work
that has appeared in this country, or, lor that
matter, in any other, during the century.
It is a book to be answered, not sneered
down ; and he who essays to reply to it must
dive to the depth? which the author hirn-
self has fathomed. Let inquirers after the truth,
no matter what their creed,or religion, read ‘A
Book of the Beginnings' (with its second part,
‘The Natural Genesis’) in the spirit which abides
the words— ‘ Prove all things: hold t ast that which
Is good.’ ”
It would not be credited by any stranger to
this city, who would be unaware of the sor-
did depths to which the bigotry of the S. M.
Herald descends, that Gerald Massey has
during the last four weeks been again iu
this city, and delivering his most masterly
lectures—lectures which convey the very
essence of his profoundest thoughts, and of
eighteen years of original research and
study—and that in the journal which pro-
fesses to “lead” the intellect of the people,
there has never been so much as a hint
that Gerald Massey exists. There have
been long and laudatory notices of
“ Professor ” Sample (the horse-breaker),
however, and “Alfred Sydney” has been
allotted columns of space in which to drone
about dogmatic education. The explana-
tion is that Mr. Gerald Massey turns out to
be a Freethinker, and lectures regarding re-
searches which have resulted adversely to
points of orthodox belief. TheS. M. Herald
evidently regards these circumstances as
equivalent to an eclipse of genius, and, shut-
ting its eyes and ears very tight, tries to be-
lieve and to make its readers imagine that
Gerald Massey doesn’t exist. Poor old
Herald ! Driven to imitate that Papist In-
quisition which dealt with Galileo. Poor
modern Joshua! who commands the sun of
Human Progress to stand still, and will find
that for it “ the night cometh ” neverthe-
less, while genial rays and brilliant light
illuminates “ the other side.”
A Scramble.
Mr. Ezekiel Baker's candidature for the Carcoar
electorate strikes us as a very Impudent reliance
upon the shortness of the public memory. That
this reliance is misplaced in this instance is appar-
ent from the fact that at a recent meeting, when
Mr. Baker addressed the electors, no person in a
considerable assemblage could be found to second
the ridiculous proposition that Mr. Baker is a fit
and proper person to represent the constituency
in Parliament. Mr. Baker’s assistants are evi-
dently not sufficiently numerous to enable him
to scramble into Parliament over the obstacle
created by his noted Mllburn Creek transactions.
But the public has a short memory, in reality;
otherwise, Mr. Baker would, probably, still te
dodging all egg-shops, instead of flaunting his
wrongs—save the mark I—as a public man. It may
therefore be well to remind all and sundry that he
Is the man who, while a Minister of the Crown-
procured for himself (Chiefly) and associates a
very largo sum from the Treasury as compensation
for having boon, with perfect propriety, made to
yield up possession of a mine to which they never
hai any title. The Assembly expelled Mr, Baker
for the part he took in that business, after a very
exhaustive inquiry by Mr, J. E. Salamons, Q,C.,
Bitting as a Royal Commissioner. Public opinion
endorsed alike Mr. Salamons’ very plain-
spoken report and the action of the Assem-
bly, albeit the manner of that action hud the un'
equal Justice which spared a man Incriminated
equally in essential , but onlylin a less degree,
occasioned a scandal, and some revulsion of feel-
ing, The attraction which a seat in the Assembly
appears to have for men who have once occupied
srch a position, is extraordinary. On the face of
them, the functions are exacting and thankless.
They absorb time which men occupied in making
their way in the world can ill afford to spare. They
expose men to Inevitable misrepresentation, har-
assment, and annoyance. No pecuniary recom-
pance attaches to the position; yet men who are
notoriously eager In pursuit of money, and by no
nmans of the self-sacrificing stump, cling to and
clutch after the position of legislator. It appears
to us that there must be “ something in it.”
Pictorial Art in Australia.
“The rapid progress of pictorial art is one of the
striking characteristics of modern days, and its
stages of advancement could not, perhaps, be
better noted than by the yearly distributions of
‘coloured supplements’ by the weekly journals.”
The foregoing sentence is from the Sydney Morn
ino Herald, which goes on at great length to puff
a chromo drawn and printed in England for its
local weekly. What really concerns Australians
most is "the rapid progress of pictorial art”
in Australia—a, progress not likely to be ac-
celerated by the wealthiest newspaper firm in the
colonies habitually getting their pictorial work
done in the cheaper market of London. The Ben-
netts have deserved much better of Australians
in this retpjet than the Fairfaxes The former
offered a substantial prize of £100 for a picture,
Australian in subject, to be competed for by Aus-
tralian artists; and, having selected Itheir choice,
they are having it printed by a Sydney establish-
ment. Mr. W. Maoleod was the successful artist in
this competition,and the work is being executed by
Messrs. John Sands and Co., who are making, we
hear, an adm!x - able job of it. Mr. Maclkod has
also been commissioned to execute a picture for
the Christmas Number of The Bulletin, and has
excelled himself, while Messrs. Jarrett and Co.
of Sydney are staking their reputation on the
execution of the chromo-lithographic work. Thus
the two leading weeklies of Sydney have done
something towards [accelerating the “ progress of
the pictorial art” in Australia, leaving to the in-
ferior weeklies the business of “ blowing ” about a
progress which their own action is admirably cal-
culated to discourage and retard.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Janitor ” (Muldoon Flat) : You ask our
opinion of little Garland’s candidature for Carcoar.
Ask us our opinion about somebody with a mind—
we mean somebody else with one “Osprey”
(Junes) ; If you don’t know how to propose to
the pretty girl you are fond of, we don’t see how
we can help you. You had better wait till you see
somebody else do it; and then you will know all
about the matter—“ Endymion” (Balmain): We
like your verses very much, especially this one—
“ To see the luriy moon get up
Thfils me beyond control.
The setting sun is also barm
Unto my wounded sole.”
It’s a pity you have only written twenty-six of
these; because we yearn very much for this kind
of thing. But we expect, if you gave much
more of your time to the Muses, you would
And yourself wounded in another place. There’s
no poetry, you know, in a shoemaker's strap—
tnough it hurts ...“Sport” (Quirindi): Our tip
for the boat-race is, if you put any money on it.
put somebody else’s—especially if you're “ well
connected.” — “Scribe” (Guudagai): “Do we pay
for contributions? Bather. Especially this one
of yours; “ What was the red-headed Shovel doing
with the flash snob from Narribri 7” A specii 1
cashier is told off to remunerate this kind of con-
tributor. When you come down, call for your
cheque, and put a coal-scuttle under your coat-
tails “Joker” (North Shore): Held over till
our special crack of doom number “Polly”
(Orange): The authorship of “ Beautiful Snow ” is
a mystery; but it is generally attributed to Mr.
Alfred Bennett ... “ T, H.”: Unavoidably held over.
Burrheed ”: Becelved — “ Pater-familias ”:
Thanks for your opinion. The wording of the ad-
vertisement is gross, but the legend of the silk
purse and the sow’s ear will occur to you...
“ E.D.” (South Melbourne) : Too crudely con-
structed. Try again, and remember the ars celare
arttm .. “Advance”: Becelved. But now-adays,
people are more apt to be swayed by incisive ar-
gument than by violent declamation.. “ Yambla ”:
Your opening lines—
“ A banquet was given
To a porter in charge
Of a station near Albury,
Not very large,”
evince a good deal of unassuming originality. Of
course it’s a matter of opinion whether such origi-
nality has not been diverted from its proper chan-
nel—whether, in a new country, it is not wicked to
flirt with the Muses when there are fences to be
white-washed “Constant Reader” wishes to
to know if Germans can still avail themselves of
the last immigration vote. Some reader may bo
able to say—“Argus”: Thanks. ...‘Jam Satis.”:
Received....“Constant Reader No. 2”: Standard
works on the evolutionary hypothesis can be ob-
tained, wo should think, from any Melbourne,
Sydney, or Brisbane bookseller, who will aho
s.ate price... “Nesolo”: We give it up. We’ve
had to give up a Jot of things in that journal
lately—especially in the leaders. Constantly gues-
sing conundrums becomes tiresome at last
“True Blue”: Wo decline to suppose any such
thing. There’s no doubt the Commodore was
quite sincere in giving Boe Vagi a walking-stick
as a badge of authority. That the poor savage
brained his mother-in-iaw with the knob is irrele-
vant. .."Cynic ’; Tne reason you assign for so
many middle-aged policemen owning terraces of
houses is ridiculous. On the diggings, we've
known struggling but honest policemen to shep-
herd poor diggers all night, and Next./ .“Dub-
bo”: What are the loves of kitchen trulls to us?
Send to Melbourne Bulletin...." J. Ewan ”: The
line is in “Juvenal.” It reads—“Suspectustanquam
ipse suas inoenderlt cedes.” it is not the motto of
the Frazer clan....“Traveller”; So you’ve shot
hippopotami and crocodiles in Africa, tigers in
India, chamois in Europe, “ grislies ” in the Rocky
Mountains, and chased pumas over the pampas ef
Patagonia. Now, you ask us “ what sport there is
in Australia?’ Why, man, you've thrown your
time away. You’ve only the crudest notion of
what real sport is. Make one of a mob of 1 rri-
kins in Woolloomooloo about 1 a.m. some Sunday
morning. Turn a corner quickly, and come across
a single policeman with nothing but a truncheon
to defend himself. There’s fun, if you like . .
“Tyro”: Were pretty full of giving opinions
about poetry. We never get any thanks for it.
But about your verses 1 Oh, yes. They’ve a nice,
pleasant ripple. They go purling along, till the
reader forgets all the carkiog, corroding cares of
a chilly world; till all the destructive instincts of
his nature resolve themselves into one wild, lierce
desire—to call on you with an axe “ Wavorley”:
We cannot say whether any manual on etiquette
for picnics has ever been published. But during
one popular demonstration down the harbour you
will learn more about the conduct proper to such
gatherings than from any book. Try “Mrs.
W.H.” (Fort-street): The contributions you ten-
dered, with a personal assurance that they are
original, are very good, indeed. An excellent se-
lection. The items wo have liked whenever wo
have met with them in print. When did you
originate them ? The yarn about Peter Camp'uell
is apparently different. It seems to be vour own.
It is the most original of the lot. The most strik-
ing originality is in the spelling “ R.B.G."
(Cairns, Q.): The Protectorate of New Guinea
will, doubtless, be beneficial to the natives
at first. It will put a stop, for example,
to such attempts as that of Messrs. Goldie and
Cameron to get hold of about 10,000 acres at
Kabadi, valued by Armit as wortn, if in Queens-
land, about £3 per acre, lor about £;0 worth of
hatchets, knives, and handkerchiefs. But it will
come to the same thing in the Jong run. The abo-
rigines will be expatriated, e -slaved, or extin-
guished by the slower, but surer, operation of rum
and civilization, aud fe lows with not half the
“right” of Goldie, who has spent years of his life
trading on theN.G. coasts, wili get grants or cheap
purchases of their lands—Lord, help themj
A Socialist’s Letter.
[We depart from our ordinary practice to allot
space to this letter, for two reasons: One is because
it is devoid of waste phrases, and is a compact eluci.
dation of principles very little known or understood;
the other is because no other newspaper in Australia
would be likely to publish it at all.—Ed.B.']
“ Sir,— All well-wishers of the future happiness
of the human race, and all who desire the trans-
formation of society from its present * happy-go-
lucky’ condition into a bright, happy, and well-
ordered State, ought to feel gratitude towards you
for your kind and well-meaning exposition of same
of the points in the Socialistic programme. As a
Socialist, I thank you. No modern teaching has
been more misrepresented, and discussion of its
principles more studiously avoided, than Socialism.
The carrying out of its demands will seriously
affect the wealth-possessing, and at the same time
non-producing, members of society; and this is, in
short, the exact reason why information upon it is
withheld. The great public journals, the property
of capitalists, and whose foremost supporters are
among the capitalists, are opposed to it; and, as
‘ prevention is better than cure,’ they refrain from
enlarging upon Socialistic principles, with the
exception of now and then publishing some alarm-
ing rumours concerning Socialistic risings. All
great schemes for the abolition of monopoly will
meet with a like fate. Henry George’s teaching
for the abolition of monopoly in land will en-
counter, and is already daily encountering, that
fate. Mr. George’s theory does not meet with injus-
tice or opposition from the side of Socialists (Social-
ism is much older than Henry George), as corre-
spondents quoted in last issue of The Bhelktin
seem to think. On the contrary, they hail him
as the apostle of a teaching, the coming into force
of which will be a stage on the long journey to-
wards Socialism. Socialists are not mere Utopians;
they know that neither George’s nationalisation
of land scheme nor the teachings of Socialism will
be carried into practice during the present, nor,
possibly, during many coming generations. The
progress of the human race is slow, and too many
what may be termed half-measures for the alle-
viation of human distress and elevation of man-
kind divide the attention of the thinking com-
munity—Friendly Society schemes, life insurances,
local option, etc. etc. The supreme cause of the
existing unhappy state of society lies in the very
foundation of it—the existence in practice of Mal-
thus’ theory of the survival of the fittest—the ex-
propriation of the poor by the wealthy; of the
workman by the capitalist. And the fittest sur-
vives. The fittest in the competition is the capi-
talist who, aided by his capital, and aided by the
“iron law” of supply and demand which always
tends to keep wages just above starvation point,
commands the world. A concerted action of work-
men—a strike—in a particular trade may tend for
a time to Increase the price of labour in their
trade, but the consequence is an increase in the
number of that particular calling, and the irre-
pressible “iron law” of supply and demand steps
to the assistance of the capitalist, and wages again
decrease. The isolated position of Australia in
the world tends to lessen the effects of the
“iron law,” but it will be only for a time; and,
sooner or later, we will have to turn our attention
to the nationalisation of land and Socialism.
Henry George will step to the rescue of the tillers
of the soil—farm labourers, farm tenants, etc.—
and Proudhon, Carl Marx, Lassalle, the great ex-
pounders of Socialism, to the assistance of town
workers of every kind. Nothing less than the
possession, through the State, by the producers
(the workers) of the labour-saving and produce-
assisting implements and machines, is the demand
of Socialism. Instead of the present wild, reck-
less, and unorganised production—the workers at
one period slaving twelve, fourteen, or sixteen
hours, and at another walking about idly; at one
moment ruining their system by working com-
pulsory long hours, and at another wandering un-
employed about the streetfhe demand and sup-
ply would be regulated, and only so much produced
as would supply the demand. Every new inven-
tion, every new labour-saving machine, instead
of, as under the present condition of society, being
a new weapon in the hands of the capitalist, and
increasing the workers’ dependence, would be a
benefit to society at large. And labour would reap
its full award. In the Socialistic State there would
be no shareholders stepping in and carrying
away the lion’s part of the results of labour, in
the shape of big dividends, without having
done a minute's exertion to bring about
this result. Let me cite an example. There
exists in this city a large company for the
production of gas—the Australian Gaslight Com-
pany—and which, if I am correct, on an average
pays its shareholders a dividend of 20 per cent, per
annum, after laying aside a sum of money ample
for the renewal of machinery and to ensure the
permanent value of the plant, buildings, etc.
Under the Socialistic State the property of this
company would be the property of society, and
the 20 per cent, annual dividend—which, as we all
know, amounts to a neat little sum—pitta the poor
wages which the company now pays its labourers,
messengers, clerks, etc., would be the dividends,
not of capitalists, but of the said labourers, mes-
sengers, clerks, etc., who assisted injthe production
of the gas. Thus labour would reap its full award
in this instance, and likewise in all the other
branches of production. Every member of society
willing to work would be ensured against want
and poverty, and the State instead of its chief
function being the protection of property, as
it now virtually is, would develop into what it
ought to be—a providence for all its subjects,
I have just endeavoured to give a mere outline of
one of the points in the Socialistic programme,
and shall now only, in conclusion, enumerate a
few of the chief objects which the Socialists aim
at as preliminaries to the Socialistic State, and
which, lam sure, every lover of liberty will en-
dorse. They are: Free and universal education in
State schools; direct franchise for all men and
women over the age of 22; abolishment ot stand-
ing armies, and establishment of simple defence
corps; and provision by the State for the sick,
aged, and invalids. As previously remarked,
generations will pass away before Socialism will
direct the functions of Government; but already
its adherents can be counted by millions. Social-
ism is international. In the little State of Den-
mark there are several Socialistic journals, one
having a circulation of about 10,000; and on several
occasions more than 30,000 people have rallied
round the red banners there in procession; and in
Germany, with its reactionary and stringent-but
nevertheless, powerless—Antl-Sociali tic Act, no
less than sixteen prolessed Socialists take their
seat In the German tteichstag, and they represent
more than five million Socialists—men of action,
who will sacrifice—and many of them have sacri-
ficed—everything for their cause.
“ Yours, respectfully,
“SOCIALIST.”


IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, AND
cannot spare the time to pay us a -visit, or
If you are about to Furnish, and through living
in the country find It Inconvenient to leave home,
write for a copy of our 32-page Illustrated Cata-
logue. containing lists of reduced prices.
It Will Show you how Houses of various sizes
may be nicely and comfortably furnished for
various sums of money.
It Will Show you for what a small sum, under
the 20 per cent, reduction, you can buy your bed-
8t68ids>
It Will Show you the style of the Austrian Fur-
niture, and the low price to which each article la
reduced.
It Will Show you the great reductions made la
prices of cedar dining-room and bedroom furni-
ture, and
It Will also Convince you that a revolution in
prices has taken place, of which you should take
advantage.
As the Christmas Season approaches, we shall be
exceedingly busy, and it is our general request
that orders, particularly those from the conutry,
be sent in early, in order to prevent the possibility
of disappointment.
You have only to write for a copy of our book,
and it will be sent post free to your address.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
126 Qoorge-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
CUT THIS OUT.
BY cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
you will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
forces 5x-; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for S 3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 5 years I
Note the Address:
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
S84 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash Insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops Instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
reps in a little water to rinse the mouth dally,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
n
ASTHMUOUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, nna
them invaluable, as they ipstantly check the
spasm, promote sloop, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. — To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see thatbox bears^the^tffm e of WWW
VANITY FAIR.
Never compliment a woman on her good
looks. If she cannot see that your eyes acknow-
ledge her beauty, your tongue may as well save
the wear and tear of praising it ... At Marseilles, a
nun tired at and wounded a burglar who was try-
ing to enter her convent — Why, when a woman
is drinking tea, does she invariably stick her little
linger out, holding the cup-handle with the fore-
finger and thumb ? A man clutches the cup and
turns his little linger in.... At last Marlborough
House garden party, the three Princesses of Wales
wore simple grey foulards, with black sashes, and
round blacif hats ...There is no sweat in polite
society. It is cutaneous transpiration A g : rl in
Sydney is daringly original. Not because she
always wears black hose—lots do that, we are told
—but because she always has a hole in them. It is
not a little pin-rip, but a good sized disc of honest
white skin that shows; and she does it on purpose*
Competition is keen these days, and a real deter-
mined girl won’t be left behind Fans are now
often used by men in London drawing-rooms
There is a tendency to wear no more button-hole
bouquets, but to relegate them to the cads
Everybody knows how one shouts when the band
is playing, and when it suddenly stops sometimes
more is heard than intended. At a New York ball
recently, a sudden stoppage of this kind en-
abled an interested roomful of people to
hear a symmetrical little dasher in pink
patter, at the top of hei voice; “Say, Loo, look,
don’t my new bustle just hang like a daisy ! ”
If the speculator misses his aim, everybody cries
out “He's a fool,” and sometimes “He’s a
rogue.” If he succeeds they besiege his door, and
demand his daughter in marriage... .If you wear
false hair, make it no secret. It is always more
pilitic to brazen out a defect than let it be sus-
pected. If you colour your hair, vary the tint of
your dye often. It merely behoves you to look
well. There is no worse slavery than that Involved
in concealing the fact that dye is resorted to. Who
admires Sara Bernhardt the less because her wig is
manifestly what it is? Sara Bernhardt was in
1866 engaged at the Theatre at thirty shil-
lings a week. And now I If woman would only
have her lips pierced instead of her ears, a man
might do a good thing by inserting a diamond-
studded cuff-button, which would make” her very
happy, and give him a chance to get in a word
occasionally... Small Boy: “Pa, did you know ma
long before you married her ? ” Pa: “I didn’t. I
didn’t know her until long after I married her.’ ...
“In Wiltshire cricket is popular with ladies.”
Yes, but how could you call a girl “square-leg”
before a lot of people? — The imitation ice on
Christmas cards is finely ground glass. The atoms
get into the lungs of the factory girls, and kill lots
of them. So—a happy Christmas I A computa-
tion shows that out of every hundred corsets sold,
exactly one-third are either 31 or 23 in. waists,
those being most popular sizes (children’s ex-
cluded). Only 10 per cent, are 19in. waist, and
only two young women out of every hundred can
get inside 18in. stays and survive. Of course, a
much greater number of girls than 3 per cent,
can be compressed to the 18in. gauge on emer-
gency. But then that’s only a temporary pressure;
and the young man knows by experience exactly
how to regulate it—Some of the fashionable
women who bathe at Long Branch received a hard
knock. They were simply informed by the police
that they would not be aliow ed to come to the beach
unless they put more clothes on Almond nuts
are said to be the best antidote to the effects
of wine if you want to keep a clear head
Statistics show that drunkenness among women
has terribly increased in England “ You are the
kind of man that makes me hate your sex.’’
“ Good 11 require no rivals.” The latest piece of
clerical assumption is a suggestion by “ A Town
Incumbent,” that “in cases where a marriage
ought to have taken place a few months previ-
ously, such marriages should only take place at
the Registry Office, or at least that the ceremony
should only be performed in church with ‘ maimed
rites.’” At what exact stage does this most
reverend gentleman propose to draw the line ?
It was at the baptismal font, and the minister had
the baby in his arms. “What is the name?” he
asked of the mother. “ Josephine Newton.’’
“Joseph E. Newton, I baptise thee in the name
.” “ No, no,” hurriedly whispered the mother
in great alarm. “ Not Joseph E. Newton; Joseph-
ine Newton, It’s not that kind of a baby.” Said
he, delicately: “If I were to speak to you of mar-
riage after having only made your acquaintance
three days ago, what would you s iy to it ?” “ Well,
1 should say never put off till to-morrow that
which you should have done the day before yester-
day.” — A dimple is a side-track to let a grin pass
a wrinkle—A rule of art is reversed in the bur-
lesque actress. She must learn to paint before she
can draw — When a woman kisses a woman, she
does it through force of habit; when she kisses a
man, she does it through force of circumstances...
Mrs. Jollyboy: “Is Miss B llefllle at home, Tho-
mas?” Thomas; “No, mum; she was driven over
to your house this afternoon, as usual.” Mrs. Jolly-
boy; “Asusual! Why,Ihaven’tseenherforweeks,
Whom did she go with?” Thomas: “ With Mr.
Jollyboy, mum.” A Californian silver princess
fair (auburn to carroty), and somewhat direct in
speech, sat next to a mashing Briton (Poole and
perfection) at a large dinner party. Suddenly she
sneezed violently, and then, turning to her neigh-
bour, she cried: “Say, -tranger, hope I didn’t
splash youl” Women have an unconquerable
fear of cows, and about the only chance they have
of getting revenge is when they nearly knock down
the kitchen table pounding a tough beefsteak to
make it tender A certain preacher is known as
the “ satisfying preacher.” Whenever a church
begin to get a little tired of their pastor, this man
is sent for; and, after hearing a sermon or two
from him, they are satisfied—to keep (he pastor
they have People go to Europe for change:
they don’t bring any back Elderly Belle: Now,
can you guess my age?” Gallant Major: “No, I
can’t; but you don’t look it.” Professor Proctor
says the earth is still in her youth. This explains
why she goes around so much and is out so late at
nights... A young man writes: “ I send you a poem
for Poet’s Corner.” i>ll right. The poetscorner
has received and disposed of it A London firm
advertise “shoes for elopements.” Warranted not j
squeeky, you know.
Said the Regent Orleans In Spain they
ask, Is he a nobleman of the first rank?’ In
Germany, Can he be admitted into the chapters/’
In France, Is he in favour at Court?’ In Hol-
. moaa y has he? ’ And in Eng-
land, Who is that man ? ’”
Simkins was a very quiet young man, far
too bashful, Indeed, for a drapery shop, and they
asked him to attend the hosiery counter just for a
day. There was another young man whoattended
ladies, and Simkins got along fairly for a time with
male customers. But about midday, a dignified
old lady sailed in with two pretty daughters. The
other young man had gone to lunch, “ Have you
ladies hose in dark blue?” “Yes, ma'am, cer-
tainlj?; ’ and he dumped a box on the counter.
Something a little better, please,” observed the
elder daugnter; and the younger said, “ Silk, of
course. Simkins hunted round, getting red and
troubled, till he lit on the best dark blues, in silk,
the establishment could boast. “ Very nice,” ob-
served mama, ‘but—er, they come very higb, do
they not?’ “Ob, no, Madam,’ gasped Simkins,
only a little above the-a-knee, 1 think.” For a
moment there was a silence i hat could be felt, and
then as the dignified mother gathered up her par-
cels, her parasol, and her daughters, and marched
them all outot the door with a baleful frown, Sim-
kins felt he had made an error somehow, ’’’hegreat
firm of Hordern and Co. have now a vacancy
at toe hosiery counter.
A subscription has been started in England
to relieve the Neapolitan cholera distress. The
promoters, or at least some of them, are notoriety-
seeking persons, who possibly have “ decorations ”
in view. The originator of the idea is the egg-
merchant who started that toadying print, the
Whitehall Beview, to kowtow to the “aristo-
cracy.” The thousands of rich Italian monopolists
should be bled to support their poor. Who dare
assert that English charity should not begin at
home? When the Duke of Edinburgh visited Hull
the other day the local committee proposed to
spend £500 in decorations, despite the horrible dis-
tress among the people. The Duke (who Is always
liberal with other people’s money) took the hint
given by a Badical paper, and told them to dis-
tribute the £500 in charity. A few evenings after-
wards—we quote from the Newcastle Chkoniclb
—“a Sunderland lady, who kept a pig in the west
part of the town, having her suspicions aroused,
kept watch upon her stye, and was surprised at
dusk to see a man and woman approach tho trough
and scoop out the bread, etef, which had been put
in for the animal’s meal. The lady followed the
couple to their home, and after allowing a few
minutes to elapse followed them into the house,
and was surprised to discover five little children
sitting round a table and readily devouring the
food taken from tho pig’s trough.”
In here was a great gathering of
aborlglnalalsome time ago, and tho great intel-
lect of that city distinguished itself by permitting
some larrikins, or J.’s P. (we forget which, and its
immaterial, anyhow), to get some of the old blacks
shamefully drunk, so that when the court was
held, and King Croagingolong should be leading
the first set In an historic corrob. (Anglice, dawnce)
the old king was dead. He had come up from
the Gippsland country with a copy of Henry
George’s Progress in his gin's swag, and with a
deuce of a big slice of Poverty spread right
royally over the Government blankets of his tribe.
was about seventy years old; but called him-
self a hundred and eighty-nine, after the fashion
of monarchs, who alone have the sanction of anti-
quity to find a royal road to arithmetic. Before he
had a chance to tell us under which Torrens he
claimed fee-simple, or as to when the old stock
demolished their mounds, or why they had been
more thorough than Maori or Aztec or Inca, and
left not one stone upon another, the Bega boys
smothered him with gin, so that he died with his
knees up under his armpits, and laid down his
sceptre with words that ring in our ears yet. “ Lo,
here the waddy of my sires.” Such is the Bega
yarn. As a matter of fact, the old man is lesder-
writer on the Gazette now. Do we not read the
leaders ? Could anything but a waddy beat that
into our skull ?
“Enquirer” writes as follows:—“The en-
closed item is from the Evening News brevities
of the 11th inst. Can you inform me where such
watches can be purchased here ? And is it not
strange that no other metropolitan paper noticed
such a remarkable occurrence? Light-fingered
gentry are very busy just now, and such events
are therefore worth recording.” Here’s the clip
alluded to: “A watch was stolen in the pit of the
theatre last night. The loser complained in a loud
voice, and said, 4 It will be 9 in a few minutes. My
watch will strike; the sound is strong, and by that
means we will ascertain where it is.’ The thief,
terrified at this, tried to escape, and by his agita-
tion discovered himself.” We can easily explain
why no .other journal noticed such a remarkable
occurrence. The thing never happened at all. It
is simply a stale old joke, that was bald-headed
long before the close of the Old Bed sandstone
period, and it was clipped from a Melbourne ex-
change by the spirited proprietors of the Nooze,
possibly in order to save the expense attendant
on having to pay a man to write up original items,
limes are tight up there just now, and, between
removing round the corner and having to give the
fowl-houses on the model farm a coat of white-
wash, Alf. feels in duty bound to put down the
break on the expenses of the Nooze and Jeknil.
Enterprise must take a rest till the clouds roll by
and the weather clears a little.
Last Saturday week a Southern editor
came out with a brilliant article, headed “ Effects
of Bum on Pigs,” in which he declared he had
been an eye-witness of the fact of 300 hogs having
been ted with a barrel of spoiled Jamaica, which
was given to them all at once in their morning's
swili. “Their behaviour,” said the rash man,
“ was Intensely human, exhibiting at first all the
usual manifestations of jolly good fellowship, in-
cluding that advanced stage where a group were
falling up aarainst and rolling over each other, and
grunting affectionately in tones that were very
distinctly suggestive of swearing eternal friend-
ship all round. A fresh attack on the swill had the
effect of working a sad change on the spirits of
the company. First of all, an old patriarchial
boar reared up on his hind legs against the tub,
and commenced to harangue the crowd in such
offensive terms that three other excited porkers
Immediately pitched him over head first into the
grog, and began to chaw his ears and tail
off. Half a dozen of the orator's friends at
once wont to his assistance, and in a few
minutes’ time the whole hero was engaged in
a hit-as-you-please scrimmage that would have
done DOnnybrook credit even in its palmiest days.
The reeling, staggering, offensive remarks and ex-
pression of the features of fhe swine all Indicated
that alcohol had the same effect on pl#s as on men,
and that, under its influence, both stood precisely
on the same zoologies 1 level.” That night, a special
meeting of the Municipal Council was held with
closed doors. And tho golden 8un which rose on
the following Sabbath morn gazed sadly down on
tho sorrowful spectacle of that gifted editor crawl-
ing up a hollow log In his back yard, while his
Worship the Mayor and seven aldermen, shot-guns
in hand, sat on a fence opposite the office door,
waiting (as they declared) for a chance to pot the
gory wretch who had so foully vilified their spot-
less reputation. The editor’s wife, however, was
equal to the exigencies of the situation. Catching
her favourite poodle, she painted his body pea-
green. his head blue, and his tail crimson, and then
poked him out under a side gate in the direction
of tho company opposite. Two seconds later, a
wild yell of "Got ’em again, by fury I” went up
from the City Fathers, as they tore down the street
to the local chemist's. The editor’s life was saved,
and quinine sulphates, acidi hydrobromici, and
other brain-steadlers were the order of the day.
Necessity makes a country editor’s wife the mother
of much invention.
Here is something new for Milner Stephen.
Boston, U.S , is, par excellence, the Paradise of the
mind-reader, the phrenologist, the spiritualistic
medium, the clairvoyant, the magnetic medium,
the natural bone-setter, the prayer-cure, faith-
cure, touch-cure maq and woman. The latest
Bostonian novelty is the “ mind-cure Its
grand merit is its simplicity. The patient resorts
to the room of the physician, Few or no ques-
tions are asked, nothing like an examination is
made, nor any apparent diagnosis. There is no
question of tongue, pulse, or temperature. The
Eatlent is even denied the luxury of rehearsing
is complaints The physician is above all such
knowledge, 'i he two, alone in the room, sit down
some distance apart. Nothing is done, nothing is
said. The patient is not required to fix his mind
upon anything. What the doctor isthinklngabout
heaven only knows, unless he is pondering the
problem of human credulity. A half-hour passes
in silence. That is desirable. A half-hour given
up to reflection is seldom lost. The patient then
retires, without observations, without directions.
This healing process is repeated the next day and
the next, and every day for a half-hour tor two or
three weeks; and the patient is greatly relieved or
cured entirely of whatever disease he had or
imagined he had. The testimony on this point is
abundant, and from good sources. Women walk
the streets who have been bedridden for twenty
years; men hear who have heard nothing eiaoe
the war; and eyes that have been painfully askew
for years get a rectified focus. The lame leap; the
dyspeptic enjoy mince pie; the‘issues’ that havo
been worse than any in the Court of Chancery
cease.” We like this mind-cure idea. Few of tho
quacks so adored in Sydney can speak the English
language. The “ mind-cure ” would enable them
to hide their ignorance and vulgarity by keeping
their mouths shut.
Puck Almanac, 1885—A Capital Sixpen’orth I
Avoid a costive habit of body, not only
because of the attending discomfort but lest it
engender more serious consequences. Dr. Jayne's
Sanative Pills are either Laxative or Cathartic, ac-
cording to the dose, and may be depended upon to
produce healthy secretions of the Liver and
Stomach.
Puck Almanac, 1885-Look out for it 1
Times without number have the poeta
sung of the seductive tea-cup, and soothing, yet
withal harmless, coffee-urn: and to-day we find
the contemporeanous Laureate voicing tho
thoughts of thousands in his praises of the charm-
ing display of chinaware at Bray Bros., 403 and 404
Qeorge-street.*
With the advent of Summer the crowd o
promenadors on Qeorge-street is considerably
augmented, and the bright and airy dresses of the
ladies vie with the attractive show of goods ex-
hibited in the windows of many shops; none of
these latter rivalling Bray’s China Warehouse, 403
and 404 Qeorge-street.*
Puck Almanac, ’85, Illustrated, 8th December.
There are a Rreat many curious trade
marks in use now in Sydney, and a thoughtful
person could spend a profitable hour in trying to
find out their origin. Why is the “ Bugle ” used
on Foster’s Beer ? After trying a bottle, the answer
flashed across a hitherto clouded brain. Because
the beer is good enough “to blow its own
trumpet."
Mb. DdCoubot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,’*
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresf ord Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, tar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in tho Departments and
Supreme Court.*
THE NEW GUINEA PROTECTORATE.
(FROM A SKETCH BY OUR PROPHETIC ARTIST;.


Personal Items
O’Donovan Rossa’sson, aswaggering young
gentleman, is in Paris. He says he has come “to
buy dynamite.”
Prince Leiningen, strange to say, is not,
after all, to be appointed over the heads of English
officers as Commander-in-chief at the Nore.
Joseph Pike, William
Grey, and Robert O’Ken.
dall, churchwardens of
Klaraa, read, on behalf
of the parishioners, an
address to Bishop Barry,
in which they say, “It
is with feelings of pro-
found gratitude we thank
Divine Providence, who
has so graciously heard /
our prayers, and sent one
so largely gifted as your
lordship to preside over
us in this bright Southern
land.” And the Bishop,
acquiescing in the insinu-
ated influence that the
prayers of Messrs. Pike.
Co., and Parishioners had
in determining the Al-
mighty to inspire him
with the decision to come
down here for £2000 a
year, preached them a
sermon, not on sanctified
presumption and nau-
seous flattery, but on
holiness and the kingdom
of Heaven. Happy Kiama
—land of the Ghost, and
the ghost of piety I
Colonel Ingersoll has
been visiting San Fran-
cisco. Mr. Bierce — to
whom greetings ami fra-
ternity— remarks thus
about the matter in the
Wasp:— “It is too late,
ray esteemed con'empo-
raries; you may holy-roll
the eye and expand the
deprecating palm, but
Jngersoll is abroad in the
land and ye fray him not.
Attune your minds to
the malecantlng of the
ancient, immemorial song
of eternal destination and
invoke the flame. Go for
the immortal part of him
with a menace of com-
busting brimstone, the
Avhile ye afflict him with
the temporal sore trial of
your impudent and in-
fcstlvo deprecation. It
shall not avail. Convene
your dogs of religious
darkness, and let them
lay noses to his trad; but
there shall ensue among
them so sweet confusion
of tongues, and such
doublings on a straight
scent, and cross-purpose-
less runnings to and fro.
that the pursuit shall
amuse the quarry; and
in the end it shall occur
that your baying beagles
of pulpiteers tear each
other and forsake the
chase. The time for holy
hounding has gone by,
my lads, while ye slept,
and “a man may speak
the thing he will.” So
bank your tires, O pious;
the barbecue is denied
you. Roast infidel hath
an appetent and tooth-
some savour in your
mind's nostril; but while
ye sniff it. ’tis yourselves
are cooking
Give not this preachment,
Holydrone, ungentle ac-
ceptance : consider what
1 have suffered from
thine own homilies. Hist
thou not all these years
had it thine own way,
comforting thyself with
thy doctrine of eternal
daronatlo" and enjoying
thy hell? Have I not been
regularly damned by thee
fifty-two times in the
year ? Have not the
covers of thy pulpit Bible
been fisted thin to em-
phasize my demerits?
Hast thou not supported
a devil for my plaguing
and a legion of devllettes
to undo me?—me and all
who have not callosities
of the patella ? We look
to this man TugersoH for
relief from insult. He is
not too wise, nor too
learned, nor too good—he
is just right. His lips are
touched with a live coal
from the altar of com-
mon sense —he Is * under-
standed of the people.’
ignore him if thou wilt;
preach against, him if it
shall seem good to thee —
preach and preach and
preach. But he hath
draped thy lazy limbs
with ridicule, as with a
penitential garment. Vi-
sible to the mind’s eye
the dunce-cap towering
above thine anointed
pow. audible to the
spirit’s line sense the
giggle and snigger of thy
greeting among men. ’Tis
the only hell we have in
stock ; may it do thee
good.”
We are grieved to hear that Tennyson’s
new book consists of “ a simple dramatic study.”
and contains no poem on the late Duke of Albany,
Mr. Andrew Ward, an opulent Kentish
hop-grower, Is said to have just eloped to Aus-
tralia with a pretty gipsy girl employed on his
ostate.
Princess Dolgorouki, the late Czar’s para-
mour, now lives in Paris, She has an immense
fortune, which the “martyred Alexander” sensi-
bly invested for her out of Russia.
The latest explafaation of the Queen’s in-
terference with tme morganatic marriage of the
Grand Duke of Hesse is that she wants “dear
Louis ” to marry the Duchess of Albany.
Someone one day remarked to Charles
Dickens on “the wickedness of the world.”
"True,” answered Dickens; “and what a satis-
faction it is that neither you nor I belong to it.”
Lady Colin Campbell, who recently got a
divorce under such extraordinary circumstances,
has been trying hard to induce some London news-
paper to appoint her war-correspondent in Egypt!
And yet there was in her divorce case no co-
respondent.
The first casualty in the Nile force con-
sisted of Private Cash, an officer’s servant, being
carried off by a crocodile while washing at the
edge of the river. This Is a veritable allegory. The
crocodile swallowed Private Cash. The expedition
will swallow Public Money.
While one of his pretty little nieces is
struggling with the mop and the pail for 7s. a
week in Queensland, there is a magnificent monu-
ment erected in England, by the greatest lady in
the world, over the spot where the wealthy John
Brown’s body lies mouldering in the ground.
From the just-published Malmesbury Au-
tobiography:—“ On one occasion a friend of his
came for his adviee under the following circum-
stances : ‘ Mr. has threatened to kick me when-
ever he sees me in society. What am I to do if he
comes into the room?’ ‘Sit down,’ replied Lord
Alvanley.”
Alexander Russell, when tendered a testi-
monial by Scottish Liberals, asked a friend
whether ho should take it. The answer was: “If
it is five thoosan’ poon, my mon, tak’ it; if it’s
much less thanflve|thoosan’, dinna tak’ it; and say
you wouldna ha’ tak’n it if it had been fifty
thoosan’.”
Captain F. S. Dumaresq de Carteret-Bisson
(of the 1st Regiment Royal Jersey Light Infan(ry),
who lectured the other day before the English
Balloon Society, as a prelude to the celebration of
the centenary of the first balloon ascent in Great
Britain, said he could recall with pleasure the as-
sembly of the first company of Volunteers in the
city of Melbourne, some 35 years ago, having
acted as drill instructor on that occasion.
After all the fretting and the toil of a long
life spent on the tented field, and amid the har-
rowing cares of State; after the excitement of
tumultuous debate, and the necessity t f or ceaseless
vigilance in conducting the diplomatic business of
a falling nation; and after long and wearisome
negotiations on the other side of the world, argu-
ing himself so blue in the face that it broke out in
his button-hole, poor Tawhiao has passed peace-
fully away—from the newspapers.
It is stated that the Irish Invincible in-
formers who were not allowed to land here have
found a refuge in the Banda Oriental, near the
Swiss colony on Rio Negro. At Buenos Ayres, in
a public house, one of them boasted of his connec-
tion with the Invlnoibles’ Society, and the authori-
ties at once expelled the gang, some of whom had
been found employment. They appealed to the
British Government for protection, and arrange-
ments were made with a ranchero on the Rio
Negro to take them and give them work.
Someone in England was very insolent to
Bonnor. "Look here, sir,“[observed the Cornstalk
Infant, “ I was born with a good temper, and, with
the blessing of Heaven, I’ll never lose it. I hone
I shall never so far forget myself as to hit anybody
in earnest. One skelp from this,” continued the
champion slogger, doubling up a hand as big as a
shoulder of cross-bred mutton, “ means man-
slaughter—it simply means going home on a
shutter.” The “other man” looked at Bonnors
fist, and then at Bonnor’s face. Then he crawled
away.
They are having a grand festival down at
Portland Bay, where, fifty years ago on the 19th
November, Henty landed with a few companions
from Tasmania. Fittingly enough, the service of
joy is called a jubilee. The white race have good
reasons for calling it by that name, But it is not
evident in what sense the black race can fall in
with the exhibition of ecstatic satisfaction. Never-
theless, the superintendents of the stations for
aborigines have been officially directed to send to
Portland contingents of blacks to dance a cor-
roboree in celebration of the occasion. The sweet-
ness and light of tho arrangement are highly
creditable to the heads and hearts of the Victorian
authorities.
The Christian Young Men of Melbourne
would have nothing to do with the sinfulness of
horse-racing, so they brought their girls with
them and went down to Queenscliff on Cup day.
There were about 1900 of them altogether, not
counting the parsons. Possibly the total number
who fled from sin could not have been much less
than a couple of thousand, as where the girls were
so plentiful the roll-up of parsons must have been
extremely good. They all, taken together, made
a nice sight, sitting there on the rocks looking into
the deep, blue sea, with the white crests coming
up and the sea-gulls diving down. Mr. Marsh was
there, and the Rev. C. Banning, and the Rev. J.
Gardner—but It would take too long to give the
names. They were all there, sitting on the rocks.
And they enjoyed the day—and so did the girls, it
is a nice thing to flee from sin, isn’t it ? Especially
to flee to Queenscliff with a crowd of girls, and sit
on the rocks all day, looking into the deep, blue
sea. Fleeing from sin is nothing to pull faces at
when It takes that shape.
Sbah Jehan, the
“ King of the World,’’
against whom England is
sending a force of 4000
officers and men, under
Sir Oriel Tanner, claims
that he is able, from cer.
tain magical secrets in
his exclusive possession,
to turn the contents of
the British cartridges into
water. The Shah derives
most of his revenue from
assafoetida, so that h e
may, in Chinese fashion
barricade the valley with
bad smells, and entrench
himself behind ramparts
of abominable odour,
relying, as the skunks
do, upon his own odious
personality to evade re-
prisals. But, despite these
peculiarities, Shah Jehan
may give us some trouble,
just as did the Ngas, a
tribe whose tactics were
altogether regulated by
the flight of red cocks,
and whose strategy was
dictated by the manner
in which medicine men
puffed little reeds—who
fought by omens, made
their military disposi-
tions according to aug-
ury, confided the fortunes
of war to rufous poultry,
and hazarded battle upon
the fortuitous direction
of grass-stems. Yet they
terribly bothered our
regulars, and though
they were defeated, and
surrendered, and made
peace, they gave us no
tribute’more substantial
than the barrels of dew
which the Moon-folk paid
to the Sun-folk, or the
five hundred oyster saells
which the Men-in-the
Whale had to annually
render to the Salt-Fish-
People. When the Lili-
putians defeated the Ble-
fuscudians, the latter
solemnly promised by an
international treaty to
abstain for evermore
from breaking their eggs
at the little end—and this
was about as much as
the satisfaction which
Lord Ripon got out of
the Ngas, all their super-
stitious nonsense not-
withstanding.
He was young, and
stood six one in his stock-
ings. His run was on
the Darling Downs, and
his annual income was
about £13.000. The family
at “the Point” thought
“ their Tottie ” had him.
He had committed him-
self, and in writing, too;
but he had at his back a
clever man from the
Works who pulled him
out of the trouble.
Tottie’s parents were in
the van of the ultra-
fashionable religionists,
and “ her old man ” went
arm-in-arm with “ the
vicar.” Our friend from
the Downs wrote to
Tottie’s lynx-eyed
mother, who had made
the match and had noticed
his eooling off : "I feel
that my affection for
Tottie has waned,
through circumstances
over which I have no
control. But I am still
willing to marry her, if
you Insist.” Mrs. re-
venue replied that she
“ must insist—unless Mr.
.Tumbuck did something
veryhandgom o for Tottie,
to whom this would bo
a cruel disappointment.
“Verv well,” rejoined
Jumbuck, “let Tottie
meet me at the Registry
Office, at 11 am. on
Thursday fortnight.
They implored him on
their bended knees to
go to church, and be
married by the vicar.
But he wouldn’t budge,
and they dared not, when
they heard all round town
that Mr. Jumbuck ana
their Tottie were going
to be married at the
Registry Office, and the
vicar came and askea
whether it was true that
Mrs. Parvenue would
countenance one of her
children being wedded in
such a Pagan way. N°;
J umbuck was inexorable*
Tottie, and not he. broke
the engagement, ana
there was no breach of
promise action.
Lord Byron, though affecting a sublime
contempt for the customs of his native country,
always insisted upon having a goose for dinner on
Michaelmas Day. Once, when he was in S P** D ’ “
procured a live goose several days before the re-
currence of that anniversary. Thinking that u
was not quite fat enough, he commenced to teen
it, and by the time that Michaelmas Day armeo.
the poet had cultivated so great an attachment ioi
the bird that he had not the heart to kill it, ana
was then content to honoqy the Michaelmas cus-
tom more in the breach than in the observance.
At Milan, Don Giovanni Sartorio, a Rp 1
Catholic priest, left instructions by his will t “* t
body should be burned, and, shrewder than uari-
b <ldi, ordered that, in case of non-compliance wit
his wishes, the heir should forfeit the inhentanc .
As soon as this became known, the eleven pne®
who had been retained to perform the funer
service roturnedltheir fees, and the priest s rema hv
were committed to the flames unaccompan’ea j
any Christian rite. Why? The priests suielydiani-
think that by thus burning their brother a boa/ 0
Baker’s Dilemma.
A MAN SHORT-OR, WANTED A SECONDER.


earth the infernal regions would be robbed of a
tenant ?
Dear old Milner Stephen was in'Wellington
(N,Z.) a week or two ago curing all diseases of the
human system right and left. He has a new way
now. He sells his photo, to the afflicted poor, and
he tells the lame, the halt, and the olind to gaze on
that photo, with all their might several times a
day: ‘‘and it will do you just as much good,” says
the dear old man, “ as if I were there in person to
relieve you.” Should the aged Stephen lire to be
as old as Mount Cook is now, we take it he will
never utter a greater truth than that all the time.
We never heard a truer saying than that since we
left the Ark several years ago.
The most fashionable man in the Southern
capital at the present time is Mr. James Mlrams.
The style and figure of the society man varies like
all things else under the sun. Time was when
he had to be six-feet-six. with a face like Mars and
sinews like gas-pipes. Time was, again, when he
had to be handsome like Adonis. Now he hasn’t
to be either big or handsome. If it gets out that a
man has a whole lot of shares in a pawn-office and
is pious, he is at once voted a society man. James
Mirams is undoubtedly a society man, and takes
the initiative now in asking the Premier to adjourn
the House over all occasions where a swallow-tail
can be worn.
The only Hardill, of the ’Ome of ’Ope for
Giddy Females, was explaining “how the money
goes” to an interested audience, a few Sundays
ago in ths Domain, when one of the bystanders,
being of an enquiring turn of mind, asked how it
was that, when the evangelist went out on his
mission of “soul-saving” to Orange or somewhere,
he spent the funds of the Barmy on first-class
railway fare. Then the ’Ope of Fallen Women
upended himself, opened a cavernous mouth, and
replied, “ Well, I’ll tell you the reason. I never
rode second-class on a railway in my life, and I
wouldn’t do it now for the best man in New South
Wales.” "Just so,” remarked an Irreverent on-
looker; “he’s like one o’ these ’ere Monaro stock-
men, he is; he’d rather ride to ’ell than walk to
’eaven.”
In tbe parish register of a church in the
South of France is read the following entry:
“Parish of St. Just-le-Croix. Marie Durand, born
on the 16th of March, 1761. Sponsor, M. Pierre
Froment; baptised by M. le Cur<5 Donadieux.”
Marie is still living, and is consequently in her 134th
year. She has seen eleven successive Govern-
ments. In 1779 she married a blacksmith, by whom
she had two children, one of whom died recently,
aged 87. In 1788 she became the wife of a recruit-
ing-sergeant, and followed the occupation of can-
tiniere, taking part in the campaigns of the re-
public and the empire. Her second husband was
killed at the battle of Waterloo, at which she also
was present. The oldest inhabitants «f St. Just
well remember her return to her native village in
1815. She now lives at the expense of the com-
mune, and is well cared for.
The Orangemen of Portrush recently pre-
sented Lord Enniskillen with an address of the
usual type, and this venerable old mopoke, in re-
ply, “ remarked upon the singular coincidence
that they had come to him on the thirtieth anni-
versary of an accident which befel a train in which
he and some hundreds of Protestant excursionists
were travelling, on which occasion none of the
Protestants were hurt, but two Roman Catholic
railway porters were killed.” Is it any wonder that
there is a feeling of bitter contempt amongst Irish-
men for these venerable imbeciles, when a peer
can talk such miraculous twaddle, and yet look for
tbe respect of the people ? This kind of ignorant
and supercilious gabble does more to embitter the
mass of the people than the most repressive legis-
lation. It would be better for Ireland and the
world had it been the anniversary of a day when
“two Catholic railway porters ” miraculously es-
caped, and one peer didn’t.
So the woman was really at the bottom of
it, after all. In Lord Malmesbury’s recently-pub-
lished autobiography-one of the most diverting
books of political and social gossip that the world
hasseenjfor many a day—it la related howlthe fatal
war was declaied against Germany in 1870. Napo-
leon III. was disposed to accept the abandonment
of the Hohenzellern candidateship to the throne
of Spain as an end to the quarrel with Berlin. But,
if Lord Malmesoury correctly reports the Due de
Grammont, this is what took place in the decisive
council at St. Cloud. After some discussion, the
Empress made a strong and excited address, de-
claring that “ war was inevitable if the honour of
France was to be sustained.” She was immediately
followed by Marshal Le Boeuf, who. in the most
violent tone, threw down his portfolio and swore
that if war was not declared he would give it up
and renounce his military rank. [Well, she wanted
war, and—she got it.—Ed. B ]
He has died again, at a place near Hokitika
in New Zealand. Who has died again? Well,
Ahaseurus, Salathiel, or by what names the man
is rightly called—(there is a tinge of the Miltonic
in this expression: it is simply a coincidence of
style: our style has been frequently compared to
that of Milton: Milton is dead}— seemingly passed
away into everlasting Nirvana a few weeks ago, at
ihe (supposed) age of 138. But did he really pass
away 7 Pshaw I he ha* been doiug this thing and
getting cheap obituaiies from every paper pub-
lished during the last eighteen hundred years. The
Panem ktCikcenses praised him; the Bum reveres
him. We think it is high time this imposture was
exposed, luthis last instance he was called Korche,
and a fine old liar ho was. Used to tell how he and
his tribe came to New Zealand on the back of the
Fish-God about a million moons ago. But he has
passed away now —passedaway from New Zealand.
He will turn up again one of days—and, pro-
bably, in the Legislative Council.
It is well that somebody has been making
an effort to put the Celtic and Saxon vocalist on a
level with the Italian, some of our amoitious
friends thought a good way to compass the end
was to add an Italian, termination to their vener-
able patronymics. This plan was found slippery,
however. The name was wont to peel off at try-
ing occasions, and the audience used to be startled
into the recollection that the voice which warbled
was only a Scotchman’s after all. What was really
wanted was an invention to supply voices. It is
for that invention Dr. Moffat comes in for praise.
He has found that it is the peroxide of hydogen in
the atmosphere which gives the softness and
sweetness to Italian voices. Having made this
discovery, ho worked hard and in a few months
had a jar full up to the neck of peroxide. This he
voes about now selling. He expects to do a splen-
did trade with companies sailing to Australia. It
is a pity he hadn’t some ready when Kignold and
Allison were making late engagements.
Sir Arthur Palmer is credited as being a
man who is blessed with a memory that has never
known a day’s sickness, and which can hang on to
the reminiscence of a pecuniary loss as long as
even the mind of a master tailor. A few days ago,
he was up in the Pine Hill district, and seated next
to him at dinner was a bumptious Blackall store-
keeper, whom Palmer did not recognise for some
time. At last the sand-and-sugar dispenser said:
“Don’t you recollect me, Sir Arthur? I used to
drove for you somewheres about seventeen year
ago.” Turning slowly round, the old ’un scanned
his questioner from the topmost patch of pomatum
on his head down to the toes of his boots, and back
again, and then severely replied: “Oh, yes, I re-
member you well. Your name is Blank. I sent
you down the Burdekin once to take delivery of a
lot of rams, and I ought to know you now—you
brought me back nothing but a condemned flock
of ‘rigs.’” Just here, the quondam drover
thought he heard someone calling him outside,
and so he abruptly closed the conversation.
Captain Dudley, of the yacht Mignonette,
who slipped his penknife into the jugular vein of
Master Parker owing to the cravings of hunger
and the scarcity of provision shops on the broad
Pacific, has made a request to the police authori-
ties, which shallow-paied moralists describe as
“ghastly.” The unfortunate skipper has expressed
a wish to have the fatal little penknife returned to
him as a “ keepsake.” Now, we fail to perceive
anything ghastly about that. If it is honourable
pride in an old warrior to hang up over his mantle-
piece a sabre rusty with the blood of some poor
devil whose death conferred no earthly benefit
upon the slayer, surely there isu’t much barm la
Dudley cherishing the remembrance of a small
weapon which was instrumental in saving himself
and his companions from a horrible doom. The
boy Parker died that three men might live, and the
thirst for blood which animated those shipwrecked
sailors was a good deal more understandable than
the same craving as exhibited by “gallant British
soldiers ” against unarmed adversaries—in the
Soudan. All who are in favour of the motion,
signify the same by holding up the right leg.,
After a long and fitful life, two of the
sturdiest pioneers that ever slung a shovel or
humped a swag have just stepped out to prospect
for the “signs” on the Golden Shoah, In the
flush times of Forbes and Hill End, few dirt*
rooters were better known than Bob Henry and
Ned Carroll, but although the worthy pair struck
it rich on both fields, the money seemed to go far
easier than it was ever gained. Bob and Ned had
been “pardners” way back as far as they could
remember, and amongst other slices of luck dis-
covered the famous Pilgrims’ Rest mines in south
Africa, and in 1877 were the first discoverers of
silver on the border of New South Wales and
Queensland. They travelled the world, revoking
in the risky excitement ot a pioneer digger’s life;
and now we learn the sturdy old “ pardners ” have
been found side by side on the Sierra Nevada
Mountains, with their “har raised,” and their
plucky hearts for ever stilled by the bullets of a
skirmishing gang of Apache Indians. Together
they lived; together they died; and when the re-
cording angel cleans up the wash-dirt of their
lives, the result ought to pan out a good thing for
Bob Henry and Ned Carroll.
The challenge football drop-kick was won
by Mr. F. Lee, Waratah Club, Sydney, who skied
the leathern sphere 69 yards, and is now the cham-
pion kicklst of the colony. The coming young
man snould keep his eve on that lot. In course of
time the lusty Lev will develop into a vigorous,
determined Paterfamilias, whose big girls will
pass the best part of the starry nights hanging
over the garden wall and covering the dreaded
approach of the old man with the open spots be-
tween the trees. Then the lover, “sighing like
furnace, with a woeful ballad made to his mistress’
eyebrow,” will troop along, swarm over the back
gate, and, encircling the blushing maid’s equator
with his trembling arm, exclaim: “ Oh, that it were
ever thus, my soul’s adored! Thou art all fair,
and there is none in the land like thee. Thine eyes
are twin stars, shooting down ” That’s as far
as he’ll get by land for the six months that follow.
“Shooting down” will be the old man’s cue to
enter upon the scene; and, having crept within
range, all the fire and energy of bis youthful foot-
ball davs will rush into his right leg, and the next
instant he’ll catch the gentle Romeo a kick under
the gable ends Of his pantaloons that’ll shoot him
up even higher than the price of house-rent in the
city. And this reminds us that the very latest
thing in the way of courtship disturbers is an in-
vention called the torpedo boot. It has a charge
of nitro-glycerine in its toe, and a detonating cap
on the outside. When it strikes fair under the
coat-tail eaves, it lifts the young man clean over
the three adjoining counties, and gives his weeping
“ gurl ” a capital idea of what the battle of Water-
loo was like when it got into full blast. Courting
will soon be as risky a game as book-hawking or
Sunday boating in our “lovely ’arbour.”
Alderman Nottage, the new Lord Mayor
of London, is about 55 years of age, is a Liberal in
politics, and proprietor of the ’London Stereo-
scopic Company.” He is a man of the ordinary
aldermanic type, and his inaugural speech reeks
with evidences of the most vulgar kind of John
Bullism. He said, for instance, “ We don’t want
any foreign philosophers amongst us ”—an asser-
tion which forcibly recalls the celebrated speech of
the Sydney alderman who once averred that “ We
don’t want any baths. Look at me-I haven’t had
a bath for twenty years.” Mr. Nottage went on to
say that “they all knew he was prepared to defend
the rights and privileges of their grand old Cor-
poration and of the Livery Companies— i.e , he was
heart and soul opposed to Mr. Gladstone’s London
Government Bill, which sought among other things
to suppress the extravagance and gluttony of the
over-fed bauble-worshippers who, while the Lon-
don poor die like fluky sheep, spend hundreds of
thousands of pounds in corporation gorges. A re-
tiring sheriff, one Smith, the only member of cor-
poration who had favoured the bill in question,
was hooted and hissed by the aldermen, and left
the hall amid yells ot “ Traitor!”
That interesting young thing. Miss Finney
alias Forte&cue, who is sueing Lord Garmoyle for
£20,000 for breach of promise, recently appeared
at a Scarborough theatre. The local editor thus
wrote:—“As for ourselves .... we should
never tire of so fair, so delicate, so lovely a Galatea
—so exquisite a realisation of a dream that savours
less of earth than heaven. . . . The exquisite
representation to the eye, of a poem sweet in the
extreme, created a joy so perfect that we felt the
introduction of the comic element—essential, we
suppose, by way of contrast—as a hard anomaly
that sadly marred our pleasure. We seem through
her to be holding communion with the mind from
which spra 1 g the almost divine creation
Its realisation, as in the case before us, once im-
pinged through the eve upon the brain, becomes
indelible. It cannot lie erased. It will never be
obliterated. The sweet and lovely actress has
come has gone, but, to the poet’s eye [which
poet ?], bis mental vision, his inborn perceptive
powers, she Is, she must, ever be present.” It's a
thundering good job for Lords Garmoyle and
Cairns that Miss Finney’s case won't be tried be-
fore a Scarborough jury with the local editor as
foreman.
A frightful foreign plot has been hatching
away for some time In Australasia, and no one
knew anything about it. We have been exercised
by the annexation of New Guinea, the Franco-
Chinese war, the Egyptian Question, and other
matters, so much that we have not noticed what
was going on under our noses. And we should
have gone on not noticing, had it not been for
Messrs. Brown and Lyne, Tasmanian legislators.
A Signor Bernacchl having applied for a lease of
Maria Island to rear silkworms and grow vines
thereon, Mr. Brown and Mr. Lyne discovered that
silkworms and vines were frauds, and that the
Signor’s real intention was to secretly fortify the
island, arm it with enormous Italian guns, turn it
into an Australian Gibraltar, and, with the assist-
ance of Italian men-of-war, “ declare war against
Tasmania.” It appearing, however, on examination,
that Signor Bernacchi was,in reality, only one of the
Milanese opera singers lately imported by Messrs.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, who, having
failed to satisfy a Sydney public, was returning to
his original business, there is every probability of
his getting the lease of Maria Island. And if he
would take with him there a few of our artists of
different nationalities who have misjudged the
proper bent of their talents, he would do a
national good.
When any young lady at Potis’ Point or
the Glebe perceives ihe postman staggering up
her pa’s carriage-drive, groaning beneath the
weight of a 4000-pave volume—when, further, she
sees stamped on the grey paper post-cover of the
aforesaid volume the magic word “Sandringham,”
or “ Marlborough House,” or a bunch of feathers
with “ Ich Dien ” below—when, moreover, she, on
opening the bulky tome, finds that it really has
come all the way from England, and has been pre-
sented to her “ with the compliments of the
authors”—let her have ready and at hand her
vinaigrette and twenty drops of sal-volatile in
water. Prince Albert Victor and Prince George of
Wales have written a booh. “From the first day
(September 17,1879) of their cadetship on board the
Bacchante they started a journal and kept a dally
note-book, wherein were cnronicled the sights and
strange things that they encountered during their
trin, in 1879-80, In the Medlterranian, back to
Madeira, and on to the West Indies. The same
idea was kept up during the little run to Bantry
Hay in July, 1880; and again when the Bacchante
left Spithead on Tuesday, September 14,1880, for a
long voyage, and reached home, after a two years’
cruise, on August 7, 1883. As may be anticipated,
the jottings during these voyages by the young
Princes make up an Interesting chronicle, which
has been gone over, and some additions made, by
their ‘governess,’ the Rev. John Neale Dalton.
The book is entitled “The Cruise of H.M 8. Bac-
chante, 1879-83,” and is to be published by Mac-
millan ; it will be in two volumes, and will be fully
illustrated with maps, plans, and illustrations.”
We have been favoured with advance-proofs of
both matter and illustrations, and shall have muon
pleasure In putting an abstract of the same be-
fore our readers in a week or two.
Sir Julius Vogel, the financial wizard of
New Zealand, hasn’t a leg to stand on—that Is to
say, literally speaking. Financially, and as a poli-
tician, his standing is at present at a premium, but
physically it is a Jong way below par. He has
completely lost the use of his legs, and can’t even
kick a Civil servant out of oflice, except by deputy.
Rut he is far from being a helpless fixture lor all
that. He has a chair, which was built on three
wheels to suit his infirmity, in which he moves
about in the N.Z. House of Parliament with con-
siderable activity. He sets it l.i motion by turn-
ing a handle fixed in a small horizontal wheel in
front of him, and when he puts on a full head of
steam he traverses the lobbies and passages like a
young express out on a holiday, and he is quite as
dangerous to hon. members who get in his way as
a well-bred nurse-maid with a perambulator could
possibly be. Many are the stories told of hair-
breath escapes, of ruin to their shins and gouty
toes,by legislators who found themselves in his
way, and had to jump in the air to escape injury
as he passed. These complaints, somehow, always
came from members ot the Opposition. The Hon.
W. J. Steward, member for Waimate, was one day
standing in the lobby and as usual occupying all
the passage. He was holding forth to several
members on the subject of one of Sir Julius Vogel’s
Bills to which he objected. Mr.Stewardisatallman,
particularly about the legs; and as he warmed with
his eloquence, he spread himself out across the
passage till he looked like a gigantic clothes-pe*
split up to the neck. “1 take my stand here,”
said he, “ and I warn Vogel that he must not ride
roueh-shod over me.” Talk of the devil—and, as
a matter of course, you know what to expect; and
just as he uttered these words, Vogel in his chair
shot round a corner behind him, and popped
through between his legs—riding not over but
under him—so quickly that poor Steward collapsed
and fell backward with fright and split his things,
at the same time sustaining a severe concussion.
There was a great shout of laughter from the
other M.P.’s, of course; and one who witnessed
the affair says he will never forget the excited and
astonished expression of old Steward’s face as be
went dowb, or the peculiar leer Vogel threw back
over his left shoulder as he disappeared round a
corner, alter going through this novel Parliamen-
tary performance.
• • •
The Glasgow Scottish Land Restoration
League has subscribed £1000 to bring over Mr.
Henry George from America fora lecturing tour
throughout Scotland That big white elephant,
the London Albert Memorial, is last decaying. It
was ‘allrot” from the first..;
Political Points
Aooording to the Queensland Minister for
Lands there will, under the new bill of that colony,
be 20,000,000 acres open for selection—of which,
however, only one quarter will be actually avail-
able to the selector.
They are making South Australia politi-
cally attractive. Payment of members—no dis-
ability to Government contractors to sit in Par-
liament—and privilege against arrest on Civil
process,—should induce a few gentlemen to leave
Sydney for Adelaide.
New South Wales intending selectors in
the North-West who will be block, u by th« divi-
sions under our Bill will now only have to step
across the border into Queensland. Mr. Dutton
basin his Land Bill finally scheduled an aiea > x-
tending to within 60 miles of the South Austral u i
border as open for selection.
The rapprochement between Germany and
Russia, symbolised by the meeting and kissing of
the Emperors, was finally cemented on 24th Bopt.
by German students in Saratow, Russia, with
brickbats. Ten persons were killed, and 30
seriously wounded. The brotherly love of Slav
and Teuton embracing each other with a death-
grip on throat!
For Mr. Dibbs’s careful consideration. The
Property-tax Bill introduced into the New Zealand
Legislature provides for levying a tax from the
4th April last of %ths of a penny in the pound on
all property and li-3rds for each hundred pounds’
worth of premiums received by Insurance Com-
panies. The word “ property,” in addition to the
meaning given to it by former Acts, is to extend
to and include every interest of any kind, whether
such is or may be the subject of contract, or is
capable of being valued or estimated for any
purpose whatever.
There are many symptoms by which the
approaching opening session of the New South
Wales Parliament can be felt. Mrs. Do Bouilil,
who keeps a private board and lodging house, was
seen to look quite merry at breakfast on Wednes-
day morning. She afterwards confidentially ex-
plained : “You see, my dear, I have young gentle-
men connected with the Press staying with mo,
and their appetites is awful. But while Parlia-
ment is sitting their papers provides their teas,
and I hope the country don’t suffer much, but I
never missed any forks or spoons.”
We weary of the extreme political stagna-
tion exhibited at the close ot our elections. All
we hoar about the contest is Jack M’Elhone or
A. G, Taylor standing on tho balcony of an hotel,
and, with the steadiness engendered by high politi-
cal conviction and tho uearbSt pillar, announce
that “ Keshult, thish, leck'nsh, shatisfac’ry, every-
body. Who’s going to have one with me? eome
’long.” In Croatia, however, after a defeat in tho
last elections, the Opposition fought the police and
gendarmerie, and several people were killed and
injured. Now, there's something exciting in that
way of finishing up a day. Borne life.
Mr. Stoi ry is trying to get n Bill through
the Victorian Parliament to prohibit tho use of
swivel guns, and a deputation has waited on Mr.
Berry in the interests of tho swivel gunners. Let
us suggest a compromise. Declare an open season
In New South Wales, during which members of
Parliament, aspirants to Parliament, and orators
generally may bo shot. Then give a banquet for
a land sale or the start of anew fire engine, or
something, and issue general invitations to the
public men aforesaid. And then the time for tho
swivel guns will come. Of course, the funeral ex-
penses Aould be heavy, but Niniau Melville, If
among the survivors, might tender at per body.
Mr. Dodson has carried an amendment to
the Tasmanian Government's Electoral Bill pro-
viding that, in case of a dissolution of Parliament
and consequent general election, all elections must
be held on one and the same day. Government
onposed the amendment, as it would have the
effect of keeping “good men ” out ot Parliament.
In other words, when a Minister was defeated he
would not be able to “try again,” nor would
Ministers be in a position to manipulate elections
to their advantage. If a provision like that car-
ried by Mr. Dodson had been in force in New
South Wales when the Coalition Ministry faced the
country, Parkes would have had to stay out of
Parliament —unless, indeed, Whereat retired in his
favour.
The Queen will, during the session of 1885,
apply to Parliament to vote an allowance of £10,000
per annum for Prlnco Albert Victor, who will be
of age on January 8th. An Increased allowance
will be asked for when the Prlnoj marries. The
possibly future Queen of England, Prince Victor’s
bride-prospective, is already indicated in the per-
son of the Princess Marie of Belgium, who is—
Loyal Orange Lodgeman will please howl here—
a Roman Catholic. But it is understood that in the
event of the wedding being settled, the Princess
will become—here Loyal Orange Lodgemen will
recover breath—a Protestant. It would be alto-
gether infra dig. for a Queen of England, when
she dies, to go to burning hell, as ail misguided
Papists do.
Reading the “reports,” for they cannot be
called descriptions, or the declaration of a British
Protectorate over New Guinea, with the costume
and speech of the Commodore and tho conduct of
the natives, one thinks of the scene in “Tom
Cringle’s Log,” when the faithful Pearl introduced
Aaron Bang to the Corornantees in the memorable
words: “Coromantee Sheik Cocoloo kockernorny
populorum jlx,” which is, being interpreted, “Be-
hold the Sultan Cocoloo, the groat ostrich, with a
leather in his tall like a palm branch; fight for
him, you sons of female dogs.” The Commodore,
too, in point of dress did net improve on Mr. Bang,
who had on the uniform coat of a captain in the
Jamaica militia, no trousers, and was fanneo with
the lid of a wadding barrel. On the whole, the
ceremonies on board The Wave were quite as im-
pressive and rather more in the interests of man-
kind than those at Port Moresby.
Loo Heydon thinks New South Wales
doesn’t do enough in return to the mother country
for what she has done for us. Let us think, now,
what has the mother country done for us. She
gave us in the past convictism and as corrupt an
official system as the heart of a Pelham, an Eldon,
or a Liverpool could conceive; while in the pre-
sent she palms off on us as much shoddy as we’re
fools enough to take. Moreover, she has ribbons
and tinsel for Australian politicians base enough
to sacrifice Australian for English Interests; and
liberal commission for Australian administrators
who put big contracts in her way. She would give
us her “ approvers ” if we would accept them; and
her “ younger sons ” for our best billets if we
would let ’em have ’em. She certainly keeps a
naval squadron on the Australian station, but ’tis
to protect her own trade, and in the event of war,
to help attract hostilities away from her own
coasts. We could do uncommonly well withoift
England; we should Indeed, be lar safer without
her; and perhaps it is the very leellng that such
would be the case which prompts not a few who
perceive the danger of the connection not to urge
Ian Immediate cutting of the painter. To leave
even a selfish old parent to totter about alone
would look so dodgasted mean.
AE/TFUL.
“HERE, UNCLE, THIS IS THE PICTURE I DREW.”
“ BLISS ME, MARY, YOU DON’T SAY SO! I’D NO IDEA YOU HAD TALENT THAT WAY."
( NB.—She drew it in the Art Union.)


Professional Directory.
HISCOCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gaknkb and Musqrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, vleo. L. Goodman.
EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS
of
THE WORKMAN.
Brilliant Reception of
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER,
the acknowledged Sydney favourite,
Mr. J, R. GREVILLE.
the ever-popular Comedian.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING until further
notice, at 8 sharp,
THE WORKMAN.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s,: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, and Every Evening.
Grand Production, for the llrst time on any stage,
by MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
Of LUSCOMBE SEARKLLB’S NEW OPERA
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast
Miss Grade Plaisted Miss Frances Seville
Miss Minnie Desmond Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Chas. Harding Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. F. Wentworth Mr. Oily Deerlng
Mr. A. Davies Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUSCOMBE SEARELLE.
Leader HERR KUSTER.
BOBADIL. BOBADIL. BOBADIL.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein's
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Wtbbrt Reeve.
Immense success of Ireland’s Great Comedian and
Versatile Actor. Arrangements having been made
with Mr. Charles M’Mahon for the engagement of
Grattan Riggs as Shaun the Post, In “ Arrah-na-
Pogue.” To-night. “ Arrah-na-Pogue.” Saturday
next the Legendary Drama, “ The Fairy Circle.”
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Rainer.
Manager and Lecturer.. .. Mr. P. Stuart.
TO-NIGHT.
RAINER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR I
AMERICAN WAR !
AMERICAN WAR 1
jy|"ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET
Herr and Mme. Vogrich’s
FIFTH GRAND
SOIREE MUSICALE!
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 35th,
and every following Tuesday.
Hefr dnd Madame VOGRICH will be supporter
by the best avadable talent.
Subscription for the Series of 8 (Eight) Concerts,
£1 10a.
Plan of Hall find Tickets at W. H. Paling and
Go.’s (Limited), 056 George-street.
N
N
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
Supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
■nring floor, &c. No decorations required.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
tTURST OPEN DATE, MONDAY. JANUARY
JD 16th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OP ARTS HALL,
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is In the centre of the town.
It is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
600 people, and bus a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ) also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
MISS JENNY SHARPE
is open to Engagement for
BURLESQUE, OPERA BOUFFE, DRAMA, &o.
Address : General Post Office, Melbourne.
New south wales wealth and in-
dustrial EXHIBITION.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
OPENING DATE, 15th DECEMBER, 1884.
Exhibitors are reminded Entries Close 32nd
November Instant. Exhibits will be receiver! at
the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park, 10th
December. By order of the Committee.
GEO. BROWN, Hon. Sec.
Office : Royal Arcade,
£1_R AND INTERNATIONAL CRICKET MATCH
All England Eleven v. Eighteen of
Cumberland.
On Parramatta ALFRED CRICKET GROUND.
FRIDAY and"SATURDAY,
28th and 29th November, 1881.
Band will be in attendance each day.
Admission to Ground—ONE SHILLING.
P. F, MAYBURY, Hon. Sec.
The Federal Art Union.
TO BE DISPOSED OF BY SUBSCRIPTION, ON
THE ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
£5000 Worth of Pictures,
In 10,000 Shares of 10s. Each.
COMPRISING
LANDSCAPES, PORTRAITS,
AND OTHER PICTURES,
By the Best English and Colonial Artists.
The following Subscribers have kindly consented
to assist the Drawing Committee in the distribution
of the prizes :—
A. J. GOULD, Esq,. M.L.A.; J. A. MACKINNON,
Esq., M.L.A.; F. J. G1BBES, Esq., M.L.A.;
R. M. VAUGHN, Esq., M.L.A.
THE drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected
by the subscribers, who will receive notice by
three advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily
Telegraph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon
as two-thirds of the subscribers have been ob-
tained. When the drawing day has once been
decided upon, there will be no further postpone-
ment.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in full to the sub-
scribers.
WINNING NUMBERS WILL BE ADVERTISED
IN ALL LEADING PAPERS.
Amongst the pictures is a “ View on the Thames,”
by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50 years or more
in the house of the late Sir George Stephen, Knight,
Q.C„ Beputy-Lieutenant of the county of Buck-
ingham, from whose sole surviving executor it
has been purchased. Authenticity of this picture
guaranteed by certificate from the Hon. Sir Alfred
Stephen, C.B., K.C.M.G., Lieutenant-Governor.
Send crossed cheques, P.O.O., or stamps.
J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
19 Hunter-street, or Box 60S G.P.O., Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that the date for draw-
ing the prizes may be fixed upon.
VENETIA WALTZ;
The Air to be \ccU marked. OiKOI.lKK toWTIIIii*.
pft, caiitabiU.
Pcd
Pod
rr •
=3=
-r
fed. TV
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads. Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAS CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
£2500.
TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Eurick’s Subscription,
5000 MEMBERS AT 10*. EACH.
First Horse .... £1000
Second Horse . . . 500
Third Horse .... 200
Starters Divided . . . 500
Non-Starters . . . 300
£3500
Add 3d. for Membership. Registered letters only.
Address “ Eurlck,” G.P.O. Sydney. Close Decem-
ber 39th, Results posted ; also this paper.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O.,
Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming: Baths
(the «nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
SWI.viMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August,
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
THE
New Davis Stwiaj
Mu
nir.c.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
G74 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
isaoraa: aTvsaTORM.
XT
suvcio jo xoa v
: AXPIYIOHRS HilO
•Auojoo oqj nf
SLNaRaHm&Ha .shhnows gnv oooyhox
JO JU9UI
-jjossy jsoa pun jsaS-twj oqj jdoq eq tjim. eaaqM.
‘s-ioqtuBqo sjiBSJOjjnj, jxo.m
‘q.ooiq.s-ioq.tmH CS
‘itth incva:
JB ‘SOBTtnOJJ pojBnjjs
-A(IBJJU90 pm? MOjvj UHNaaO ‘sno.Tjt?d TAT
snoaeranu jo jsanbaj: oqj jb ‘snq aHVON *aJ/lL
•ojp ‘sjoB/q
ao aaxaoawi
‘aniYOM r
THE
WIZARD
OF
THE
NORTH’S
Changeable Pack of Cards.
THE trick is one that Professor Anderson
gained much reputation and money by, and
the wonderful changes made in the cards elicit
exclamations of surprise and wonder from all who
witness them. The changes are made simply by a
second person (chosen hap-hazard from the spec-
tators) breathing upon the back of the cards.
Cards complete, with Full Instructions, Is.
By Post, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy; I’m in Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder ; and Before and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 6 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon ia Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Rings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d, for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each. „ ,
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris.
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
GABO LEURA
BALMAIN MORBTON
GEELONG RODONDO
KEILAWAREA YOU YANGS.
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 5th November, 1884.
CONVEYANCE being required for the Post
Office Mails, either by COACH or on HORSE-
BACK, to and irom the undermentioned places
for one year (1st January, 1885, to the 31st De-
cember, 1885, or for three years (1st January, 1885
to the 31st December, 1887), (with the exception of
those lines for which a special term Is named)—
persons willing to Contract for tho same are in-
vited to transmit tenders in the approved form be-
fore noon, on Wednesday, the 26th November in-
stant.
Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender for
Conveyance of Malls.'’
For full particulars, see Government Gazette
Western Roads.
1. Gulargambone and Box Ridge (M'Gill’s) via
Skuthorpe’s, Hurst’s,‘.Hallstrom’s, Andrews’
Colless’, Fyfee’s, and Mudie’s, once a week ’
3. Springs and Neurea, six times a week; and to
and from Neurea and Baker’s Swamp, twice a
week.
3. Nyngan, Wicklow, and Nymagee, by surveyed
road, three times a week; or
4. Hermitage Plains and Nymagee, three times a
week.
5. “ Mungunyah Hotel,” on the Warrego River
and Yantabullabulla Springs, via Lagoon
Station, Wapwailah, Irrlra, and Brewarra, on
the Cuttaburra Creek, once a week, for one
year only.
6. The Railway Station and Post Office,’Nyngan
twice or oftener daily, as required. ’
£ Southern Roads.
1. Wollongong and Mount Kiera, six times a
week.
3, Bungendore and Queanbeyan, six times a
week.
3. Foxlow and Hoskins Town, three times a week.
4. Breada bane and Gurrundah, once a week.
5. Junee Junction and The Reefs, via Cooney’s
Inn,once a week.
0. Whitton and Mount Elliott, twice a week, for
one year only.
7. Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
8. Wilcannia, Wanaaring, and Hungerford, oncea
week.
9. Balranald, Euston, and Wentworth, once a
week, for two years only.
10. Urana and Mr. Guest’s selection, 3 miles be-
yond Boree Creek, once or twice a week.
11. The Railway Station, Murrumburrah, and
Post Offices, Murrumburrah. Wombat, and
Young, seven times a week, if required, from
the 1st January next. (Co: tract to terminate
on the opening of the Railway between
Murrumburrah and Young.)
13. Young, Weddin, and Grenfell, seven times a
week.
13. Tarago and Lake Bathurst, six times a week.
14. Wagga Wagga. Downside and Wollongough,
via Marrar, The Rocks (M’Donald’s), Mimosa,
Quandary, Broken Dam, Mandamah and Wal-
landry, once a week.
Northern Roads.
1. Manly and Newport, twice a week, on horse-
back or by vehicle.
3. Newport and Barranjoey, twice a week, on
horseback or by boat,
3. Wallsend and Cockle Creek, three or six times
a week, for one year only.
4. East Maitland, Largs, and Paterso travelling
via Belmore Bridae in times of flood; with a
branch mail to and from Bargs and Wood-
vllle, seven times a week.
5. Paterson, Waliarobba, and Dungog, three times
a week,
6. Taree and Forster, once a week.
7. Lismore and Tirrania, once a week, for one
year only.
8. Murwillumbah and Tumbulgum, three times a
week, on horseback, for two years only.
9. Millie, New Oriel, and Mogil Mogil, via Bunna
Bunna, Munyga, Oriel, .Buieori, Colleytudula,
Merriwynebonc, Pockataroo, Collymongle,
and W erribilli, once a week, on horseback,
for one year only; or, to and from Millie,
New Oriel, and Collarenebri, via Bunna
Bunna, Munyga, Oriel, Buieori, Colleytudula,
Merriwynebone, and Pockataroo, once a
week, on horseback, for one year only.
(Tenderers to specify a price for each route.)
10. Newcastle and Onebygamba, six or more times
a week.
JAMES NORTON.
W
Office.
A8TB PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher. Bulletin
Gunsler’s Cafe,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
November, 1884.
BY the present we beg to announce to our Patrons and the Public in general that our
New Premises, situated at 175 PITT-STREET, near the corner of King-street, have
now been opened under the style of GUNSLER’S CAPE.
Thankful for the liberal support extended to us since commencing business at 110
King-street some nine months ago, we now present to our customers a place which stands
unequalled in the colonies for extension, comfort, and elegance.
GLFNSLER’S CAFE will supply a want much felt, forming in the heart of the city a
most convenient resort for Radies as well as Gentlemen, whose requirements have been
carefully studied in the appointments of the new Establishment.
We simply invite inspection, and hope that the fame and success achieved by Mr.
Gunsler in opening a similar place in Melbourne about live years ago, may repeat itsen
here, and make QUNSLER’S CAFE the general rendezvous of the polite world of Sydney.
Yours, most respectfully,
J. F. GUNSLER & CO.
Purveyors, Caterers, and Confectioners.
.f '?><<**:■! ' ¥iJcbj>JsiXMi^
eZ&ss- £> rfet*r? fa,
'- *===hvsjtocUS*> i*wU*a~
>^c* ttiZeti. a^b^bti^cZz^x, —- ‘ „


?■
f
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
ET THIilTY SHILLINGS.
Next to being buried, perhaps the moat
howling- piece of fun a man can enjoy up Silver-
ton way is being married. In both cases the joy
appears to be universal, and the very latest and
greenest arrival is good-humouredly allowed to
eiter into the spirit of the shivoo with the same
reckless abandon as < he bridegroom or the corpse
(as the case may be) himse'f. No cards are Issued
for either ceremony, but the local bellman is
lassoed; six inches of whisky—grand old stuff that
bites ali the way down—are poured into his portly
binjie, a new tongue is jabbed into his bell, the
best man (or the chief mourner, if it’s a funeral)
starts him off with a kick that loosens every tooth
in his jaw to announce the glad tidings to the
world; and in less than twenty minutes time,
every man, woman, child, blackfellow, and China
man about the district has struck work, and
rallied up to share in the day’s rejoicings. Dead
men have been known to crawl out of their
graves, saunter across to Mount Poole for a spell,
and then disguise themselves, return to Sllverton,
and crack their necks in a claim, simply for the
sake of enjoying another tearing funeral, and
bridegrooms would be only too happy to play tho
same game as the Mormonistlc sultan in the
“Arabian Nights,” and have a fresh wedding
every day in the week, but the Silverton brides are
a conservative lot and stronvly object (as they put
the case) to “anysich d—d permiskus foolin’.” And
this reminds us that Silverton Is just sobering
up after having had one of the most gorgeous re-
vivals ever seen over there since the day three
miners were killed by a blast and the town revelled
in all the wild delights of a triple wake and burial.
This time, however, the joy happened to be over a
marriage, the principal performers irj. the side-
splitting farce being a young miner natoed Jim—
nothing more—andasweetgirly-girly young thing
of sixteen who slopped her heart's affections away
with a trusting confidence born of a better world.
All the usual preliminaries being settled, the bell-
man roused the whole town and the gay procession
started for the Court-house where everything was
found to be in readiness for the execution. Jim
was neatlybut expensively attired in a pair of three-
star moleskin pants, a blue shirt, and a cabbage-
tree hat, whilst the blushing bride sported a flop
hat and a crimson skirt profusely decorated with
blue ilbbons. There were blue ribbons in her hair
as well, blue ribbons round her waist, blue ribbons
on her boots, and, in tact, there were times when
she appeared to have nothing else on her at all but
ribbons of tho purest cerulean hue. This, however,
only happened when Jim took his arm from round
her waist to cleanse his nasal organ with his sleeve;
and, taking them “ by and large,” as the sailors
say, the wedding costumes of the loving pair were
by far the most “ tony ” ever yet seen on the
diggings. The Court-house was thronged, and
the usual monotony of the registration ser-
vice was agreeably livened up by shouts of
“Grease yer gabber, old un; we want to begin the
sports right now.” “Put ’em through, parson;
th’ durned old chookies is a gettin’ done t’ rags,”
etc., while the poker and euchre boys at the back
endeavoured to combine business with pleasure
by yelling out “Jim, I’ll lay 5 to 4 the first’s a boy”
—“Level money on a gal”- “ Wha-ooop, Jim! ye
kin hev 20 to 1 agin th’ double”-“ Saloot yer bride,
James, and let his nibs finish the pitch to-morrer;
we’re goty well famished fur a drink,” and so on
until the deed was done, and then the feelings of
the crowd broke into one wild roar that made the
mountains and rocks tremble to hear the replica-
tion of the yells. Upon leaving the court, the
bridegroom lifted his gentle bride into a buggy,
the rest of the relations climbed into a four-in-
hand drag, and then a Tara o’ Shanter hurry-scurry
round the town followed—all hands joining in
except'the bellman, who was so overcome by the
solemnity of the proceedings that he crept up a
hollow log and lay down to pray. In the afternoon
the happy pair drove off by themselves to spend
thw nuptial night at Thackerlnga, whilst tho rest
of the revellers began to chase the fleeting hours
with many twinking feet, ranging from the No. 7 of
the new barmaid, up to the long 17 of Jack the Ost-
ler. Barrels of beer, and buckets of whisky, with
quart pots attached,;were, ranged round the yard
for safety; the orchestra, consisting of a wheezy
concertina and a tin whistle, was In full blast,when
suddenly, just as the clock struck 12, Jim and his
fair young Missus returned and explained they
had been “ bushed,” and, after falling over stumps
and down creeks and gullies and things, had
Anally decided to return to their childhood’s home
once more. Jim admitted to being a trifle off
colour, but the bride declared she was as lit as a
Addle and rather enjoyed her recent “moving
accidents by flood ana field;” and so it was a case
of “on with the dance, let Joy be unoonflned,”
until at last the bridal pair retired from the stirring
seen® and sought their hallowed couch. What
adventures they met with after this will never be
known: suillce it to say that they appeared to have
been compelled to put up with a shake-down in a
bar parlour, where they were foundjnext morning,
wrapped in a possum-rug, by the barman, who had
not been informed of the distinguished guests’
presence. And in this simple, unostentatious
manner closed one of tho biggest booms ever yet
seen on the frisky fields of our new Nevada.
Health to the bride! Hurroo for Silverton!
A Perilous Voyage. —The Dallam Tower
has safely arrived in port, after braving the perils
of the stormy deep, encountering terrific hurri-
canes and narrowly escaping being crushed by a
huge iceberg over two miles long, one of the
largest ever seen. We must congratulate the cap-
tain on his skilful seamanship, as the people of
New South Wales would have suffered serious loss
if the ship had foundered, there being some forty-
six cases, portion of tho assigned estate of Owen
*nd James, bought by the London House of H. L.
Summerfleld and Co., the Great Juvenile Out-
fitters, and consisting of big Job lines in boys’ and
youths’ suits, and men’s Zephyr masher hats. This
is one of the cheapest consignments ever Imported;
and tho goods being bought at a great discount,
Messrs. Summerfleld and Co. intend to give their
patrons some genuine plums. Facts are stubborn
things, and we say that 2000 boys’ linen drill man-o’-
war suits trimmed with blue, with collar and badge,
sizes 000 to 6, are being sold at 5s. lid.; and another
big line of pretty satenne P ince suits, nicely
braided and trimmed, to lit children from two
years to eight years of age, at halt the Bhglish in-
voice price, 5s. lid. But this is not all, ladies tak-
ing this favourable opportunity can purchase
good strong tweed school suits at 8s. lid., and 10s.
od., in the new Greenwich and Sultan styles; fine
Scotch tweod trouser suits, at 21s., 25s., 80s., in
sizes 4 to 13, and a very special line of pure wool
worsted rib trouser suits at 27s. 6d., in all sizes.
Messrs. Summerfleld and Co. respectfully direct
the attention of ladies, residing away from town
to their prompt attention to country orders and
will be pleased to send post free on application
their illustrated book of styles, containing every
information. The p»st English season has pro-
duced some striking novelties in woollen goods,
the motif of the masher being originality, and
the firm, thanks to the promptness of their
London manager, has a tine assortment of the new
Scotch checks, in every colouring, with fine
merino homespuns, and fancy worsted coatings,
on show in their order department. Eight high-
class cutters are employed, and gentlemen desiring
a perfect-fitting garment should patronize tailors,
not drapers devoid of practical knowledge. Re-
form your tailors bills by paying cash, and secur-
ing an all-wool suit to measure for £3 3s., or a West
End pair of trousers to order for Ifls. Od. Only one
Sydney address: H. L. Summerfleld and Co., Mer-
chant Tailors, and Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235
and 237 Pitt street, Sidney.*
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention Is acknow-
ledged on all hand# to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
It weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all tho
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of costand crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c , &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that sre sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “he who runs
may read.’’ It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Bole Agents for this marvel-
ous little Instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite tho entrance to tho Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout tho colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations In the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments wo can offer as to the genuineness of the
Instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by a'l educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other •
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s„
and where good music can be procured for such a
tritie, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopbone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sidney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
thbatbs ROTAI.—“ The Workman ” p. 8
Opera House—” Bobadil ” Ib.
Gaiety Theatre—” Arrah-na-Pogue ib.
Academy OP Music—Rainer’s Panorama ib.
A TYPE.
Deep-voiced and tall, but so thin-chested,
He at the corner hours would lean him;
He wished to see, as there he rested,
One who beheld, but had not seen him.
“ Yes, pass along,” he’d cry, “ the ‘ Messerl’
All oiled and curled are his long tresses;
And yet he used to be my ' dresser,’
When I scored all my Mg successes!
,• Just fancy I Gammons not to know me 1
For this deep cut, may Heaven save him I
He bought a fine hotel, sir, blow me I
Just simply with the tights I gave him.
u jj'en though, perchance, ’tis but a d * let,’ *
It’s pretty hard upon a feller
To play one night the K’ng in ‘ Hamlet,’
And next day have to clean a cellar.
■“ I had a ben.—played Richelieu, sir,
A big hit; but what can be sadder,
On one sole night this part to do, sir,
And then go panting up a ladder I
«• what! try again I Now, to what end, sir ?
Why, what with gas, and ‘ ads.,’ and billings,
When I went for my dividend, sir,
They swore I owed ’em fifteen shillings.
«i why, if you’d really like to treat me ”
(He says to something that we chirrup),
*i well—there!—you don’t so often meet me—
A beer, dear, with a dash of syrup."
* The exigencies of rhyme.
♦ ♦ ♦
Before the curtain rose on “ TheWorkman,”
on Saturday, we stole aglance round the dress circle,
and there was revealed to us a spectacle perfectly
muffled in gloom. The management have adopted
a mode of lowering the lights to such an extent
that one can of an evening scarcely pick out the
“literals” in John’s programme; and nothing is
now distinctly visible there but the lady with the
reticule, andjthe “ponums” of tte Judaic haMtues.
The people—on Saturday night, too—were dotted
about like so many monuments of gloom in a
Druldioal burying-ground -the Press being repre-
sented by one or two outcasts, forlorn and melan-
choly, and Society and Fashion by Phil. Stuart,
who lectures so eloquently for Rainer’s Diorama,
and pretty Mrs. Smith. Not loarlng to intrude
upon the fashionables, we took a back seat, from
whence we could see the collecting chalice of the
disguised Viscountess who pervades the cloak-
room, which she might have turned upside down
upon the heads of the stalls without the fear of
losing anything but her own little hint as to re-
muneration. The faces of the ushers were as long
as yard-measures, as they stood disconsolately
looking for the coming Providence. But none
appeared. Nobody who straggled in had a coat to
hang up, and the new-comer usually fiercely re-
plied that he could “ take care of his hat himself.”
Similarly, no one, in that yawning gallery
of desolation, wanted to be shown a seat,
because you couldn’t see anything else.
Opera-glasses were at such a discount that
Freeman bundled all his stock back into their
particular gin-case, and came up to see the play in
sheer desperation. This official's duties are multi-
farious, by the way. He has led in more dramatic
critics before the first act, and carried out more
after the second than any man alive. He has
tent critics opera-glasses, who have Immediately
raised the binoculars to their lips under the im-
pression that it was something to drink; and he
tells an amusing story of a literary man, in good
repute, going up to see an act of “ uur Boys,” and
then coming down horror-stricken, and indig-
nantly asking what, in thunder, they meant by
announcing a comedy, and then putting on “ St.
George and the Dragon ? ”
• • *
As soon as we really could discern some of
the programme—Phil. Stuart’s moustache lit up
the scene a bit 1—we discovered that we were to
assist at not only “special engagement of the
popular favourite and humerous (sic) comedian,
J. R. Greville—his re-appearance after an absence
of 19 months—and Mr. Alfred Damnier, with a care-
fully selected and talented company,” but at the
“ first performance in Sydney of perhaps the most
powerful of modern domestic and emotiqnai Bag-
fish plays, by Frank Harvey, Esq.” This intima-
tion raised qur spirits to an extent which not even
the overture could, for the while, damp to any
great degree; and, furtively cracking the plebeian
though pleasant pea-nut, we waited with smug
complacency the coming course of events. Then
up went the “ rag,” and there was Dampier in a
black jacket and white trousers, posing as the
Workman, and looking as much like an artizan as
a cow does to a musket.
• • •
Mr. Dampier, we must tell you, is a singu-
larly pleasant gentleman, with a beautifully
rhythmic voice, a gazelle-like eye, and a host of
other attractions which are exceedingly appre-
ciated, so we humbly understand, in his pleasant
domestic circle. All this makes It all the more
difficult for Mr. Dampier to lose his identity (or
mislay it): and there is one thing certain—he very
seldom does lose it; and, if so, it finds him again
with retriever-like rapidity. As the Workman,
John Tressider, in the garments we have men-
tioned, Mr. Dampier appears more himself than
when you meet him coming out of Eastway’s.
Similarly in “Notre Dame”—when made up in a
manner less artistic than horrible, as Quasimodo —
all red ochre, chalk, humos, and distortions, Dam-
pier was rather more like himself than when he
tells the waiter at Bowden’s to bring up some
more bread and treacle for the children. In “The
Workman” Mr. Dampier has a bad author, but
his presentation of Tressider is one for which Mr.
Harvey, even, cannot be held responsible. If Mr.
Dampier is Mr. Dampier in everything, it shows,
he having much talent and intelligence, certain
signs of careless and superficial study. Of late
years, indeed, we never saw this actor play any
part, except that of Hamlet, in which he was
not Mr. Alfred Dampier, and then he was a very
near relation—say, his aunt.
• ■ •
The plot of Mr. Frank Harvey’s— whatever
they call it—is the same old thing: the good,
straight man, who gets drunk; the villain who
“ lures him on; ” the wicked siren who wishes to
destroy the happiness of the working man’s house-
hold by Inveigling him out by moonlight to
Brown’s; the che-ild [III]; and, by sulphur, the
same old cradle! And, by Jove, this bassinet re-
minds us of something in a posthumous article on
** Stage Interruptions,” by the late Dutton Cook,
which recently appeared in the Era. A favourite
actress was playing in a temperance drama called
“The Bottle.” and in the course of the piece she
runs across the stage crying—” Here's the bottle—
what, oh, what shall I do with it ? ” When a man
in the gallery called out “Throw it down and
smash it; we’re sick of the damned thing! " We
never saw a play in which the dialogue was so
poor and windy; and in which the situations were
brought about by such transparently artificial
means. The mounting of “The Workman” con-
sists of a set of five scene-pictures by Gordon, some
of which are common-place; but there is an interior
In the third act, which, if not alone worth the price
of admission, is most certainly worthy of the study
of some of our Sydney cloth-destroyers who ap-
pear, in their endeavours to make a picture, to do
precisely what Mr. Ruskin accused Mr. Whistler
• of, when that eccentric artist perpetrated his
(ameus “Jfocturne, in black and gold,”
There was what is called (stupidly by our
contemporaries) a “ very strong cast,” and this ex-
pression is used entirely irrespective of the fitness
of the persons for the various roles assigned them.
Leake, for instance, is a good actor, but as Sir
Harry Chesterton he was as much out of his ele-
ment as a sparrow in a rat-trap. We don’t know
what he looked like, except that he looked like
everything. We have seen nothing so funny since
George Chaplin (also a good actor) used
to play an English nobleman in a suit of
shiny black, a very hard hat, and three
feet of shirt-front ornamented with a dia-
mond brooch about the size of a fire-
insurance plate. Leake ought to go back home.
They’re looking for him at the corner of every
street in ’Frisco, to play “ The Three Musketeers ”
again, in sixteen acts and a prologue. They re-
member Leake by his boots, his sword, his com-
manding presence; but they especially remember
him by his boots. The star of this strong cast was,
of course, J, R, Greville, the humerous comedian
who had been specially engaged; and Mr. Greville
diverted the gods vastly in a kind of amalgamation
of Eccles, “a party by the name of Johnson,” and
every other drunken stage-father you can remem-
ber or invent. Mr. Greville is not too old to be
taught, though possibly he may be too old to learn;
in that case, it is not surprising to see him, in a
part in which certain chances are given him,
ignoring such chances for the purpose of plodding
along in the old beaten track, and, if we may so
put it, neglecting art to grovel to the ground-
lings.
• • •
Mr. A. L. Boothman played Gilbert Craven,
a villain in a blue waistcoat, with his forehead pro-
fusely ornamented with those beautiful kiss-me-
quick curls for which he is so justly famous. And it
is but fair to say that Mr. Boothman played the part
as well as any man could enact the role of a villain,
with kiss-me-quick curls and a blue waistcoat.
And Will. Simpson, the Surrey clown (who is, it
seems, coming into several millions), did the little
he had to do as Dave Jackson in a manner that at
once brought back to our memories the glories of
the Coburg.
• * ♦
Miss Lily Dampier exhibited phenomenal
feebleness as Lady Chesterton; but Jenny Watt-
Tanner put some muscular pathos into the “ pore
wife” of the Workman; and when he was “on
the go,” taking about five drinks every three
minutes, her realism was really a thing to be talked
about. She did everything but throw the furni-
ture at him. We fancy, that from certain experi-
ences of our own, Miss Jenny must have seen all
this before. If, however, she have not, and re-
quires a little coaching in the business, we shall be
happy to attend upon her with a relation of our
own melancholy experiences, and a mutilated box-
iron. Miss Navaro was effective as Rachel West-
wood ; and the rest — confound them I —were
“pleasing.” VioU!
* * * *
Perhaps we thank Mr. Charles M'Mahon
less for putting up “Arrah-na-Pogue ” for his star
last Saturday, than for anything he has yet done
for us; and, in saying this, it must be remembered
we are not alluding specially to anything in the
performance of either Mr. Rlvgs or his company.
The remark, we should say, is born principally of
reminiscences.
* « *
“Arrah-na-Pogue” has been flung at the
heads of this unhappy populace in every conceiv-
able shape or form, ever since we can remember;
and it has usually taken that of a dramatic bomb-
shell, confusion being the invariable result. And,
just as the public had recovered its equanimity
and spread itself out to luxuriate in the sunshine
of calmness, another miscreant-mummer would
ruthlessly put the piece up, and drive every
theatre-goer into either suburban chapels or in-
ebriate retreats. Keogh even put it up We asked
him not, but he said he was determined to “ have
a try.” He enacted Riggs' part, Shaun the Post,
and (mark this!) a few days afterwards the authori-
ties pulled down the theatre! The last time we saw
it, Bayless got together a scratch company to do
“Arrah” for a week at the Gaiety; and a week
later he sold his lease, and gloomily left for tho
Status. The piece has a weird fascination, too, for
travelling companies. There’s not a low comedian
“busking” round Australia now who does not think
he can do Shaun better than Boucicault, or (and
this is graceful) Grattan Riggs—althouah when he
tries It, he lashes all the boys to fury and sets
every dog in the township barking. Under these
circumstances, this little irritable commencement
will, doubtless, be pardoned by the intelligent.
We trust so, but we can’t apologise.
♦ ♦ •
The piece is mounted at the Gaiety this
time with the cunning for which Messrs Kinchela
and Williams are renowned; and Grattan Riggs
(as, indeed, is not surprising) has evidently made a
very minute study of the part of Shaun, his im-
personation of the car-driver being such as to
arouse his audience to unusual enthusiasm, and,
we think, but for a little fining down tba is re-
quired, his Shaun is not to be improved upon, if
equalled, by any actor in the colonies. Mr.
Riggs is less uncertain than many actors of his
calibre—even at race times: and when you go to
see him, though it be in a bad or a threadbare
Slay, he is sure to divert your mind from
arrowing thoughts of a truculent baker and
a ferocious milkman. A feature in the piece was
the singing of “The Wearing of the Green,” by
tho “whole strength of the company,” in which
Maggie Oliver sang the solo parts with a surprising
amount of fire. The other ladies chimed in charm-
ingly—and the gentlemen were “conscientious.”
If, however, the lines hold good—
“ He that hath not music in his soul
.... Let no such man be trusted
we don’t think Jimmy Loder, over the way, would
allow the male members of the company to stick
it up to any great extent. Miss Ethel Adele was
nicer than.usual (which is something) as Fanny
Power, and “ our Mary Ann ” shed the effulgence
of her fascinations upon an appreciative parquette
as Kitty Walsh.
• • »
Next Saturday, the “Fairy Circle,” when
Grattan Riggs’ engagsment draws to a close.
Well, after he has gone, we shall be able to say of
him what the Nurse in “ Romeo and Juliet” said
of her deceased husband: “ A’ was a merry man.’>
* * * *
We see that Cottier, whoso People’s Con-
certs are so popular, has specially engaged Willie
Warner to sing his comic songs for him, and left
poor Tom Sayers out in the cold. Willie, we must
tell you, has made greit strides lately, and can sing
the Music Hall business almost as well as ho can
ride. Mr. Cottier works very hard; and if he and
his family could get a place a little nearer King-
street, they would make a big splash. And let i 8
top it by saying that poor Maccallum had very bad
luck with his show at the Haymarket Hail, and
dropped his greed. It seems a pity, too, after all
that lovely printing, and tho fervid eloquence of
Sylvanus Urban —we mean Ryan. Mac. was
heavily handicapped in lots of ways. He got his
lecture late for one thing; and it wasn’t up to
much when he did get it. It’s true he had Wachs-
muth to look after the front; but that gentleman,
though fascinating, is not quite sufficient to draw
£80 houses in the Haymarket—whatever he might
do in King-street!.. And Zulu Thompson skips off
with his diorama to Bathurst to-day (Thursday),
where, we hope, he will have all the luck that re-
splendent oratory can deserve and jrefulgent
beauty occasion.
* * * *
J. C. Rainer opened, in a big way, with his
Panorama of the American War at the Academy of
Music, and a whole lot of people carted away
clocks and cruets, as usual. Phil. Stuart makes a
picturesque lecturer; and, if anybody wants to see
a show (once more) that is not “ pernicious,” and
to add to their household gods, we advise them to
go there. Rainer really gives the .things away—
and for the best of reasons. People have seen the
“Panorama of the American War” before, we
behove.
Seamlle produces his opera, “Bobadil,” at
the Opera House on Saturday night. Here is the
cast: “ Miss Grade PI dated, Miss Frances Saville,
Miss Desmond, Miss Blanche Leopold, Miss Nellie
Fernleigb, Mr. Charles Harding, Mr. George Leo-
pold, Mr. Oily Deering, Mr. A. Davis, Mr. W. P,
Morrison.” It is, of course, a magnificent pro-
duction. But we’ll say so for certain—when we
have seen it.
« « » *
Fleming Norton has no w subsided; though,
whether he purposes returning home to again per-
form before H.R.H. at Sandringham House, has
not yet transpired. He is capable of it. He must
entertain—or expire.


PEPPER AND SALT.
From the Manning River Times just to
hand we gather that Taree is dissatisfied with the
Government of this country, will not oppose the
appointment of Colonel Scratchley, asserts that
WolBeley IB not pushing on the African campaign
to its entire satisfaction, and that the town is in-
fested with goats. One gentleman has had some
choice fruit-trees eaten; and another unfortunate
gentleman, who complained to a goat-keeper that
one of those festive animals had stolen a pound of
butter from his pantry, was called a liar—
“for,” said she, “you never had a pound of
butter in your house in your life.” And so
the goats reign supreme In Taree; and when
the venerable old King Billy of the insurgents is
more than usually jubilant, he mentions signifi-
cantly, while munching a prize rose,, that he is not
at all sure he will not stand .for alderman at the
next election. In our broad sympathy with a
struggling and begoated city, however, we don’t
mind throwing out a suggestion as to how to clear
the town of the beleaguring host. Let each
animal bo served with a copy of the Manning
River Times, and that host with their banners
will be mournfully browsing at Cape Fork and
cursing Torres Straits within a week.
♦ * *
In the days of our bright and blue-eyed
boyhood we tried many and divers ways of keep-
ing away from school. But we never had the
genius of a Girilambone boy, who emancipated
himself from thraldom at one bold stroke. It did
not content him merely to stay away from school.
He was a boy of different mettle. He just burnt
the school down! This is the last we have heard.
By the next post we should not be surprised to
hear that he has murdered the schoolmaster. But
boys will be boys.
• • •
She weighed 20 st. to a hair, as lightly she
tripped into the witness-box of the R.M. Court at
Wellington (N.Z.) a few days ago. “ Kiss the
buck,” said the officiating Robert, after he had got
her to repeat the usual formula. She was slightly
deaf, and could catch the hang of the first word of
a sentence quicker than what followed. “ What—
what did you say ?” asked the etherlal one. “ Kiss
the buck”: Robert went close up, and put the first
word in capital letters-spat it out loud, in fact,
right in her face. Then she leaned over, caught
him round the neck, and gave him a smack that
shook the building. “ Kiss the BUCK, not me,”
roared tho official—while the audience yelled, and
the Resident Magistrate fell back in his chair, and
looked las if an Inquest would surely result from
the violence of his convulsions.
« « .
It appears there are holes in the streets of
Moruya. One dark night, about a week ago, when
all these holes were fl'led with rain, the people in
the main street were brought out of their houses
by an unearthly groaning. Borne of them took
lanterns and a drag, and went searching. After a-
time they entered the hotel carrying a dripping
bundle. It was the Road Superintendent.
* * *
The Melbourne D.T. has been rubbing
some more pious grease upon the golden calf. In
a general way, the D.T.—like tho parsons whose
interests it so zealously guards—goes in for detect-
ing semi-visible virtue among people in “ exalted.'n
positions,” that extra cream-laid Christian, the
Prince of Wales, being its most especial favourite.
On this occasion, however, the D.T. has en-
deavoured to point out to us the close connexion
that exists between carriages, Christianity, and
new clothes. This is comforting, by the way, be-
cause good togs—especially when tradespeople are
confiding—are more easily procured than good
billets. But, to explain the D.T.’s latest delirium.
Some ladies of the Scots’ Church congregation
provided a feed for the Melbourne news-boys, and
actually passed the plates and dishes around with
their own fair hands. That was the point. For
“ carriage people ” to pass plates about is—in the
estimation of the D.T.—the very quintessence of
Christianity. Listen! “ The scene was more than
pleasant—it was nathefic. Boys who had been
born in sin, and who had lived in a world whose
very atmosphere reeked of wrong, were here
seated at a Sunday dinner, waited upon by minis-
tering angels who dressed in siJhs and rode in car-
riages! ' The pathos of the scene is explained by
the italics. For the H evening ’Erald boys to be
“ seated at a Sunday dinner ” was “ pleasant,” but
for them to be waited upon by “carriage” ladies
“dressed in silks” was “pathetic.” Evidently,
from a pious-newspaper-pious-polnt of view, the
value of a kind deed is magnified just according to
the money-bags of the doer.
* •
; See th<?i constancy of the Press. The man
i who said “ Put not your trust in princes ” should
i have added “ or in papers.” Sir Frederick Broome
1 was made Governor of Western Australia not very
j long ago, and it was cheerfully prognosticated by
; the Press that he would sweep clean. Indeed, he
i W as very popular. Now, this is what the ;Fre-
mantle Herald says of his conduct: “Sharp
practice, utterly unworthy of the Governor of a
Crown colony, and barely excusable in an unprin-
cipled party-politician.” After this, we do not re-
gret the fact that we have never accepted a
peerage.
• • 9
There is war in Port Douglas (Q ). One of
the newspaper proprietors there tried to borrow a
few sheets of paper from tho other, and failed—
the “other ” reminding him of the time when his
missus had been asked for the loan of a flat-iron
and had refused. This Jslur was replied to in a
leading article, which culminated in calling the
slurrer a “personage.” It is expected there will
be bloodshed over this.
* * *
A correspondent, writing from some un-
known nook called Coopernook, gives us a glance
into the state of Society in that region which W
reassuring. They have no larrikinisra there, it
seems, hut “we have at Coopernook and its sur-
roundings a very respectable community, and a
total absence of that cancer encroaching on the
present state of society, and our moral progress.
The shock that would naturally pass through the
community if a cancer were once perceived eating
its way into our moral progress, is too appalling a
spectacle for us to trifle with: aud we would not
have brought the painful subject into these pages,
were it not that the writer of it has 1 ved m
Coopernook for seven years, aud has been, in Ins
own words, “always a close observer.” Long
may he bo spared to adorn Coopernook, an
closer may his observations be, will be the hear -
felt ejaculation of every right-minded man who
would shudder to see a cancer encroaching on our
moral progress. If ever we visit Coopernook, we
Amateur Photography.—A Few Hints.


Will search out that £een observer, and never
cease wringing his hand until—we have taken the
pen out of it.
• • •
The Burrowa paper says that a speaker at
a recent public meeting held in that town of fes-
tive Mickies said he heard a remark “ with his own
lips.” We are not much surprised at this. Most
of the Burrowa people have mouths from ear to
ear.
• • •
To the meditative mind, few spectacles
are more pleasing than to contemplate the calm
which follows revolutionary times. Bonaparte
sweeps over a continent and keeps a whole genera-
tion in alarm; but the tide of human affairs rises,
sweeps him away, and the peaceful husbandman
once more delves his jocund spade into the soil
that brings wealth and contentment to the homes
of the great, until he is wanted to shoulder his
musket again, and merrily receive the enemy’s
bayonet into his empty stomach, with the remark
that he dies for la gloire. Just such contentment
appears to have settled on Cooktown, for, says the
Independent: “We have much pleasure in con-
gratulating Alderman Dick on his elevation to the
Mayoral chair. Mr. Dick has earned his honest
spurs, and we hope they will be brightened by use-
After all the hurley-hurley,” &c. His election, we
hope, augurs well for future friendly legislation.
• * •
We have seen the last issue of the Bourke
Watchman. It is a poor thing. There is nothing
In it more exciting than the account of a magic
lantern entertainment. It is pathetic to think to
what a state the town must have come. Once in
the good old times when a man intended to go up
or down the street to spend started
his family on the “ Prayers for the Dead ” before
leaving. Bourke has to import all its stories of
murder now. In the copy of the Watchman re-
ferred tc, there is a paragraph about a French
murder. And even this is copied from the Even-
ing News. Bourke has got too flat to live in, and
a man who wishes to die there finds that he is un-
able to take any interest in his own performance.
ODE TO AN “ECHO” MAN.
“Steps ought also to be taken by (!) the
construction of either a tram line or a branch
railway, to open up the western shore of Botany
Bay, so as to enable the people to reach Lady
Robinson’s Beach, which is one of the most charm-
ing localities of the kind in the world, and which,
etc.— Echo, 13th Nov.'
On reading such ill-deserved praise,
One is tempted at first to inquire
If the writer has ever been mar
The place he pretends to admire.
Oh, Echo man I why do you ask
For that tramway or light line of rail ?
Say, Is it because you would puff
An “ estate ” that you have there for sale ?
You say that no other resort
Of the kind in the world can display
Such charms as this ‘‘watering place ”
On the west shore of Botany Bay.
If you really think it is a fact
That no beaches with this can compare,
In a future dellv’rance please state
If you’ve seen any beaches elsewhere.
No billows with diamond crests
Roll on to this seven-mile strand,
The sewer-tinged waters seem loath
To encounter the ridges of sand.
The “sand-waste ” is steep and abrupt,
Unadorned with bright shells or with shale;
But I see very close to the Beach
Men are clearing some land for a sale.
The view Is depressing and sad,
Monotony there has her home:
Such a spot a Cassandra might choose
To lament over evils to come.
A smell of stewed offal is borne
On the wings of the northerly gale;
But say, Mr. Echo man say,
Have you got any land there for sale ?
As a man often pants for the love
Of a girl, for whom no others yearn,
So you, Mr. Echo man, gloat
Over charms that none else can discern.
As far as the scenery goes,
I’d much prefer Darlinghurst Gaol;
But I hope that good prices may rule
When the land there is offered for sale.
U • •
“ Give a dog a bad name, and hang him.”
The gentle authorities of Ballarat have done some-
thing very like that with Ah Fung. They gave
him the name of a leper, so the wretched China-
man has kindly accepted the proverbial alterna-
tive, and drowned himself. There wasn’t any
better recreation left for Ah Fung. After being
chivied about from place to place, like the unclean
thing which he wasn’t —for, even if he ever bad
leprosy (a Ifact doubted by many), the ease was
certalnly cured—Ah employment as a
farm labourer at Warrenhelp. There he would
have contrived to rub along all right enough, save
for that unfortunate bad name. Christian people
learned the sad news of poor John’s good fortune,
and protested against his contaminating presence
so vigorously that he decided to wash away his
uncleanness once and for all in the Gong Gong
reservoir. The newspapers state that “ it is sup-
posed betook the step in desperation.” We should
say the newspapers are more correct in this little
matter than they are in most others. One of our
bards, who has ever sympathised with the Mon-
golian race [He once won something in a lottery.—
Ed. B.], has feelingly thrown off the following:—
“ Make way for the leper I” They shout it with
loathing—
The man is of alien race;
Thoro’a taint In his touch and disease in his cloth-
ing,
So the look of despair on his face
Fills no Christian heart with a feeling of pity
( That's not much in fashion to-day),
As they chtvey him forth from the township or
city
And cry “ For the leper make way I”
“ Make way for the leper I” In some other region
That cry is now echoed, maybe,
Where Christians and pagans sink sect and religion
And folks In good friendship agree.
There the poor hunted wretch finds his wand’rings
are ended,
And ho who was scoffed yesterday
Hears millions of voices In sympathy blended
Cry “ Come 1 For the leper make way I” _
Mother Joshua Commanding the Sun to Stand Still.


Puck Almanac, 1885-A Capital Sixpen’orth I
Puck Almanac, 1885—Look out for it I
Puc* Almanac, '85. Illustrated, 8tb December,
w
For an “ In Memoriam ” notice calculated
to at once bring 1 torrents of tears for the mighty
dead, and at the same time rake in a few coppers
for the Hying by means of a cheap ad., commend
us to a Nundle par. in a recent Nooze. Like a
thunderbolt, crashes the opening words: “"Wiggin
is dead.” We never heard of Wiggin before, and
our acquaintance with the worthy gentleman since
his death has been considerably hampered by
limits, also. This, however, is our misfortune, not
our fault. He was the Nundle correspondent of
the Nooze for several years, and it is thought that
the unexpected receipt of a money-order for half"
a-crown, in return for his valuable services,
hastened his sad, untimely end. He died in har-
ness, and, in Alfred’s own pathetic words*
“ his last communication (and he knew it was
the last) added ‘ God bless the grand old
Journal, the editor, and all belonging to it.”
Nothing more touching has ever been penned
since Dickens wrote his death of Little Nell, and
the admirable blending of business with condol-
ence in the whole par. reminds us forcibly of the
tombstone inscription which ran as follows:—
“ In Memree ov My deer Departid husbin,
Josiah Skorridge,
Who was Killed by the Kik ov a Mewl on the
furst ov Joon,
‘ He hez gon tu his Rest
In his saviour’s breast.’
N.B.—The abuv Mewl is fur sale cheep,
the owner hevin no further use for him.
Also a Jurmin accorjin and a Lot ov good
lay in’ Fouls. Apply tu the Widow Skor-
ridge, Dead Dog Hollow, Jest agin the Tole-
bar.”
God bless the grand old JebnilI Bah I
“ Is God’s attention to such petitions given ?
If so—there’s thund’ring little to do in heaven.’’
♦ ♦ *
Always on the scour for material to com-
plete our system of philosophy, we wondered
what literature was for, and of course turned up
the Northern Standard, which effulged thus:—
‘‘Literature is studied that we may become
acquainted with the life of humanity under vari-
ous social conditions and at various epochs. We
study Horace and Juvenal for social life; Plato oi
Bacon for Intellectual life; Tennyson or Whittier
for soul life.” To all of which we gave a ready
assent, bar Whittier, If he’s right, we never had
a soul. It will be remembered that that poet is in
the habit of stripping naked and walking in the
sunshine for a sun-bath, and when Interviewed, is
generally found on the broad of his back on a soft
turf, fixing his eagle eye on the sun—a feat quite
within range, when a man has rum enough in to
dim his piercing gaze, and make him scornfully
oblivious of tho bull-dog ants sweeping through
the marble halls of his ears. Here is about his
style of “ soul life ” after he das paid the fine, or,
in default, done his 48 hours like a naked man :—
“ Oh the Life, and the Sun, and the Sunshine;
The sunshine that glitters,
While birdie so sheenily twitters
Continuous as shoemakers’ twine.
Oh Music Divine might I harp it,
With a harp
Not to warp
Human souls, as wo warp dusty carpet.”
And as our lame just yet does not justify us In
setting up against tho ant-eared bard of Columbia,
we arrive at the conclusion that literature has its
uses. To it are wo indebted for the discovery that
we have no soul life.
Large quantities of paper cigars, made in
the land of wooden nutmegs, are now imported to
Australia. The paper is steeped in a strong solu-
tion of nicotine, prepared from cigar-stumps and
other tobacco refuse, and then dried. These cigars
are such an exact imitation of the natural loaf of
the nicotian herb, and so well-flavoured, that it
takes a magnifying glass to detect the deception.
They burn web, and hold their white ash firmly.
The Balmain Regatta has produced a
plentiful crop of protests, of which some have
been decided, and the rest are In abeyance. By the
way. the umpire has not(as Gkanny has it) ordered
the 34-footers to sail again. One tact stares us in
the face with reference to this race, and that is
that “ gentlemen amateurs” are quite as ready to
take points when they think they can get them as
ever the despised "professionals” were. Four
boats started, and there are four protests. Of
course the winner doesn’t protest; why should
he? So the dreamland has a double allowance.
The whole thing looks like a pitiful display of
narrow-mindedness. Surely these "gentlemen
amateurs ” should show the oi poUui that they can
carry out these contests in a more liberal spirit
than this I
Those men of mettle, the Canadian voya-
geurs, of whom a number have been engaged as
boat-steerers on the Nile in the Khartoum expedi-
tion, have queer ideas about discipline. "In the
war of 1813," says Mr. Ross Cox, “ they general>y
came on the parade-ground with their pipes in
their mouths, and their rations of pork and bread
stuck on their bayonets. On seeing an officer—
general, colonel, or subaltern-they took oil their
ats and made a low bow, with the common salu-
tation of Bon jour, Monsieur le CUniral, or Monsieur
le Colonel, and, if the officer happened to be mar-
ried, they would ask in polite inquiry after the
health of Madame and les enfants. if the Captain
ordered them to stop chatting in the ranks, one
would cry out, * Ah, i her Capitaine, let us be off as
quick as you can; some of us have not yet break-
fasted, and it is upwards of an hour since 1 have
had a smoke.’ ”
The latest thing in educational news is the
college of monkeys in London. Half a dozen evo-
lutlon-sts and naturalists of the very advanced
school are attempting to teach monkeys to talk or
express their wants. The method is at first by
letter blocks. A block alphabet, in which the
letters are all distinctly coloured, is arranged
before the monkey student, which is first taught
to select some simple word, as pie. and when he
picks out the letters and forms the word, he is
given a piece of pie, so there is a constant incentive
to learn, the prizes all being bread and butter, so
to speak. The results have not been divulged yet,
but one of the authors of the scheme states that
there is to be a public exhibition, when the mon-
keys can bo heard for themselves. If a pig can be
taught so many wonderful things, there can be no
reason why a monkey should not.
The motion of a camel is, to an inexperi-
enced rider, something awful. A great many
English troopers cheerfully volunteered for W olse-
ley's Nile camel-corps. They had never ridden
camels, but were apparently full of confidence in
their ability to ride any beast. Bellerophon per-
formed wondrous feats on Pegasus; a gentleman
in one of Aristophanes’ comedies rode to Olympus
on a beetle; Bon Quixote fought windmills on
Roslnante; Baron Munchausen took an aerial
Journey on an eagle. Any decent witch can ride a
’broomstick; an English farmer in Pitt's time rode
his cow to market; “ Brer” Rabbit saddled a fox;
some people have ridden ostriches; there was at
least one gentleman who rode an alligator; and all
first-class saints of medimval times were supposed
capable of bestriding the fiend himself. But
whether or how the British trooper will rifle a
camel retrains to leeetn.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Echo is simply the blotting-paper of
the Herald. >
A successful Blue Ribbon movement was
that of Kufus.
The Jews are leating Poland for America.
There’s nothing to pawn in Poland.
There is a poet in Auckland whose name is
Bungay. And the thunderbolt spares him I
The Rum vouches for the loyalty of the
“Young Australians.” So do we—to Australia.
The Chinese offer 5000 taels for the head of
the French commander. “Tails I win, heads you
lose.”
The Blue Ribbon charities “ ruction ” is
simply a row amongst the Brownes about the
browns.
Why no well-dressed man likes to carry a
bundle in the street: Because it looks as if he were
married.
Ezekial Bads was a gentleman who was
born without ears. What a slashing operatic critic
he would have made I
Tramps and vagabonds are mostly the
floating population of this world; but in the
’tother, nought but the angels.
What building is that?” asked the stranger*
“That,” replied the hoy feelingly, rubbing his
back as he passed on, “is the tannery.”
The unfortunate Tichborne came out of
gaol a week or two since. This will account for
M’Elhone leaving England so hurriedly.
The fate of many a “ Bookie’s ” victim :
Wrong on the Maribyrnong Plate—wrong on the
Melbourne Cup—and right in the Melbourne Jug.
The cost of stopping a train is said to be
from two to three shillings. When the train is
stopped by another train, these prices become
somewhat Inflated.
“Justice,” says the Manning- Times,
should be brought to every man’s door.” Now,
our butcher and baker will see that, and we shall
be summoned again.
The Camden Times clips a paragraph from
a Bega paper, wherein the latter states that a
metropolitan paper Is about to publish a new tale I
This is the way in which the country Press en-
courage any journalistic enterprise.
The Braidwood amateurs (the youngest of
whom is 75 years) are rehearsing a piece entitled
“Debt.” One would have thought they knew too
much of that already.
We have seen the Normanton Herald.
It is a gay paper. The leading article is about the
local cemetery. There is nothing like keeping
right with your constituents.
An attempt was made a short time ago to
smuggle whisky into Iowa in tin prayer-books;
but the very fact of an Iowa man carrying a
volume of that kind aroused suspicion.
Funny Miller (not Joe— Gus.) of the Cooma
Express says he believes anything and everything
people like to tell him. But he really ought not
to believe the same thing of his readers.
They say that were one of the Rothschilds
to retire from business, it would take twenty-five
years to settle his affairs. We know men who take
fifty years to let their alfairs settle themselves.
It is at length established beyond question
that the son of Ananias and Sapphira fled from
Judea and settled in the United States of America,
where he married, and had issue. All his descen-
dants are editors.
Chinese artilleryman: “The French ves-
sels are approaching 1” Mandarin: “Fire one
shot!” Artilleryman: “They are too far yet; t ; je
shot would only reach half-way.” Mandarin:
“ Then fire two shots I ”
The largest book ever made—say the
American papers—was produced at Washington
lately. It weighed 140 pounds. Joe Thompson
makes bigger books than this. They sometimes
weigh more than a horse.
The D.T. opines that the deliverances of
champagne politicians do not always incorporate
public opinion. The same thing might be said,
though without any temporal limitation, of the
deliverances of rum leader writers.
“How do you manage to keep the wolf
from the door?” asked an old friend of a hard-up
pressman. “No wolf ever ventures near my
door,” was the dismal reply; “he knows I should
ask him if he knew where a man could pick up a
none.”
“ Who*the blazes runs thiashow, anyhow?”
said a city resident to his wife during the usual
evening quarrel. As he lit out the door, followed
by a saucepan, he answered himself by adding,
“D d if the cooking utensils don’t do most
towards it.”
“Waif” in the Bbaxdwood Dispatch, at
the conclusion of his “ Sparks from the Anvil,”
unblushingly remarks, “Not feeling well after
this lot we need an emetic.” We wonder what the
readers of his budget will need after perusing it.
Probably a coffin 1
A man wishes to stop the disastrous re-
sults of using machinery, and writes to that effect
oci machinery-made paper, with macalnery-made
ink, and machinery-made pens. It strikes us the
man was made by machinery, and very rusty
machinery at that.
The latest news from Clarkson’s Crossing
is that great indignation is felt there. We don t
know where Clarkson’s Crossing is, nor what the
indignation is about, but there is the fact—in
Clarkson's Crossing there is, not medium or tran-
sitory, but great indignation.
The joy of the Braid wood people knows no
bounds, consequent upon its being decided they
shall have the railway. It is intended to Invite the
Minister for Works up, and show him a mill that
was struck by lightning. That's all they have to
speak for their greatness—besides the gaol I
It is reported that a reign of terror would
set in at Bega if the Gazette were not at hand to
point out the villainous omission by the Standard
to report the name of the Chinaman who recently
put his name down for a quarter’s subscription to
the alert Gazette. Troops are being sent up.
In England, at a Club. Sportsman No. 1:
“ Good-bye, old chap; I’m off next week.” Sports-
man No.2: “Off! Where are you going ?’’ Sports-
man No. 1: “Oh, I’m going to New Zealand.”
Sportsman No.2: “New Zealand? What are you
going there for ?” Sportsman No. 1: “Well, Iwant
to see a chap about a dog.”
They say that servants In these days care 1
nothing for the interests of their masters. And
yet Nlnian Melville, M.P., bad a servant who com-
mitted suicide only a week or two ago. She said
that business was getting slack, and nobly threw
her body into the breach. We hope it is superfluous
to tell you than Nlnian is an undertaker.
The Kiama Independent, with its peren-
nial stupidity, makes Talmage refer to the epitaph
put over the grave of Sir Francis Charthouse,
“ Here lies the body of Francis Charthouse,” etc.
Why every schoolboy knows (as Macaulay would
have said) that it was Colonel Chartres on whom
Arbulhnot wrote the epitaph beginning, Here
continues to rot the body of Francis Chartres.
The editor of the CoomaMili.brcomplains
that a policeman took a copy of the paper off the
counter of a shop without permission, and began
to read it. The editor thinks the policeman was
exceeding his authority in doing this. Not so: the
po'iceare allowed to arrest anything suspicious.
That policeman merely opened the paper to see
whether it was necessary to arrest the leading
article on a charge of drunkenness.
It is perhaps a pity that the rumour that
Connaught and his missus contemplate returning
to England from India via Sydney and ’hrisoo
hadn’t reached these shores prior to the passage of
the Loan Bill, as then arrangements could have
been made tor a few extra “thou ” just to cover
the cost of any presents their Royal Highnesses
might like to make to New South Wales gee-
bungery I
The Echo— the ponderously bathetic Echo
—believes (if such a mollusc can be said to enter-
tain beliefs) that the devil of gambling, dissipation,
and knavery is killable, “ but by the onslaught of
an angel of light, and not the gnawing of some
hungry-eyed fiend of asceticism, whose domination
could no more be endured than the maddening in-
fluence of the true gambling passion, or such pos-
session as that of the Garderene (sic) swine. We
suppose the writer of those words meant some-
thing when he strung ’em together; we d give
treasure to know what. It seems as though he d
been on the verge of saying something good.
Au up-country paper says: “ We have ob-
served Australian snobbery outrageously rampant
in various forms during the terra of our sojourn
in those colonies;” and in another column there is
about a foot of good type, urging the hope that
when the Duke of Manchester shall pass through
on his land-grabbing expedition “ the presence of
this distinguished scion of a noble race may not be
overlooked by our courteous Mayor and alder-
men.” So, no doubt, there will be a long ream of
siobber got up by way of address, to bore the
money-making “ dook ” with their village oratory.
We have «eeo no Australian snobbery equal to
this.
A very interesting problem was that sug-
gested by the “Moderator” at the Presbyterian
General Assembly of Victoria. Said the “mod.”
(hope there’s nothing blasphemous about the ab-
breviation), In referring to the oratorical efforts of
self and brethren: “How much they might be
blessed with spiritual power he would not venture
to say, since it was the prerogative of God to work
in concealment.” We’ve speculated a good deal
upon that little passage, and think we’ll follow the
“ mod.’s ” example of retieence upon the question
of the spiritual power with which the average
pulpit-thumper is blessed. We will not venture to
say, either, but wiil merely hazard the conjecture
that a good deal of that ’ere spirit “ works in con-
cealment.”
The difflultles which the 1000 boats of Lord
"Wolseley’s Khartoum expedition will encounter
in passing up the Nile are said by several authori-
ties to be enormous. A small steamer was re-
cently hauled through the gates of the Wady Halfav
cataraot, after seven hours’ toil, by 6000 labourers*
“ with the loss of a few floats and one leak I ” The
distance from the mouth of the Nile to Khartoum
is 1870 miles. At twenty miles of river work per
day, it must take 48 days to get to Wady Haifa, and
45 days from Wady Haifa to Khartoum. But the
speed made on the Red River expedition was only
13 3 miles per day for the passage both up and
down. At this rate, the time required for ascend-
ing from Rosetta to Khartoum would be 146 days,
or 46 days longer than the time for which the flo-
tilla is provisioned, making no allowance for
return. If the speed made is half as much again
as on the Red River expedition, Khartoum will not
be reached before the 33rd Feb. next.
It has been decreed by the Czar that all
who took part in the defence of Sebastopol are to
have the right of being buried there. The spot
will thus become a Walhalia of fame. Most of the
British monuments have been moved to Cathcart
Hill* Two of the monitors or gunboats of our old
friend Admiral Popotf — who visited Australia
years ago—are in Sebastopol Harbour. They are
said to do about one or two knots an hour—that is,
if there Is no wind; should the wind be ahead,
then they stand still, and a strong breeze will at
times force them back. “The Heights above
Sebastopol,” as letters were headed during the
war, are getting very much changed in appearance
from the growth of small trees. The Inkermann is
now covered with the dwarf oak again, such as
the Guards fought through on the morning of the
5th of November, 1854. Chapman’s Green-hill bat-
tery is becoming quite a small forest, and the
ground on which stood the camp of the 3rd Divi-
sion is acquiring a green and sylvan appearance.
The stump of the windmill tower still remains.
There comes a period in every man’s life
when ho would fain turn from “ the whips and
scorns ” of time and seek repose. When a man
is plagued with the bunions of care, so that his
dally walk and conversation become one Pilgrim’s
Progress, out-bunioning Banyan, so to speak, he
turneth him to see the shadow of a great rock in a
weary land, and girdeth up his loins to read the
Morpeth Times. There, no Jarring sentiment
ripples the ample surface of its ocean flatness, and
for many a league the weary soul floats along, like
the jolly young waterman, “ thinking of nothing
at all.” But, as with all things earthly, there is a
limit even to refreshing dulness. Just when one
flatters himself nodding into soothing slumber f
forth come the jarring atoms, and we are again in
the full tumult of life. “ Mr. Sim, J.P.,” it appears f
“ is building a cottage in High-street”—presumably
of weatherboard, though this is not plainly stated.
Scarcely has this harrowing doubt been allayed
than we are seised of the fact that “the Primitive
Methodist Church is receiving a fresh coat of paint
on the exterior,” and that “the interior is also to
be embellished.” Here, again, w© are in the very
maelstrom of vortices to ascertain whether the
interior embellishing is to take the form of white-
wash or whether the insidious cult of Popery
might not have suggested a carnal tint for the
celling. For, in that case, Primitive Methodism
must change its common tactics and henceforth be
classed with moribund creeds—be little better, in
point of fact, than Jefferis’ orthodoxy. A con-
summation we dare not face. But hope revives
again, for in the next paragraph we have it that:
“ Mr. W. F. Martin’s letters to the Press are much
admired,” and we recall four or five other Martins
we have known. The first made excellent black-
ing, and, naturally, leagued himself with Mr. Day.
Theodore Martin translated “ Faust ” to our satis-
faction, and afterwards wrote some memoirs cSc
Albert the Forgotten that satisfied someljuady. ,
else. F. N. Martin edited, and still does, one the ,
best little country papers in Victoria, and. being-
the first man to recognise our transcendent ,
ftenius, must live long and dio rich. He has the ,
mmortal distinction of never turning a deaf ear.-
to the appeal of struggling genius, because he was*
deaf in both, and it is not easy, in these days, to be,
half deaf. Then the mighty A. P. Martin sweeps*
into our ken. He was doing telegraph work ini
the Melbourne office, and, in his leisure moments*
editing that high-class, unreadable quarterly
called the Melbourne Review. Great were the
days when he, and Garnet Walch, and A. M. Topp»
and even Dick Thatcher and Dr. Moloney, dis-
coursed philosophy and billiards and conchology
in the upper room of the Yorick Club, and proved
that the Argus staff were nothing; Windsor and
Hugh George were incubi; and 8yme, and Deakm,
and Pearson, and Professor Elklngton, and suc-
cessful men generally, were not worth their salt.
Patchett Martin loved somebody with considerable
ardour; but, being six-feet high, and with a strong
chest, he decided to brav® the wintry clime of
England rather than have his great constitution
trifled with by unphilosophlcal but exasperated
husbands. He now writes society paragraphs in
some of the leading London papers; and, as he is
a good fellow, we don't mind saying we hope the
fogs disagree with him only half as much as his
“Hawkshaw” verses and “Lays of To-Day do
with our feeble and tottering understanding. But
this last i*ir. Martin is new to us: and, as ms
“letters to the Press are much admired, it be-
hoves us to read them— notwithstanding that we
already read the Echo and the News put of
pure philanthropy, tempered with Christian ex-
asperation. Turning from this still untrod Para-
dise, and mistfully recalling how
“ One morn a Peri at the gate
Of Eden stood, disconsolate,”
we find that worse still awaits. The sin of great
cities is a standing text with us; but what is that
to this?—“ Yankee-grab is being revived in west
Maitland;” or this, "It is currently reported that
a prominent Morpeth coal merchant is about to w
married”? [Our correspondent broke off sud-
denly here. It is with feelings of profound regret
that wo have to announce the sudden demise oi
one of our most promising young lUWaUur*.
After three days’ raving, during which every
known device, Irom a Dan O’Connor oration to »
Mudgee leader had been tried, in the fruiues*
endeavour to get some wholesome profanity ou>
him, he passed gently away—to the lock-up.
Ed. B.]
RISKING LITTLE.
MR. FIZZ (surprised): “BUY AN INTEREST IN THAT NEW MINE ! MY DEAH FELLAH, I
NEVAH PAY FOR ANY MINING INTERESTS. THE PROMOTAHS USUALLY PROVIDE
ME WITH SHA-AHS, AND I PUT MY BRAINS INTO THE VENTUAH.”
BROKER (neatly): “YOU CA.N’T HAVE LOST MUCH BY YOUR MINING SPECULATIONS,
OLD FELLOW; EH?”


rjl o ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
IS?” Sold by every Storekeeper and Qrooer at
(Id. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
3Sk0
R
*
E AS
o
o
Sydney & Royal Arcades
6
nArk DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
XUUU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue,
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpench.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency
746 GEORGE ST., HaYmArKBT, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Champagne
Heldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Ao'cnts tor Heldsleck .V Co.. Reims.
PUNCH’S NEW CORNER HOTEL,
SWAN WITH TWO NECKS,
George and Park streets,
opposite Town Hall.
STEVE PUNCH begs to Inform his many friends
and patrons that he has taken the above old-estab-
lished and well-known Hotel, and has added a
PRIVATE BAR
and
BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Park-street Entrance,
where his numerous customers will find the very
best brands of Wines, Spirits, Beers, &c.; and he
hopes by constant attention to the requirements
of the public to merit a continuance of the sup-
port whleh has been bestowed on his efforts in past
years.
No expense has been spared in thoroughly reno-
vating and refurnishing the whole of the bars,
parlours, bedrooms, and public sitting-rooms, &c„
sons to ensure comfort and ease to all those who
may honour him with a call.
Don’t forget,
THE NEW PUNCH’S CORNER,
opposite the Town Hall.
E
(PEMELL’
EXTRA SUPERFINE
. IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEA’
in a Mill replete with the newest and most appr
Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALT'
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MIL
H31 Oeorgre-strect, Sydney.
0. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
433 GEORGE STREET,
HAVE the
Largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
HATS MADE TO ~OHlTER. “
All the Best London Makes Imported.
438 GEORGE STREET,
Between jRoyal Hotel and Market-street.
MANHOOD RESTORED I
Premature Decay, &o., has at last discovered a
simple Self- CURE, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelop©—”
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P’O. Box 293, Sydney,
Puck Almanac, 1885-A Capital Sixpen’orth I
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Puck Almanac, 1885—Look out for it 1
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
tristry is carried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denta
Booms, 104-6 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
Puck Almanac, ’85, Illustrated, 8th December,
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Arthur Garner’s acting of Kyrle Daly in
«‘The Colleen Bawn” is a performance that is
wondrous unto weirdness: like the acting of Mrs.
Crummies, “ it was too terrific-the public couldn’t
stand it,” etc At the new Masonic Hall, next
Monday, Mr. George Labertouche (an amateur of
stupendous promise) is to do some tableaux vivants,
assisted by Mrs. Professor Smith, who may be re-
membered, pleasantly or fiercely (cela depend), as
having been formerly connected with the Romany
Club—a dramatic organization which always had
the goodnatured support of this attractive journal.
It has not as yet transpired what the tableaux are
to represent, but there is a rumour that one of the
pictures will be “ Bottom and Titania ” after the
former has been “translated.” Marian Willis
has, we see, amalgamated with the D’Orsay Ogden
company, and they have been doing “ Romeo and
Juliet ” at Maitland The world will be glad to
hear that an outcry has commenced again t the
painted Pollies, Dollies, and Kittles of the London
stage, Mrs. Kendall (Madge Robertson) having
'‘slated” these frail figurantes in her address on
the present condition of the Drama. We are not
ambitious enough to suppose that it will do much
good, however, nor prevent future Lord Lonsdales
from reeling after future Connie Gilchrists; and
future Savernakes from, in drunken fits, marrying
future Dolly Testers. The news, however, will be
gall to some toothless old fools we are acquainted
with, who were in the habit of subsidising George
Musgrove’s “officers” —with a view, of course, to
the elevation, no doubt, of the “ profession
which these ladies so nobly adorned... And, while
we remember it, it was threepence to see Lewis
Scott In the chair, the other night, at Mrs. Hamil-
ton’s recitations. Wedidn’t part. We understand,
however, that another man did. But he was
more curious than we are, and probably
richer. We are told that a goat—but, there,
thero 1 “Dying for Love,” if you please,
at Kennedy’s Hall, Wilcannia, for a charity;
and a success, please the pigs—we mean Pikes ...
We have learned (to creep on) from Gundagai that
South’s Opera Company are having a bit of bad
luck, and that the fascinating Edith doesn’t draw
the front seats. Yet she was passibly well adver-
tised, too And from Adelaide comes news that
Arthur Vivian's venture has not turned out
trumps, either. But he would play the family I
We expect to see the Company return in the order
the animals went into the ark —with no trunk to
speak of, but, like the fox and the cock in the
time-honoured conundrum, “a brush and comb
between them.”.....By the byo, Ain t-it-lovely
Teddy Davies is in Adelaide, and playing with
Prof. Anderson at Garner's, and his “ sparkling
locals ” are much admired.. ..Yes, and our sprightly
little friend. Amy Sherwin, has been slngingatthe
Promenade Concerts in London....Oh, and Riche-
pin, who is supposed to have out-Damala d Da-
mala in his adaptation of “ Macbeth ” for Sara, has
added a scene representing the murder of Lady
Mac luff, “an incident,” says Teuxh satirically,
“which, no doubt, Shakespeare forgot.”......
Very happy this, n'est ce past Et puis en-
core. Miss Fortescue now gets £35 a night,
instead of £7 a week, though she is de-
scribed as not having half the chic or talents of
Nellie Stewart—to say nothing of the freckles....
And we are to have Harry Rickards out again, ac-
companied by seven first-class variety artists.
Well, we want something new: only the trouble is
that Rickards is not new. These are the sort of
songs we are going to be treated to
“ They call me, aw, a mashah, because I’m such a
dashah,
And evah on, you wagah, for a la-ark I
You should see my bay pair prancing, and down
the ‘ Mile ” go dancing,
For I am-ya-as, the Pride, sirs, of the Pa-rk.”
Ugh! Will you have another imaginery sample?
No ? —Just a little. Enter singer with seedy get-up,
battered hat, and red pocket handkerchief. Band
—“ Rumti, tumti, tumtl,” etc.
I was Belinda’s lover,
Belinda’s chucked me over!
Of tears the last few drops I have shed seme (bus.);
She cottoned to the cornet—
A kind of social hornet—
And mashed the cove who leathered the big drum.
So now you’re prepared I.... The Maitland Mail
says, respecting Mr. D’Orsay Ogden’s acting of the
part of Meroutio that it was “ an amusing per-
formance, and was really so funny that even
when the death rattle was in his throat, the
audience laughed immoderately.” We wonder
which the noble Lyons will get from D’Orsay for
this—his thanks or his shoe ? On this occasion,
you must know, Mrs. D’Orsay Ogden was the
Romeo (no joke). We wonder how—we mean what
kind—however, we can’t be disposed to know. We
only saw the lady in “B°i8t Lynne” and “The
(paw) Woman of the Blowhole.’ The Brisbane
people have been up to their necks in it, so far as
shows are concerned. Radcliff and Rita and the
Bell-ringers; also Hugo’s Buffs, who are doing
good biz. in the Albert Hallj but Frank Hussey’s
crowd are having a poor time of it at the Royal;
their newest joke, if wo are to believe wjat we
read (which we nearly always sometimes don’t),
being that novel quip about Moses wearing a wig,
’cause—yack, yack—sometimes he was seen with
Aaron and sometimes without. Nothing like
variety D’Arey Read writes to us and says he
played the part of Colley Cibber in “ Masks and
Faces ” last week at six hours’ notice, in order to
replace another gentleman who had either come
into a legacy or got an attack of the “bumbles.”
We didn’t particularise last week, but Mr. Read
did all that could be expected of him—at six hours’
notice Let us see—what else ? Oh, the Vernon
(etc.) “Mascotte” company did not make above
£10,000 a night in Forbes, but times are described
as being dull, an accusation which could not
be fairly launched against the fascinating
Emma I.... There’s a dramatic club, now, in
Cairns (North Queensland); and Charley Holly
appears to have wandered as far as Townsville
wioh some Illusionists. We don’t expect to see
him down yet awhilel The great bard “Paddy
Murphy” (Thomas Brackem) has been lecturing
through New Zealand, but has met with poor suc-
cess. But, then, we’re not all P. J. Holds worths....
Notja bad title that of J. Paulton’s new London
burlesque—“The Babies; or, Whines from the
Wood;” and Stanley’s “Pinafore” kids are up at
the Towers. And, talking of the Towers, Frank,
the old lady, Rosa, Wood (the bub.), and the whole
push have gone to Bombay, though where in
thunder but that’s not our business! Donald
Dinnie (hoot, mon 1) has gone to Brisbane —well, we
can spare, if not all, at least some of him; and you
know little Ernest Moon, who is secretary to the
Iroquois banquet business: ho ;was a pro. once,
and used to sing comic songs between the acts or
Joey Qougenheim’s pieces in Queensland. “ Harry
Kingston ” was his stage name, and we remember
his first appearance at Rockhampton, when he
was announced to execute his great Tarantula
dance, as performed by him 17,000,000 times in
Madagascar, or somewhere.iMHarry didn’t dance,
but he sang several songs—and from that day, in
Rockhampton, the price of bricks went up. He
has, however, still a bit of love left for the per-
fesh., for wo detected him, some time ago, con-
ducting a dramatic entertainment at the Glades-
ville Asylum for the amusement of the patients.
The lunatics applauded, thinking it a cat-fight
Frank Clark recently had to ante-up to James
Joseph Foster, his N.Z. agent at Auckland, some
seven pounds. Frank, who conducted his case In
person, stated that, in the whole course of his ex-
perience, ho had never Iplayed to such wretched
biz. as at Auckland, and did not seem to be able to
account for it. We never knew an actor who
could 1 Especially an American actor!....In the
same breath we learn that Marlon Melrose was
pitched out of a buggy, and was severely shaken
in everything but her unalterable resolution to
“love, honour, and obey.” Marion, we may tell
Sou, is, while her own H.W. is wrestling with
,omeo in Adelaide, playing in Miss Louise Craw-
ford’s company at Abbott’s—with Henry Teece (he
couldn’t leave itl), Percy Shannon, Martin Hagan,
and Lucy Fraser—“The New Magdalen,” “Our
Boys,” &c. We are glad to see that Teece is the
stage-manager; for, when he played here, It took
him all his time to manage his feet. Who, by the
way, is Miss Louise Crawford,3who, the N.Z. papers
say, has scored so many “genuine successes” in
Europe and America? It won’t be before he
reaches New York, probably, that we shall hear of
the genuine successes scored by Mr. Teece (say) in
Australia! Hem!
Why should not habitual drunkenness be,
under the British flag as under the French, suffi-
cient ground for a divorce ? “ If all hope of re-
formation is lost, If there is no prospect of brighter
days, can we rightly say that only death and the
grave shall end this agony, and allow the curse to
be handed down to innocent souls yet unborn?”
A woman of energy and courage may now protect
her own earnings: but there is no protection
whatever under English law for an Industrious
man cursed with a drunken wife. The very dread
of divorce would often act as an efficient cor-
rector, If only a legal remedy were provided. It
is high time that the English law of divorce were
subjected to a thorough revision. As it stands at
present, if a man or a woman is deserted, no
matter from what cause, or from no cause at all,
ho or she is condemned to continual celibacy or to
illicit intercourse. As It stands at present, a
drunken woman may wreck a man’s home, neglect
his children, destroy his happiness, not only with-
out fear of punishment, but without fear of inter-
ference. This state of thing will continue so long
as people are content to allow the sacerdotalists to
stretch everybody upon their Procrustean bed.
HINTS FOE. HUSBANDS.


August Flowbr.—The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint, More than seventy'
Qve per pent, of the people are afflicted with these
two aiseases and their effects : such as Sour
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costivenoss,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands o
sufferers and Is known In all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. It costs only 3s. 6d. a
bottle. Sample bottles 6d,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thaU be glad to have this index petted up by
teeretariet of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING. M
Bendigo (V.) November 28, 37.
Narandera T.C November 37,38.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) December 8, 4.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
A.J.C. (Midsummer) • • • December Jj.
Wallsend J.C December 36, 37.
Moonee Valley (V.) ..December 37.
Canterbury Park R.C December J7.
Kosehill R.C December 37.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting .. January 1.
Adelong J.C January 1, 3.
Sydney T.C January28.
Lawrence J.C v, i anuar^"p'
Burrowa J.C • February 5, 6.
Cootamundra T.C February 11,13.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,13,18,
Tasmanian R.C... February 18.19
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 38, March 5, 7.
AQUATICS.
Brisbane Annual Regatta December 10.
Snail’s Bay Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta January 3b.
Hanlan v. Clifford i.
Clifford v. Beach February 38.
Beach v. Hanlan ■ - March «8.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18.
ATHLETICS.
Riverine Athletic Club Sports, Hay Race-
course December 26, 3<
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney ... .January 1.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At the Springfield (U.S.) cycling meeting,
Prince bicycled a mile la am. 39sec.
The Adelong cricketers defeated the Gun-
dagal ditto by 40 runs, in a match for the Gregory
Cup.
The cricket match on the 10th, at Enfield,
between the Emeralds and a local team, resulted
In a barney and an adjournment to the nearest
pub.
Arthur Hancock, who styles himself the
English 50 miles’ champion, was to leave for Aus-
tralia In the John Elder, booked to leave on the
15th October.
Mr. Ernest Barlow, a last season’s pro-
minent football player, died recently from hcemor-
rbage of the lungs, brought on by exposure and
repeated chills In tne football Held.
W. J. Peall offers to play anyone in the
world, bar John Koberts, inn., 5000 up, even, at
billiards, on an ferdintarv table by Messrs, ilur-
roughes and Watts, for £200 a side.
Mr. A. H. Megsen, of Manchester, pur-
chased from Mr. Samuel Beddinirton a celebrated
colley dog named Kurland, for the enormous sum
of £350, the highest price on record lor a colley.
A Nooze correspondent last week pointed
out that Murdoch was a “ canny Scut.” We have
long* been in search, of some reason to account tor
.Hilly’s extraordinary penchant for gate-money.
Donnelly had a “ day out ” at the recent
Balmain regatta, floats built by him came in first
lor the following races24-footers, 33-footers, 14-
footers, canvas dingles, and the two lo-toot races.
George, the English amateur champion,
beat Snook In the 11)00 yards’ scratch foot-race, at
Birmingham, 29th September, by six yards, lime,
Jrnin. 53 l-5sec. Then the pair bicycled a mile, and
Snook won.
Horace Davenport has won the English
nlunging championship with a plunere of 64ft. 8ln. f
the longest on record in England. Cairns won the
320 yards’swimming championship by 15 yards, m
3mln. 3J4sec.
At a meeting of the committee of the re-
cent Balmain regatta, it was decided to uphold
Brett’s protest against Sharland, who came in
first for the amateur outrigger race, and that the
race for the 24-footers should be sailed over again.
The Melbourne Sportsman says the pro-
moters of the recent saw dust agony in Melbourne
lost money by tbe ventme. More power to the
Melbournians. In our opinion, a six days walk
can give a ‘‘canine controversy’ a long start in
the way of brutality.
Marnuis Bibbero once more announces his
intention of attempting to accomplish the terrible
1 cat in which poor Captain Webb failed, and, lail-
ing! iMthtslife? Bibbero has had plenty of time
to count the probable cost-so much time, that
humane and other societies need not trouble on
his account.
At a cricket match, some time ago, the
Dogman was batting; suddenly he was
bv the wicket-keeper that ho was out. _ Dogman.
‘‘Out? what for?” Wicket-keeper: Leg before
wicket." Dogman: Who says so t JY/ 0 ,. ,
keener (pointing to umpire): "Him with the igh
’at.” Dogmen: ** What rot! Why, he isn t play-
ing.”
Narrabri Jockey Club races on I2th and
'13th Sultan won the Maiden Plate; Sir William
the TC Handicap; Wheel-of-Fortune the Borough
i Handicap ;and Druid annexed the Ladles’ Mraoc-
llet On tho second day, Ellington won the lown
Plato: Una the Kailway Handicap; Hajah the Pub-
lllcans’ Purse, and Hawthornden the forced Han-
dicap.
At the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred
HPnrW on Saturday last* J. RoliG t the bicyclist,
Covered ITO mUeY 1? 6hr. 8%min., Just three
iminutes under the time he stated he would en
deavour to do the distance In. Fresh riders picked
ihim up every ten miles, and Chapman, for a
wager, raced him home for the last 30 miles, with
ifour laps to the good.
The S.A.S.C. have two races on J )< ? a T?
tfnr next Saturday-for 24-footers and 30ft. halt-
deckers. It is to be hoped wo may have a ®P anl P
Jng north-easter, Just to see what the leaded boats
can do against live balla'st only. The owner of the
Wingadee has had a thumping lump of lead bolted
on to her keel, but her trial trip proved unfor-
tunate, as the deadweight strained her consider-
ably.
Mr Penman, who hails from that Paradise
■ of lies and nuggets, Temora, and who recently
won the Intercolonial quoit match over Cabbage-
garden way, crossed the Murray as the selt-styled
“champion of New South Wales." Under these
. cirerm stances, can it be wondered at that on r own
AndvVrnith waxes wrath, and offers to give the
TemoraTte a start of 20 out of 60, for any sum up
'to a century.
At Kenning ton Oval, October 1st, the
veteran London cricke'ers, Mr. C. Absolpn and
Mr C*Page, aged respectively 68 and 61, flayed a
,single-wicket match for a wager. Eacn man was
Hfiowed two fieldsmen. Only nine runs were
scored inelu ling two wide?, and in the end Mr.
i Pagewon h v a wicket, in his first innings he was
bowled for one, and went in lor‘the second time
iiahfnnr runs to get, and made them in less than
T oua?ter r of an four Mr. Absolpn, in his first
fnnlmre was caught without scoring, and in his
second essay lost his wicket la attempting a short
run after scoring two, but he was credited wit .
bye in each innings.
Melbourne Cup week was an auspicious
one for “top weights’’ at both ends of the world.
Malua, Commotion, Elngwood, and Fryingpan
romped home in front of their better-treated op-
ponents at Flemington, while Thebais, with a
crusher on her aristocratic back, succeeded in
adding the Liverpool Autumn Cup to her long list
of victories in England. This is a race which, from
the fact of finishing on a decline, always gives the
spe* dy ones a great show, no matter what weight
they may be carrying, and the victory of Thebais
is strictly according to precedent The mare is
the property of that erratic and rubicund female,
the Dowager Duchess of Montrose, and was ridden
by her favourite jockey, Charlie Wood.
Thus the Weekly Dispatch That
Beach was above all things a stayer was known to
everybody, and of course to Hanlan. If what
Hanlan now says of himself is true, his forte is
speed, and not staying power, and his supremacy
has been gained by ability to break up his rivals at
the outset, and then take a breather for himself.
We can only conclude, therefore, that this time,
either by accident or design, Hanlan rowed in pre-
cisely the way best suited to serve his opponent.
The local talent are evidently of this opinidn, or
they would not - thinking they know something-
offer to Jay 3 to 1 on Hanlan for the next race. - ’
All the Engli-h papers are full of this 3 to 1 racket
— y, herever they got hold of it. “ Pendragon ” has
it on the brain, aud hints at dark and bloody mys-
teries.
The action of the Cricketin'; Association
in frustrating the attempt of Murdoch and Co. to
forestall the English team will undoubtedly find
favour with every supporter of cricket in the
colony. In their endeavour to gloss over the
grabbing propensities of colonial teams,' Austra-
lians have brought forward the heavy expense of
a trip to England as a necessity for handling the
dollars: but now teat the co onlals’number elevens
are again punishing their native heather, it borders
on the despicable for them to resort to all manner
of schemes to best a team of professionals—pure
and simple—for fear the prior advent of the Bri-
tishers would keep a few pounds out of their own
pockets.
On Saturday last, the big half-deckers,
under the auspices of the Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club, had a black north-easter-one of the olden
sort—for their race for Mr. J. J. Underwood’s prize,
the starters being the Deronda, Ethel, Eula, But-
tercup, and Asteroid. The Asteroid was first round
Manly, and finished some nine minutes ahead of
the Eula, which led the Deronda by some five
minutes. No doubt the powers that be in connec-
tion with the sailing clubs do not care to prevent
one of their members from racing his craft, but,
in justice to the owners of honaflde half-deckers,
we think a boar, or rather yacht, of the Asteroid’s
tonnage should be either debarred or handicapped
in view of a light or heavy day. the handlcappers
to decide, at the time of starting, which impost
she should race under.
It seems a pity Foley and Farnan cannot
come to terms and decide in a couple of Queens-
berrys a battle which is taking weeks, or rather
months, of paper warfare. Foley’s latest move
has been to send a challenge to the Melbournian,
offering to box Farnan for from £250 to £1000 a side,
in not less than eight weeks from the date of sign-
ing articles, and stating that a substantial deposit
on the whole amount would have to be put up at
once. If Farnan means business, this ought to
“ fetch ” him, for eight wet k-t can scarcely be con-
sidered an excessive period lor preparation for a
battle of such moment. But we have an idea that
the “ line ” obtained from the fights with Jackson
—a man who would not have the “ cheek ” to put
his hands up to Foley—was not quite good enough
to run Farnan on to risk a meeting with Foley.
From all accounts, the usually dreamy
little town of Gosford must have been up to its
neck in dissipation on Saturday last, when all the
events on the regatta programme wore gone
through, notwithstanding that*there was rather
too much wind and sea for the comfort of occm
piers of light craft. The All Comers’ race resulted
in a win for Messenger, but it must have been
more a trial of who could keep afloat, than of
speed, ns we understand Matterson’s boat was
nearly full of watwr by the time the race vias fin-
ished, and Pearce’s craft was cracked and water-
logged However, the men will meet again for
the row-off at the Balmain Uegatta, when we trust
to see a lair field a id no fav< ur, and the best man
win. J Nicholson won the single sculls ; W.
Beattie carried otf the race for youths under 16;
Canvaser Violet won the JOft. and under, sailing
race; Nicholson and ivPQrath appropriated the
double sculls; The Violet also won the race for all
sailing boats; andjJ. M’Grath annexed the resi-
dents’ race.
Says London Bell’s Life:— “Among the
most enthusiastic supporters of the Australians
during the tour which has just closed was Mr. L.
F. Ireland, of Ghooll, New Mouth Wales. This
gentleman has made a point of, if possible, secur-
ing the balls with which any of his countrymen
have performed any notable feat. That used in
the match at tho Oval when Murdoch wade 21L,
Mr. Ireland has had mounted in silver, and fixed
upon a plate, on which is represented a kangaroo
triumphing over eleven prostrate lions. The ball
with whictt Blaekham stumped three baismen in
the match between the Gentlemen and tne Aus-
tralians he had also handsomely mounted, and
presented it to the eminent wicket-keeper. That
used by Spoffarth in the last match of the tour,
with which tho Demon made such havoc among
the English wickets, likewise passed into Mr. Ire-
land s possjssion, and. after being encircled with a
band of silver, it was handed over to the gentleman
who had used it with such effect.”
The professional question has been the
great topic amongst English footballers since tho
commencement of the season, end, by all accounts,
threatened to create a schism in tho ranks of Asso-
ciation players. The Association passe<1 a rule
which. If carried out, would practically ” boycott”
any club against which a erse could be fouud, suf-
ficiently strong, of paying professionals. Much a
charge has been founded against the Preston
North End Club. Several prominent Midlands
and Scottish clubs who last year bad engagements
with the Preston North End either ret used to re-
new them, or if made have cancelled them. Says
London Bell’s Life: “ Though the last general
meeting of the Association almost unanimously
rejected the proposal to recognise professionalism
as recommended by the committee, not a single
argument was brought forward against the same
The principal opposition seemed to come from the
clubs that are more or less suspected of em-
ploying paid players. Why footballers who re-
ceive remuneration for their services should
shrink from being termed professionals is a mys-
tery In every other branch of sport profes-
sionalism is recognised. Why not in football ? The
football professional would stand in tho same po-
sition as his cricketing brother. A useful and
honourable career would be open before him.
The defeat of Malua iu the Canterbury
Plate at Flemington was a terrible facer to public
form and its disciples. Malua’s finish in tho Cup,
when he left Mr. Pearson's horse as though stand-
ing still, was certainly one of the most brilliant
performances ever seen on a racecourse, and on
that running there seemed a poor prospect for
“.he idol of the Victorian public” to turn the
tables upon his conqueror, at a difference of two
pounds better terms. True, Malua had, in the
meantime, knocked under to Newstead in a six-
turlong scramble; but, then, everyone knows, or
should know by this time, that two-year-olds have
the best of the so-called weight-ior-age scale
Lord Lyon, a horse equal to winning the English
Two Thousand. Derby, audLeger, had a two-year-
old sister in Achievement, whocouldpolish otf her
big brother at ten pounds, over six furlongs, and
this, too, at a time when there was scarcely a four-
\ ear-old in the world that could have beaten Lyon
at even weights. So, all thing considered, Malua’s
head defeat by Newstead on the previous Thurs
day, was regarded as honourable rather than other-
wise, and backers, who were devoid of any
sentimental reverence (or old Commotion, unam-
mously resolved that the Canterbury Plate was a
real good thing for Mr. IngHs’ horse-on paper.
(Significant saviog clause. Th© good thing stayed
on paper. Commotion started off at scorct
! took a lead of several lengths, and kept it
all through the race. In vain did the cleverly
calculating backer wait-for the “ rush ” -which
was t<j dispose of Commotion, and endorse their
own judgment. Either it was not forthcoming, or
else commotion must have made his rush at the
same identical moment, for the distance between
the two horses never appeared to be diminished.
Certain of the sporting scribes spoke of Malu&’s
“grand effort,” but the unprejudiced public
couldn’t see it. Moreover, the fact that the time
was not so good as for the Cup race, makes it look
as though the “ grand effort ” was made only in the
imaginations of the “ prophets,” and Malua was a
good deal off colour on the occasion under notice.
It was certainly hard lines for Mr. Marshall
when the Double Bay regatta committee saw fit to
disqualify the Asteriod for carrying Capt.;Amora,
who, according to the:r rules ranks as a profes-
sional. That the rule is an idiotic one there cannot
be a doubt; but, having passed it, the committee
very properly carried it out to the letter. If the
club had seen fit to pass a resolution debarring a
seafkring man from handling the tiller, there could
be nothing to growl at—although we don’t suppose
any boat-owner would be mad enough to risk his
craft in that manner; but it seems carrying affairs
rather too far when a man cannot invite an officer
of a merchantman, or even a naval officer, to take
a seat in his boat without incurring disqualification.
And how many seamen are worth their salt in a
sailing-boat ? Ask any boat proprietor to whom he
would rather let a boat, a soldier or a sailor, and
wo don’t mind laying a dinner at Compagnonl's to
a Nooze man’s diurnal sausage that the preference ,
is given to the “lobster.” Captain Amora is an
exception, as we have few men id. the Harbour
who can sail a boat as “ Amorous ” used to handle
his old skiff, which he “ raised on ” till she had a
side on her like the wall of a nouse. But the sea-
man under discussion is the exception, not the rule;
and we think the club might well take into con-
sideration the softening down, of the amateur
definitions so far as regards officers of sea-going'
vessels.
If the Rum people will insist on having an
“Old World” man to do colonial aquatics, they
must expect to put their feet into it sometimes,
and we might as well say their bodies at once; for
where a Rum man’s feet will go, his body will
follow for a certainty. Says the “Old World”
man: “Nevertheless, the continually recurring
accidents, many unfortunately terminating fatally
to fine young fellows in the prime of life, as lately ,
instanced by the Grace Darling disaster, plainly
show the advisability of adding to their know-
ledge, and above all, tempering their recklessness
by coolness and judgment.” And how many “ fine
young fellows in the prime of life ” have lost their
lives in the manner indicated by the “ Old World”
man—say, during the last fifteen years ? Perhaps
the Rum man may answer the question ? We have
been knocking about the harbour for that period,
both racing and pleasuring, and we can at the
moment only rake up two cases where men
who were used to handling boats were drowned.
As for the Grace Darling disaster, it can easily
be seen the D.T. man is an alien, or he would
not quote it. She was a long, narrow-gutted boat,
and the occupants, at one o’clock in the morning,
during tne height of a southerly gale, jibbed off
Middle Head and came to grief. But we would
not mind laying the proverbial guinea to a goose-
berry that, bad the Grace Darling been manned
by the “reckless amateurs” the alien sees at our
regattas, she would have been “ put about,” and
the reckless amateurs would that night-or rather
morning—have pitched their camp at Hunter s
Beach. As an instance of the reckless sailing of
■men who do not know much at out the sport, and,
consequently, the danger, we givo the following.
Nine or ten Sundays ago, a party of novices
started away in an open boat from vv oolloomooloo
Bay. with five or six ► iris on board, and ran down
to Manly and into Fairy Bower, with a stiff
southerly behind them. i bus far it was all plain
sailing, as they were lucky enough not to bring
the boom over with a baig; but the return trip
was a vastly different thing, and, had they not had
the luck to get a tow from a passing steamer, it is
not altogether off the cards tnat the snuifiebusters
would have had uuolher case of Sunday drowning
to rant about.
Do we think there’s anything in the
sapient reports of trial gallops put forward by the
veracious sporting prophets of the dally press ?
Bah! Ask us something difficult. Of course, we
do. We have backed the tips, and the soul of In-
solvency Court Dtffell beat high as he saw us clip
“Caspian’s ” Cup predictions, and rush along with
our weekly cheque to Jones’s. Ex pede Herculem
—one sample of how the thing is “did” will be
more than quite sufficient. At 5 a.m., on the 23rd
of October last, two Cup horses, trained in the
same stable, toed the scratch to do a “ couvlncor ”
that was to decide which was the safest to
put the gilt on. Through the injudicious gap oi
a stable boy the secret leaked out, and thr souls ot
the turfy touts bumped up to their ears with joy.
Of course, i he head trainer knew nothing of this.
Head trainers never do. Next to the twin babe
unborn, there is not a more simple-minded, guile-
less, innocent biped on this earth to-day than a
race-horse trainer. Not wishing to give the par-
ticular stable in question away too cheaply, how-
ever, we will disguise the horses under the names
of Torn and Jerry. Tom was ridden by a jockey
whose weight was fully 7s . 101b., and—keep your
eye on this—he rode with his coat buttoned up to
his chin. Jerry was steered by a kinchin about
the size of an organ-grinder s monkey, and, just
to show there was no deception, he xode
with nothing on hut his trousers, boots, and
shirt. Tom beat Jerry by half a head. And
the tipsters who had watched the whole affair from
the adjacent ditches, gave their turns a rest; stood
up on their legs, and rushed home with the joyful
tidings that Tom, having gruelled Jerry with a
stone and a half above him, was the stable’s pick,
and their journal’s admirers ( Anglice gulls) would
do well to Invest a trifle on the aforesaid Thomas.
Fortunately for ourselves, however, we happened
to sleep in the same room as Jerry’s rider, and
awoke just in time to see him return from his
star-lit morning’s work. Hauling off his boots, he
removed two leaden inner soles weighing fully Jib.
each. His pants were kept up by a concealed shot-
belt that turned the scale at Bib, and beneath his
navy-blue jumper he wore a lead-lined shirt that
must have totalled quite two stone. So that, m
point of fact, the morning’s gallop proved that
Jerry was fully two lengths a better horse than
Tom Oddly enough, the stable backed Tom for
a “pony” the same night; hut, what is still more
remarkable, a frlend-a particular friend-of the
owner and trainer backed Jerry to win £30,000. As
if they didn’t know the weights the trial jockeys
carried! In this case, however, neither horse had
a show when the final tussle came, end so Virtue
triumphed, and Vice was crushed, just as it
happens in the plays of Shakespeare’s rlyal-
Goorge Darrell. Do we believe in journalistic tips1
Do we believe the worlds flat, and a Donald
Dinnio sort of god holds up each corner?
The St. James’ Gazette “ delights in these
biennial visits of the Australian cricketers, which
tend to knit still closer the ties that bind England
to the greatest of her colonies.” The Gazette
proceeds: “It we assume that, when Boyle bowled
Feate in the memorable match at the Oval in 1882,
th*.> sceptre of cricket passed from England to
Australia, we shall contend that the result of this
season’s matches has restored that sceptre to the
original holders. If, however, no more should be
claimed for the Australian team of 1882 than that
they proved, in homely phrase, ‘Jack was as good
as his master,’ we shall then contend that the
cricketers of England have during the past season
held their own, and a little more than their own,
against their skilful and dangerous rivals. The
luct that the Australians have lost seven matches
this year, as against four only in W, does not
strike us as important. The victories ot Oxford
University at«d of Kent over the invaders only
illustrate Lord Harris’s sensible truism, that an
eleven, however strong, must sooner or later fall
a victim to an inferior team. And this remark
1 will annlv. of course, to the matches which Sussex
1 and an England eleven (at Huddersfield) drew
against the Australians. Of the five Australian
victories, tho one gained over the Gentle-
men is the one of which the victors have
most reason to be proud —the only one, perhaps,
of which they have reason to be very proud;
for neither the Flayers of England nor the South
of England on the occasions of their respective
two defeats played their full strength. The Eng-
lish ‘test' victories were very different affairs*
The M.C.C. defeated the Australians in a single
innings by 115 runs; the North of England did
ditto and by 22; the representative Eleven of Eng-
land did ditto by five runs; the Gentlemen of
England beat them at Lord’s, and the North of
England again beat them—by 170 runs. Against
five such victories as these the five Australian
* wins * cut a very poor figure. But there is a per
contra account to be reckoned with. The victory
of the Gentlemen at Lord’s was due to an accident,
and cannot be reckoned as an offset to their de-
feat at the Oval; while the great victory gained
by England at Lord’s must in equity be reckoned
as no more than an equipoise to the games which
were drawn very much in Australia’s favour at
Manchester, and still more in her favour at the
Oval. But as that was the only champion match
finished, it unquestionably gives England back the
championship, leaving Mr. Murdoch in no position
to lepeat his good-humoured icomparison of him-
self with Lord Wolseley. It must be remembered,
too, that against even the unequalled 551 which
the Australians made in their first innings at the
Oval, the 481 made by the M.C.C. in their only
Innings at Lord’s does not show badly; and that
the English players when batting against a score
which practically put success out of reach, made a
much stouter fight of it. than the Australians did
under similar depressing circumstances. But
though we claim that technically the champion-
ship has reverted to England, and that, equitably
considered, her representatives have rather more
than held their own against their formidable rivals
in the past campaign, we do not on that account
claim any superiority for English over Australian
cricket. Spofforth and Palmer are better bowlers
than any we can boast of; and Blackham’s wicket-
keeping is simply matchless. It is owing to the
superior quality of their batting, taken as a whole,
that English cricketers have come out so well
from a contest which at one time provoked many
dismal prognostications. It is obvious that a re-
newal of the struggle in 1886 will be eagerly ex-
pected by all lovers of cricket in England. What
the result of that struggle may be we do not pre-
tend to forecast. It is possible that our ‘ coming
bowler ’ may have been discovered in Attewell. It
is desirable that he should come forward soon, and
before we have to regret the absence of Spofforth,
who has justified his grim nickname with a ven-
geance this season. Meantime, we shall be ex-
tremely gratified if some modest interviewer will
extract from each member of that apparently
cast-iron eleven from Australia some information
.about the diet on which they have thriven so
amazingly.”
The World condescendingly says that in
cricket “ Man to man, England against Australia,
England has a little the best of it, but only a little.
.As batsmen they cannot compare with our best,
but In bowling they are certainly our masters. If,
as some of their countrymen say, there are better
men than they in store, we shall be glad to see
them. It is not wise, however, to take an Austra-
lian’s estimate of Australian things too seriously.”
The World goes on to remark that the Austra-
lians’ visit has made all other matches seem tame
and insipid, that it has introduced a bloodthirsty
spirit, which takes the game from out of its cool,
scientific atmosphere, and reduces it to the level of
horse-racing and cock-fighting. The Australians,
who find these visits very remunerative,? make
their own terms, insist on them not always very
gracefully, and play too obviously for the money’s
sake. They arrogate to themselves the rank of
“gentlemen,” and yet are only “professionals.”
“lit should be made clear to the Australians that if
they visit England to make money they must rank
with others in the same condition as paid profes-
sionals. English professionals are sore on this
point, and it is for the Australians to decide be-
tween their pride and their pocket. That they
should decide for the latter would be best perhaps
for all. They would continue to gather their
golden harvest, and we should then be in a posi-
tion to put a stop to certain little practices
they seem fond of, quarrelling with the umpires,
and other vagaries which are not convenient,
but at which, as matters now stand, courtesy com-
pels us to wink. At any rate, this way or that, a
decision should be made before their next visit,
whenever that may be. For all its bustle and
prosperity, the past season cannot be looked back
upon with unmixed satisfaction.” Awl When
Yates says the Australians’ terms are exorbitant,
he simply talks bunkum, for the English clubs
have made through the Australians’ visit far more
money than they could possibly otherwise have
gathered in. And as to the World’s statement
that the Australians must declare themselves
“professionals,” read between the lines the sug-
gestion is easily seen to be steeped with nothing
but Insolence and malice. No doubt such a man
as Yates —the coward who, to save his own miser-
able skin, gave up the name of a lady who wrote
for his paper-would like to see the Australians
degraded to the level of the servile bowler of a
country ground, with his hat in hand, and his
“Yes, my lord,” “No, my lord,” “Thank your
lordship, ’ Yates will have to learn that, though
the professional cricketer may in England yet gain
—if he be an educated and self-reliant man, able
to get bis living honestly in more ways than one-
just as decent and independent a position ns that
occupied by Murdoch, or Bonnor, or Scott, the
Australians, whether amateur or professional, will
never consent to be spat upon by dirty little cads
whose soap-boiling or nigger-murdering grand-
fathers left enough money to get the cads’ fathers
“ennobled” and to enable the cad himself to live
without working. In proposing that Australians
declare themselves professionals, the World cer-
tainly means them no kindness. It simply means,
as evidenced by its mendacious reference to “ quar-
relling with umpires and other vagaries,” that they
should be reduced as far as possible to a state of
abject servility and serfdom. Australia is a free
country. We choose to regard Murdoch as a
gentleman, though nedoes make money by cricket.
There are some Englishmen whom we don’t con-
sider gentlemen, despite the fact that they don t
take money for playing. Let people of the Yates
sort call our men what they please. We don t
object to our men being regarded as professionals;
but we do most strongly object to its being put
abroad by such papers as the World that the
Australian, merely because she gets paid for an
accomplishment he happens to possess, must grovel
and lose his self-respect, and abase and prostrate
himself before every creature who puts an eye-
glass in his head to magnify his brains and wears
white “ spats” to make his feet look small.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ W.L.B.”: Thanks; spiteful pars are not In our
line. Another thing—we don’t spell pence
with an “I."—“A.G.”:
You’ve just “throw oil ” a little thing;
Our opinion, now you ask it ? „
Well, we’ve also thrown a “little thing
Into the paper basket!
B. S. Winton”: The fastest time over
the Parramatta course was made by Charley
Heynolds (“ Black Charley ”) -SOmin. 8sec.


W. H. CHARD AND DO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL or
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
Eo
1
%
«1
&
well
tain
m
r.
n
'Pg
A
o
H VA
LU
£
surrtsiNc
TO
ion
KJ
®fi
W
cr v
e S$
Ce
m
m
m
UPTID FOR T
"Australian Colonies?*
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
c
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson&Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS AT 5s. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. Kg'” CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
C. B. MODim,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
** TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, Ac. All goods will bo faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia. Italy.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHEE OP THE PIANO.
Communications to bo addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying- Instrument, for
4|d. Fourpence halfpenny. 4Jd.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.*"
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 6s.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars.
W. BULLARD, 342 George-street.
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
w *
JL
&
&
r/Za.
fe
o
CoS T S 6uy sPamhiwc?
ft A Mtn i*tS It. Ktci
COSTS 8u T 5°
'tPV »“Hij .»
»*CAA6tS r«R a \
Ftoe»>o» '2 fOWi.J
IS
eccs
A
I __—
tf£/V& i * rV -
fa/r*
9 p.Ot
Rnttrectrs lj
*/~tnj\Lr cn 0/SenSES
Comno.s r 0 *>oi/4-r/\t
nAtr-3 AC nr A J .// HtnArrtf N;
iOtYB/r/a'*’ r 3 ,nAnA3 Pou*. rr\
rnt toast rnt>A£.
orV ttU3~ A'Af\sH.
SECURED Bt EETTEHs, PA TEAT)
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
Medals Gained against the World
.
3k*
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
ME. F. W ABE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
0T Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
either Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
OP
IN
esT 0RE0
?Ks
s;
3*
ESSKNGEorLIFE
ie only infallible remedy for
y/ERyoi/s JjebiIijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
86s.; if by coach. 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney, 1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and tO., 48 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-etroet South.
I Travers Vegetable Compound I
s TUBTEMH?,Sole Proprietor,]
‘ zuceffiOH & stua. «. siu#* ft (
2Itrstate Str^r
HARTFQRQ t .C t -U.S.
Price-2oz. packets, 4s. «d. per doz.; single pounds, ts ; 2H>lbs., 4s.; 6U». boxes, 8s.;
lOlb. boxes, 12s.; 251b. Ucks, 27*. ltd.
Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To bo had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ & CO., 32 Bridgc-st.. Sydney,
SOLE AGENTS.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING CO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
BF Fac-slmlles of Handwriting; for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANT QUANTITY', AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
Book or Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
1)1 ( r nolo 7 aorrovinq
i f v a cu1 enxyaveb ctp ©Jype /*\cl-
a i > jsRofo-cty m ica.L mecury.
j'C y moumfccj \y jsc Rujd and—
car; be yeti m op Jyyo
ancj pry fed jrrom. an>/ orc^l “
n.auy p r i n. ft a |? r c sj . Sk; aj3pea.r--
rl reyem&fy \?er/ cioseRy
a cooob cuL cmc| y to
super/edc fo a cjrcar - extent!
tRaf <5toco ant] cos rfy rrue 1"R_od.
o enqravi ruj .
reaf
e ca o o j?pe r
fo at £ coKo
ye cut/ j:or , Price —
fijTj- > OadaRocyey or curuy
c51oi\?e r'Tying parpo/e. Qe/T our
cs Timofey* ar\c| fry uy
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
COPYRIGHTED.
<0f* r
COPYRIGHTED.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers* Compound
does all that it claims to do”
(Traits purpose is iSolely for the legitimate healing of disease
and the relief of Dgia. it is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
C5*Ladies, it will under all circumstances, act in harmony
with the laws that gove; n your system.
C5*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A CR"AT~VIEDICAL DISCOVERY
C3*Itls a Blessing to overworked women, audits sales are
unprecedented. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, nil craving
for stimulants, and relievos weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain. *£3
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
iwrit revives the drooping spirits, invigorates ami har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to t he eye. and plants on
the pale cheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE,
(£r*For the cure of Kidney Complaints of either sox this
Compoundi s '
Mrs. Travers’ 4 4 Guide to Health” will be mailed free to any
lady sending stamp. Letters ©finquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. Box,907, Hydney.
MRS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.


F
H
URNITURB SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : •well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERT ELEGANT, just received. Bradley*
Newton, and Lamh.
B
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
CHEAP FURN1TDRE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 8d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namelj
with swing GLASS
marble top, 80s the pair.
DRESSING-TABLE,
and WASHSTAND,
TTjULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
JP BOARD. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Oonnell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAItP
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will or
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of tno body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired,
frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
only ten pounds com-
i thickness
when * Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
Bm AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.__
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
ve assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
ad other designs, whicn can be upholstered m
ay materials to meet the taste and requirements
f buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
[OROCCO SKINS and'Materials for Upholstery,
pen to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
AMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamo<
[3EDSTEADS, all kinds &nd sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
REDDING— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, 0 Con-
all and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTAND8, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ Connell-street. __
ENTWOOD FDRNITURB.-A very•eomplet*
Assortment; best make, lot* est price*.
SOCIAL
In recognition of many pleasant social
evenings spent at “ Oakwood, Glebe Point, a
number of young gentlemen gave a complimentary
ball on Friday to Mr. and Mrs. Dwyer and family.
The committee were Messrs. Colley, Kelly, Kane,
Rledy, Downes, Cope, and Callaway, and fully
ninety guestslwere present. Callaghan catered,
and Hhapter and Herman gave their best music,
the programme of 24 dances, as usual, being
lengthened by extras, and diversified by some ele-
gant Highland stepping by young ladles, and a
spirited recitation by Master Ben, Dwyer. Fancy
dresses were chosen by some, and the wearer of
one of thsse-a fair-haired young lady in black
and scarlet—was certainly the best dancer present.
The prettiest fancy character was that of Summer,
taken by Mies Murphy; tho dressfwas a short blue
satin with draperies of nun’s veiling, the bottom
bordered with a scroll work of parti-coloured
flowers, while the front of bodice was arranged
with green chenille so as to exactly imitate a bed
of moss, and in it white flowers were set with
charming effect. A wreath of leaves and flowers
completed this pretty character. Mrs. Dwyer
woie a very handsome ivory satin dress, and Miss
Dwyer a pretty pink. One of the nuns from
“ Tambour Major " was a lady from Alexandria in
the familiar attire of drab, with white folds crossed
demurely over the body. The dress of a Darling-
tonigirl was one of the nicest evening costumes;
namely, ivory satin pleated skirt, over which
came .long tabs with a bunch of flowers at each
Eoint; drapery at back of nun’s-veiling, and a
andsomo corsage bouquet—a costume nicely
suiting its brunette wearer. Miss West was a Kath-
leen Mavourneen; Miss Alkenhead a Patience; Miss
Tottle Farrell, an unusually fine Folly in a short
dress of the now famous black and yellow; while
Miss Ethel Farrell appeared as Four O’clock Tea,
in a pink percale, with cups, saucers, dial clock,
&c., scattered over her charming person. Miss S.
Mailon, in cardinal and white, and Miss Colley, in
cream, flew lightly round in a way the reverse of
Mallon-Colley; Miss Fanny Mailon looking very
nice in her neat dress in two shades of heliotrope,
while Miss Mailon number three sparkled In all the
brightness of youth and innocence enve'oped in
cardinal satin. A good dress of pale gold satin,
cut low and sleeveless, was worn by Miss Hall,
who danced excellently; Miss Jackson wore the
University gown of a lady B.A., Miss Priestly was
Nancy Lee, and there were several other sailor
lassies who were not labelled. Mr. Phillips was a
Huntsman, Mr. Nelson Dwyer appeared as Claude
Meinotte, Master Benedict Dwyer as Prince
Arthur. Mrs. Vaughan wore a really fine dress of
rich white satin, and Miss Danks's prettiness was
set off with ecru and indigo blue. Mephistopheles
was present, and sundry other characters, and the
ball went smoothly all through. A long series of
pretty tunes, combining all the dances, was beau-
tifully played by Miss Henriques as an extra, and
the morning was well advanced when the company
separated.
* * ♦
The annual ball in aid of the Wellington
Hospital was held in the Band Hall on the 10th
Instant, and was fairly attended, there being about
120 present. Nothing was wanting for its success,
excepting, perhaps, just a few more gentlemen.
The arrangements were good, and as gifts “ in
kind ” had come in freely, the expense of catering
was minimised, and the ladies, as usual, acted as
ministoring angels at tho refreshment table. The
programme consisted of 24 dances, and everyone
stayed till nearly the end. Music was supplied by
a capable orchestra conducted by Mr. R. Porter,
sen. Several lady visitors adorned the room with
their handsome costumes ; and their excellent
waltzing could not fall to attract attention.
Amongst those who shone most prominently were
Mrs. Artie Leeds, of Cunnamulla, who looked so
charming in pale blue broche trimmed with cream
lace that she Leeds the list by right of beauty.
Miss Jenny Rodda, of Mount Arthur, looked be-
witching in grey trimmed with blue, and was
jennle-rally admired; as was also her sister in grey
and garnet. Miss Minnie Lee, of Larras Lake, who
appeared in pale blue satin trimmed with cardinal,
was the centre of a set of idolisers; and Miss Gar-
diner, of Gobololn, looked nice in a white net
skirt with satin body; as did MissGadon, of Apsley,
in white silk trimmed with cardinal. Amongst
others who should be mentioned were Miss Mary
Veech, in cream and nun's veiling; Mrs. Carson, in
white silk trimmed with old gold and blue; Miss
Lambert, in pale blue silk; and Miss Daniel, in
white and pink. All enjoyed themselves, al-
though, as before said, a few more gentlemen
might have been useful. This scarcity in the male
market, however, will be remedied when the Land
Bill comes into operation, and the pomatumed
mashers of the metropolis are scattered as tho
frentle dew from heaven upon the girls in the dry
nterior.
• * •
We hear of an ingenious device to orna-
ment a wedding-breakfast table. It is a pyramid
of transparent ice enclosing the photographs of
the bride and bridegroom. This seems ominous of
coolness in theihoneymoon.
• • •
A most successful leturn ball was given
by the ladies of Windsor to the gentlemen of that
town on Friday night last, in the hall of the School
of Arts. About 100 guests were present, among
whom were several naval officers in full uniform.
The decorations of the hall, music, and supper
were perfect, so a most enjoyable evening was
spent by all those who had the good luck to be
present. The dresses of the ladies were handsome,
tho most noticeable being those worn by Mrs.
Bodenham, Miss Farquhar, Miss Ridge, Mrs.
Rouse, Miss Bandy, Miss De Laurie, and Miss
Morrow. Dancing was kept up till 4 a.m., when
the ball closed by all singing tho National Anthem,
* * *
Quite an era in the festive life of Manly
was'marked by the Bachelors’ Cinderella ball, on
the 11th instant. It was the first large affair of the
kind, and there must have been over a hundred
present in tho Oddfellows’ Hall. There were not
the decorations one would have expected to see
in a village so celebrated for its flower fate—
possibly the committee who were to have seen to
them considered the local belles ornament enough.
But tho labours of the local sandwich committee
were gloriously successful, and the light edibles
served by maids from the houses of Manly ladles
formed a welcome contrast to the stereotyped tarts
and sugar-veiled mysteries of professional caterers,
while the charms of “claret-cup” and the cheering
influence of coffee helped the dancers in their
exertions. Prof. Sauerbier worked the piano very
elegantly, but an extra waltz by Mrs. H. Prince and
another by Miss Harrison were really treats added
to the programme. The Misses Fitzstubbs, < ailed
by an admiring youth the Fairlight fairies, were
noticeable among the dancing throng. A short-
haired lady more than once married looked quite
charming in refreshing pink attire. Mrs. M’Leilan,
of Manly, was particularly distinguished for grace-
ful dancing; and Miss Hill, of North Shore, was
one of those partners who are always at a pre-
mium. A dress of blue satin draped with cream,
which admirably suited a beautiful figure, was
worn by Miss Bessie Chesborough, who was one of
the most charming acquisitions to the room. The
bride whose marriage we recently chronicled, Mrs.
Lister, was attractive in a rich ivory-white dress.
As to the belle, tastes differ, but on this occasion
the position was generally conceded to Miss
Hutchinson, a beautiful girl in pink. Although
the hall was rather full, tne ball was thoroughly
satisfactory, the committee doing all they could
to set visitors at ease and find all partners. It is
pretty certain that a regular Manly Assembly will
Deformed next year; but, in the meantime, the
bachelors having set tho ball rolling, there’s time
for the benedicts to give it another kick before
Christmas.
Four Girls have been “writing to thepaper”
about young men and their bearing on social life.
Of course, a great many young men don’t have any
bearing on social life worth speaking of—that is
so far as affects young and pretty girls. Our quar-
tette are not thinking of the youths who are
swallowed up in the mazes of their own mighty
intellects, who worship their own muscles, or who
allow themselves to be degraded by the infirmity
of drink. The girls speak of those in whom they
have an interest—the desirable suitors. In fact—
those young men whom they meet daily in society,
from whom they expect to come those offers so
significant and sweet to waiting woman’s ears.
These young fellows are intelligent, f ocialiy in-
clined without being dissipated, reckoned good
fellows among themselves, and always graciously
received by girls. Generally, they have good
manners, are quite susceptible to the influences of
womanly charms, are free to choose wives, and
have incomes fairly sufficient to justify them in
doing so: but they don’t. Why, plaintively ask
these Four Girls; why do these young men make
themselves social parasites ? They go everywhere ,
having plenty of invitations, and are fairly agree-
able: they are well treated—flattered sometimes
by attentions more than their actual merit earns—
they are, year after year, the passive recipients of
pleasure at scores of nice houses; but they make
no return. They are social parasites. It is not
merely that they do not ask us that question; but
they make no return at all—at a dance, they only
pick out the girls that please them, shirking the
others as if they were under no social obligation
to be generally agreeable as a duty; to a picnic
they go freely when it is given, but how many back
out every time they are desired to contribute a
trifle ? They have their round of visiting places,
and know which evening to go to any one of half a
hundred houses. “ Charming girls, those Merinos,”
they declare, as the gracious adieus at the door
float sweetly out to them in the evening air. And
they say it honestly; they are really pleased. The
lamp-post throws a gleam over their satisfied faces,
as they button up and start home. They are asked
to call again, and do so, time after time. And why
not? Well, just this: Do they ever reflect, wo
wonder, that the young ladles, though ever wear-
ing a cordial smile, feel chagrined at times ?
The conclusion forced on the minds of us
girls that they are social parasites is not a plea-
sant one. Many young ladies feel that they
are being inveigled into playing a cheap part; and,
though pride makes them suppress the fact as
much as possible, yet many others note it, and
talk. They have to suffer little covert taunts and
smiling jibes. And the girls wonder why the
youths sound their praises abroad, and declare
what delightful eveuings they have spent, and
seem to think that there is an end of the matter.
Why I Do these youths think there is no exertion
in our entertainment—in using tact, in maintain-
ing an engaging vivacity, in keeping care on the
strain to find conversation, avoid inharmonious
topics, and vary the entertainment at any moment?
Yet, if they enjoy our company and our entertain-
ment, why do they always go to the opera or the
concert alone, or in twos or threes, as if no one
were sitting at home for want of an escort and an
asking ? We cannot always demand papa’s time
or a brother’s; but a party of eight or ten of us,
with one mature dowager, would be a real treat
to us; and, what’s more, it would be nicer
than going with our parents. It is the
same at balls. We bay© even been taken
like a parcel of draper’s stock, and delivered
at the door to the hostess, while young men have
strung in by themselves—perhaps a dozen. We
did not core particularly, four or more of us to-
gether, as other parties of ladies are obliged to
come the same way, and we were sure of cavaliers
in the dance-room. But why were we compelled
to come so ? Are the young men penurious, or
are they afraid any kind attention might be mis-
construed? Granted, marked attention to one
would cause remark; but this would not debar a
gentleman from being courteous to two or more
of a family. Indeed, if there were two or three
gentlemen and a party of ladles, even rumour
would have no ground to start on. Surely, a young
gentleman need not be afraid. Could he not con-
ceive that our good sense would appreciate his
motive in offering his services, without necessarily
putting any foolish and unbased construction on
them? In other words, could not the social in-
debtedness of gentlemen be occasionally cancelled
in this simple and not particularly expensive way ?
Do they ever think of this? Girls do not like to
feel that they are mere sources of amusement and
gratification to the young men they entertain and
associate with. They are willing and glad to do
their part; but, until others do more of a part,
there are at least Four Girls who think the present
arrangement a very one-sided one.
• • •
About as much enjoyment as could be put
into one day was served out to the Iroquois
officers on Saturday, when they were taken by a
posse of Sydney citizens to look at “ our Zig-zag,"
and other little matters. The luxurious special
started at 8: at 9 breakfast was served In the cars,
and when the train drew up at the Great Western,
Katoomba,',most of the party walked out to the
falls. Back for lunch, and then another start was
made to LIthgow Valley. On returning, the train
was run into a siding for dinner and speeches, Mr.
J. Sutherland, M.P., being chairman. The Queen
and the President having been remembered, Mr.
J. Pope proposed the health of Capt. Tates Stir-
ling, who replied. The other officers, American
Consul. Sweethearts and Wives, &c., formed the
subject of remaining toasts, and then the journey
was resumed, and Sydney reached at 8 p.m.
A SERENADE.
Stars of the summer night!
Maybe your beams are bright,
' But they give not the light
That I most prize.
Lakelets where swallows skim,
Fountains with ferny brim,
Ye are opaque and dim
To my love’s eyes 1
Down from the wattle tall
Many bright blossoms fall;
Lighter than blossoms all
Are my love’s feet.
List where the zephyrs blow,
Fragrant and very low;
But softer—ah I ever so,
Is her voice sweet 1
Silk threads in beauty shine.
Glowing like amber wine,
Such colour, so divine,
Is my love’s hair.
Wondrous was Grecian art,
But sculptors left out a part;
My love has loving heart—
She’s mors than fair.
* ♦ *
Northumberland House, Moore Park, was
gay last Saturday night, to mark the natal day of
the host’s eldest son. At‘8 o’clock, the charming
daughter of the house and a few friends made
their bow before an appreciative audience in the
comedietta of “ Dearest Mama,” which was well
given, special praise being due to the son and a
young gentleman from Forest Lodge. Guests
then repaired to the dancing rooms, where, to ex-
cellent music, interspersed with songs and recita-
tions, the whirl was kept up till chanticleer began
to crow.
* * *
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb’s annual
house picnic occupied the Chowder Bay domain on
Saturday last. Most employes went down by the
early steamer, and on the second trip the Meteor
took the heads of the firm and other visitors.
When all had assembled, the gathering was large,
including many ladies, whose rainbow raiment
was pretty enough to demand our deep admira-
tion, while so various and delicate as to compel us
sorrowfully to omit any attempt at descrlptiveness.
There were lots of large hats with lovely faces under
them. We don’t wonder that these large hats are
so popular, tor sometimes, especially when sympa-
thetic couples are searching for ferns, one hat will
shade two faces without any Inconvenience.
It is quite true that the hats do require
a tremendous amount of management; they have
to be held on by main strength most of the time—a
good deep sigh would blow one off flying. But
what would a picnic be without the gins were all
prettily helpless ? No young man could leave a
girl to struggle alone and unaided with one of
those Summer hats—so there’s a reason at once
why the young people must remain together.
Luncheon was laid In the pavilion, the foreman,
Mr. Cassidy, supervising the arrangements, and,
at its conclusion, toasting was commenced by Mr.
Willoughby proposing “The Firm.’’ Mr. W.
Bradley and Mr. E. Newton replied. The Em-
ployes e ’ followed, Mr. Albinand others responding
in a way that indicated much good feeling towards
their employers and one another. “The Ladles,”
of course, were not forgotten. At the sports on
the ground, for which a number of prizes were
given, the fact of the dinner being so good had a
disastrous effect on (the speed of the competitors,
and no records were broken. Dancing filled most
of the afternoon, a fine band being engaged for it,
and a breeze fortunately tempered the rather
sultry afternoon. Strolling, sports, &o., engaged
the rest till nearly dusk, when all got on board
again and made for home.
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)
A YACHTING COSTUME.


TWEN TY YEARSOFA GO NY ENDED.
I have been afflicted for twenty years with an
obstinate skin disease, called by some M.D.’s
psoriasis, and others leprosy, commencing on my
scalp; and in spite of all I could do, with the help
of the most skilful doctors, it slowly but surely,
extended, until a year ago, this winter, it covered
my entire person In form of dry scales. For the
last three years I have been unable to do any
labour, and suffering' intensely all the time. Kvery
morning there could be nearly a dust-panful of
scales taken from the sheet on my bed, some of
them half as large as the envelope containing this
letter. In the latter part of winter my skin com-
menced cracking open. I tried everything almost
that could be thought of, without any relief. The
I3th of Juno I started West, In hopes I could reach
the Hot Springs. I reached Detroit, and was so
low, I thought I should have to go to the hospital,
but finally got as far as Lansing, Mich., where I
had a sister living. One Dr. trented me about
two weeks, but did me no good. All thought I had
but a short time to live. I earnestly prayed to die.
Cracked through the skin all over my back, across
my ribs, arms, hands, limbs, feet badly swollen,
toe-nails came off, finger-nails dead and hard as
bone, hair dead, dry, and lifeless as old straw. Oh,
my Oodl how 1 did suffer.
My sister had a small part of a box of Cuticura
in the house. She wouldn’t give up; said, •* We
will try Cuticura.” Some was applied on one hand
and arm. Eureka! there was relief—stopped the
terrible burning sensation from the word go. They
immediately got the Cuticura Resolvent, Outi-
CURA, and Cuticura Soap. 1 commenced by tak-
ing one tablespoonful of Resolvent three times a
day,; after meals; had a bath once a day, water
about blood heat, used Cuticura Soap freely,
applied Cuticura morning and evening. Result:
returned to my home lu just six weeks from time
I left, and my skin as smooth as this sheet of
paper.
HIRAM E. CARPENTER.
Henderson, Jefferson County , New York.
sworn to before mo this nineteenth day of
January, 1880.
A. M. Lefbtnowell,
Justice of the Peace.
Puck Almanac, 1885—A Capital Sixpon’orth I
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ;> peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Puck Almanac, 1885—Look out for it!
John T. MoInnbs and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-stbeet, Sydney. t3f~ Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Puck Almanac, '85, Illustrated, 8th December.
Puck Almanac, 1885-A Capital Slxpen’orth !
Famiiy Wines and Spirits, of reliable
K ftom Hoc '“° s «nd
Old men, tottering round from rheumatism.
Kidney trouble, or any weakness, will be made al.
most new by using Hop Bitters freely. Bead.
ft is claimed that Wolfe’s Schnapps is
drin£h? Xil m tintr,^ on tbe ground th at an ordinary
thTa d h U0e / U0h v, a ferratelul exhilaration
that only who is bent on besotment would crave
excessive Indulgence in it. crave
Puck Almanac, 1885—Loot out for it I
Many a poor sufferer who submits to the
surgeon s knife because of malignant sores and
8 ®^® JliD £8, might bo saved, sound and
whole, by taking Ayer's Sarsaparilla. This
hinnH Urfir 5 2 ut 1 U® corruptions which pollute the
atodurtfedf Wb ° h 8ucb com P laia t8 are origin-
in^ e i p \, or ,i Peri8ll! Thousands of persons
in bad health, and those sulforing with 1 disease
teel that if they do not get relief soon, it will bo
to° late. They realize that their malady is vrudu
aliy destroying their lives. To all such we fay in
®Tf>t r y BRISTOL’S PILLS and SARSA-
PARILLA, they have cured thousands who were
in despair, and why not you. ° were
Puck Almanac, '85, Illustrated, 8th December,
(Social, continued from page 16.)
It was some considerable time before Mr.
Chapman, an energetic young Railway man, could
■work up the Bachelors ol Granville to a sense of
their duty towards the young ladles of the district.
A number of private dances have been taking
place, given by various of the leading residents;
and, as the only means of returning the complil
ment, the Bachelors organised a “ Social,” which
came off on Wednesday se’nnight, in the local
School of Arts. It is not often that young and
marriageable girls get a favourable opportunity
of meeting their bachelor friends, consequently
there was a large attendanee; in fact, too many
for comfortable dancing. But dancing is not the
only object in life, and often only serves as a
means to an end—the end of single blessedness.
However, our observations on Wednesday week
have convinced us that the ranks of the Gran villian
bachelors will be considerably reduced by this
time next year; and a little charmer from the
Royal, arrayed in pink nun’s veiling and white
lace, with brocaded satin bodice and cardinal
Fedora, will certainly prove one of the fair cap-
tors. A very handsome blue satin, with appro-
priate trimming of lace and pearls, was worn by a
local married lady; and frem Fairfield came a dark
beauty, also in blue satin. One of the most skilful
dancers was a little dot in blue brocade, who glided
like a fairy amid the throng; another favourite
partner was attired in a pretty dress of cream lace,
with passementerie trimming; and Glebe sent the
owner of a blue satin and a pretty face. A capital
spread was laid in a room down-stairs, and about
3 a.m. saw the end of one of the most enjoyable
affairs which has yet taken place in Granville.
• * *
Captain Yates Stirling, of the U.8. cor-
vette Iroquois, and his officers, were entertained
at a Clontarf picnic on Monday. The attendance
was fairly large, embracing well-known American
merchants and the usual supply of picnic politi-
cians; and a proportion of ladies also added lustre
to the green grounds and pavilion. Among the
latter were noticed the Mayoress, Mrs. Hardie, in a
dress of black brocade and lace, Mrs. Chipman in
an extremely elegant costume of black and
cardinal, Mrs. Hunt wearing a neat grey silk with
black lace trimming, Mrs. Bennett in slate
brocade and cashmere, Mrs. C. J. Roberts in a rich
black lace and brocade costume, and Mrs. Lamont
in a grenat silk and embossed velvet dress, en-
hanced with Japanese jewellery, and looking quite
charming. Miss Dearborn wore a navy-blue silk
and velvet, and pretty toque en suite : and on the
strap of a very becoming light grey ulster was en-
dorsed the word “ Iroquois a compliment which
the warriors of that formidable but venerable
warship no doubt appreciated. Mrs. Barron wore
cream cambric spotted with crimson—just the
thing for a picnic; and Miss Barron a pale
blue and cream lace toilet. Miss Fisher’s grace-
ful svelte figure lent grace to black velvet,
Miss Young garbed in blue moire, white hat and
feathers, Mrs. Chippet in black and striped satin.
Miss Watson wearing white, and Mrs. Macdonald
gracing a lovely brown ficelle dress decked with
coffee lace and cardinal bows, were also noticeable.
A splendid lunch was spread in the pavilion by the
Compagnoni Catering Co., nearly 200 sitting down
to it. The Mayor occupied the chair, General Ben-
nett and Mr. Playfair the vice-chairs. After
Alderman Playfair had proposed the President of
the States, Consul Kahlo replied. General Bennett
gave the Ministry and Parliament, which brought
Messrs. Dibbs, Cohen, Burdekin, and Roberts, on
their feet; and then Mr. Walter Bradley toasted
the Iroquois officers. Captain Tates returned
thanks, and gave as a toast the Unity of English-
speaking people all over the world. Ladies and
Press concluded the toasts. There were dancing
and other pastimes, but the whole affair was
gravely decorous, and enjoyed in a quiet and cor-
rect way. This is our attempt to imitate the
sparkling writing of the daily papers. We dare
not be lively at Clontarf.
♦ ♦ ♦
On Saturday afternoon last, Lady Augus-
tus Loftus gave her second garden party this sea-
son at Government House. There was a numer-
ous and fashionable attendance of guests, and
elegant toilettes were legion. Now that the late
cool and changeable weather has ceased, and Sum-
mer with its bright blue skies and warm and balmy
breath appears to have entered upon its reign,
light and airy dresses, of various style and shade,
are to be seen everywhere. White costumes were
very popular on Saturday: some simply made, and
others more elaborately trimmed with quantities
of lace or embroidery. Cream seems also a favour-
ite hue in India muslin, or in the new spotted
zephyr cloths. Crinolines were worn with but few
exceptions. A charming dress of white lawn and
guipure work looked well on a tall dark; girl and a
cream sateen, with small cardinal spot", was pretty
on a lately married lady from Darlinghurst. A
well-known leader of fashion wore pale cinnamon-
brown beige, relieved with Solferino pink; and a
cream Indian silk, worked in pale-blue Mowers,
admirably suited a petite fair lady* A spotted
foulard, with cardinal ribbons, was elegant; and a
delicate-striped Bombay cloth was remarkable for
its neatness and perfect fit. Many of the elder
ladies appeared in black costumes of broche, satin
or silk, light bonnets, parasols, and gloves. One
very handsome dress in this stylo was of ottoman
silk and striped satin combined with soft Spanish
lace; another, almost equally rich, consisted of
broche and plain satin—cream bonnet, and small
crimson flowers. Tea, ices, fruit, etc , were served
on the lawn, and the Band played at intervals.
The visitors began to disperse about five o’clock.
* * * *
Last week an invitation concert at New-
castle was given by pupils of Mr. A. H. Gee, and
the audience was about as high-toned as coalopolls
could produce. Orchestra of four; accompanists,
Misses Hunt and Jones. Among the gems were
Sweet and Low,” a part song by the pupils,
which had to be repeated; Miss Kate Jones’ “ Lad-
die.” Mrs. Geary’s fine rendering of “ Waiting,”
and “ Heaven and Earth,” by Miss C. Hannell. ..
Murrumbidgee Turf Club race ball comes on
at the Freemasons’ Hall, Wagga, next Friday.
....Of the last People’s Monthly Entertainment at
Blayney, the paper says of the performers that
their ill-prepared songs exposed them to ridicule
or pity." Blayney editors must be awfully inde-
pendent — The Oddfellows’ ball at Murrumburrah
was largely attended, Yass band played, and an
elaborate supper was furnished It, occurred on
the 10th instant Grand wedding in Goulburn
Cathedral to-day (Thursday). The daughter of
a Colonel to a Doctor, by the Bishop A
plain and fancy ball was held at Kmmaville on
the ICth instant, in aid of the funds of the R.C.
presbytery, a local cleric, who believes that there
is “ a time to dance,” organising it. Most fancy
dresses were poor. A nandsome brunette in
cream veiling, with pale pink bows, looked
charming. A married lady, as America, in satin
was among the stars. A plain black dress,
with real honiton white lace, looked admir-
able. When the 34 dances were done, the
general idea was that the belle was a little
runette in black, with sky blue let in at the front.
....Engineering Association of N.S.W. will have a
picnic shortly After a day of sports, the Odd-
fellows of Young had a ball on the holiday —At
Tenterfield, a ball in aid of the Convent school,
and one in aid of the hospital, were both chances
for the local maids The juvenile exhibition in
the Congregational school-room was too great a
success. It was almost impossible to move. The
fashions render space scarcer than it used to be
A ball and supper was held by the Oddfellows in
Hodgson's Hall, Adelong, last week, and dancing
kept on till daylight, to the music of Homann’s
band — The horticultural show at Moruya closed
with a ball on Thursday. Eve went after the fruit,
but the Moruya girls go after the flowers— Ladies
bf the Soots’ Church, Melbourne, gave a banquet
to the newspaper boys of the city Imps started
at Adelaide—Dr. J. G. Beaney gave a ball
m Melbourne Town Hall last Thursday—Few
acts of philanthropy are more worthy of ncte
"ban that of ten young Oxford men, who have
Mp tb e college to reside in the London slum of
Whitechapel. Their object is both to study and
to help the abject poor of the great English Baby-
ion. it is no missionary or church organisation,
out something higher-an attempt to help the
L®!? u umAa }ty In a practical way, without
ing them with dry verbiage from priestly
ffi??** * ® ach , one is bound to do his best towards
lilting from the degraded London outcasts that
e i n of ,™ i8er y that weighs on the national
conscience like a sin Balls and belles are the
prominent social topic at Munoooran, where a fine
bachelors ball was held recently, the versatile
Mr. Cameron acting as M.C. There was a good
muster, and blue blood, too, was represented by a
young man whose matrimonial aspirations cannot
be gratified by any coy maiden in town. The
jocund dance was kept up late, and the delicate
question of belle was still a moot point at the
breaking up., pn Friday, the ladies who con-
ducted the stalls in the late Masonic Bazaar
were repaid by a party in the new Masonic
Hall, when dancing was kept up till 2
o clock, to Kopff and Austin’s band. As usual,
the fair sex appeared in dresses ot every
hue and texture. Very pretty was a tail fair girl
in white. Mrs. Tarrant wore a handsome dress of
pale-blue satin; Mrs. Amoss, white satin; Mrs.
Steele, black sleeveless dress. Cream satin draped
with lace and roses at neck was worn by the Misses
Starkey; with them was a lady in black relieved
with pearls and roses, and another In pale-blue.
The wearers of cream and blue satin, pale-pink
satin, and white and cardinal, were much admired.
....Gibbs, Shallard, and Co.’« annual picnic oc-
curred at Clontarf ®n Saturday. The usual pro-
gramme. The toast of “ The Firm,” at lunch,
proposed by Mr. Herbert.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Excelsior”: Thanks ...“Subscriber” (Goulburn):
Much obliged; cannot send, but would be glad
of notes ...” W.S.”; Gladly....” H.L.”: A
friend sent us a par which you will see covers
yours. But thanks, all the same....** J.C.B.”:
Item focussed, but we excised your poeti-
cal quotation about the voluptuous waltz.
If the lines were correct, no decent person
could dance it. Byron was notoriously bitter
against the waltz: he had a club foot. Perhaps
his description was correct when he wrote it,
but we were too young to take notice then,
and Byron Is now too dead to give us any infor-
mation. But his ode gives no more idea of
modern waltzing than those ecclesiastical mon-
key stories gave of early Sydney.. .“Rob
Roy ”; Just a week too stale.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Produce Merchant’s Picnic (Botany)..November 20.
Dr. P. de Sylva’s Ball (Leigh House)..November 20.
Return Ball to the Mayor (Town
Hall) November 26.
Metropolitan Liedertafel December 4.
Sydney Liedertafel, Ladies Night (Ex-
hibition) December 9.
Industrial Exhibition opens December 15
Philadelphia makes twice as much carpet
as any city In the world. And England (judging
by representative cricketers) wears out twice as
much.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle, —Well, another week has gone,
and we have had a repetition of the Yogrlch Soiree
Musioale and various other concerts. Isn’t it
strange how these sort of things are always
crowded together ? I am not aware that there is
any concert season here, but for weeks there will
be quite a dearth of this kind of entertainment,
and suddenly we have two or three in a week.
It’s just the habit we all have of doing what
others do. I remember one day sitting in a rail-
way carriage, and, just before the time of starting,
a boy came into the carriage offering penny time-
tables for sale. Nobody seemed to want one. and
the vendor was turning on his heels (bare heels
they were) when a lady called him back and
bought one, and —would you believe it? —every
one of usjfollowed her example: it’s a fact. And I
remember hearing a story of a bank-clerk dude,
which is apropos. It appears that one day he was
rather late in getting out for lunch; and it Isa
well-known fact that, if you are later than 1
o’clock at any fashionable restaurant in Sydney,
your chances of obtaining a seat are small indeed
Well, as I said, my noble dude was late this day,
and, as it is impossible for these apologies for men
to hurry themselves (for reasons best known to
their tailors), his prospects of a lunch were rather
dismal. At last a bright thought struck him
(sometimes those things have thoughts). He
turned deliberately round, and, shading his eyes
with his hand, glared at something in the sky
which wasn’t there. Before two minutes had
elapsed, nearly everybody who was on luncheon
bent, or otherwise, turned round also and looked
for the thing that didn’t exist. And now came his
dudeship’s chance. Whilst all his dupes were
looking skywards for the Ino-one-knew-what, he
coolly stalked oil to Gunsler’s, chuckling and con-
gratulating himself on his successful hoax; andil
have no doubt that his “ calf’s brains and tomato
sauce ” were well relished that day.
The question of the week has been Have you
heard Rimenyi?” And, of course, everybody who
is anybody has heard him. He is a perfect oddity,
dear. He makes the violin laugh, cry. whistle, or
anything he pleases; Indeed, to me his speciality
seems to be his power of evoking sounds from his
instrument which never came from any other
Instrument. Whilst Wilhelraj, with his majestic
jkwc, splendid bowing, and exquisite tone, tilled us
with admiration. Kemenyl fascinates us by his
wonderful and unheard-of antics. To be brief,
then, 1* I were In the mood to be pleased, amused,
and, at the same time, enchanted, I should go to
hear Remenyi; if, on the other hand, I was in the
vein for some good, soul-stirring:, pure, music, Wil-
helmj would be my man. Hut these, dear, are
only my impressions, and I only dare breathe them
to you because I know you won’t laugrh at me.
Remenyi has certainly created ten times the sen-
sation Wilhelmj did; but I think the latter was,too
—too—oh! what shall I say?—too devoted a mu-
sician to try and tickle the ' public fancy.
1 don t think, in fact, that he loved the
public half so much as his violin, and I
think Remenyi divides his affection between
them both. I like Mr. Isidore Luokstone’s
playing immensely, and he is a delicious accom-
panist. Miss IlAttio Downing seems to please very
much by her Binging, but I have heard sweeter
voices many a time. She has a good style, though.
u dolf Hlmmel; and if his voice were
a iu e * re8 “ er , h 0 would be quite nice. Alto-
gether, then, these Remenyi concerts are a success
and draw crowded bouses nightly.
The comparatively small attendance at the last
Vogrich concert was doubtless due to the attrac-
tion at the Opera House; but those who did not go
raissod a treat, for the programme was full of
gems. Madame Vogrich sang “Noel” magnifi-
cently, and was, of course, encored. We were
twice treated to Chopin’s A flat Polonaise last
week—once by Mr. C-uckstone at the Opera House,
and then by Herr Vogrich at this concert; and as
you know it is a pet piece of mine, you can ima-
glne how delightful it was to hear it played by two
such fine pianists in one week. And then we had a
gavotte” on the ’cello by Herr Gumprich, which
was very fine. Mons. de Willimoff seemed rather
ill at ease, from some cause or other; I think he
must have been to hear Remenyi the nigh! before,
but I am sure it need not have disturbed him, for
we always enjoy his solos. Anyhow, on this occa-
sion, his cavatina was just a trifle less enjoyable
than usual; but a man can’t always be at his best,
you know. ’
Messrs. A. and C. Huenerbelngave a concert and
refreshments on Friday night to celebrate the
opening of their new music rooms, and on Satur-
day afternoon they opened them again with an-
other concert and more refreshments. You see, it
was this way; The new rooms, spacious though
they are, were insufficiently large to hold all
Messrs. Huenerbein’s friends, so fthe only way out
of the difficulty was to give an A and B concert.
I don t know when I have seen so brilliant an
assemblage of musical talent as at these two very
Sleasant concerts. On Friday night, there were
ir. and Mrs. Harry Wood, Mr. Allpross, Mr. Halle-
well —oh! no, not Mr. Hallewell—he wasn’t well,
but on Saturday he sang an extra song to make up
for our disappointment—Mr. Morgan, Mr. James
(who has the sweetest of tenor voices), Master
Harry Watson, Mrs. Kingsmill Shaw, and last, but
not least in the sense 1 mean, Mr. C. Huenerbein
On Saturday, we had Madame Kellermann, Madam
Merz, Mons. de Willimoff, Messrs, M’Mahon, !<.
w u U * e c!:„ C0 °. per ’ HaHewell, Harding, and Master
Watson. Amongst the guests on Saturday after-
enyV M r * I 8 *dore Luckstone, and
Mr. Rudolf Himmel, and most of the principal
musicians of Sydney. Madame Kellermann wore
wh ] te Swiss muslin dress, with white lace
t* P £2p 0h f h , e sweetest little Parisian bonnet.
8 ?l mo *? P lnl£ » with lace over gold net, edged
with rather large pearls, and trimmed with pink
feathers to match the lace. I wish I had a grand-
ma to bring me such pretty things from Paris.
Mrs. Huenerbem looked very graceful in a fawn-
f«'?ered costume, made with one of those jaunty
little jackets with loose fronts, and on Friday night
her dress was pink Madras muslin, and Miss Huen-
nerbein s a pale blue, trimmed handsomely with
rich blue ostrich feathers. Mrs. Webber looked
very well in black broche, with rich white lace
collar, \o. I must just tell you of one more lovely
costume before I finish. The dress was the palest
green nuns veiling, with bands of silk trimming
the skirt, and the hat of white straw, and such
a high-pointed crown, had the brim tilted
upwards and tilled in with crimson roses, making
such a lovely contrast to the pale-green dress*
There were numerous other costumes almost
equally oharmiug, but I was so interested in the
good music and Mr. C. Huenerbein’s funny little
speeches {what a favourite he is with everybody I),
that 1 had no time to note them in detail. If the
good wishes of their friends go for anything, I am
sure the Messrs. Huenerbein should meet with
every success in their new George-street premites.
Of course, you know that yellow is the colour
m ,° u 8t everything—even veils. Now,
I don t dislike this bright buttercup yellow for
flowers, leathers, or even gloves, but I should
draw the line at mis; for, how can a complexion
look well behind such a foreground? It is sheer-
madness to expect it. No; a dash of gold in the
bonnet or on the dress (on a whiteidress it islovely)
looks quite bright and nice; but if you have any
regard for your appearance, dear, don't wear a
yellow veil. The stripes and spots costume
is very pretty. The skirt is made of the
stripes—say, in dark-blue and crimson sateen—
and the short, bunchy polonaise of spots. The
colours are generally dark-blue and crimson I
saw one yesterday with a blue ground, with
t u B es . crimson, which reminded me
that 1 had not told you of this rather quaint look-
ing combination. Dark sateens with trimmings of
line cream Jace, I can see, are to b® very much
worn this summer, and more inexpensive and
serviceable dresses it would be difficult to find. It
is always well to have a couple of nice white
dresses by you, in case of unexpected picnics, etc.,
but, instead of being made of linen or lawn, a fine
white flannel is now used, which saves the laun-
dress wonderfully, and these soft fleecy flannels
look ever so nice, besides being so comfortable. It
is a mistake to think they arc warmer than linen,
for they really are not, it you would only believe
it. Rut, here I am forgetting how the time goes,
and 1 promised I would not keep any on -waiting
for mo to-night, when it is time to start for the
concert—the Charbonnet-Kellermann concert, you
k S 0 . w “"- w 5 1 hoar > Promises to be quite a grand
affair; indeed, the programme speaks for itself.
So good-bye, dear.
Yours, as ever.
MAB.
It was about the year 1855 that our gracious
Quoen set the fashion of wearing a scarlet under-
petticoat—an idea obtained from the dairymaids
at Balmoral. It is said that the late Prince Consort
in admiring the effect of the red petticoat in the
landscape, suggested that Her Majesty should
adopt one also. This sealed the fate of white petti-
coats in England.
,, Thunderer has cost in all £500,000
tor building and repairs. On her trial trip a boiler
burst, killing 40 or ;>0 sailors, and wounding twice
that number. Later on, in the Mediterranean, one
of her 38-ton guns burst in the after-turret, while
at practice, killing six and wounding thirty-two
officers and men. Now she is lying up, a‘sheer
bulk, at Malta, rusting and rotting away, simply
because sailors have a prejudice against her, and
look upon her as an “ unlucky ship.' 1
The Mignonette survivors got into trouble
because, in more than one sense, they opened their
mouths too widely. The moral of the whole thing
is; bon t tell anybody what you’ve had for
dinner. h rpm all one reads in the papers, by and
bye the sufferers of the sea ” wi'l be elevated to
the position ol national heroes. There are many
royal roads and short outs to fame and honour,
but it has been reserved for this year of grace to
add boy-eating to the catalogue of the modern
hero’s accomplishments.
In London, on Hospital Sunday, sundry
leaders of quality stationed themselves at street
corners to solicit contributions. One of them,
Lad y >( Cop stance Howard, caught a “cold id her
dose. Much newspaper controversy has ensued.
Lady Constance having intimated that the hospital
patients may die and be damned to them for all
she cares, unless, in future, summertime is chosen
f°? Hospital Sunday. We have not given her
ladyship s exact language, but we have given the
exact signification of it in the vulgar tongue.
Near Fermoy, Ireland, three skeletons,
from which the flesh had been burnt with Quick-
lime, have been found in a well. They are the
bones of a woman named Sheehan who, with a
son and daughter, mysteriously disappeared seven
years ago. The police theory is that the foul deed
was committed by other members of the family
for the sake of gain. “ The police (says the Dailv
news) have ascertained the address of a son of
Mrs. Sheehan who proceeded to Australia, and it
is probable that he will be soon in the hands of the
Australian police. Now, Mr. Sheehan!
,. T £ e Kbodivel is going to give a medal to
the British officers and men of the Suakln expedi-
i are now as common as
the cholera at Naples. While the heroes of Zulu-
hind and Tet-el-Kebir display half-a-dozen bits of
Wr co i ou r ed r ibbon, with decorations attached,
Wellington s men went through the six years of
the Peninsular War and got but one medal for
Badajoz, Puentes D'Onore, Talavera, Busaco, Sala-
manca, Vittoria, &c. So much for “political”
campaigns, conducted by pet generals against a
barbarous foe, armed with spears and knives.
In some parts of Germany’s new West
African colony, Augra Pequena, it has not rained
for centuries. But there are a few beautiful
oases. Ladles who live there are celebrated for
their iron bracelets worn round their wrists and
ai io Iron beads of the size of a potato,
which frequently weigh 301b., are worn by the
grandest ladies compelling them to walk slowly,
which is one of the signs of high birth in Darnara-
L a ° d - We arc retrograding in Australia. Some
da 5® 8 walk much faster than
did their grandmothers who wore iron bracelets.
IT IS THE FASHION AT THE SEASIDE FOR LADIES TO WEAR WISPS OF HAY IN THEIR
HATS; SO, WE PRESUME, THEY ARE FOLLOWED ON THAT ACCOUNT.


Mash krs.— The best and lightest are made by
Ollord, Hatter, 653 Goorge-street, Brickfield Mill.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs. Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Kibbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Eer package. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O-
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &c.. &o., by return post.*
We like fairy tales, however childish such
a taste may seem. We can read them at times
when our mental digestion won’t stand anything
else, and glean therefrom amusement and instruc-
tion. We were cogitating over “ Puss in Boots ”
the other evening: and puss was excellent, and so
were her boots. Puss was clever, but she never
would have made her master’s fortune without the
boots with the yellow heels. This feline pet was
clearly an “ artful puss,” a title with which many
a pretty Christian is nothing loth to be dubbed.
Wny, we don’t know, but we are sure it
is so from experience. And this fairy tale
clearly points out the importance of a proper
“ understanding ” in the matter of boots. Never
mind the yellow heels, they may bo dispensed
with; but without good boots you can’t get
through the mud and the dust—in fact, you can’t
get through the world at all with anything like
comfort. We are, ourselves, apt to look with
complacency upon our shapely Instep and ele-
gantly-attired extremities, and, looking, we are
led to think how wise we have been to purchase
our boots at Anthony Hordern and Son s Palace
Emporium, Haymarket. *
The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid, can use Hop Hitters with sateiy
and groat good. See.
Woman Items
Patti has no babies. It would cost the
youngster £400 every time he wanted his mother
to sing him to sieep.
The biggest baby at the prohibited Paris
Baby Show was a female child exactly 3>6 years
old, who weighed 911bI
Only last year, at the Ladies’ Presbyterian
College, Melbourne, she was highly commended
for a very clever original essay entitled “ Deceit, a
crime.” Yesterday, she spent Ave pounds on false
hair, and bought a corset with much plumpness
where it would do most^good.
She was a widow, and was taking the fresh
air with her two children, when she met herformer
lover. “ 0, Amelia,” he said, seizing her hand,
"there is no telling what I might not say and do,
if it were not for these children.” “Cbildren,”
said the fond mother, pushing them away, “run
away and play until 1 send tor you.”
Suitor: “My dear sir, I am so deeply in
love with your daughter, that it is impossible to
live without her.” Father: "Very good; but you
are aware that I am not in a position to give a
dowry to my daughter ?” 8.; “8urelyyou are in
iest?” F.: “By no means.” S.: “Then, indeed,
t here is nothing left for me but to die 1”
Groom : “ Well, pet, is there anything you
want to-day?” Bride: “Yes, dear. I wish you
would stop at the seed shop and get some grass
seed.” Groom: “Certainly, love; but what do you
want of it? VVe have no lawn.” Bride: “I am
going out to the cemetery to-morrow. I pro-
mised my Arst husband that 1 would see that his
grave was kept green, and I had almost forgotten
about it.”
A jeweller of St. Louis has rendered him-
self an object of Interest by selling garters with
bells attached. Depending from each garter is a
tiny silver bell, shaped I ke a sleigh-bell. “The
tintinnabulation of this pretty pendant,” says the
jeweller’s advertisement, “sounds delightfully
melodious. Ladles wearing these garters are ac-
companied by a musical tinkle as they glide grace-
fully along."
The World (London) has a full account of
the “Serciety” trouble at Melbourne, where the
wife of a newly-imported olhcer is alleged, when
some local ladies called upon her, to have “ hidden
herself beneath a sofa, and instructed her servant
to say she was ‘out’—while all the time the feet
of the said mistress were visible projecting from
below a sofa under which she had hidden herself.”
On the “ feet ” question, the colonial girl takes the
palm. It requires at least six ordinary sofas to
conceal the feet of a female ivo Bligh.
The wedding of Miss Williams-Wynn, in
Wales, was a very smart affair. She wore, amongst
a variety of other things, “a veil of tulle, which
completely covered her,” and “magniAcent
flounces of exquisite old Venetian rose point.”
8he had twenty-four wedding-cakes, and there
were 800 presents, with enough jewellery, china,
and ornamental furniture to stock a large shop.
There were Ave hundred and Afty guests at the
breakfast, and many thousands were feasted on all
parts of the estates of the bride’s father. Miss
Wynn married her cousin.
Here is a new and successful scheme of
matrimony. One man in the company is selected
as president, and is duly sworn to keep entirely
secret all communications forwarded to him in his
official capacity; each unmarried person writes his
or her name on a piece of paper and under it the
name of the person they wish to marry, and then
hands it to the president for inspection. If any
lady and gentleman have reciprocally chosen each
other, the president is to privately inform each of
the result, the names of chose who have not been
reciprocal in their choice to be kept secret.
“ You must not come here after my sister
that is engaged to be married,” said the nine-year-
old boy. “ Yes, my boy; your sister is engaged to
be married to me, said the engaged man of a few
days, pleasantly. “What? You don’t mean to
say that you are the man that Mary is going to
marry?” “Yes, that’s what I mean to say!”
“ Well, I don’t think you are so frightfully
homely I” “Frightfully homely? What do you
mean, my boy ?” “ Why, when Mary was speaking
to papa about you the other day, she told him that
you were frightfully homely, but that she under-
stood you had plenty of money I” The engage-
ment is off.
Patti Rosa, the operatic contralto, tells a
daring little story about her sprightly self. “ When
1 was travelling a long train journey,” she says,
“ a nice old gentleman offered me part of his seat.
You know 1 always smuggle my little dog Pet into
the train with me. By and bye, the oid gent
moved closer. What could I say or do? You
know he had so kindly given me a seat. Then he
edged closer still—quite near. In despair, the
thought occurred, ‘1 will make Pet snarl at him.’
Looking under the seat, Pet wasn’t there; but
when leaded softly, ‘Pet, Pet,’ ho jumped from
between us. The sagacious animal had been rub-
bing softly against the old gentleman's legs. And
he thought it was II”
Madame Adam, the somewhat celebrated
Frenchwoman about whom and wh me salon one
reads so much occasionally in the Paris correspon-
dence of the 8. M. Herald, is described as “ the
possessor of beautiful shoulders, a magniAcent
fortune, and as the most adulated and over-
estimated of the blue stockings of the Third
Republic.” This gracious and ambitious lady has
now come out in a new light as a follower of
Zoroaster, the Are-worshipper, and in her new
volume of “La Patrie Hougroiae” she openly
professes herself to bo a priestess of Apollo the
sun-god. A little further on, this Afty-year old
but still ardent bas-hleu exclaims: “ What does it
matter what one loves, provided one docs love?”
Even hardened Parisians hold up their hands in
horror, as if to say, “ O madame!”
A now Benedict complains to a London
paper of “the wholesale plundering hapless bride-
grooms have to submit to from the harpies who
are hangers-on at fashionable churches.” From
InquiriesIatlAve-and-twenty churches ho found that
the average lowest cost was from £10 to £15. The
clergyman generally “expected” three guineas,
the clerk one, organist one, verger one, pew-opener
one. At one church there was a compulsory fee to
a local Aorist for strewing the bride’s path with
Aowers, quite irrespective of any instructions; at
another, no wedding could take place without an
awning from the gate to the church door, which
had to be paid for. Eventually, by having the
service road by a friend without fee, the Benedict
got “tied up” for £6, and observes: “It is given
to few to ease you of money with such unctuous
suavity as the insatiable parasites of the church.”
A lot of the romance about the houris of
Turkey vanishes under the light thrown upon
those interesting ladies by an English reporter.
He says: “With the majority of females, the pre-
vailing tint is yellow. Nino out of ten are pigeon-
toed, and all the blondes have freckles. They
never wither as in other nations; but, owing to
their peculiar life, they fatten, and as they grow
old they grow oily. They settle down in height,
and spread out at tho edges, till at middle age most
of them have a Agure like a German sausage. For
choice, the best women in Turkey are the Abys-
.ian brunettes. They are divinely tall and
„ ier, and black as the ace of spades. They dress
i ,>qre white, and the black face and red lips
against the white setting of the burnous gives an
effect as enchanting as a picture. The only fault
they have about them is their legs. Their ankles
are about as big around as a rolling-pin, and it is
ankle ail the way up to the knees.” Of course, re-
presentatives of the Press are always afforded
reasonable facilities for obtaining Information;
but an item like this, you know, we really don’t
see how the reporter —that is, unless —but per-
haps it is very windy in Turkey-
la France, the difficulties of getting mar-
ried are tremendous. For instance, no marriage
can take place before three sommations have been
served on the parents of bride and bridegroom.
Thus, if fathers and mothers do not offer any ob-
jection on the Arst occasion, they have a second
and yet a third chance of doing so. Under English
law, two people, provided they have attained their
legal majority, can get married though the whole
world object. On the other hand, while the only
way to a divorce under our law is through the dis-
grace of one of the parties, the new French di-
vorce law, which is, from a social point of view,
incomparably the most important measure which
any legislature has passed during the present cen-
tury, marks the commencement of asocial revo-
lution, the effects of which must sooner or later
be felt all over the world. By its daring provi-
sions, men and women are placed on the same
footing, so far as regards conjugal infldelity. In-
temperance, either of life or language, mere un-
kindness without cruelty, will enable husbands
and wives to undo the knot which binds them.
Under it, marriage may be said to be a partnership
terminable at will, with a month's notice on either
side. It will indeed be odd if the startling innova-
tions made in the marriage laws by the two great
Republics, France and America, |do not ere long
bring about a most extensive modifleation, to say
the very least, in English matrimonial law.
There is probably no part of the world
where there are handsome coachmen and rich
heiresses in which one has not. on sundry occasions,
ron away with the other. The handsome coach-
man generally does it every time he gets a chance:
he has nothing to lose by the proceeding, and—it s
very nice. And, probably, rich heiresses are just
as susceptible to the physical perfection of hand-
some ooaohmen as other grirls are. A case that
has lately set all New York gossiping is that of
Miss Morosini. As the name indicates, Miss Moro-
sini has Spanish blood, and consequently partakes
of that ardent nature likely to be more than usually
sensitive to handsome coachmen. Her father is a
partner in some of the business aoncerns of the
great millionaire, Jay Gould, and the family lived
in a style of becoming opulence in a suburb of
New York, His two beautiful daughters attended
boarding-school, but were injudiciously governed
at home exactly as though they lived in the heart
of Spain. They were kept under closest watch
and not allowed to receive visits from the young
men of the neighbourhood. They grew to the age
of about 19 and 21, respectively, in almost social
seclusion, and utterly deprived of male com-
panionship, except that of their father and the
handsome coachman. It is hardly needful to point
out that when ardent young ladies pine for com-
panions of the other sex, their father—like
Patience’s aunt—“ don’t count.” Obviously, there
was only the handsome coachman left. So Miss
Morosinl took him. As the Misses Morosini were
young and mettlesome girls, with all the ardour
and inclinations, ad the romance and natural ten-
dencies of their sox, and had been carefully kept
away from respectable suitors, we wonder what
else Mr. Morosini could expect. And we wonder
why fathers persist in trying to choke from their
daughters’ hearts the natural longings that God
has put there.
This is the style of thing indulged in by
certain privileged, black-coated, white-chokered
epicures calling themselves the mouthpieces of
the Almighty, in England. The Rector of South
Wytham sent the following letter to the school-
master of that place:—“ South Wytham Rectory,
Sept. 17,1884. All the villagers desirous of coming
to my house approach it in a becoming and re-
spectful manner— i.e., through the back way and
to the kitchen door. There is not a farmer in the
place who ever has had, or would have, the imper-
tinence to do otherwise. I desire that in future
you will do the like. (Signed) R. W. L. Tolle-
machb-Tollemache. The Teacher of the Board
School, South Wytham.” The schoolmaster to
whom this impertinence was addressed was a man
of spirit. He sent the Rector’s insolent letter to
the Stamford Mercury, with this preface :—“ The
School-house, South Wytham, Sept. 34,1884. Dear
Sir, The publication of the notice, exact copy of
which I give below, will save any future offence
in the same way. The notice was received by me
before 7 a.m. on the 30th Inst., open, from the hand
of a labourer at my front door.—Yours faithfully,
Arthur Ireland.”
The following scathing passage on “Fa-
shionable Religion,” is taken from “The World
of Lords,” a newly published satire on hereditary
legislators and those who toady to the alleged
aristocracy; also on the race of tuft-hunters who,
in too many countries, have been allowed to arro-
gate to themselves the designation of “Society”:
—“ The sycophant, detesting unsophisticated vir-
tue, is always a conventional religionist. In this
character he rejoices in a respectable, modern,
fashionable gospel. The affair of eighteen hun-
dred years ago is too democratic for his reflned
nerves. Its founder was only a carpenter, who,
having no possessions, declared in His poverty
that He had nowhere to lay His head; and His
companions were no better than flshermen and
other plebeian persons, who actually had to work
for their own living, and often had a rough time
of It. The sycophant is glad to have a religion in
which all these really very vulgar matters are
kept out of sight. It is horrible to him to think of
being indebted to the working men for his gospel
—the very class whom he enjoys despising. It
rejoices his heart, therefore, to have at the head
of his improved religion enthroned archbishops
and bishops, arrayed in purple and flne linen, and
faring sumptuously every day. He likes these
saintly personages to sit in the gilded House of
Lords as right reverend fathers in God and as peers
of Parliament. He delights in the arrogance with
which they disdain their moral superiors, the un-
titled preachers of the old faith. When they drive
down from their splendid and luxurious palaces in
their gorgeous carriages, attended by a retinue of
parasites, he feels that they are indeed the posses-
sors of a respectability which qualifies them to be
teachers of ethical truth. There is nothing about
them to remind him unpleasantly of a Nazarene
who rode in humility upon a lowly ass. There is
nothing which suggests the unpleasant scent of the
Galilean sea and its fishing nets. Mrs. Sychophant,
too, and her daughters are equally pleased with all
this. It is so beautifully genteel, They feel their
faith In the modern gospel built up when they are
‘confirmed’ by bejewelled Angers of spiritual
lords of Parliament, fresh from the conventional
holy of holies, a fashionable drawing-room.”
The Mignonette affair recalls many awful
stories. The familiar tale of the ships Medusa and
Florlan, whose sailors on the rafts cast lots as to
who should be the next victim; of the straits of
besieged cities—how the matrons of Jerusalem,
according to Josephus, slew and ate their own
children ; how in the last siege of Messina, the
Aesh of the captured soldiers is said to have been
sold on the Gludecca, and the limbs of the Swiss at
a higher price than those of the sparer Neapolitans.
In the early days of California, Donner Lake was
the locale of a terrible carnival of cannibalism
among a party of “emigrants” caught in the
snows of the Sierra Nevada; and only recently
some gold prospectors fell upon and devoured
each other in one of the hungry valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. The well-fed moralist will per-
haps anathematise the victims of famine. But the
stronger the nervous vitality the more eagerly is
life clung to. Those in whom the spiritual is
more pervading than the animal instinct may
resist and die, as did Lieutenant De Long and his
companions. Sir Hugh Willoughby and all hie
crew, and as we would fain believe, despite the
recent reassertions to the contrary, did the sailors
who followed Crozier and Fitzjames through the
snowy deserts of King William’s Land. Now-a-
days, cannibalism is more frequently practised
from some religious superstition than from mere
depraved appetite. The Gattas of Sumatra, and
the Tierra-del-Fuegians, like the Massaget®,
the Pad®!, and the Issedones of Herodotus, devour
their relatives when old or ill. The Fijians, the
New Zealanders, and many other Papuan and
Polynesian tribes are, or were, cannibals: and the
Niam Niams and Monbuttu, described by Dr.
Schweinfurth in his travels in Central Africa, are
among the most horrible cannibals of which it is
possible to have any conception. They simply
revel in human Aesh, and, in lack of victims, will
disinter the corpses of the slain. As a rule, it is a
longing for animal food in a Aeshless country that
stimulates this form of cannibalism, though not
always. Cannibalism is an act from which civilisa-
tion revolts, and the mind of man turns with a
sensaiion so sickening that death ought to be wel-
come as a merciful release from so terrible a
emptation.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
SWINDLING SWEEPS AND THEIR SIMPLE
SUPPORTERS.
Damon of Gambling! All-consuming vice,
With what alluring power dost thou entice
Thy victim, man, within thy power to fall,
And, in the hope of gain, to risk his all!
Monaco worships thee with many a shrine.
And lordly fanes at Baden, too, are thine,
While English gambling Aelds in scores attest
Thy constant presence there as welcome guest.
Here in Australia many a shrine invites
Thy votaries to thy degrading rites—
The rolling billiard ball and fav’rite horse
Assist the gilded youth to run his course.
Boat racing, cricket, football—all obtain
Fresh trophies to adorn thy crowded fane.
Soul-stirring passion I born of indolence
And avarice, thy growing vehemence
More surely holds thy victims day by day.
And every loss but gives thee greater sway.
Offspring of indolence! for they who hold
All labour in disdain, yet thirst for gold,
Will fondly trust to thee to yield a prize
More generous than honest work supplies.
The youth inclined continuous toil to shirk.
Viewing as inf ra dig. his office work,
Yet wishing much to vie in wealth with those
Whose means of life by steady toiling grows.
Falls easy prey to the deceitful crew
Who draw from swindling sweeps their revenue.
Here mark the adjective: some sweeps may be
Conducted with the utmost probiAy; , ,
In fact, there is one man in New South Wales
Who runs an honest sweep, and never fails
To place all tickets in the moving urn
And to the winners the result return.
i“ What is his name ?” On this point we are mute,
Until a ivrit is served in libel suit.)
but he is ore amid a hundred sharks
Who Aourish by defrauding trustful clerks.
And simple servant girls, who hope to reap
Rich, unearned harvest from the tempting sweep,
’Tis wonderful to note the innocence^
Of those who with unbounded conffdence
Trust—, or , with the note that buys
Imaginary chance in fabled prize.
The sender knows not who receives his pound,
For the “ promoter ” must, of course, surround
With deepest mystery his very name,
And then in darkness rig his dubious game.
'Tis passing strange! Men who would darkly
frown
If asked to lend their Maker half-a-crown,
Will gladly help, perhaps, with half their screw
To All the purse of—Heaven alone knows who.
Who run these Consultations ? Mostly those
Whose histories would one long cidme disclose;
But oft’nest they who Education’s tree
Have grafted with a slip of villainy—
And thus the goodly trunk made prostitute
To swindlers’ ends, bears hideous, ghastly fruit.
No capital’s required by him who starts
These wholesale robberies: the public parts
To pay for printing and fqr office room—
The “ fakir’’ but supplies the nom de plume.
If then the sweep Alls—well, of course, ’tis wise
To gratify the public with one prize:
’Twould be a foolish thing at once to slay
The goose that’s willing golden eggs to lay.
(For this old metaphor s unguarded use
I feel I should ask pardon—of the goose.)
The prize well advertised with winner’s name
At once adds fuel to the rising flame,
The news fresh whets the gambling appetite,
New consultations victims new invite.
Subscribers now forget to hesitate—
“ He paid one prize; he surely must be straight.”
The gold rolls in like Jupiter’s rich ehow’r.
While shrewd promoter plays on Humbug’s
pow’r.
Ana when at last subscriptions cease to flow,
When victims, often plundered, “ cry a go,”
When post-box no more helps to yield him wealth,
He sails for other climes, for sake of health.
In short, he starts the game to win him pelf,
‘ Runs off ” a sweep, and then “runs off himself.
Or if, perchance, on further plunder bent.
He scorns the thought of self-made banishment,
The old Ingenious dodge will still create
The whei ewithal to buy his “ little eight.”
And old devices will, of course, stand good
If he but change his box and neighbourhood.
Another name appears, and once again
He leads his victims on with Humbug’s chain.
Thou ah men may curse him bearing name of
“B.,”
They bless him when he changes it to “ G.”
What’s that to him, the fools may curse or bless
If they but make his venture a success.
Wondrous infatuation 1 who so blind
As not to see the villain’s face behind
The gaudy mask I Yet still fresh sweeps succeed,
Scoundrels grow rich and simpler mortals bleed.
And who can estimate the evil wrought
On mind and hopes of many a youthful “sport?
How often have these sweeps served to entice
The pliant youth to villainy and vice!
And, when by losing rendered desperate.
How many a man has met a fearful fate!
The ancient Germans, we are somewhere told,
When having lost by flckle dice their gold,
Have oft been known, a Anal throw to make,
When their own liberty supplied the stake.
But often now the last stake comprehends
All self-respect and the respect of friends,
Personal freedom, hopes of happiness.
And all that men most thankfully possess;
While all too often the lost venture leads
The wretched man to rush with his misdeeds
To his Creator’s presence. Who shall say
What penalty a soul so lost shall pay ?
1 ronvilT
ISHMAEL.
HARD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, Juno 26,1881.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs,—I am pleased to
inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent relief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness and
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a case simi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
cure, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory. Headacae
—a troublesome symptom in this class of malady
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence m
its use I experienced a gradual return of heaitn
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe my-
self completely cured.
If this testimony is of any service to you, use it
in any way you please.
Faithfully yours,
A. THOMAS.
[If every individual and eyery family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, m striving to prevent
and ward off its attacks, there would rarely beany
use for calling in the aid of the physicians, m wi
ordinary derangements of the stomach, boweis.
liver, or kidneys, you need only a few doses oi
Emil Freee's Hamburg Tea.]
ROUNDABOUT.
“HELLO, BILLY; WOT ARE YOU DOING NOW?”
“MB? OH, I’M IN THE CARPENTERING.”
“ IN THE CARPENTERING 1 WOT WORK ARB YOU AT ?”
“ME? I DOES THE CIRCULAR WORK.”
“ WOT’S THAT ? ”
“OH, I TURNS THE GRINDSTONE.”


misery, shame, and sutitering, often be-
J- queathed as a sole legacy to children by
parents, is neglected Scrofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary poison at this season, an d
thus remove the most prolific cause of human suf-
fering to clear the Skin of Disfiguring Humors,
ItchiHg Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and
Loathsome Sores caused by it, to purify and beau-
tify the Skin, and restore the Ha tr so that no trace
of the disease remain, Outiooka Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticu ra and Cuticub a
Soap, the great Skin Cures and Bcautiflers, are in-
fallible. The spring is the time to take them.
A FTER THREE MONTHS’ use of CUTICURA
and twelve years of as constant
suffering from Humor of the face, neck and scalp
as was ever endured, I can say that I am cured,
and pronounce my case the most remarkable on
ecord. I have been so elated with my success, that
I have stopped men on the street who were afflicted
and told them to get the Cuticura Remedies
and they would cure them. This is why I am so
grateful to you, for I believe them to be the best,
and greatest discovery of the age, and that they wilt
cure all who are suffering with these diseases.”
Hon. WM. TAYLOR, Boston.
Cleanse the Blood .
During the Spring
I HAVE USED your Cutjcura remedies in sev-
eral cases of Eczema! Moist and Dry Tetter,
and cured them all. Your Cuticura Resolvent, so
far as my supply allows me to test it, has, in my
hands, exceeded in efficacy and efficiency and alte-
rative compound (blood purifier) I have ever made
use of in an active pracstfoe of 30 years’ duration.
E. N. ECKER, M.D.
JACKSONVILLE, PA.
XT B. CARPENTER, Esq., Henderson, N. Y
cured of Psoriasis or Leprosy of twenty
years’ standing by the Cuticura Resolvent
(blood purifier) internally, and Cuticura anti Cuti-
cuha Soap (the great skin cures) externally. The
most wonderful case on record. Cure certified to
before a justice of the Peace and prominent citi-
zens. All afflicted with itching and scaly diseases
should send to us for this testimonial in full.
Clear the Skin
AS A SPRING MEDICINE, Blood Purifier.
Diuretic and Aperient, no other so-called
blood purifier or sarsaparilla compound is for a
moment to be compared with the Cuticura Re-
solvent. It combines four great properties in
one medicine, acting at once upon the digestive
organs, blood, kidneys, and bowels.
CUTICURA
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the OAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly £ flays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
FRED ROHRBR, Esq., Cashier Stock-Growers
National Bank, Pueblo, Colorado, wrltas: “I
am so well pleased with its effects on my baby that
I cannot afford to be without it in my house. It is
a wonderful cure, and it is bound to become very
popular as soon as its virtues are known to the
masses.”
REMEDIES
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cutioura
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby’
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G'sasy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautlflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 25 cents; Re-
solvent, $1.00, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
a f>-
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
IV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW SOUTH WALES,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
and ° ld £ st Cat8plnar Esfcal )1Ishment m N.8.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c M &c.
T and d°em?nTtrat1oM U ° d< ’ rtaken for Balls * WoddiQ * 8 ’ Banquets. Dinners, Luncheons
“ 9 ” nMtln
AH AND SMOLJNG LOUNG E. Beef Tea dally, 11 a.m. Coffee In the Bar until 11 p.m.‘
Comnaffnnni i n E ‘ D. TO LLEIKACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
lompagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-stre< it, Sydney.
\
READ THIS!
A Single w«tch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting- Patent English
Bever. oappe d and jewelled,
with tqe latestimproveiaienta,
*3 Ids. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLMR
GOOLALTA WINKS
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU : WAIT I
•GENT.-E 60, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. fld,
LAJMET so, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. 0d.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
’IOO, 3s. 6d.; 260, 6s. 8d. ; 500, 109.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
CELLARS and BODEGA
354 G-eorge-streot
(Beneath Paling’s.)
239 Pitt-streot, Sydney,
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Mn Em, LLOYD I CO,
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WTNYARD STREET,
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen,
86160191 *
FIRST GRAiHD SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND 8HOWOF TEA GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING
An endless vesriety of Dressing Gowns, Tea OownsV Mornlmr ’ Wrans
Washing Pelisses and Caohmere Frocks. ’(Themost complete stock"w shown™ KObe8, Ch,ldren *
M no DU Amr i
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHINo!* 1 MACHTNE-MADP TTMnuRPr
LADIES’ DRAWERS. CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRES8E8 CL ° THING *
An army beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for Ulus
WRIGHT, HEATON& GO,
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding! ; Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE j
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALK8J
BRANCH OFFICES.
SOUTHERN DISTRICT, N.8.W.J
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
WHT" Agencies to all parts of the world.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PAT. IE ALE,
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BT ALL BTOgjggngl BS AMD WIN*.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS,
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Comer of Bond-Street.)
Prom the Strand, London.
at
MAM
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—Thla favourite brand
of Stout selected with groat care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm at
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.


REMEMBER THIS,
IT YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach er bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of ail coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNervousMen
Whoso debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
,aud failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
‘.instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
jPhysical Decay iaumfonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor.
%
&
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Addn " ™
dross Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castlcreagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7 to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Pbvslclans
of Prance and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &o. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 53 Caatlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
ou want to
&
mess
JEPfc
For t
m
4'
One
uJdm
nhb
Ted
M
t
/Z
Only
One
T
05*
c/dress
0
usfralia
1
c
J
rton
T
T«
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgo v.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 PEtt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:
ROYAL HOTEL
BOtTEKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr,
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
MEUICAL TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street, Prahran.
I consider there are no superior or moie reliable
Hop Bitters than those known as
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
JOHN COOKE, M.R.C.S., Eng., L.S.A., Lond.
Burgeon Alfred Hospital, Melb.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
9-
CURE
/*■>
fA
3
E3*
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes 1!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp J
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glo.ssy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Mo. 1 Hair Brush
Mo. 2 Hair Brush
Mo. 3 Hair Brush
Mo, 4 Hair Brush
Mo. 5 Hair Brush
5s. Od.
7s. 3d.
9s. Sd.
Hs. 6d.
13s. 6d,
Their Iloyal Highnesses the PKINCE and PRINCESS of WADES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lishe d, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
i mmediately upon tne Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880,
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by j. few minutes' brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly * </ ' '/l/tJH '//3f A Handsome
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable. O'rfJfjf film Unbreakabl 3 BRUSH,
lam, your obedient servant, G. F. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.B. ' ‘U! mm-** Elegantly Carve d & Mounted
From Dr. Lempiurrk, D.C L., <kc.,St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 23, 1881.
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the groat advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I fine! the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine h< >w material its comfort is.
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and benefl sial domestic appliances. The
Brushes we indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully. C. Lb: bpribbe, D.C.L., &c.
These Brushes oan ho obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storckcepers.lor will ho forwarded
direct to any part of N.8.1V. or Queensland 'upon receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia. See that the name of Dr. Scott is on the Box, without which
none are genuine.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P-,
written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chuiclaill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—usbs them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
P.O. BOX 22!.
has
siS
I
£3T Send for Circular °f
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brits hes, Corsets, t£r Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 .MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The astonishing discoveries that may take
place in a very small town with one very small
paper, a thundering long name, and only one
sprlng-oart bolt a week, is what keeps society from
stagnating into a state of gloomy meditation on
universal suicide. In one town, above the roar of
traffic from the mail coach and a wool team, we
hear that “ A gentleman of this town (here’s dis-
tinction!) has a dog that exhibits sagacity which
almost amounts to intelligence,” this supernatural
intelligence consisting in his walking on the shady
side of anybody going out with him. Come to
think of it, is it a discovery to be proud of, that
this noble animal has brains enough to find shelter?
—that qualification being the most universal and
first exhibited by every form of animal life. How-
ever, if that editor stands In real awe before the
intelligence of a dog, we have nothing further to
say. We interfere with no man’s religion.
Here’s pious solicitude for you; here’s
holy anxiety mixed with simony and no small
dash of harmonious hypocrisy. Speaking of the
popular taste for racing, the Echo rolls up the
yellows of Its green eyes, and says, “ Listen to the
talk of it; mark tho preparation for it that has
been progressing with increased vigour for months
past. School-boys, shop-clerks, mechanics, mer-
chants, capitalists ‘ have been studying the sport-
ing columns of the papers,’ and 4 a gambling fever
has been growing, spreading, as the plague-spots
of some infectious disease.’” Fearful, this; and
the collective clerical soul of Fairfaxs’ divines
reels beneath the appalling depravity of a people
on the high road to perdition. .And then, as a
means of allaying this “ravaging fever,” extir-
pating tho 44 plague-spot,” and bringing all grades
to a proper sense of their Iniquity, they spend
thousands of pounds annually, in large salaries,
and long telegrams, got regardless of expense and
specially and artistically worked up, to bring this
fever to the highest possible pitch.
The first round on the ladder of fame was
attained by Constable Kenney, when, with a smack
that reverberated through the corridors of Kus-
sell-street barracks, Melbourne, he sealed with his
lips tho solemn contract by virtue of which he
now steps proudly up Bourke-stroet arrayed in the
gorgeous attire of the Victorian gendarmerie. For
the exiled 44 paythriot ” there is no surer nor
straighter road to fame, distinction, and opulence
than by donning the blue uniform and wielding
the policeman’s baton. But we mustn’t let our-
selves drift into a dissertation on the “speediest
way to wealth.” Our troubles are with Constable
Kenney and we’ll stick to him. Maybe he’ll do as
much for us some day. [Very likely.—Ed, B.]
Having joined the foorce, it is only natural to
expect that he yearned to distinguish himself and
44 get a sthripe upon his arm as quickly as possible.”
A couple of Sundays ago he was 44 bouldly pathrol-
lin’” his regulation 44 bate” in grand military
style, when his “algle eye” beheld an excited
Chinaman, bearing the euphuistic name of Hi
Tong, surrounded by a largo crowd, in Queen-
street, to whom the celestial was holding forth in
rounded periods of Confuclan oratory. Here was
the long-expected chance to earn well-merited pro-
motion, and the 44 boy from Limerick ” rose to the
occasion. 41 Begorra, ’tls a nice ruction yer raisin’
in the middle ov the broad daylight,” said the pre-
server of the public peace, as he fearlessly strode
Into tho thick of the fray; “so I’ll have to bo
afther lumbering you immajetly for 4 righteous
behavor,’ an’ put you where the crows can’t pick
yer eyes wid any grate convayniance.” 44 Ching-a
ling, hl-ki-Chow-Kong welly good 4 pleesheman,’ ”
rejoined the Chinaman. 44 Oh. howly Saint Path-
rick, there’s ondacent talk for you on the blessed
Sunday!” was tho horrified ejaculation of the con-
stable, as he scruffed the unfortunate Tong by the
collar and ran him down to Swanston-street lock-
up. After languishing in a dungeon cell till next
morning, Tong had to toe the mark before the
City Bench, on the double-barrelled charge of
using insulting language and assault. 4 4 1 arreshted
the prisoner in Queen-street yesthorday evenin’,
your Wurtchlps, where he was risin’ ruckshlns in
a big crowd, and usin’ bad language that I’d
be ashamed to repate.” Inspector Perry: “AVell,
what was he saying?” Constable: "1 couldn’t
undershtand a word he was say in’, at all, at all;
but I knew he was cursin’ and swearin’ like mad.
I then raymonsthrated wid the haythen, an’ tould
him to be aisy or I’d be necessitated to lock him
up, whin he put himself in a folghtin’ attitude
and made a consthructive assault upon me.” The
Bench:, 44 What is a constructive assault ?” 44 Weil,
yer wortchlps, ho shaped at me wid llshts, and he
sed 4 damme’ into the bargain.” It was then ex-
plained that tho 4 haythen ’ had been attacked by
some of the Little Rourke-street talent, who tried
to ease him of his chronometer; and seeing the
intelligent policeman, he poured nis troubles Into
his elephantine ears, with the disastrous results
aforementioned. The case was dismissed, and the
Mongol left thocourt swearing by Confucius that
he’d never seek tho friendly aid of the 44 foorce ”
again under any conditions Oh, and lest we should
forget to mention it, Misther Kenney isn’t made an
Inspector j|U8t yet, but he has a brilliant future
ahead.


THE
IGNO
Piano.
v
FAMOUS
PZiLlTO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its nSfne is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
%Sf~ Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICH0LS0N~ AND GO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also core
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
IONIC NERVINE
BRGI8TT5RED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. 4s. 6d.. or 26s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, M ARSH ALL BP OTHERS, M.F.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
108 Market-street, near Hyde Park, % and
6 Pltt-atreet. Circular-quay. TAKE NO 0B8TI-
HUTB.
T A L I A N
EMPORIUM*
FANCY CHINAWARE,
comprising:
TEA SETS, DESSEKT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS &c
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &c.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMOJiT, 410 Georgc-strcct.
PAINTS.
OILS.
.o v
WALL
C* PAPERS
Office: 330 George-streei.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.H. Pattern* and Prioe* *nnt.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED]
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
GEASLES DOESOI ill CO.,
375] George-st., Sydney.
HT TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED,
•m
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a goldeh colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change In red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g Lossy and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E.
Pro«sbr and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith's Latest R£ove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY «OODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, ETC.
Surprising Reduction oi 4». in the £, to expedite
remo>al of his enormous stock.
The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
1
.AIM* equalled
fSYDNEY
EITHER FOR
PRICE or QUALITY
CEORCE S
-d^Tora.la.suaaa.’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serience. They overcome the worst form of
diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
1ST 80S GEORGE STREET.
71
I
rift*
°^8cottW«^
d
HOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LBAGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gearge-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
1ST Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
JL. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
TTT
S
8 8
Eu.
s
ft
o
o
«/>
I
*
cr!
S
i
o
T«
|5w^|!
£
SV!<LJ
$
£)
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
A4A4A
i. A A A A A
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
T Ja.e SSelletlole 23-a.grg'les!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPKESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.


N OCTOGENARIANS gratitude,
A FACT,
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs, Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
AST L£ £
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N E.V
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
A CRITIQUE.
A new author baa burst upon the literary
horizon of this colony. It would, perhaps, be too
much to say that he is a phenomenon, but we can
at least risk calling him a surprise. We have
known him. It appears, for a long time, and have
often spoken with him familiarly, yet never sus-
pected him of anything more ambitious than an
appetite for oysters. Yet, now that we come to
look backward, we are astonished at our own
obtuseness. There was a latent fire In his eye, a
bold carelessness in his mien, and a colossal calm
about his boots which should have marked him
out long ago as a man capable of writing stories at
any moment. If sufficiently provoked. “ w ho Is
he, and what Is it all about ?” Patience, gentle
reader, we are coming to that In due course. Per-
haps we had better come to It now. He Is, then-
how absurd it seems to indicate an immortal soul
by a collocation of vowels and consonants!—a cer-
tain J. J. Uttlng, who, In what Is now to him the
squalid past, used to glisten in the “Brevity
column of Alfred. Then ho was a thin, olever-
looking little man, apparelled in ifaded serge, and
accompanied by a yellow stick of grotesque appear-
ance, which many people suspected to be his grand-
father, He used to swing this stick In a rotatory
fashion as he walked through the streets, marking
time, as it were, to a chanting which he kept up
till he got to the offlee and unburdened his soul—a
chanting of little paragraphs with little puns stuck
In them which Alfred oonsideied the ne plus ultra
of reckless wit. We are not sure that he did not
even allude to them as “ sparklers." However,
there were the paragraphs, amLthere was Uttlng;
and we make bold to say that even with these
proofs of mental pliability—(the phllosophldee-
saylsts are to blame for all these phrases we are
using—the philosophic essayists, because we have
been, for the last month, on a visit to a dear old
friend whose time Is mostly divided between col-
lecting conohologloal marvels and writing de-
fences of the theories of Plotinus) hem I where
were we ? Yes 1—oven with these proofs of mental
Suability before him, we have the audacity to assert
Hat Alfred never once dreamt that he was, so to
speak, nourishing a novelist in his bosom. And
■till he might have seen it, if he had not been of
such a generous and unsuspicious turn of mind.
To the other reporters and to the shaveling clerks
he was a being of awe and mystery. They did not
know—who did?—that his brain was ferment-
ing with ghastly plots for gloomy novels. They
only knew that he used to write plays. Every-
body knew that. He told them. Sometimes he
would sing a whole scene from one of his trage-
dies. But, as a rule, he discreetly kept his talents
In darkness. This, of course, could not last. When
a man has great Ideas simmering in his head, he
must give them vent some time, or his head will
burst. So the day came for Uttlng. One morning,
he woke up rich. How rich, we are not in a posi-
tion to state, but we believe he keeps an account
In three banks. His first step (of course) was to
abandon Alfred. Everybody abandons AlfAed
whenever they get an opportunity. His next was
to seclude himself in studious solitude, from
which he has just emerged with a story called
“ The Golden Cross,” which is now scintillating In
every country supplement worthy of the name.
It is a weird affair, this story. We have read a
portion of It, and are now in receipt of a summons
from our next neighbour for killing his goat. Wo
had to kill something. This Is how the second
chapter opens:—“It will be necessary, in order to
make our story Intelligible to our readers, to take
them back for a full half century.” Only
half a century, observe 1 Perhaps you think
this a good deal. You would not If you
read this story. You would say that the author
being strong, was merciful in not taking bis
readers back to the Flood. And, Indeed, It would
have been necessary to start about that period to
understand the plot properly. It is a novel not
for a day but for all time. Uttlng will never die—
but, thank Qnd, we will 1 And now we feel wo
have done our duty. Uttlng wanted fame, and we
have given him fame. It costs us nothing. After
all, however, the design of this paragraph is not so
much to glorify the gifted author in question as to
give an instance of what a man may come to who
has once written brevities for the Nooze.
The English undertakers are all busy deny-
ing that the tails and manes of funeral horses are
stuck on. One undertaker offers a newspaper
editor £10 for the first black tail ho can pull off.
The bet is a pretty safe one. The editor is hardly
likely to stop a funeral in the street and ask the
mourners to excuse him while he trLs to pull the
horse's tail off to settle a small wager. However,
the journalist has a correspondent who offers to
take him to a shop where tails and manes are to be
seen hanging up, and who further aveis that ho
once saw a horse painted black to do a funeral
Job. It was a white one, and had just come in
from a wedding.
The fidelity of the dog, and the keen
Interest with which it enters Into the sports of its
master, form one of the most beautiful of nature’s
features. Two American journalists and a dog
went boating recently. The boat upset. One man
J;ot ashore; but the dog entered so fully into the
oke that every time his master’s bead appeared
above water the faithful hound bobbed it down
again, with barks of pleasure and excitement.
The body has not been recovered yet. This dog
was no roubt a brother of the Toby who. when
the poor swagman, his master, lay down and
died on the Mount Browne road the year before
last, stayed alongside the body—and ate it.
They waited on John Ah Sing and told
him about the Franco-Chinese war. “Me no
savey; me no care; Foochow too far ’way,” was
the answer they got from John and a group of
friends whom they found tranquilly discussing a
water-melon. “Foochow blombardee,” continued
the journalist spokesman, adopting their own dia-
lect, and getting red in the face in his attempt to
Impress upon Mr. Hip Lung the Intense peril
which was hanging over his native land ;
“ Flenchoeman shootee—boomee—bangee—bustee
you savey, blowee all outee Foochow. Even this
eloquent description of the horrors to which his
compatriots were exposed failed to effect Mr. Hip
Lung, who simply remarked ;—“Me savey blow
h—ee, allee samee no give damee.”
In Munich, they have held a race meeting
for bullocks, and it was a great success. This
novelty appears likely to be introduced here
shortly, to judge from the high state of training
disclosed by Sydney beef. We hope to see this
movement spread until we have bullock-team
contests. We have seen some grand struggles
made by teams bogged in a creek just at dusk,
and remember that the drivers displayed great
discretion and vigour in their attempts to get
through. One driver In particular, having plied
his whip for some time, appeared to depend on
language to persuade the animals to a final effort.
He laid the stump of his whip on the bank, jumped
on his hat, leaped into the air a dozen times, and
then addressed each animal by name. We forget
what he called them.
For some time past it has been the custom
of certain disappointed sky-pilots to complain that
the press has seriously infringed on some of the
privileges of the pulpit. Now, however, it is the
editor’s turn to siangwhang the parson for en-
croaching on the domain sacred to the advertise-
ment ol the wants of the general public. For ex-
ample. The rector ofiNasmotherly, before tack-
ling “Paul to the Californians,” a few Sundays
ago, observed: “I have to give notice that two
friends in this congregation want clean, comfort-
able apartments ” Clerk (iu a whisper) “ With
bath-room, use of front parlour, and piano in-
cluded.” Rector: “Ah—with bath-room, use of
front parlour and piano included. Mr. Church-
warden Cheekes has a male magpie and a Bible,
which he desires to change for an eight-day clock,
or a sewing machine; and Farmer Worzel has a
vacancy for a respectable, well-educated lad, to
milk cows, and make himself generally useful
about a dairy. This is for the third time of asking;
and if any can, without just cause or impediment,
assist me in these matters, let him attend in the
vestry after service. We will now turn to the
Scriptural lesson of the day—‘Christ driveth the
money-changers out of his holy temple.”
One of the strangest clubs n London is
the Rabelais Olub, and In order to be eligible, one of
two things is required of a man. He must either
have read Rabelais's works or not have read
Rabelais’s works. In either ease he can come in.
Lord Houghton sometimes presides, and opens
proceedings by solemnly arising and enunciating
a single Latin phrase. There are no speeches, and
but one toast, which is drunk standing with all the
honours at the end of the feast. The words are:
“To the immortal memory of the master I”
Mr. Art Byrne, of the N. Y. Dramatic
Tiaras, still takes the bun:—“ Fancy a large boned,
big trunked woman, five feet eight in height, with
a small face, little eves, a turn-up nose, and ludi-
crously attenuated legs; a woman with a wheezy
little voice In the lower, but big, blatant, barking
tones in the upper middle register,which she flings
at you as from a catapult—fancy this dromedarian
personage afflicted with elephantiasis of the bust
and shoulders, playing the Little Duke, and you
have a notion of Mrs M’Gall’s sense of the fitness
of things.” We suppose Sir William Manning
would call this “scurrilous.”
George Augustus Sala bears the credit of
being, since Dickens died, the most accomplished
and versatile of after-dinner speak ers. For delight-
ing his audience, he certainly carries away the palm
among notable men. When this notable journalist
rises, poises his chin in the air, rolls his dark eyes
upward, and sends out his clear metallic chest
notes, one feels an assurance that a clever speech
is forthcoming, delivered with fluent ease and
felicity of expression. But the most wonderful
speaker in the world is Henry Ward Beecher, the
celebrated Brooklyn divine. He can speak at any
time, at any place, and on any subject. His pyro-
technic brain, incessantly whizzing and whirling,
shoote out thousands of bright thoughts which he
readily clothes in most musical and expressive
language.
We thought our bards were given to ex-
pressing thejlnexpresslble and threshing the wind
as muon as most of their class. But here are two
lines from a Footscray (Footscray is a fish-smelling
suburb In Hobson’s Bay) untethered genius—or
Soat— which have convinced us we were wrong.
;emark:—
“ Some dear good fairy must have heard the sight
That burst unconscious from between my lips.”
Heard the sight! This is superb. But what does
It mean, you will say. Ab, now, there is where we
have the advantage of you, in knowing the mental
processes of these bards. What the Footscray
Flacous means to say is that—simply and baldly
stated—he was sea-sick. Long may he wave so,
for he is unique.
After we have hammered away for years
and years to prove that such a thing as local
jealousy is extinct, aud that it only requires a truly
patriotic proposal to be made, and every Austra-
lian who has the future of the Continent at heart
will at once endorse it, here come Thomas George
Long and Michael Robert Mooney, publishers of
the Southern Cross (Moonee Junction), and,
without a word of apology, crumple up every
vestige of national aspiration we have cherished.
Tom and Mike don’t believe that local Jealousy is
extinct; but coolly accept it as an Inevitable and
rampant fact. Thank heaven, we don’t live in
that revolutionary atmosphere! But here's what
they say:—“It is not to be wondered at that
Wagga should look with a jealous eye upon the
growing importance and progress of Junee Junc-
tion.”
Complaints are made that the railway
porters at Mudgee do not wear uniforms, and that,
consequently, passengers, especially ladies, who
require information are seriously inconvenienced.
The want of uniforms leads not only to serious
inconvenience, we imagine, but also to behaviour
that makes a stranger to the neighbourhood ap-
pear intentionally offensive. To walk over to
some Mudgee magnate and, telling him to lift
your shoetrunk into the van, to slip sixpence in
coppers into his list. Is a piece of conduct you find
it difficult to explain away when you meet him at
the next banquet. It is not quite satisfactory to
assure him that you took him for a porter. But,
by the way, as the Mudgee railway porters object
to wear uniforms or badges, would it not come to
the same thing if the rest of the people wore
something distinguishing? Say, a decent-looking
face or a communicative manner.
One bright and sunny day last week the
Government Printing Office gave birth to the
“ Blue Book ” of 1883, exactly 10 months after the
time that side-splitting volume was due. Con-
sidering that this office costs the State quite a tidy
sum for its maintenance, it is somewhat hard to
say why we should be always so much behind
other colonies in the production of our statistics;
but the fact remains that we are, and, if measures
are not taken to create a reform, our “Blue
Book” issue will, perhaps, be years instead of
months in arrear. Then, again, think of the thou-
sands who have passed out of this world during
the past ton months without the sweet consola-
tion that they might have derived from a perusal
of the “Blue Book,” The thought is simply mad-
ness; but, at the same time, it is cheery to reflect
that, no matter how late our statistics come before
the world, the Government Printing Office picnic
generally booms with a punctuality worthy of a
better cause.
Saul Samuel’s comic Handbook of New
South Wales prepared in London for the behoof of
emigrants, contains one passage, at all events,
which evidences its author’s acquaintance with
the history of this colony. “ The number of men,”
says he, “ who, beginning with small or compara-
tively no means, have made their way to wealth
or fortune as overseers, superintendents, or man-
agers of the estates or property of others . .
forms a remarkable feature in colonial history or
experience.” A very remarkable feature, indeed.
Take old Jerry Boko’s case as an Instance. He
took charge of the Coogeebiiiabong flocks and
herds in 1847, when he hadn’t of his own a sixpence
or a hoof of stock. By 1863, his nominal employers
were in the same fix, while he on his neighbouring
run of Brandembudgery had sheep and cattle In
galore. Several of our most distingud Darling-
Pointers’ fathers or grandfathers “made their way
to wealth or fortune ” in that fashion, as the com-
placent old Saul jolly well knows.
Amongst the books and pamphlets pub-
lished at the Government Printing Office during
1883 were the following:—The Aborigines of N.S.
Wales, by John Frazer (cost, £914s. 6d); an Epi-
tome of the Official History of N.S. Wales, an ill-
arranged mass of facts and figures (cost, £619 19s.
9d.); Speeches in Parliament on the Inscribed
Stock Bill, together with an appendix containing
editorial comments of the Sydney Morning
Herald (cost, £99 3s. 6d,); The Aborigines of
Australia, by Richard Sad Her (cost, £14818s. lid.);
Speeches delivered at a dinner given by Speaker
Barton on 10th December, 1883. ft would be inter-
esting to know why the cost of publishing such
works as these should fall on the State. There is
almost invariably something to be urged In justi-
fication of the publication of ninety-nine hun-
dredths of the Parliamentary returns called for,
but what possible excuse can be found for sad-
dling the country with the expense of such works
as those enumerated? The Government printer
should be strictly kept to his proper functions.
As a publisher he is a mistake—as an editor, a
frost.
The majesty which doth hedge a king
would seem to be so comprehensive in its nature
that it encloses not only the representatives of
royalty, but even! the satellites of the said repre-
sentatives. For instance, the orderly of Sir Henry
Loch is hedged in by a vast deal of majesty, as two
Melbourne working men have discovered to their
sorrow. These humble sons of toil, it appears,
were taking the air on Prince’s Bridge, when His-
Excellency's orderly was similarly engaged—the
son . s .of toll being pedestrians, and the guberna-
torial functionary an equestrian. With a reckless
disregard to the proprieties which we cannot too
strongly deprecate, one of these sons of toil turned
to his companion and put the following appalling-
query: * who's that fellow on ’ossback?” It
was an awful conundrum, when we consider the
sacredness of the individual to whom it referred,
but still the orderly might, in his merciful good-
ness, have passed the matter over, had it not been
for the disrespectful answer, “He’s an awful
toff.” This was too much; the orderly could not
brciok a second insult to that sovereign power
with which he doubtless felt himself to be some-
what remotely connected, so, without more ado,
he gave these two ribald citizens in charge to a
policeman. “ £2 each, or a month,” was the penalty
inflicted for referring to ihe orderly of His Excel-
lency the Governor of Victoria as “ an awful toff.”
At a concert given in Port Douglas, two
Chinese songsters favoured the audience with a
stave from the celestial shore. The names of these
two heavenly choristers were Pun Ching and Ah
Sam, They were accompanied on the one-stringed
lute of their sires, and, as their last dulcet tones
died away in the room, the audience died too—all
except the local editor, who revived and darted
off to get a translator and musician to fix the
strains for his own drawing-room for ever. Fun
Ching scrangled out this little amorous soul
scruncher—literally—“ You see just now before I
go to prison, I am very poor; just now my son get
married; all people hate me; 1 soon get out; they
say,I g t fortune. Very much pleased to see my
son get married to-day ’’—which we should rhyme
for him
Just now I go to gaol.
And I am very poor;
My son is going to marry,
And my people hate me more.
They say I ve got a fortune.
And that I hold the tin—
I’ll soon be out: my married son
Has tipped the Mandarin.
Ah Sam’s little ditty is not given; but It represents
a woman and a daughter of 15—the latter just
about to get married. She bewails (with how
bitter tears we all know) the separation from her
mother. When this strain was over, Ah Sam’s
horse, which was tied up outside to the fence,
was found with his throat cut, and some “ mis-
creant” is being looked for. We should examine
that gash for wood splinters. It’s more than
likely he rubbed his own throat along the tops of
the palings as his owner sang. For he was an
English horse.
Now it is the turn of the ghoul-faced men
and idioticaily-simpering women of the Post Office
carvings to laugh out aloud, for Signor Sani has
perpetrated yet another work of art, in the shape
of a bronze statue of Mercury, which has just
been erected over the new offices of the Town-en-
Countby Jernil. This time, however, the exe-
cution is all right, according to orders given; but
we think far too highly of the virtuous, if not
brilliant, staff of that highly intellectual journal
to say the effigy is at all appropriate for such a
building. In the first place, Mercury, or, more
correctly speaking, Hermes, was the patron god
of thieves, and justly so, too; for it is recorded
that, at the early age of two hours, he slipt out of
his cradle while the nurse was examining the ceil-
ing through the bottom of a tumbler filled with
Olympian tangle, strapped on a pair of felt-lined
sandals, and after stealing a herd of bullocks, the
property of one Apollo, he salted down two-of the
primest feasts, and then planted the remainder in
a scrubby range at a place called Pylos. To make
the matter worse, Hermes, when brought before
Chief Justice Zeus, positively denied all knowledge
of the robbery; but as ho was afterwards found
guilty, he simply proved himself to be a bare-
faced liar, in addition to being a mean, low-down,
precocious thief. This, we believe, is the earliest
piece of “cattle-duffing” on record; and we
are indeed pained beyond expression to find
that Alfred, even with the vast stores of my-
thological erudition at his disposal, could think
of no more appropriate figure to symbolize the
character of his new offices than—to use poor
Walter Cooper’s words-this harness-keg-and-
bullet-mould vagabond of Olympus. Hermes was
also a notorious gambler, and hence ho became
the patron of the monte-players, and thimble-
riggers of his time, and when not actively en-
gaged in their disgraceful games he used to act as
a sort of cap-bearer or tangle-foot barman to the
higher-toned gods who required refreshments at
theiroouncils. The only possible connection weean
see between Hermes and the Town and Country
people is, that as Zeus was supposed to send
dreams, and Hermes to conduct them to man, the
latter came to be known as the god who had the
power of bringing calm, refreshing sleep to all his
favoured admirers ; and as this happens to be one
of the chief characteristics of the writers on the
Journal, there seems to be some slight excuse for
the erection of Signor Sani’s “statoo.” Now, that
we think of it again, however, Hermes was also
the god of gain and riches, especially of such
riches as are acquired suddenly and come upon
the fortunate possessor more through sheer good
luck than from any intrinsic merit of his own; and
bearing this in mind, we must, after all. admit that
there is much appropriateness in the fact of
the spirited proprietors of the Town and
Country Journal dedicating their new buildings
to the honour, and placing them under the special
protection, of such a particularly versatile party
as the god Hermes.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
caper Co. {Limited), 34 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Figure No. 1, shows a handsome mantelet with raised shoulders. From under the
revers, joining the collar, start two scarf ends, about 30 inches in length, of
of Chantilly lace material. These are gathered and sewn at the waist on a waist-
band which is fastened to the curved-in seam at the back to make the pelerine lit
tight to the figure.
No. 2, is a walking toilette cf fine percfile with a damask design, the trimming being
of coffee-coloured bobbinet lace, 5 inches in width. The skirt, gathered all round,
is composed of alternate stripes of the percale and lace. Small waistcoat fronts
ornament the polonaise. The revers trimming is caught together by a narrow
velvet tab, and fastened at the edge of the short back, the ends remaining falling
over the hind drapery. Revers collar of dark velvet to match the sleeve facings.
