

Bi - iee-4.
HMY mUDM & SMS,
TJiTIT7 - PBOVIDEES.
In every one of our
WE HAVE BEEN
FOR THE AUTUMN AND WINTER TRADE.
IHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
V L " ACE EMPORIUM, HfIYMARKET, ONLY.
hundred Cases of CHOICE and SEASONABLE GOODS.
* BLANKETS ! BLANKETS ! for which the Palace Emporium is justly celebrated.
I MANTLES, MANTLES. The Latest Parisian Eashions, in very great variety.
\| Cj DRESSES, DRESSES. New Patterns. New Materials. New Styles.
*h. CLOTHING, CLOTHING. The Best Cut. The Best Made. The Best Wear.
***foj|j BOOTS, BOOTS. Acknowledged to be the Best and Cheapest in the colony.
1,4 Assortment of everything Novel, Beautiful, and Useful, carefully collected from all the
J 1 1 markets of the world.
yHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Hajfmarket, Only,
y PROVIDERS. universal providers.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


mm)
I F
Corner ol GEOHGE and MARKET STREETS.
CITY
...
' v ‘CiHPJ HurUEl: ’
S■pj|p|
Sh
■
-
■
cto^J
Branches: —Rundle-st., Adelaide, S. A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-sf,, Sydney* Manuf a
SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
ft
p
c
*
P
c
p
<*
*
3
*
1
p
2
•«
0
T|
C
3
r
i
(
I
c
r
o
3
P
2
IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at- MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY OIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Gostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Cqjnpany (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &e., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lsfchlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Franciscox-Quicksilver.
Eels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, -Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston —Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
0T INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
Martin Keewli ,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav Ac
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class wines and Soirita
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from nil parts of the colony posted up. ®
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
■ ):
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artiste, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which oopies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES &
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he haa j co ‘
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail i
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines a
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. Ho can therefore c ° n
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to i> iul
PORT
40-year old, Gilbey’s •• , "
CelebYated Four Diamonfl • • o j t j)
Quality-No. 1 (very super lol ..
N O . ***** grape
No. **** ,i
No. *** ~ .*•
no! ** » •••
No.*
■1»1 a
Draught Port Wine, per lroP er
SHRR b? *
40-year old, Gilbey’s ••• ,J« r y drj)
Very Finest Amontillado ( _
Fine Amontillado ••• , ciherrY
Celebrated Four Dianaonu
Common Sherry ..iftf 1
„TißP 01 ' 1! *
Draught Sherry Wine, P er
BRITISH
James Ileddle’s Ginger W*ne
Orange Wine ... -^O.
9l*
IRISH
Jameson’s ***
ti) pottle 0 t
Old Dublin Whisky (***)'-
Kinahan’s unrivalled p n
P
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s . ."I, aid*
Dimville’s ••• miner 1 * 11 «
Kinahan’s Draught, per iml (1
Jameson’s „
Flasks ’
SCOTCH*?**
Walker’s 7-year old, in v
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisk
Flasks
per
sl™' d \s' 'j
lue Bell or Yellow Seal jf-y 1
ebrated Key Brand, v ®‘ 1
bottle containing ® Ol
Key Gin ...
Blue B
Celebr;
Flanks
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best h e jjv
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers.
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. 0 f
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.- On reeftf
■ mm
b eß} a is
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’g Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of ff 1 v iefl eo
riven perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay» v
)rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. /?. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Me
rcb Gl l
n. unnixiiw, ww riuicouic w twinu ot v/jiiii
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, w


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 53.—New Serif*
SATURDAY, MAY 17, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 17, 1884.
Sir Alfred Stephen was last week roundly
rated by the Evening News for having in-
troduced his bill to restrain the lottery
sharps who have broken out so badly in this
city of late. Our esteemed contemporary is
in downright earnest about this matter, and
devotes to the flagellation of Sir Alfred an
amount of space which, under ordinary cir-
cumstances, would be profitably allotted to
one of those particular and exhaustive ac-
counts of a “ Revolting Case,” or “ Disgust-
ing Depravity,” upon whioh it generally
relies for popular acceptability. The News
is very scornful and sarcastie with the in-
trusive, rash, presuming fool who has taken
practical steps to interfere with the lottery
business. “ The hon. gentleman thinks,” says
the News, with its unclean nose scornfully
tip-tilted, “that lotteries are an abomina-
tion.” We feel confident Sir Alfred never
thought anything so ungrammatical. But
we daresay that he has thought lotteries to
be abominations, and the Evening News,
with its daily provision of obscene sensation,
to be an abomination all to itself. The
News, however, does not agree with Sir
Alfred. This is not surprising. Since the
News has made it its business to deal in the
garbage of prurient sensation, it has been a
dose which can scarcely have agreed with
any decent man. The only wonder is that
no larger proportion of its sometime readers
have “thrown it up.” The News is so angry
with Sir Alfred for putting a spoke in the
wheel- of those who are engaged in en-
deavouring to popularise land-lotteries with
the view of turning over a dirty penny, that
it is incoherent with passion. It commences
by vehemently blaming Sir Alfred for
further complicating the laws relating to
lotteries, apparently because the complica-
tion of existing laws has encouraged persons
anxious to make money—honestly if they
can, but anyhow to make money—to let
loose their gambling “consultations” or
“tontines,” or “ distributions”—whichever
sham style they employ—upon the public.
The next thing the News is concerned about
is the nice question “whether Sir Alfred
would not ooeupy his leisure time to greater
advantage in drafting a bill to legalise lot-
teries.” In this speculation the News seems
to be really earnest. For it goes on to inti-
mate that there are two sides to the ques-
tion whether lotteries are rascally. And
the News undertakes apparently to show
that there are two sides. We cannot com-
pliment our contemporary on the compre-
hensiveness or exhaustiveness of its demon-
stration of the other side. It is content
to regard the matter as clinched by a
reductio ad absurdum. Sir Alfred has,
it appears, so framed his bill as to
bring into explicit operation certain old
acts, wherein all persons concerned in
getting up lotteries are dealt with as rogues
and vagabonds. The Evening News demon-
strates that Sir Alfred is a mischievous
meddler, and quite wrong throughout, be-
cause such re-enactment would be appli-
cable, if carried, to “ such rogues as Messrs.
Hardie and Gorman, and all other such ob-
noxious and dangerous people.”
• • •
The inference here suggested is clearly
that to enforce any old law which would
punish as rogues and vagabonds such men
as Messrs. Hardie and Gorman would be an
absurdity on the face of it. Or, in other
words, that if it should happen to suit the
business conveuience of Messrs. Hardie
and Gorman to start a faro bank or a
roulette table, then anyone who would
contemplate bringing into operation laws
which seem to deal with such enterprises as
disreputable or prej udicial to the public weal,
must be an unreasonable blockhead. The
standard of what is right and rational in the
British code of laws is not what lawmakers
enacted or contemplated, but what Messrs.
Hardie and Gorman and gentlemen of their
stamp choose to recognise and comply with!
o . •
We are not aware whether Messrs. Hardie
and Gorman invited the News to put them
forward as moral Atlases, competent to
bear on their shoulders the responsibility of
defining by practical example what is and
what is not consonant with morality in the
law of the land. If they did not, they are
indeed unfortunate. Mr. Hardie is, we
believe, a shining light in connection with
the Young Men’s Christian Association, and
THE HON. JAMES NORTON, THE NEW POSTMASTER-GENERAL OF N.S. WALES.
Mr. Gorman is, or was, secretary to the
committee who arranged the Rev. John
Osborne’s “ Christian Platform.” Both
gentlemen are personally respectable,
good churchmen, and highly esteemed.
As a firm, they occupy an elevated place
among business men. Regarded from a
newspaper proprietor’s point of view, they
are entitled to the most exalted considera-
tion. They oontrol advertising business to
the amount of scores of thousands sterling
per annum. It is, perhaps, to this last attri-
bute that may be ascribed the truly remark-
able abstention from animadversion respect-
ing the land-lottery revival, in which they
have been prominent, which has character-
ised the attitude, not only of the 8. M. Her-
ald, but also of the “ bold and independent ”
Daily Telegraph, and which has prompted
the Evening News to lay down the prin-
ciple that nothing can be wrong which such
very respectable and influential gentlemen
are graciously pleased to undertake the
overstrained morality of the lastgeneration,
and the law of the land to the contrary not-
withstanding. ,
* * *
Our ideas run in a different groove, how-
ever. We regard the intense respectability
of Messrs. Bardie and Gorman, and the
respectability and status more or less appre-
ciable of the persons associated with them
in thrusting seductions to gamble in houses
and land in the way of the general publio»
as special aggravations of the situation.
Their action illustrates the tendency of the
age, in which Almighty Respectability is
worshipped instead of Almighty God ; and,
so long as men can compound with their
parson and society in general, they are indif-
ferent to the remonstrances of their con-
sciences. This is no new thing, indeed. The
tendency to it is permanent; its outbreak
only recurrent. Butler noted it in connec-
tion with the Puritanism of the Common-
wealth, and transfixed it in two lines,
satirizing those who
“ Compound for sins they have a mind to,
By damning 1 those they’re not inclined to.”
Respectability is one of the most dangerous
of weapons when converted into an instru-
ment of offence against the public welfare.
Those who employ their good repute to
effect an invasion of the general morality
resembleMALCOLM’s army advancing masked
under the peaceful guise of a grove of trees.
Some of the most detestable oritnes against
humanity have been perpetrated by most
respectable men, and justified by the
sanction and acquiescence of the Churches.
Human slavery was endorsed by the whole
body of clergy of all denominations in the
Southern States of America. The opponents
of abolition, both there and in the West
Indies, were a good deal more “ respectable”
in the worldly sense than the abolitionists.
That is to say, they comprised men who,
individual for individual, oompared favour-
ably in all other relations of life with the
orew of agitators who assailed and often
slandered them. They were good fathers,
upright men, even chivalrous in their
conduct of social matters. Everyone has
heard of the chivalry of the South, and the
phrase was neither a mockery nor a fraud.
Chivalry is the outoome of a generous disposi-
tion, and a generous disposition best develops
among the well-to-do. As Gray puts it,
ohill penury freezes the genial current of
the soul. There is excuse for men born to
inheritance of property or business based
upon evil practices, as was the case of the
slave holders of the West Indies and America.
But there is none for men who deliberately,
for greater profit when already prosperous,
initiate or revive practices intrinsioally and
notoriously immoral—practices which have
been as stoutly and comprehensively de-
nounced by the last generation (whioh had
experienced the evils of their operation) as
have been slavery and gambling hells.
* * *
The attitude of the influential and repre-
sentative men of the community in relation
to this matter is not cheering. In the Assem-
bly, so many members have been associated }
as promoters or guarantors, with land lottery
affairs, that the Ministry seems intimidated.
The supineness of the Attorney-General has
compromised his colleagues; but they ap-
pear oontent to be compromised in so much
good company—or, in other words, with a
good batoh of votes secure in oase of aoci-
dents. It was the function of the Attorney-
General to test the law by instituting a
prosecution, and it is a scandal that, while
proceedings are being taken against dis-
reputable promoters of raomg lotteries, re-
spectable promoters of house and land lot-
teries are permitted, unoheoked, to plunge
into practices whioh, morally considered, and
regarded with reference to their influence
on the public, stand on precisely the same
footing.
• • •
The shuffling excuses offered by the high-
principled members of Parliament who
sought to explain the publication of their
names as vouchers for these illicit enter-
prises, will not bear a moment’s examination.
Messrs. Sutherland, Sydney Smith, and
others alleged that they had only consented
to be connected with the affair because they
desired to ensure fair dealings. This raises
the questions, What caused them to suspeot
that, without the oheckof their supervision,
there would have been foul play? and,
who were the persons they regarded as
capable of cheating the public if not watohed
and controlled ? Besides, the excuse is pecu-
liar. The virtuous and public spirited anxiety
to see that the interests of the subscri-
bers to the lottery should be protected was
too spasmodic, and was certainly misapplied.
If lotteries are to be permitted, or if it be
recognised that the laws forbidding them
are too vague or not comprehensive enough
to be effectual in quashing the praotioe, one
would have conceived that the first thought
of legislators would have been to avail
themselves of their representative and privi-
leged position to move for amendment of
the laws, and, at the same time, to scourge
those who took advantage of technical loop-
holes to demoralise the public, by holding
them up to the opprobrium of the com-
munity at large. And even if those obvious
resources escaped their attention, and they


The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per Inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertioa. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
The Marquis of Lome has been presente d
with 600,000 white-fish egg's, which he proposes to
hatch out. We are happy to hear that the Marquis
of Lorae is going to do something, even if it is
only the work of an old hen.
Thus runs a recent Herald “wire”:—
“Obituary. Sir Michael Arthur Bass, M.P. for
East Staffordshire, and a partner in the firm of
Bass and Company, aged 47; also Sir Michael Costa,
the composer.” Good again, Granny. Put the
beer first, and the brains last, as usual.
üBL I b
NOTICE
I
si co:s
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY la bonded for severa.
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, in great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold bj leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
vnnwr? WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
HHJAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
owners of BRIAN BOBU
▼▼ ft ISKI,
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Allay,
BYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
1 1 IHE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
JL and taken at bed-time.
W PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
SB. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Isjarlmit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea._
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of Such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELIBH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Ss. od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
really perceived no better way of protect-
ing the public than aoting as referees, as it
were—at the cost of appearing to offer them-
selves as supporters, endorsers, and guaran-
tors of the obscene transactions— : t is clear
that the lotteries conducted by men like
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman were not the
ones which most required the supervision
of honourable members. On their own
grounds they should have tackled the
various racing sweeps, by means of which
the public have been so notoriously swindled
over and over again. They should have
picked those which there was most reason
to suspect were designed to be worked “on
the cross,” and should have tendered their
services as a committee to see all fair in
those instances. We do not believe, nor do
we credit that these hon. members believed,
that Messrs. llardte and Gorman needed
watching, and that “Occidental,” and “The
Great Bonanza,” and such like, might be
safely left to work the oracle without
supervision. The thing is farcical. We trust
the majority in both Houses of Parliament
who are undefllcd by contact with “the
accursed thing,” will give Sir Alfred
Stephen’s measure their honest and hearty
support; and, if in any technical respects it
be imperfect or inappropriate, as may
very possibly be the case, will address them-
selves with a will to improve it into a work-
able measure suited to present day require-
ments.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
DiO you ever notice this ? We were mighty ready
to go to Bulgaria, to pelt our broadsides at Alexan-
dria, and to knock the stuffing out of the ragged
brigades of the patriot, Arabi Bey; but we failed
to see that anything could justify our rushing off
to our ally’s help at Metz, or when the German
legions thundered at the gates of Paris. A greet
deal of our success in war depends upon those we
fight against. When the infamous Bulgarian atro-
cities were spoken of, there was a man who rose
up in the English Senate and declared the Govern-
ment “ blood guilty ” for not taking a swift and
sure revenge, and that man was William Glad-
stone. No one that we know of has a more pro-
fessed love of honour and justice than the Grand
Old Man has, and this is why the people ask to-day
what answer has he to make to the curses and
howls for vengeance that are hourly sent up
from the wives and children of the thousands
of poor Egyptians who were in some cases
dragged in chains to be butchered under Baker
Pasha ? None by Hercules ! none what-
ever; but he calmly sits and twiddles his
thumbs and talks about jam and the red sunsets.
Butchered these miserable Egyptians most un-
doubtedly were. They couldn’t fight if they
would, and they certainly wouldn't if they could
possibly help it—for the quarrel was none of their
making. A more disastrous or more dishonour-
able page will never be found in England’s history
than that which speaks of El Teb and the Soudan.
True Britons have their backs up over this bloody
business already; and through some of their
journals they utter a just and fiercely-worded
protest against the action which caused the streets
of Alexandria and Cairo to be thronged during
the dread enlistment days with crowds of women
and helpless little children, weeping for their bread-
winners, who were hauled by the neck, against
their wills, to serve His Highness the Khedive—
that despicable puppet, whose strings were worked
by unseen hands in Downing-street—against the
Mahdi. Listen to what a loyal English writer
says:—“There was nothing of the warrior spirit
in these huddled Egyptians, who, after being
beateuand driven into extemporised barracks,were
instructed in the valuable art (especially to them)
of forming squares. Then they were despatched in
batches to Suakim. Thence Baker Pasha was to
lead them against the expert and ferocious
warrior Arabs. As might have been expected—
and, indeed, was expected—at the first wild shout
of the enemy all the drill they had learned in the
last few weeks went ©ut of the bewildered
wretches’ heads. Form square they could not. To
fire off their rifles, except up into the air they knew
not how. We may blame their cowardice, but,
huddled into a helpless and disordered mass, with no
elbow-room to fight, had they dared to fight, what
more could have been hoped from miserable peas-
ants forcibly enlisted, haif-drilled, and timid and
submissive by nature ? They fell flat on their
faces, and howled for mercy. They knelt down,
and clasped their hands and prayed tor pity. They
flung away their rifles and raced across the pitiless
plaoe for life;then hearing the p ursuer close behind,
clung to his knoes and bogged for mercy. Small
mercy they found. There their remains still lie
to-day, with their wounds, poor wretches, in their
backs. Here and theie u thick strewn patch of
dusky corpses, where the negro troops had
fought and died together, or a small cluster of
Europeans fallen by the guns—but these have
clenched teeth, their weapons in their hands, and
their wounds in front. All the rest were butchered
in flight, or in entreaty, unarmed, and their mouths
opon with the unfinished prayer for pity.’’ How-
ever, who cares now ? A few thousand coffee-
coloured, mud-headed Egyptians are nothing much
either here or there; and, besides, the time spent in
slaughtering this rubbish enabled Tommy Atkins
and his gallant mates and commanders to gain
breathing time, and then swoop down on a worn-
out, badly-armed foe, and, by butchering four
thousand of these in a single day, uphold the
glorious prestige of old England beneath the burn,
ing canopy of an Eastern sky. Hurrah!
The question of the adoption by our local Legis-
lature of British parliamentary rules and regula-
tions seems to us to lie In a nutshell. It was
as reasonable when the N.S.W. Parliament was
first created that it should have elected to adopt
the then existing British parliamentary regula-
tions for its own rules of procedure, as it was
unreasonable that it should have ever consented
(o allow of subsequently enaoted British parlia-
mentary regulations becoming binding on it, with-
out special deliberation as to the suitability of
teach such new rule to the local environment. It
would not be a whit less absurd for the Assembly
to deem itself bound by the procedure forms of
the German Reichstag, as promulgated from time
to time, than for it to feel itself under a sort of
patriotic obligation to follow the suit of the
British Parliament in matters of pureiy local con-
cern. British parliamentary rules up (say) to 1860,
plus such rules as the Assembly has itself since
made, or specially adopted after due discussion,
should alone constitute our parliamentary lineß.
The Hon. James Norton, the New Post-
master-General of N. S. Wales.
It is the Honorable James Norton—the new Post-
master-General—whose portrait finds a place in
our front page this week. The date of his birth—
'some time in 1834—carries us back to those happy
days when English Catholics had no political or
religious footing, and English Radicals, who in-
solently demanded Parliamentary representation,
were persuaded to disperse by means—seldom in-
efficacious—of cavalry charges. It was while
Sydney was struggling through her babyhood, and
long before Fawkner squatted on the site of Mel-
bourne, that James Norton’s demands for sus-
tenance first attracted attention to the fact that
he had taken a firm grip of life, in a house that
subsequently became the Three Tuns Tavern, and
occupied a portion of the place now known as
Temple Court. His father was an English solici-
tor, who came to New South Wales in 1818,
secured a large and lucrative practice, and pre-
'scrved his place as head of his branch of the pro-
fession till his death, in 1863. It was at Mr. William
tape’s school, in O’Conncl 1-street, that the subject
of this sketch was indoctrinated in the perplexities
of pot-hooks-and-hangeis, wrestled with the
irregular verbs of the third conjugation, and con-
quered the mysteries of long-division, tret-and-
tare, and vulgar fractions. Sir James Martin, the
Hon. Geoffrey Eagar, Sir John Robertson, Mr.
Allan Macpherson, Mr. S. M. Moule, the late Wil-
liam Forster, and many others, whose names are
household words in N.S. Wales history, were
among his schoolmates. The late Rev. Robert
Forrest—formerly of the King’s School—was the
future Postmaster-General’s last instructor. In
'1843, at the age of 19, James was articled to
his father, and, on his admission, in 1848; was
taken into partnership. The latter continued
till his father's death, in 1863, when a part-
nership between James Norton «nd the late
William Barker was agreed upon, and continued
for many years with pronounced success. In 1879
Mr. Norton and Mr. Robert Smith became part-
ners, and were subsequently joined by Mossrs ■*
Westgarth and Sanders. Of this well - known
Sydney firm, Mr. Norton is now the head. For
15 years he has been before the public in various
capacities. In 1869 he was elected a Fellow of St.*
Paul’s College; 1873 alderman for Double Bay ;'1874
trustee of the Australian Museum; 1878 trustee of
the Free Library, and of Hyde, Phillip, and Cook
Parks; 1879 chairman of the "Real Property Acts’’
icommission. In the latter year he was also sum-
moned to the Legislative Council. He has never
had to contest an aldermanic election for Double
<Bay since his first return, eleven years ago. He
was then unopposed, and has remained so at all
subsequent elections. Thus, for over 40 years, Mr.
James Norton has worked professionally and pub-
licly in full view of his fehow citizens; and the
opinion is universal that the good sense, acumen,
and fair dealing which have, so far, characterised
him, will not desert him in the administration of
the high office to which he has been recently
called.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-dc-
piume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Barry As you only give a general out-
line of your difficulty, we can only reply in general
terms. The evidence, you say, is entirely circum-
stantial. In that case, the severer censors are in-
fluenced by habit and preconception We should
give the suspected parties the benefit of all doubts
It would be a terrible thing to blast the career of
young men, if innocent. Severe action on sus-
picion would not reform them. More probably it
would precipitate them into confirmed evil courses
for life. Indulgence, with a quiet hint and quiet
surveillance, might result in permanent amend-
ment, if there's any good remaining in them. If,
on the other hand, they are really unprincipled,
they will break out presently in a fresh place, and
leave no room for doubt. Then, vigorous action
can be takenlwith propriety, and without the pain-
ful sense of uncertainty whether one has punished
an offender or blighted an innocent “A.B.
Thank you— ‘Clare”: Aren’t you rather too
sweeping on the men ? A host of Correspondents
will receive their answers next week.
In the early part of this century Thomas
Spence was indicted for maintaining, in a so-called
* seditious libel,” the principle of the nationalisa-
tion of the land, found guilty, and sentenced to 12
months imprisonment, in Shrewsbury gaol,
apence’s dootrine is detailed in his very quaint
work—“ The constitution of Spensonia, a country
in Fairyland situate between Utopia and Oceania”
and may be thus summarised:—“The soil belongs
to the State, and individuals should rent their
lands and tenements from their respective par-
ishes, each of which should be a corporation, hold-
ing its soil as such, with power to let but not to alien-
ate. The rents, paid quarterly, to go to a parish
box, chargeable with the maintenance of the
government, the poor, the unemployed, the clergy,
the schoolmasters, and other officers of the parish;
building, repairing, and adorning its houses,
bridges, and other structures; making and main-
taining convenient and delightful streets, high-
ways, and passages, both for foot and carriages;
making and maintaining canals and other conven-
iences for trade and navigation; planting and
taking in wasto ground; establishing public
schools and libraries; providing and keeping up
u magazine of ammunition and all sorts of arms,
sufficient for all its inhabitants in cas® of danger
from enemies; bestowing premiums for the en-
couragement of agriculture, *c.; in a word, doing
whatever the people thought proper, instead of,
as supporting and spreading luxury, pride,
and all manner of vice and corruption; and the
surplus of the land-rent, after all further expenses
had been defrayed, to be divided equally among
all the parishioners; every kind of property be-
ing permitted except in land. The larger estates
to be leased for twenty-one years, and, at the ex-
piration of that term, re-let by public auction; the
smaller ones by the year; and large ones subdi-
vided as the increase of population may require.’
Spence was born in Newcastle-on-Tyne, in 1750.
For some years he was a schoolmaster but towards
the close of his life kept a book stall in London.
He 4ied in I*l4.
" THE POOR PLAYER"
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Of course, you will like to knowtvh&re thte
Montague-Turner Company are. Well, they are—
or were, a short time ago—in Newcastle,.and have
been received with much applause. Applause in
Newcastle usually takes the form of coals. But it
** this time—either because of the excellence
ot the show, or because coals were dear. We don’t
know which. But we will give the company the
benefit of the doubt. This reminds us that they
are not so considerate in America. Here is what a
critic over there says of the Faust of a certain
Italian singer: “It was industriously stupid. Its
tervour was calmlike in flabbiness, and its passion
mlantile in harmlessness. In its most thrilling
moments it never rose above the calm inspidity of
® C potato.” We think this tone of criticism is
to be deprecated. But there is precious little wit
in America just now. The Clark and Ryman
Minstrels brought it all away. It was a misfortune
that they should have lost it on the way out here.
But we are somewhat consoled for this when we
come to know, as we do, that the Walhalla Circus
js doing good business up on the Manning River.
Taking this into consideration, together with the
fact that an amateur entertainment, given at ln-
verell,the other day, “went off smoothly,” we think
we can manage to pass a few more feeble years
m this hollow world. But the success achieved
in Wagga, or somewhere, by the Uncle Tom’s
n Company is the thing that really cheers us.
This, however, cannot, with much show of logic,
be brought forward as the reason why Mrs.
Langtry'B footman is six feet three inches in
height. That is a lot of footman to pay for. Then
there are the rugs presented to her by the Khedive
of Egypt, the oak-carvings by Verbrugen of
Antwerp, a dinner-service designed by Millais, and
we have, no doubt, a collection of shells presented
by somebody. These are more than hollow
flatteries. We had a mighty good mind to
start home on a tour as a professional beauty our-
selves, only M'Elhone anticipated us. ..This makes
us think that Dunning’s Opera Company must
nave gone very crooked since we saw them last, if
what we quote from a New Zealand paper is true.
Read: “The prima donna, it appears, was sick; so
also was the leader of the orchestra, and the audi-
ence—especially in the circle—was of the sickliest.
Since the opening night, business does not seem to
cave improved much, notwithstanding the melan-
choly figures sent to parade in the streets, and the
liberal employment of flaring posters.” This is
not very cheerful —for Dunning. If we were in
his place, we should give that scribe a free pass—
to the cemetery. And, talking of New Zealand,
the “Youth” Company has opened in Auckland.
Fouth ” ought to be getting very bald now. So
should most things—except butter. Butter will
remain bearded while there is a hired girl left
with a hair to her head. But this is irrele-
vant. It has nothing whatever to do with the
fact that the pious Graham Berry closed the
Theatre Royal in Melbourne on Sunday night,
when Charles Summers, the organist, wanted
to give a programme of sacred music and
recitals. Mr. Berry acts as the representative
of the parsons. They, of course, could not
tolerate anything wbich would reduce the num-
ber of threepences in the plate. This is
not the way they put it though. They call
it ‘defending the sanctity of the Sabbath.”
Cheerful fiction! Their troubles about the Sab-
bath! Let us try to picture their attitude in
words: “ Beloved brethren, your souls are our pri-
vate property—in Christ, of course. If you will
not let us save them, you can go to hell. But no-
body else is going to have a finger in the pie. Not
much. Bless the Looard! Amen.” Just so. We
would hold the very same sentiments ourselves if
we were parsons. Still, we hardly think wo would
go so far as an American clergyman—the Rev.
Justin Fulton, of Brooklyn—who said, in a recent
sermon:—“ Place me upon a Polar iceberg, where
no verdure meets the eye, where naught but the
white bear’s growl can be heard; let me live where
no friend shall cheer me with his smile; bar me in
prison; but do not, oh, do not compel mo to
mingle with the ungodly crowd of a theatre!”
We are under the impression that the "un-
godly crowd ” have much the same feelings
with regard to mingling with the parson. As it is,
we should not be surprised if all this came from
being refused admittance behind the soenes when
the pantomime girls were rehearsing ; or perhaps
he was refused a free pass to the circus. Anyhow,
he is an ass, and it doesn’t much matter. After
this, we must give you something to take the
bitter taste out of your mouth. Whisper. But
perhaps you know It all long ago. Never mind,
there may be yet some sorrowful figure herding
sheep out in the howling wilderness to whose arid
eyes this information will bring a flood of happy
tears. Let him listen, then—we suppose he is not
so utterly lost to those finer feelings which make
men only a little lower than angels, as not to have
seen and worshipped at some period or other that
time-honoured fairy, Grace Henriques? She was
the leading figure of many a pantomime proces-
sion at the Royal, and a very symmetrical figure
at that. Well, she is married. This will be a
crushing blow for many a paper-collar hero.
And married to a rich man, too, a squat-
ter up on the Gulf of Carpentaria. He keeps
a crocodile station, or something of the sort.
What do you think of that, now ? This is a proof
that a good-looking girl has only to go on to the
stage, and wait long enough, to marry a man worth
millions. Sometimes she has to wait about ninety
years or so, and then has to go to church in a
hearse to be ready for contingencies; but that is
nothing when you come to consider the style she
can then go in for. Many a graceful and delicate
form is now rising up from dreams of marriages
with millionaires to have another scour through
the cupboard, and make sadder and more certain
the sad certainty that the cheese and onions wore
all finished the night before. Cut, enough of this
lofty moralising. Let us come down with a rush, and
and say that Jimmy Martin, at one time a leading
‘old man’’and “character actor,” is tin-mining
up at Tingha. But the best of all is to
come. Oily Deering the pet ®f Princes and
the star of Courts, not to say the bosom
friends of Bishops and (hem!) Beadles
has taken a pub. out on the Waverley Road, near
the Woollahra junction. Wo forget the name of
the hotel, but that is no matter. It is a curious
old place, with wooden gable ends, covered with
carvings said to have been cut by Lazarus out of
the lid of his coffin while he was down in the grave
waiting to be resurrected. Oily says he (Lazarus)
did this to keep himself from brooding too much
over the want of a drink and the impossibility to
got it during that time. But we don’t believe any
of this story. We consider Mr Oily Deering a
trifier with truth. And now we will say that Miss
Dargon has commenced a season at Dunedin, and
that may wind us up.—Hold on! Here is a lot of
ether material that we must perforce work in.
Miss Jennie Nye, the New Zealand celebrity, is
starring it through Victoria, with the Gem Drama-
tic Company. We suspect, from the names of the
company, that Jennie is the only "Gem” in the
whole outfit. Yes, and the Holloways have been
harrowing up the souls of the Bombalans in
“ East Lynne.” “A Woman of the People,” “Ten
Nights in a Bar-room,” etc. Grattan Riggs has
been convulsing Narandera; the Lowther J uvenile
Variety Troupe have been playing to good busi-
ness at Blackall; while the Buffalo Minstrels, in-
cluding Miss May Melville, Miss Verne, and the
Hugo Brothers, were recently on the boards at
Tam worth. Professor S. S. Baldwin is now playing
in Bombay, but writes to the effect that He will
soon re-visit these colonies.—Adieu, sweet friends.
We are now going to chop wood.


What shall we do with our boy 9? is a
question which has considerably exercised the
parental mind since Eve first up-ended little Cain
and patted him with the flat of her No. 9
goloshes. We think we hold the correct answer
this time. Make them ticket-clerks on railways—
in the other colonies, of course. A tioket-clerk’s
salary is about £1 per week, but he must be a re-
. wl ?at ar e you a doing of ? ” said Binks’ next door
n ® 1 i g JvK OUr ! tll > e next morning after he moved in
, observed Binks, “I have taken the liberty of
fctft “ blossom
itfo ß r"u l l^ t t r i ““„ y nthr' SdonOW? Tbeyhavobee-"*!,,*
a ,P° mt of getting on with his neigh-
Ih^aJ^ 6 / ai + u he mi B ht stlll U 8« it. He even knocked
off a board for the special accommodation of an old hen who
was too infirm to climb the fence.
The neighbour had Binks
simmoned, ” as he called it, for
damaging his (the neighbour’s)
fence, and thumping damages
Binks had to pay, too.
Binks adopted a conciliatory polioy. He let the
neighbour read his Bulletin before he (Mr. Binks)
ever even opened it himself.
He (Binks) generally found his favourite newspaper returned,
with something wrapped up in it, in the oourse of a day or so
i
Binks’ back garden was kept
well fertilised by offal from “ over
the garden wall.”
During the recent drought, he came over to Biuks
one day, and said he was willing to let bygones be
bygones, as his tanks were empty. Binks and he
were like brothers as long as the pump held out.
But when it came on to rain, the neighbour sawed off Binks’ favourite—in fact, his only—tree, as it
shaded his kitchen. So Binks grew vindictive, and sold the place to an inspector of nuisances at half
price.
Binks and his Neighbour.
markably conscientious, or a remarkably slow t
young man if he can’t supplement this with five
or six pounds worth of perquisites. The ways the
oracles are worked are various. Ons of them ia
the smooth twc-shilling piece, which, if the pur-
chaser swears he has paid half-a-crown, and only
received ihe change of a florin, is hauled out of
the till to show that he was mistaken in the coin
he held. And then the crafty cuss of a customer
makes an excuse for hurrying off, and darts round
the corner, thanking his stars he got rid of that
smooth Tommy Dodder, anyway. Another dodge
is in giving change, consisting partly of cop-
pers, say, for instance, sevenpence-halfpenny,
to put the sixpence on the outer portion or
the ledge, the penny further back or a little
to the side, and the halfpenny still further
away. Frequently the traveller, in his hurry to
catch the train, grabs only the 6d.; or, sometimes,
if he holds a cricketer’s hands, he manages to rake
in the 6d. and one of the coppers, leaving the
balance to go to assist the poor—who are well
represented by the nice' young man behind the
peep-hole. A similar plan is adopted in giving
change of a pound; for, although the full amount
is always placed on the ledge to prevent a “ bar-
ney,” it is so carefully scattered that the eager
purchaser is sure to leave a shilling or two in a
dark corner of the plank, and theD the nice young
man immediately exclaims, “ Ber-less my souli
that gentleman has left some of his change behind
him.” Another very simple dodge—one that a ohild
can play,in fact—is to be out of pence and halfpence
altogether, and this rosy little game, when pro-
perly worked on a public holiday, is of great
benefit to the discreet young man who works it,
and enables himself and his poor, but otherwise
respectable, parentslto keep the wolf from the
door, even in places where wolves are rather
plentiful. A good artist, it is said, can make £5
clear profit on one of these days, when an excited
public are yelling at him and trampling each other '
to death to get up to the edge of his quiet little
money-making cage. Of course the police have a
clue to these tricks of trade, but it it very hard to
sheet a case home to a culprit. On one occasion,
the detectives sent to the window of a lad who was
suspected an old woman, poorly dressed in the
costume peculiar to Mother Hubbard, with two
one-pound notes, so placed together as to resemble
but one. The boy, of course, gave the old lady
change for one pound only, ana was about to pad
his breeches poeket with the other, when he smelt
a mouse and argued to himself that a woman, ap-
parently so poor, would not be likely to sling: one-
pound notes about so carelessly. So, on making 1
up his aocounts thatfevening, the good little boy
handed the extra note to his boss as cash over-
paid, and, of course, was ever after looked upon
as the! model boy of the whole department.
“ Honesty is the best policy,” said the lad
softly, “ when you haven’t a ehanoe to do anything
better.” In most other Government institutions
proper counters are used, and the public fares
better. In fact, there’s barely room for a clerk to
make an honest penny by stealth from one year a
end to the other, save in the unusual case when a
telegraph clerk charges you 2d. each for the words
“Reply by telegraph,” and then runs his pen
through them and inserts the official signal 73
(which passes them free), as he observes to him-
self, “ Three twos are six—that’s a beer for dinner,
and another for tea.” Ticket-sellers in theatres,
and all such places where the pigeon-hole system
is used, are seldom sent to a pauper’s grave; but,
as vre before observed, these remarks only pertain
to places in the other colonies.


Personal
Items
Salmi Morse the “Passion Play” crank,
turns out to have been a bigger fraud than he was
even suspected of being. His wife in California
says his name wasn’t Morse, but Moses; ho was
never a monk, never in Jerusalem, and stole the
“Passion Play” from an English magazine. If
i 1
,L 4
*\>\ l
2s*
3i^
|
His Attitude.
During the discussion of the New Land Bill, Sir John Robertson has maintained an attitude of dignifi-but see above.
Salmi had known the showing up ho was going to
get after death, he would probably have refrained
from suicide.
Poor old Shapira, the sheepskin-man,is dead.
gle blew out what he made tho lifelong mistake of
elieving to be his brains in a hotel at Rotterdam.
Ho wanted the modest sum of £1,000,000 for his
sheepskins. He said they were the original manu-
scripts of the Old Testament in tho handwriting of
Moses. The authorities of the British Museum
examined them, and pretty soon made the dis-
covery that Moses was very shaky in his ortho-
graphy, and wrote a very third-class hand for an
inspired law-giver. Of course this supposition
could never be tolerated, and in the choice be-
tween a fraudulent Moses and an authentic Sha-
pira, poor old Shapira had, of course, to go to the
wall His sheepskins were derided, and he was re-
duced to such straits that he had either to eat them
or blow the inside of his skull out. He chose the
latter alternative. By this time he is having it out
with Moses in person.
Judge Johnston is a foremost figure in New
Zealand legal life. He can speak Maori. Ho can
also speak English. This latter accomplishment
being rather ornamental than necessary to a Judge,
is a matter of much admiration among the mem-
bers of the New Zealand bar. Judge Johnston is
also the author of several works on jurisprudence.
But this is not so uncommon. Some of our own
eminent elders have written books. We have
copies of some of those books. We always refer
to them when a man comes in and wants to know
who wrote a certain article. We refer to them
principally because they are heavy. That is all
about Judge Johnston. What we principally
wanted to say is that we would like to be a Judge
ourselves for about three weeks. If this wish
were granted, there would be numbers of familiar
faces that would be seen no more. But the grave-
digging business would flourish like the green
bay-tree.
Taking the Queensberry family in England,
all round, its wavs are peculiar, but there is evi-
dently plenty of “ go ” in the most of its gifted
members. The present “ Markiss,” who is the
head of the titled crowd, is a leading patron of the
noble art of self-defence, and no slouch of a
bruiser himself, either. His brother is a convert
from Protestantism to the Church of Rome, and
occasionally trots the “ old Adam ” that is iu him
out for a gentle airing. When he does, there’s no
need to advertise the fact, as himself and Adam
make things nice and lively for the whole of the
surrounding district. 'J he “flour” of the flock,
however, is the sister, Lady Gertrude, who took
such a liking for the hot rolls of a journeyman
baker that she married him, and the pair now loaf
on the rest of the family. The giddy little Florence
Dixie is also a close relation of the Queensberrys,
and appropriately enough their family motto is
“ Quod dixi (e) dixi."
Talking about the aristocracy, reminds us
that Baron St. Leonards is into a bit of a mess at
Home, and “ it’s all on account of E-o-liza.” Baron
St. Leonards (his familiars call him Edward B.
Sugden), is the second son of his father, who in
his day was the eldest son of the first baron in the
family ; and Ned, who is now 37 years of age, was
married eight years ago to the daughter of Captain
George Astley Charles Dashwood (71st Regiment).
Captain Dashwood is dead, and perhaps it’s just as
well for Mr. Sugden that he is. Because it appears
that, a few days ago, Mr. Sugden (it is alleged)
committed an indecent assault on his own servant
girl, and he is now in custody awaiting his trial,
the magistrates having refused to accept bail.
This looks sick for Baron St. Leonards, but we
really don’t see why he shouldn’t be allowed to
skip over and whitewash his stained honour in the
Soudan, in company with that other amorous
hero. Baker Pasha. The motto of the St. Leonards
family is “ Lahore vinces “ By labour thou shalt
conquer.” Just at present, however, the Baron
seems to stand a better chance of pulling through
by means less laborious.
Pether O’Regan was one of the very
newest chums that ever struck Australian soil,
but, luckily for himself, he fell in with a real
good sort in the person of Wuttagoona Mathews,
the “ King of Louth.” “Can you hold a plough,
my man ?” asked the genial monarch. “ Falx, an’
it’s meself that joost can,” replied Pether, and ho
was accordingly set to work next morning. About
an hour afterwards his employer strolled up, and,
finding the paddock ploughed backwards and for-
wards and criss-crossed in all directions, he yelled:
“ Why, bad luck t’ yer sowl, O’Regan, didn’t you
tell me you could hold a plough ? ’ “ Fis,” shouted
Pether; “av coorso Oi did, but how thedivilcan
a mahn hold a plough whin there’s four blashtid
bullocks pullin' it away frum him?” Next day,
Mr. O’Repan was mouoted on a station hack, and
sent after some cattle. Galloping full tear down
a hill, the horse suddenly stopped short in front
of a deep ditch, and, of course, the new chum went
flying over his head like a sky-rocket and sat with
some emphasis on the opposite bank. No sooner
had Pether picked himself up, however, than he
looked his moke straight in the face and roared
out: “Ah! y’ done that moighty foine now, didn’t
ye ? But, howld on. w 0 w th’ divil arey’ going t’
git over yourself? Tell me that, now.” Ic was
some time before Pether would consent to be
sacked, but he was at last, and is now a “ hoighly
intiliigint mimbir av th’ foorce.”
The late Mr. Rice, who was unfortunately
stretched the other day, on account of a little
difficulty he had had with a friend, a day or two
before he was turned off, indited a most poetical
epistle to his father, in which, though he spoke
with unction of having spotted and soiled the
garments of his own soul, he expressed not a
a’p’orth of regret for having potted and spoiled
his victim. As Larry remarked in the ballad
this rot about Masses and so on—
“ Is all in one’s eye,
And all by the clargy invented
To make a fat bit for themselves.”
Mr. Justice Molesworth (Vie.) attended,
the other day, at one of the gaols to witness the
lash applied to the backs of certain miscreants,
with a view of ascertaining what a sentence of
corporal punishment meant to the receiver. His
Honor should have gone a step further, and,
imitating a brother Judge (Mr. Justice Day of
England, who recently took a turn on the tread-
mill), have stripped, gone to the triangles, and
taken a “dowry” like a—dog. Short of the
intensely realistic as was his Honor’s experi-
ence, we trust that it sufficed to show him that
the lash is too brutal an instrument to be pressed
into the service of Human Justice.
A brother scribe affectionately deals with
Bret Harte in this fashion“ Bret Harte has been
getting into a good deal of a stew over the drama-
tization of 4 Gabriel Conroy,’ which he thinks has
been done without authority, when, as a matter of
fact, the dramatizer has bought the privilege.
Harte so seldom does any work, that he feels
pretty badly when anybody tries to get away with
any of it. Harte is probably the laziest human
being outside the city offices in New York. It
takes Harte an hour to write a page of manu-
script, when he|is unusually spry. It makes him
ache to let oil a single word, because he begrudges
the time and the labour. Harte gets up full of
good intentions every morning. But he takes a
good stiff brandy-and-soda, and concludes that he
will read the papers. Then he has another
brandy-and-soda, and wants his breakfast. Then
he must have more b. and s., and after that
he has to walk and smoke. The end of
it is that after a long line of brandy-and-soda
and cigars, he does no work whatever. Harte is
ostensibly the United States Consul at Glasgow;
but when he stirs out of London, it is something
quite unusual. He lives in the house of the Bel-
gian ambassador, whose wife thinks Harte is the
greatest genius of the age. As long as he will


Hop Bitters gives good digestion, active
liver, good circulation and buoyant spirits, i ||Read
larger.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Skinnv Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer ” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.
Analysis cannot lie, neither can the uni-
form experience of a quarter of a century be
gainsaid. On these two vouchers rest the claims
of Wolfe’s Schnapps to outrank all other stimu-
! lants as regards purity and efficiency.
As a means of purifying the Mood and
humors, there has never been anything superior
to Bristol’s Sarsaparilla and Pills ; and
where they are faithfully used, we venture to say
that no disease, however aggravated or severe it
may be, can long withstand their cleansing, heal-
ing and restoring power.
Lord Chesterfield, the pink of polite-
ness in his day, said that a true gentleman should
be always "suaviter in modo, fortiterinre,” which
means mild in manner, strong in action. This is
precisely the character of Ayer's Cathartic
Pills. Nothing operates so mildly and yet so
powerfully in removing disease.
Eat and Live.— lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at the principal patent medi-
cine warehouses. and the proprietors, Marshall
Brothers M.P.S , 104 and 106, Market-st., Sydney.
Mr. DECotrRCY Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adv ser and Mining Titles,
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
SPeoialitv.— Advt.
One dollar expended now in purchasing
a bottle of Jayne's Expectorant, by those troubled
with a slight Cough or Hoarseness, or Sore Throat
may save the expense of a doctor’s bill. A
neglected Cough often ends in Consumption. A
slight inflammation of the lining of the wind-tubes,
the usual symptoms of which are Sore Throat and
a Pain in the Breast, frequently leads to Bronchitis.
A day’s delay may entail months of suffering.
Better try at once Jayne’s Expectorant, a standard
remedy, whose curative properties have been
tested and approved by thousands.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stook-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown. Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
Eackage. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
ydney. and you will receive a Sample Card or
colours, &c., &c. by return post.
CUTICURA
A Medicinal Jelly, which never changes or loses
its medicinal properties, is a positive cure for Salt
Rheum, Tetter. Psoriasis, Leprosy, Scald Head,
Dandruff, and all Itching and Bcaly diseases of the
Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, Scrofulous,
Ulcers, and Discharging Wounds; Cuts,
Wounds, Bruises. Scalds and Burns; Rheumatism
and Strains, Chilblains, Cracked and Chapped Skin;
Itching Piles and Delicate Itching Humor* peculiar
to both sexes, If the blood and presplration are
first purified with the Resolvent. Cuticdra is
the most wonderful healing application known
and should be kept constantly in the house as a
pure, sweet, and always reliable agent.
Giticura
Eczema op Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on neck,
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
TkiSFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
itneum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches In the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ennsmia, Pyiemia,Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; hdve had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, ana
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 60 cents per bex, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prr pared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
H. L. SUMMER FI ELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET. LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HfTNTTrw
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA?M ACQUAMF
STREET, DUBBO. v
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prioes of Men’s and Bovs’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
!B^TTnTI
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
197 PITT ST., (Opposite Coxxipagxioxii’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Urns Pints, kill Organs, and fa Music.
Note the New Address—NEAß KING STREET.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street
The PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the in anrgtf'ttiAnt n-f q-,, Tn T .
ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor-
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continental
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen oan now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Pans. This exoellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciatioS
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 30 Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 8 Buttons length,
4s. 6d.
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLOVES, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4s. od.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KID er L air ES> beSt quallty made > 4 Buttons, ss.
KII? GLOVES, second quality, 4 Buttons. 3s 6d
per pair ’ uu
KID GLOVES, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d per
pair
KID for Gentlemen, walking 1 ,4 s. ad.
KII? G LOVES for Gentlemen evening, 4s. 6d. an
ss. per pair ’
KrDGLoVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s
Kin rf nvpi f r or Gauntlets, velvet tops
KTn r m\rM l / ur M? pB ' Gauntlets, lined P
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 196 PITT-STBEET, SYDNEY.
dictate she will write, and all his recent manu-
scripts are in her hand-writing. Some of them
don’t sound very much like Harte. They haven’t
the old swinging style. They are feminine. But
if Harte can get nis own prices for somebody else’s
work, he is the boy who is going to do it. And if
he can draw the Glasgow Consul’s pay and live in
London, he is going to do that also. Harte ought
to have been very rich or very poor—rich enough
not to have to work at all, or poor enough to have
to work like blazes.”
For downright, plain, undiluted modesty
we venture to think Mr. James Grant, of “Our
Village,” takes the cake from all comers. We
might even go a step further and say he carries
his modesty to excess. Not only does he hide his
light under a bushel, contrary to Bcriptural advice,
but he sits on top of the bushel himself, and, when
strangers troop up and ask what is underneath,
he meekly replies: “ Eh, ma frens, it’s nowt but a
wee lettle bit o’ fat an’ tallur.” If anyone doubts
our hero’s modesty, let him peruse the following
ad. from the Nooze, and then fall down on his
knees and apologise. Hats off, please, as this
grandoleman declares per advertisement: “ Golden
Wedding, in Manly Beach.—l4th day this May is
our Golden Wedding Day. * Honoured friends,’—
Your congratulations we invite. If you can’t
come you can write. Yours, grateful and obedi-
ent, James and Mabt Grant. Friends and Fellow
Countrymen,-1 am proud of a few events in my
life, viz.: 60 years aotive member Caledonian
Society; 1841 established a Burns Club; a few years
later on, 280 members of our club entertained
Major James Glencairn Burns at a banquet (the
son of ‘ Scotia’s Bard ’ in proposing my health
complimented me highly on the efficiency and
fundamental rules thereof of our society); 1842
raised to the degree of Master Mason, Grand Lodge
of Scotland; established a Baker and Confectioner
Society, 8 hours day labour and uniform wages
(complimented alikelby both masters and work-
men).—Yours faithfully, James Grant, anxious
still as best I can to elevate my fellow-men.” It
isn’t exactly clear from the above whether Major
Burns, or the banquet was the son of “Scotia’s
Bard,” but the exquisite sentiment contained in
the lines—
“ Your congratulations we invite,
If you can’t come you can write,”
and the cunning, masterly manner in which Mr.
Grant contrives to balance one line, which only
contains a foot and a-half with another, which
holds about four yards, clearly proves that if he
did not mix up with the son of “ Scotia’s Bard ” he
must, at one period of his existence, have either
read Burns's Address to a Haggis, or else he must
have partaken of the “chieftain o’ th’ puddin’
race,” until hls “ woel swalled kyte” was nigh
bursting with poetic fire. When it comes to a
question of the honour of his clan, however, Mr.
James Grant is “all-wool-and-a-yard-wide;” and
thero is a story told that during a hot dispute as to
which was the oldest family in the world, one
M’Phairson said his clan was, as it could trace back
to the day* of Abraham, upon which our friend,
James, rose up and declared that his clan was in
full blast long before even Noah was thought of,
for the 6th Chapter of Genesis says, “ Now there
were * Grants ’ upon the earth in those days.” Of
course the unrevised edition prints the word
“giants,” but that is merely a paltry typographical
error. Hurroo for the Grants! here’s at ’em.
W. F. Collings was one of the best known
men between Ballarat and the back-blocks of the
Wimmera for many years. But he is dead now.
All the best men are dying out—and, somehow, we
don’t feel well ourselves lately. When we started
this par. we did not mean to refer to ourselves, but
as we are always on hand it doesn’t take us long to
do it. When we first met W. F. he was a much
younger man than he was when he joined the
great majority about a month ago, and was then
managing the mail-coaching business at Ararat
(Vic.) for the übiquitous Cobb and Co. And a
right smart fellow he was, too, ever civil and
obliging, and always ready to do a good turn when
required. In those days Ararat was a pretty lively
town. Gold was plentiful on Commissioner’s Hill,
and the old Canton Lead turned out the yellow
metal in considerable quantities. Rollicking tim es,
those, when the O’Callaghan (since M.L.A.) kept
the Shamrock Hotel (the O’C. was Irish, you
know, one of the “ boys ” of ’4B), and Con. Mulcahy
acted mine host of the “ Bull and Mouth ” prior to
his trip on the “Continong;” the good old days
when the Easter Fairs used to attraot visitors from
all parts of the civilised world to witness the
grand carnivals; when the famous band of Knights
Crusaders clad cap-a-pie in mailed armour, sallied
forth on gaily caparisoned steeds to bid the then
Governor of Victoria a hearty welcome to Ararat.
Yes, they would have formed an awe-aspiring, if
not a brilliant, cavalcade, had not some stray pigs
got mixed up with the imposing procession and
broke it all up, so to speak. Several of the
Knights had narrow escape? from being impaled
on the spears and lances of their comrades, for
their polished steel armour plating was manufac-
tured from kerosene tins by the industrious in-
mates of the local lunatic asylum, and conse-
quently was not quite invulnerable to the wooden
spears of those mediaeval warriors. We refrain
from publishing what the Governor said when he
saw this novel body-guard, but, as we are in treaty
with the Protestant Standard to supply a series
of articles on the baneful effects of using bad
language, an expectant public may yet have their
cravings gratified. But we digress. We aiways do
when we get mixing ourselves up with Gover-
nors and religious papers—not to say whisky.
We can’t afford to lose sight of W. F. Collings,
though; he was too much of a genial cuss to be
lost to view so easily. When the extension of the
railway ;to Ararat became a solid fact, coaching
developed into one of the lost arts, and W.F.,
bidding adieu to the effete system of transit,
struck out in a new line, and, in company with a
partner, tackled the risky though exciting business
of sharebroking at Stawell, just about the time
that the “Pleasant Creek jumps” made mining
matters hum in that section. Lively time for
brokers then? We smile. We drifted into the
maelstrom of broking ourselves, and came out—a
broker. [Oh, look here!—Ed. B.] Well, what
chance had we, anyhow, against such seasoned
financiers as old Sam Bury, whose business boomed
to such an extent that he had to keep his two
famous ponies, “Tundher” and “Lightnin’,” to
run telegrams to the Post and Telegraph Office,
less than a hundred yards away; and Peter Gal-
braith—the astute Peter—who knew the “ lay ”of
the bed roek and the dip of the reef in every
claim on the gold-field; and Geordie Buckham,
whose office extended from Gray Campbell's
original cigar divan on the one hand, to the
top of the Big Hill on the other, and who could
tell to a dot when the Magdala would strike the
flat reef (which, of course, it never did); and Fred.
Monk, whoso ability in twisting the course of the
reefs so as to bring them right through the ground
in which he was interested, simply amounted to
genius, and Bolivar [Hold on. When you
started we thought you were going to write a nice
obituary notice, and we let you have your fling.
What are you giving us ?—Ed. B.] Well, we
‘busted,” anyhow. High old times, but they
didn’t last long enough, more’s the pity. The big
divs. began to fall away, and the golden stone to
peter out, and the glory of the placT to fade. And
then Collings thought that it was time to shift his
pegs, which he did accordingly, and next time we
met him it was on the back-bloeks of the Wim-
mera—Dimboola, or Whill, or some place (what a
divil we are for rambling, to be sure) where he
was under contract to the Education department
to round up the youth of that district and run
them into school And now, as we remarked
before, he has finally pegged out ,at least so the
Ararat paper informs us, and the Ararat paper, if
its records be reliable, ought to know. Any-
how, there are a great many worse men than
W. F. left behind—whole families of them.
£or a striotly level-headed "man, he! had a strong
belief in unlucky days; and his own special unfor-
tunate one appeared to be the 10th of April. He
lost his first wife on that particular date (we know
of several who would not look upon that as par-
ticularly calamitous), and on two different occa-
sions he was bailed up and robbed, the dates being
by a singular coincidence the 10th of April. For
niany years he had a distrust of that day, and a
T ev [ days previous to the last unlucky anniversary
ne told a friend that he had a kind of prescience
IP at something serious would occur to him when
tne ioth of April came round. He was slightly out
of his reckoning l , however; but on the 12th he was
stricken with apoplexy, and seven days later he
had passed away. And, taken all round, we don’t
want to meet a much better man.
• • •
William Nowland, of Rosedale, Singleton
district, died last week, ag'ed 80. He was born at
Windsor, on the Hawkesbury, in 'O4. and was the
first puncher who tooled a bullock-dray over the
Liverpool Range via the Gap. Allan Cunningham
discovered “Pandora’s Pass” in ’23 Andrew
Clarke, Col. R.E., K.C.M.G , represents Australian
colonies on Suez Canal Convention. As this ap-
pointment has not been confirmed by the repre-
sentative Chambers of the several colonies, it is
difficult to see where its representativeness comes
in. ...The golden bowl of Goldbuyer Khull, an old
Melbourne identity, broke last week... The self-
sacrificing element in Harry M’Quade’s character
can be estimated by the fact of a heavy fellow like
him advocating the construction of a light line of
railway from Parramatta to the Castle Hill dis-
trict Old J. F. Josephson has resigned his D.C,
Judgeship. Thank God F. A. Tompson, erst
the everything of Wagga (J.P., coroner, banker,
storekeeper, town-clerk, &c. &c. &o ), died last
week at Petersham. A fussy, self-conscious, good-
natured, genial old boy was F.A.T Minister of
Lands Rolleston (N.Z.) nearly came to grief last
month in the Waiau River; but evidently not
born to be drowned Montagu Levy off to Abra-
ham’s bosom. A jew ! German Consul-General
Krauel has returned to the colony and resumed
duty.
* * *
Grand Duke Louis of Hesse se console with
the divorced wife of a Russian diplomat, which is
dipping low for a mate.... Commons declared again
in favour of legalising marriage with deceased
wife’s sister... Egypt wants a voice in the Euro-
pean Conference to discuss Egyptian affairs—that
is, the Khedive wants a voice therein, which is
quite another matter. If Arabi, now, were sum-
moned to the Conference there’d be some sense in
it—The Princess Louiso, Marchioness of Lome,
is about to have a residence built near Claremont.
This seems confirmatory of the rumour that the
Marquis is to be the next Indian Viceroy The
right man in the right place. Connaught at an
Elephant fight.
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is eg
pecially true of a family medioine, and it is positiv
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B*
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “ Hop ” or
“Hops in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.


WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure t® perform life’s
duties property-are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
■will find a perfect and lasting
restorat ion to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
PhyslcolDecayisumformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castleragh St., Sydney
J.
TURNER ROBINSON & CO/S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. 8. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U.S.A.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
(JIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS FUSE,
and. being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depdt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
SI HARBOUR STREET.
Dr. HOFF — u The Skin fn
Health and Disease,”
2s. 6d., all booksellers.
L. BRUCK, Publisher, Sydney.
COPYRIGHTED
and
ABOUT TO ISSUE.
THE UNIVERSAL TELEGRAPHIC
ABBREVIATI jN,
and
CONFIDENTIAL CORRESPONDENCE GUIDE,
for
BUSINESS
and
PRIVATE PURPOSES ;
RUPERT HALL.
In business it permits of extensive reduction of
Telegraphic Expenditure, even with a more lavish
use of the Telegraph. . .
Many cumbrous codes will be superseded by it,
and of those firms which have been hitherto with-
out codes, few are so small as not to be able to
profit immensely by the introduction of the Guide
to their establishments. The work is also well
adapted for general use: it is tha first attempt
ever made to so popularise the Telegraph as to
make its use as free, as private, and almost as in-
expensive as the post, and that the attempt will
succeed, will be demonstrated shortly by the ver-
dict of the Press. With the inevitable increase in
Telegraphice business, resulting from this publica-
tion, a further and large reduction in Teiegraphio
Rates will indubitably follow. TT ...... „
EVERY CLERK should QUALIFY HIMSELF
for INCREASED REMUNERATION by MASTER-
ING the PRINCIPLES of the GUIDE.
It is extremely important to persons holding
originals or copies of documents containing
secrets, to use the plan recommended in the Guide
for their safe preservation, instead of means which
are the more dangerous from their apparent, but
unreal security. The alarming consequences of a
chance exposure in such cases should convince
every prudent person to prepare such documents
only according to the easy, but absolutely secure
plan explained in the Guide. Should the docu-
ments then by accident fall into unfriendly and
inquisitive hands, nothing can be discoverable,
even under the scrutiny of the most astute investi-
g *Confldential agents and persons in every walk of
life wishing to ensure the strictest secrecy in cor-
respondence will be amply recouped by obtaining
this unrivalled Guide. Important news for persons
at the antipodes may be so condensed that over
twenty words will form but one word, and may
then be telegraphed, so abbreviating the agonies
of suspense inseparable from the delays of the
post. , ,
Especially a fit medium to enable lovers to cor-
respond freely and privately on the most delicate
topics-in fact, it is a social convenience which
will enable , .. „
Those to love now who never loved before,
And those who have already loved to |OYO the
more,
PB R A
HOUSE.
o
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Manager
Stage Manager ..
FIFTH WEEK
POLK
W. J. Wilson.
J. B. Polk.
N. B. Jones.
POLK FIFTH WEEK.
FIFTH WEEK POLK
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
MARVELLOUS SUCCESS
of the new grand Spectacular Military Comedy
Drama, EASTWARD HO !
alter weeks of elaborate preparation, and at an
enormous outlay.
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW,
For particulars see bills and future advertisements.
Prices of Admission.—Dress circle, 55.; stalls, 3s.
PIT—ONLY ONE SHILLING.
Reserved Seats at Hue n erbein’s. Tickets at
Roberts’, adjoining theatre.
S. GENESE, Business Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Wiluambok, Garner, & Mubgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2e.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music I
HISCOCKS* FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALTY UNION,
together with the _
MARVELLOUS and ASTOUNDING GIRARDS.
Scream upon scream of laughter from beginning
to end. Every Evening at s.
Tremendous Success of the New Afterpiece, en-
titled, “ HANLAN EN ROUTE.”
Admission- 45.. 35., 25.. Balcony, Is. Box plan at
Paling’s. Carriages, 10,15.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Last two nights of “ THE SQUIRE.”
Saturday next. May 17th, “ WOMAN IN WHITE.”
Mr. Wybert Reeve in his great impersonation of
“Count Fosco,” as played by him all over the
world
Box'Plan at Paling’s.-Tickets at Young’s Hotel,
next Theatre. GaLLERY, ONE SHILLING.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
supported by on© of the best companies
in the colonies. 0T See future advertisements.
S
UNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Miss Pauline Bensom
Miss Jessie Baily
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String* Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2,2.20,2.40,3,3.20,
3.40 4.
The' entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
North Shore Rowing Club.
Third annual ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
will take place at
NEEDS’ ROO n S (NITHSDALE),
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5,
Tickets: Ladies’, 12s. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 30s, may be had from F.W. B. Love, 99
Bathurst-street; J- S. Davis, 438 George-street;
W. T. Robertson, 409 George-street; E. E. Brice,
Railway Department, any of the leading shops, or
fr ° m HARRY H. ROBEY,
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HANLAN, Champiqn Sculler of
the World, has signified his intention of being
present.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESB,
WILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, the I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARKE, Hon. Treas.
(care F. Lassetter and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Seo.,
384 George-street.
MASONIC BALL,
LODGE PARRAMATTA BT. GEORGE, 1943, E.C.
will take place
FRIDAY, JUNE 13th, 1884,
MASONIC HALL, GEORGE STREET,
PARRAMATTA.
ALFRED MASO.'I,
Hon. Sec.
N
0
N
G
tOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
ursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
sdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
>rnlDg and afternoon classes. The suite of
oms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings Assem-
es, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy,
stlertagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.
ie ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
dney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
pper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
rown together, and is superior in ventilation,
ring floor, &c. No decorations required.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYB, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRA BOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEITRA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney,
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th May, 1884.
TENDERS FOR ASPHALTING.
TENDERS are invited for Asphalting at the Bal-
main Superior Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney. .
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Asphalting,
Balmain Superior Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, the 26th May, 1884,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 9th May, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKB and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are striotly complied
with.
F. A. WRIGHT.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS' EUXONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, ami has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the iid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
bowlTnds 1 MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
- B°ABk any'dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations . -n
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., £<■
Prosser and Co., Bydney.
Denominational
DROPS
Rector Dalton. S.J., of St. Ignatius College,
complimentarily “addressed” last week by his
pupils. Dailey there, with a most elegant tureen
of melted butter mixed to a classical receipt.
The “Christian Platform,” as indireotly
defined by John Osborne, in his address on “ Jib-
bers and Bolters,” is a fence on which the believer
in Osborne is to sit facing two ways as much as
possible.
The Rev. North Ash, late of Sutton, near
Croydon (Eng.), to act as locum tenens of “Father’
Mort, at All Saints, Woollahra. We presume his
position (when reciting the “Credo ) is North-
Ashtern.
“Father” Tom of St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, canoned. If the church livery worn by a
canon be capable of millineri-flcation, then will
the Point darlings see to their priest s gown being
a duck of a vestment.
The gentle Nazarene—“the first gentleman
that ever breathed,” as old Decker used to say
—had not whereon to lay his head, and
minds us that Henry Ward Beecher s screw s
exactly £5OOO a year, and the skittish old Dr. Tal-
mage nets a cool three thousand scooping
souls into the Looard’s Vineyard also, Fishing for
men is evidently a better paying game than it was
in the days of Bimon Peter.
During last Lent, a certain sporting Duke
noticed a parson who had been rery emphatie m
his admonitions about that season to his hock, oc-
cupying a very forward position in a good gallop
after hounds, during the banned period. When
the run was over, His Grace congratulated his
reverence on the expansion his views had acquired.
“ Yes,” said the parson, I fell in with the hounds,
and { could not help going a bit with them, and
besides, your Grace," he added, this is a Lent
horse.”
At a publio consistory, held March
Leo XIII. placed the Red Hat on the newlv-created
Cardinal Sanfellce, Archbishop of Naples. The
Pope afterwards held a secret Cpnsistery, at which
he performed the ceremony of olosing and open-
ing the mouth of Cardinal Sanfelice ; and placing
the ring of a cardinal on his finger, conferred upon
him the title of Saint Clemente. At tho same time
the Pope preconised twelve archbishops and
of residential sees, and six to sees in
partibus inftdeUum, and declared the names of
eight other residential sees, and fourteen in
nnrtibus Among the appointments was the trans-
lation of Monsignor Moran from the see of Ossory
to the archbishopric of Sydney.
The reverend members of the of
Eastern Australia are very much attoro,Unot*t
sixes and sevens. There are, lor exampl®, bolg
nmnhvtßrs who ar© prepared to taae tneir Airrea
Davids that the court was not deliberating when
the Rev. Ike M'Kay read a series of charges
against three other reverends ;that the said charges
were duly moved, seconded, put to the court and
declared carried, knd that no d J BB |^ ere ( V®
in during the meeting of Synod. On tte
other hand, there are holy presbyters (who were
likewise nresent on the occasion when these things
did or did not take place) who are prepared to take
their Alfred Davids that the facts were precisely
the opposite to those testified to by their contrary
brothers in Christ.
The Right Rev. Bishop of Oxford admitted
’Sar ““A”?“‘28S8
asked, “ is it any crime to be dull?” Certainly not, or
half the preachers in Christendom would be felons.
Rut to be dull and resourceless, and unhappy and
neglected, leads to crime. Thus it comes to pass
+v,oV tiiA hiflhoDß sitting in the House of Lords
have made themselves responsible f . or . a l s^ ea , t
of the drunkenness and crime which takes place in
the metropolis as each Sunday comes round. And
the *Bame is true of the professional pietists,
clericafand lay. in these colonies, who oppose the
opening ot public libraries, picture galleries and
museums, and would, if they could, stop Sunday
<2and make it penal to take a trip down the
Harbour or go boating on that day.
A miehtv big ruction in the Victorian
Rroahvterian Assembly over the endeavour of the
congregation of the Scots Church, Melbourne, to
secede 3 from the Kirk taking with them the partic-
marproperty of the Scots Church. The best ot the
Yoke?s that the V.P. Assembly is no ways in a scot
St the idea of an entire congregation departing
from the orthodox standards. Not a bit of it! All
the sorrow and all the wrath is at the idea of the
impudence of the seceders in presuming to con-
ceive that property, ninety-nine-hundredths of
which their own coin had pa.d for. does not belong
to Holy Kirk. After all, “ Presbyter is but Priest
writ verv large.” The V.P.A. haven’t reached the
Btage V of Christian perfection which enables them
tolfveupto the precept, “and him that taketh
away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also.’
Surely all these yearnings of the saints after
‘ propputty ” are “ carnal weeds 1
Remarks that staunch maintainer of
Catholic orthodoxy, the Whitehall Review:—
“ It almost seems a pity that Mortimer Collins did
not furnish a pendant epigram in Agnostic to his
famous Positivist: * There was an ape in the days
that were earlier ; Centuries passed and his hair be-
tmme curlier: Centuries more gavea thumb to his
wrtst; Then he was man and a Positivist.’ To Agnos-
tics it might be said: I do not say there is no God.
That were to speak in a plain way. I nothing
know and it is odd. This fact no man can gain-
sav The Whitehall Review’s /ort« is evident-
ly not epigram. Without pretending that our’a is,
we trot out the subjoined quatrain to Whitehall
Reviewers and others of the true blue orthodox
kidney :
The unknowable we dogmatically discuss,
And treat as sober fact mere bald surmise;
Yet so in business did one talk to us,
We’d say he told a lot of stupid lies.
Bishop Pearson, of Newcastle, in his ad-
dress to his Diocesan Synod, said he declined to
use many complimentary expressions in speaking
of the new metropolitan bishop, would simply
remark that he who had just received so many
warm welcomes in his new borne was just the
man that was wanted, and would my no more.
And then (alack for episcopal consistency 1) he im-
mediately went on to describe Bishop Barry as a
warm earnest, sympathetic man ; as a Primate
who had come to his great work with a keen per-
eention of their greatest need, and a wholesome
determination to do what in him lay towards sup-
nlving it: as one well schooled to rule and apt to
teach—in short, as an out-and-out episoopal one-er.
tSnw whv couldn’t Pearson have said all that
without saying he wouldn’t say it ? The rest of
the Newcastle prelate’s address was mainly a mix-
ture of mendicancy and pew-denunciation. Its
final words were those of ancient wisdom, Blessed
are they that sow beside all waters,” a text pre-
sumably selected to justify a very “so-so” de-
liverance.
Commenting on the oloseness of the divi-
sion on the lecent motion in the House of Com-
mons to exolude the bishops from the House of
Lords, an English paper says :-“The temporal
power of the bishops was nearly taken away last
week, and we do not regret it, for they have
always been the opponents of popular rights.
They were in favour of slavery ; they resisted the
admission of Jews, Nonconformists, and Roman
Catholics to Parliament; they opposed all tho
Reform Bills, and they have not mended their
manners recently. It is quite intolerable that
twenty-six bishops, representing only two or three
millions of communicating Churchmen out of a
nonulation of thirty-six millions, should have
power to legislate for Irishmen, Scotchmen, and
all the great Nonconforming communities in
England and Wales. The majority on Mr. Willis 8
motion was a small one, and is significant of the
feeling of the country. No sensible man doubts
that the wearers of lawn sleeves are better out of
the House of Lords than in it, and the pomp and
pride of place wHi h is rather vulgarly exhibited
by right revere’ i> shops seem singularly out of
place with the ( vtjl of humility and self-denial
which they are c-pposed to teach and preach, and
by which their Jives should be regulated and
governed.”
* * *
The conversation was about bishops, and
one fervent dame said —“How good the dear
Bishop is ! What a good man !” Instantly a
gentleman replied, “There is no merit in that—a
bishop ought to be so. He gets £l5OO a year for
being good, while we are expected to be good for
nothing—and most of us are. . .. Quakers are very
neatly hit off in an epigram. Thus : Quakers are
a humble sect, and they are proud of it Says an
American paper “As if Joseph was not enough,
Mrs. Cook is now preparing to go on the lecture
Slatform.”..St. John’s (Pres.) Church, Wellington,
,Z., destroyed by fire.


Enjoy Life.— What a truly beautiful world we
live in ! We can desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per cent, of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, (Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symptoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its \yonderfpl eiject. Sold by all Druggists
at 3s, 9d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 6d. Try It,
'**. A
" - f
I
-3?
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
Tho Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
oil the parts of mo<t difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any ot fis music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
!3T NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOIT PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
w by, from the OUI EXTAL UOLDCOKP AN Y
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but un expert can detect the difference.
Pee our List, of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL RE SENT POST FREE,
AMI AT Ol)l( RISK
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased. eDgraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d , 10s , and 12s. 6d
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites, 35., 45., ss. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 10s. per set
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent's handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d.,
8s , and 10s. each
Gent s elegaut Svals, real stones, 7s. fld., Bs., and 10s.
each
Gent s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
end 12s. 6d. each
Gent's very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), l7s. 6d.,
20s , 255.. 275. 6d., and 30s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Riehly-ohased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 80s.
Elegaut Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. od.,
Bs. 6d , lUs.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides andtassells, 155., 20s ,and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 6j., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladles’ choice Necklets, from
12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Cbatalaines. 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.: Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d„ Bs. od., IQs., 155., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, witu
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 8
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch Is
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 17 8
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 2 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in bunting or open
laced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert £5 5 0
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Lever) £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
No. 9
The celebrated Waltham watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
foil jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £io.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
twodavs, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money lor the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—” Impulse ” p. 8
opera House—“ Eastward Ho.” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—“The Squire ” ib.
Academy op music—Federal Minstrels ib.
And here we are again at the “Silver
King.” It is only Tuesday, but, to suit our own
convenience, we are going to write about the
“Bonanza” in preference to “Impulse,” which
they say is to be put on at the Theatre Royal to-
morrow night. We study our own convenience
at times, but, moreover, we are a little annoyed
on this occasion, because the management pro-
mised to take the “ Silver King ” off last Satur-
day night and give us the new piece instead.
• • •
Annie Mayor caused the whole trouble.
She was to play the leading female character, but
she went out riding, and her horse saw the Herald
critic or something, took fright, and ran away.
Annie was transported. It was not one of those
“transports of joy” that you have read about.
It was a light and airy transport that made
the on-lookers pull their hats down over
their eyes and walk away from a scene
that beggars description. The little woman
was terribly shaken-up by the fall, but we
are happy to state that she has recovered. We
never like to see a woman who has fallen off a
horse playing on the stage until she has recovered;
and Annie knows what we don’t like too well to
displease us.
ANNIE MAYOR.
And this reminds us that actresses are
“ shook ”on riding. Neariy every actress we ever
knew—and we have known a lot of them in our
time—was a horsewoman. We know Emma
Abbott, the opera singer, for instance. She is
a great horsewoman. About two years ago, in St.
Louis, she got a horse from a livery stable for a
ride in the suburbs. This horse turned out to be
the famous mare that Jesse James, the celebrated
train and bank robber, used to ride on his bush-
ranging expeditions. So well had Jesse trained
the mare that she knew a policeman as
well as he did: and so often had the blue-coats
cha?ed him, that she always wanted to run at
sight of one. Emma didn't know this when she
started out, but she discovered it alter a bit. A
couple of mounted police came riding down the
road, and the mare wheeled to the right and
bolted. On she went like the wind, with the little
woman entirely powerless to control her. She
took a four-board fence in gallant style, and made
straight for a large pond in a paddock. At the
edge of the pond, Emma slid quietly off into the
mud, and stuck there until rescued by the crowd
which quickly assembled. That night she had to
sing in opera; but the adventure had found its
way into the evening papers, and the reception the
little warbler got amounted simply to an ovation.
We want Miss Mayor to get Ned Kelly’s old
charger, if he left one. and try Miss Abbott’s
experiment. The only difficulty is that the police
would probably do all the running if they saw
Ned’s old horse. They never did much like any-
thing that belonged to Ned, anyway; and then
they might take the rider for Kate Kelly, and that
would certainly put them to flight in a jiffy.
* * *
Speaking of receptions and things leads, up
to the fact that Mr. George Ireland has been re-
ceiving flattering recognition at the hands of the
audience for his representation of “The Spider.”
The Spider, you know, is the leading villain, and
the first night you see him you want to throw
diseased tomatoes and cabbage stumps, etcetera, at
his head. But Mr. Ireland makes such a cool, de-
termined villain, and plays so naturally that you
get used to him after a while, and almost want to
be a villain yourself. The only thing that makes
one sorry is that the author didn't make another
scene to the last act, so that you could see Ireland
be hanged. “Ireland be hanged!” Seems to us
we’ve heard that expression before somewhere.
“ We’re not sure, and we’ll ask Lenton.”
* * *
And you waul to know who Lenton is?
Well, Lenton’s front name is Lance He has a
poem in The Bulletin to-day, and by reading it
you will discover that he is a first-water poet.
Borne of our poets take the whisky first and the
water afterwards. But Lance is something more
than a poet. He is a walking encyclopedia on
every subject, from a saveloy up to an Egyptian
mummy. He has investigated more saveloys than
mummies, we believe, but what actor hasn’t ? So
often have his brethren of the “ perfesh.” gone
to him for information, that they say he is
a little vain. One time, at an hotel, Lance is
said to have looked through a celebrated work of
humour, and, on finishing it, wrote on the fly-leaf:
“There’s not a vestige of wit in the book.—
Lance Lenton.” We are not going to vouch for
the truth of this yarn, because the man who told
it to us left town, and if he lied to us we don't
want to get licked; but we have also been in-
formed that Mr. Lenton once read the Bible, and
couldn’t find any humour in that either. Borne
men are that way, you know. However, Mr.
Lenton is a very good actor, and has more than
once amused us as Brownsonin the “Silver King.’’
* * *
There are a lot more people in the Royal
crowd that we meant to touch Hp this week, but
they have stayed so long that we are tired writing
about them in the same old piece. But wait till
next week, after we have seen them in “ Impulse.”
Our impulse is in the right place, and it beats more
strong and evenly when we think what is in store
for some of them.
** * m
Another change of programme at the
Academy of Music, and a good one. The jokes of
these “black devils” continue to convulse the
crowds that throng into this neat little theatre,
borne of the jokes are so old that their front teeth
are falling out, but there are only a few people
old enough to remember them as friends of their
childhood, and so they pass for new ones. The
most of our jokes are incubated under very high
pressure, ana they are born with pin leathers all
over them. It is surprising to see how quickly
they take wing and fly to other parts. Some that
made years ago have just crossed the globe,
? D y to arrive in Sydney at this late date
fthd pave tbejp&elves boiled, boned, gnij
served up to the public in the salad of the
Federate. Such is genius, and sueh its reward 1
The only disadvantage to us is that the public
naturally think that those jokes must have origi-
nated in the Garden of Eden or in the Ark, or they
never would be taken in hand by a troupe of
Christy Minstrels.
* * *
The Girards are still gyrating all over the
stage and confusing the people’s intellects. The
most surprising part about it is how they ever get
themselves untangled again after tying themselves
into a hangman’s knot and two half-hitches. Mies
Melville hasn’t improved as much as we think she
should have done under the able tutelage of Sam
Keenan and Alf. Maynham. We would like to
know what made Miss Melville change her name.
When we first knew her it was as Blanche Murray.
We suspect that the first time she saw the royal
high-kickers contort themselves she got cross-
eyed and forgot her own name. Melville is pretty
enough, but it isn't half so romantic as Blanche.
At least the Blanche we used to know in the days
of our youth and innocence was romantic. Why
that girl was as romantic as a can-opener
or a disjointed wheelbarrow in a back yard
after night. And, just here, did you ever try
to get away from a wheelbarrow in a back yard
after night ? First, one handle catches you about
the waist-band, and you fall over it. Tour weight
upsets the confounded thiDg, and then it falls over
you. With a muttered prayer, that sounds like a
section of the Ten Commandments repeated back-
wards, you crawl from under it, fall over the
wheel, and find yourself doubled up amongst a
forest of legs and things. About this time you
begin to believe that the wheelbarrow is drunk,
or it wouldn’t stagger about so. You can see that
it has been eating cloves, at any rate, and that is a
sign that somebody has been shouting something.
With this reflection, you gently rise on to your
knees, tenderly rubbing the places about your
body that have been robbed of skin. Then you
lean your head against one of the legs, and pray.
Next, you crawl carefully awav on your hands and
knees towards the door of your house. At last just as
the moon is struggling through a fleecy cloud, you
rise to your feet, only to find thatthat confounded
wheelbarrow has stealthily crawled after you. With
a yell that sounds like the death-wail of a lost
maniac, you fall over a clothcs-prop, crawl under
the barrow, and go to sleep. Oh, yes. You can
have a romantic time with a wheel-barrow in a
back yard, if you go the right way about it. We
know, for we have tried.
* * *
; Carroll, the double-voiced vocalist, is still
I oarrolling merrily on. We have been watching
him pretty close of late, and have found out what
ails him. He’s got two throats and a
leather sesophagus. When he wants to sing like a
woman, he throws back his head. That lifts tb«
lid <«itf his female throat, and he warbles away. This
is the throat he eats lollies and chews jujubes with.
When he wants to smg a baritone solo, he lowers
his head again and the patent duplex uvula shuts
the woman up and gives the man a chance. This
is the throat he eats saveloys and drinks beer with.
We promised not to give this secret away, but our
promises are like sovereigns—they are hard to
keep.
* * * i
Beaumont Read is getting so fat that you
wouldn’t know him from a Queensland leg of
mutton. This is owing to the fact that we nave
tickled him up so and made his friends laugh at
him. Laughing is catching, you know, and it
makes one fat. And this reminds us that some-
body must have been laughing awfully at our
feet. Nothing short of coal hods is big enough to
hold them. And this reminds us that we haven’t
been laughing at our salary enough of lato. It
has gotten to be so confoundedly small now that
we) are not sure we can ever again raise a good
healthy laugh. We certainly couldn’t if it cost
anything bigger than the price of a threepenny
drink.
* v *
When are the Minstrels going away ? We
don’t know, and don’t care. We only have to go
near them once a week. We always take a bottle
along, so as to bottle up a few of Fred. Hiscocks’
smiles, and they keep us feeling good until the
next time. But enough of these black imps.
We’re going to “Eastward Ho 1” at the Opera
House.
* * * *
“Eastward Ho!” you know, is on at the
Opera House, and it has been drawing crowded
houses ever since its 1 first production, two weeks
ago. We expected to be a bit late, as it wanted but
five minutes to eight when we got to the door, and
the bills announced that the curtain would go up
at 7.45 o’clock. It didn’t go up till eight, however,
and then we began to condemn our luck for living
so far out of town. (We live in one of the fashion-
able suburbs, you know, We don’t know exactly
which one, but we do know it is fashionable).
Because, when we went the first time, tho curtain
went up at 7.45 o’clock, and didn’t go down for
good until eleven. But last night we were pleased
to discover that Mr. Polk had heeded our advice,
and cut the play considerably. Full twenty-five
minutes of needless soliloquy and uninteresting
dialogue have been eliminated, leaving the remain-
ing portion crisper and brighter for their absence.
Now, that is one of the best points about Mr. Polk.
He doesn’t think he knows everything himself, and
lends a willing ear to criticism. If he’ll j ust continue
to pay attention to the little tips we give him from
week to week, he’ll make “Eastward Ho !’’ the
most popular piece in his whole repertoire. We’ro
always studying other people’s good and drinking
their whisky. The play is one ot the best mounted
that we have ever seen on any Australian stage,
and is said to have cost Mr. Polk £6OO. That’s an
awful lot of money to risk on a new piece. Why.
we have to work nine months for that, and find
our own tucker. However, the piece is worth it;
and we were pleased to notice a marked improve-
ment in the scenic effects, which are really as
gorgeous as an Oriental dream or the wail of a
tom-cat on the roof.
• • *
We don’t like the way Emir Mohammed
(Mr. Boothman) conducted himself in that long
front scene, of which we complained last week.
It isn’t acting to rant around and shout one’s self
hoarse to no purpose. Emir makes us think of a
bob-tail bull that we once saw rushing around in
the tall grass and fighting its own files. And,
then, when he sees his pretty little sister
Amineh (Miss Jessie Grey) failing into the
trap set for her by the Christian soldiers, he hangs
back and lets them murder her if they like. That
is not the way an Arab chief should do who is all
eaten up with patriotism and ready to lay down
his sanguinary life at the feet of Allah. Nor do we
like Amineh’s costume. It seems to be a sort of
cross between a Highland kilt and a nightshirt.
We don’t remember to have ever seen an Eastern
woman in such a costume. The best thing we can
see in it is, that the little woman sterns to be
ashamed of it herself.
• • *
Ruth Gray, as the Chief Sultana, is pret-
tier than a little red waggon with green wheels
and a yellow dashboard. And she knows beauty
when she sees it, too. That’s what makes her fall
in love with Leon Delmar’s (Mr. Polk) legs when,
as a Scottish chieftain, he is confined in the Sul-
tan’s palace! It seems kind of funny how royalty
appears to take such an interest in legs and kilts
and things, but we suppose they can’t help it.
* # *
We have always liked Mrs. Bryer’s acting.
As a mother-in-law, she comes up to our ideal, and
is about the sharpest Bryer with which we ever
came in contact. As the widow M’Shake, how-
ever, she gives you the cold shivers. Any man
that she can’t M'Shake when she gets on that
Arabian costume must have the heart of an alli-
gator. She looked like a giddy young gusher
grown fat; and when she got after Colonel Deimar
(Mr. B N. Jones), you couldn’t help pitying him.
The Colonel’s advice to hia nephew, Lieutenant
Leslie (Mr. Forbesh is one of the brightest passages
in the play. Under the head of “ Experience and
Advice,” he says:—“Experience: When a woman
smiles, she’s plotting mischief; when she sighs,
she’s at it; when she squeezes your baud, she's
almost done it. Now for the advice: When she
smiles, beware; when she sighs, watch her; when
she squeezes your hand, run for your life!”
• •
Mr. Jones is at bis best as Colonel Delnaar.
He looks like a soldier, acts like a soldier, and
leads you on to believe he has seen service some-
where. But the fact that his subordinate officer is
a relative should not be a warrant for his swearing'
at him nor catling him names. However, ihis
may be excused in comedy, for the burlesque
makes you laugh, and that is what you go to see
“Eastward Ho!” for. Mr. Polk carries his sword
like a folded umbrella. This can only be accounted
for on the ground that he has been in the service
only a short time, and yet one would think that a
year’s experience was long enough to get a Colonel
into a graceful and soldier-like way of carrying a
weapon like that. Perhaps the reason he holds it
up so is that he don't like to feel the cold scabbard
dangling against his bare legs. We noticed a
marked improvement in Mr. Forbes' acting, and
we were glad. There was so much room for it,
you know.
• « •
The character of Ofl-an-agan is an exceed-
ingly funny creation, and Harry Power, who
sustains it, keeps you in a roar all the time he is on
Mr. D'Orsay Ogden can play some things well
enough, but we don’t like his Sultan. It seems
strained and unnatural, a,.d he looked more like a
hyena hunting for the carcase of a dead bullock
than “The Light of the Worruld,” as Harry
Power styled him. Mrs. Polk, as Blanche M’lvor,
is just too prettyjto talk about. She wears so mauy
beautiful costumes that the ladies in the dress-
circle look at each other and then turn green
with envy.
■ ■ •
The last scene is the most thrilling and be-
wildering of the lot. We were glad to notice Mr.
Polk’s change of costume, when he finally rushes
through the demolished walls as the hero of the
attack. We are going to tell him, now, that if he
can arrange to have a cannon-ball or two thrown
through the tottering walls of the palace, and
strike the Sultan, just where it will do the most
good, the scene will have a still nearer resemblance
to actual war. “ Eastward Ho !” is to be repeated
until further notice. It is well worth going to see.
** * *
Yes, and we have been to see “The Squire”
again.—
Of the Squire
(Oh, Mariar!)
How can a fellah tire,
When the bright
Maggie Knight
Seems to draw you ever nigher ?
Such a Knight
Couldn’t fight,
But she’d sit beside the fire,
And she’d joke,
While you'd smoke,
If you didn’t rouse her ire.
Ob, what rot.
She would not,
But she’d reach out for the poker;
And she’d poke
Any moke
Who would undertake to joke her.
• • •
At least that is what we presume Maggie
would do. We don’t know, for we have never
investigated. And we're not going to investigate.
The last time we sat beside an actress’ fire, and
smoked while she joked, we were seized with a fit
of “blues” that lasted four whole months. Nn
wonder we were bad, for the jokes were catching,
and they were bad enough, heaven knows. And
this reminds us that our time for joking is just
beginning to loom up in the distance, like a wed-
ing breakfast. When it does come round, we ll
teach all our enemies that what the Lord said unto
Moses was the straight tip for the principal event
of that meeting. \
• • •
Wybert Reeve is what we call “ a furni-
ture actor.” You see, he never can speak his
lines well and with ease unless he’s got hold of a
chair or a table, or something. In some scenes in
“The Squire” we like him immensely, but when,
as Lieutenant Thorndyke, he comes to take leave
of the Squire, w« don’t like his acting. He
clenches his fists, lowers his head, and looks just
as though he intended to pounce upon the woman
he loves and rend her to pieces. We can do
a good deal better than that ourselves, and we
haven’t had much experience at love-making
either. But we know we can do better. The
reason we know we can, is simply because it
couldn’t be done worse.
• * •
Mrs. Marston Leigh’s Christiana Hagger-
stone is a good representation of the Gipsy
woman. The minute you sec her you feel like
clutching your purse with one hand and holding
out the other to have your fortune told The only
thing we didn’t like about her was, that when the
parson (Edwin Palmer), put her away before the
whole crowd, she didn’t jump down his throat.
• • •
Yesterday, w r e opened the bruising editor’s
door with a kick and meandered in. We saw
something had disagreed with him. “Victoria!”
we said, “we’ve just heard the funniest thing.
You know Jimmy Carden? Well, the oth —-”
Then wo stopped. There was a light in his left
eye that unsettled us—a steady, say-another-word-
and-I'll-brain-you sort of light, something like that
observed in the lately-deceased alligator’s before he
died from jealousy, on seeing Sam Keenan smile.
Then he push'd the last Bulletin towards us, and,
putting his thumb on the little “par.” about Mr.
Carden, said with a sneer, “ Did you write that ?”
“Yes,” we answered, “ain’t it funny ? You see,
Jimm .” Then the words stuck in our throat,
and he went on : “You turnip,” said he, re-
flectively, "you draw an ambassador's salary, and
the first infant that comes along fills you with
facts that never haopened. Don’t you know, you
lop - eared omadhaun, that you should never
believe what one theatrical says of another.
Here you have been and stuffed us with
a lot of things about Carden that never oc-
curred, and then you go out and leave me at home
to explain. See that window ? Next time you try
it on, one of us ’ll go through it and take the sash
with us-and it won’t be me." And now we are
looking for the man who told us that about Carden.
There’ll be bloody work when we meet.
•* * *
Patti to an interviewer: —“I had just
finished singing ‘ Home, sweet home,’ the other
evening, when a nice-looking old gentleman, who
introduced himself as Governor Crittenden, of
Missouri, began congratulating me, and all of a
sudden he leaned down, put his arms around me,
drew me up to him and kissed me. He said,
‘ Madame Patti, I may never see you again, and I
cannot help it,’ and, before I knew it, he was kiss-
ing me. It wouldn’t do to have everybody wash-
ing my face, you know, but when an old gentle-
man, and a nice old gentleman, too, and a governor
of a great State, kisses me so quickly that one has
not time to see, and no time at all to object, what
can one do?” We wonder whatNicolini has to say
about this.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Mr. David Buchanan tells the readers of
the Rum what a bishop is. This Information
supplies a long-felt want. There has been a grow-
ing impression of late that a bishop is either a
name for a new game of skittles or a dog-fight
referee. We are glad Mr. Buchanan has thrown
light upon the matter. This is what he says—or a
part of what he says; life is too short to report
him in full. He is speaking of the ideal bishop
“ He will be a bishop, as the Apostle Paul was a
bishop, fighting and labouring with his own hands
at his secular occupation, for his own independent
eupport, and to enable him to preach the gospel of
Ao *t+ JH&'s
*• *V--J>‘
>v
s <;/, ]
X */<
%
ytf/
>• 1
\\fl-V rt V« T
-rw^^-
self cvn.'p-cLlrula.l-ory man
never did wxtJi ik/Oner^^^^
r-u s r
to > .
h - fit
* e -tt° t
*c *
Tkt me a Tinman who treats his tajagemeat because thi
rl'i money was in I'hc On« ?ital B unk
Ir *>
<A**\*<^
>° * f 0 V"
V O, A X
V <A,\ «*.
x v.-?/
at-., <“• v
y/stohdi
JoVL man,
/w\ a ajtii
l us feed J-5
dincl vvoaf
/uadersfarid ; and
f/i« mrcijci waiter
who woril taki his
j>ay
Vl»rW» "
curwcL ike snvort
Yo| worrtan.
stills
jcoi beef, all
tkai
Oriental *u>te *r n
The Htadßojs as sonu
would hav« k»Tn-
TU
sKarj? man
- wko after
-lu> katk, hii
, cut and skave,
■Jr is willing to pay, but
unfortunately Vou|Jit owl*
only an Ortenta! note
vvibk kirn.
The Oriental Bank Smash.
PAINFUL EPISODES.
God as his divine Master did it, without charge.
That will do. A bishop will work at chock-and-
log fencing, or in a brewery, through the week,
and then throw off his moleskins and jump into
his silken robes on Sundays. By inference, of
course, he must not be the worse for liquor more
than two or three times a week, and must be fairly
aober when he is delivering his sermon. This is
too much to ask of frail humanity. Of course, we
have a great respect for the Apostle Paul, but,
after all, he was only a one-horse institution com-
pared with the plate. The plate is the thing.
* * *
Another anecdote of the late war at
Windsor. A oompany of the First and some of
other regiments were in camp. Outlying piokets
were disposed all round, and! everything was ar-
ranged according to the most approved rules of
warfare. A night attack was expected. It took
place. The enemy began by a feint on the front.
The real attack, however, was made in the rear.
With fine military instinct the leaders of the
attacking party had selected the side of the camp
where the canteens were, as the place for an
assault. The outlying picket responded nobly to
this call on their courage. The fire of patriotism
that burns In the breast of every true man flamed
out In the hearts of these rugged warriors when
they saw the stores in danger. They met the
enemy with a withering volley. In the meantime,
the main body In the camp moved into position,
with their front to the foe. and then blazed away.
It was not till after they had been firing for about
twenty minutes that they discovered they had
been pappeiing their own picket, which was be-
tween them and the enemy, and in the full
enjoyment of a fusillade from each. If the fight
had been real, the remains of the picket might
have been carried home to sorrowing relatives in
a salmon-tin. We like this impetuously indis-
criminate style of tactics. It argues a fine mirtial
spirit on the part of the commanders of our
Volunteer army, which is a direct contradiction of
the calumnies which have been circulated with
regard to their valour in the tented field. Whole-
sale carnage is only a pleasant picnic to these
dare-devils of leaders. But this is not all. One
more instance of unique and splendid strategy
occurred on another night. The Von Moltke of
tb? oocfisiOD, who was leading the attacking party,
lost his way, and his intrepid band got bushed till
the morning. Some people who know nothing of
the finer tactics of warfare might make game of
this. But therein they would show their ignor-
ance. If it is a skilful thing to come upon the
enemy by surprise, how much more skilful
is it not to come upon the enemy at all,
but leave them the trouble of surprising
you ? Nevertheless, we admit that it might be
well —for appearance sake-to come within sight
of the enemy once or twice during the course of a
protracted struggle. For this reason it might be
sagacious to provide the commanders of attacking
forces with a string and a dog when they are going
to make night assaults. And, in view of a possible
repetition of the picket episode, it would not be
unwise to furnish the soldiers selected for this
hazardous duty with a cast-iron shield to be worn
on their backs. And then, if the Commander-in-
Chief could be induced to take a free pass to the
Minstrels for himself and his staff, and to shake in
the hat to see who would shout in settlement of
the affair, the gory plain would be several degrees
safer than the football field. When these little
suggestions are carried out, we may give the rein
to our fiery spirit, and become warriors ourselves.
Not till then, though.
* • *
The haughty spirits of the milkmen in
Murchison (Vic.), are being chastened just now.
There is—or was a short time ago—a frost there as
hard as the heart of a soup-kitchen superinten-
dent. But human genius is a noble thing. There
are few difficulties it cannot cope with. It oeped
with this one. One of the Murchison milkmen,
finding ice in his cans, invented a toy torpedo to
break it up. One morning he dropped this
torpedo into a jug that was left outside the door
of one of his customers. The constable that was
on duty that morning was in bed for a week after.
And, when he made his appearance again, he was
noticed to have a transverse scar on his face and
three front teeth missing. He explained that he
received these damages while endeavouring to
capture a gang of house-breakers, single-handed.
The milk-torpedo is a noble Invention. So was the
story of the constable.
• • •
Lightly listen unto this. It is a moral story
in its way. And, when you read on, you will find
that the way is somewhat original. There was a
squatter and his son and a coquettish cook. The
squatter recently sold a station in this colony for
£40,000. He could have got less for his property,
but he preferred to take this amount. The cook
lived with him on a rather less assured, if gaudier,
position than that of Hagar with Abraham, for the
space of six sweet and lustrous years. During this
time the son was acting as a bookkeeper on the
station of the old man. While there, the young
man bought a piano for £65. One day the old man
missed his household fairy. He searched high and
low for her. With what result ? With the result
that he found she had married his son. Imagine
the grief of the tender parent at such filial ingrati-
tude. The boy brought up religiously, and taught
never to neglect morning and evening prayers,


had stolen from his poor old father the one little
oook that was the comfort of his feeble old age.
The old man immediately altered his will—which
had been made out in the son’s favour and cut off
the amorous youth with an order for the circus.
All this transpires through an action brought by
the latter against the author of his being for the
£55 paid for the piano and a claim for £53 made by
the Cleopatra of the kitohen for wages due to her.
The old man denies the first claim and disputes the
seoond. He says the lady had her money in music
lessons and other educational facilities, which he
provided for her while she was the sunshine of his
home. It is expected this case will make a very
pretty sensation in the Melbourne courts. It is
now the chief topic of discourse at vestry meet-
ings and Kalizoic clubs. The consensus of opinion
is against the son. It is felt—and, we think, justly
Confounded Sweeps—We mean Lotteries.
Possible and Disastrous Consequences, should Sir Alfred Stephen succeed in re-enforcing “antiquated” laws against
lottery-gambling. We are admirers of antiquity —sometimes.
felt—that no family will be seoure if this filial irre-
verence is not discountenanced. We certainly
think that a son should not enter the lists with his
aged father-at least, not while the father is cap-
able of altering his will. We consider the whole
affair borders very olosely upon immorality.
* * *
We are trying to keep cool: but it is a sore
trial. We can hardly hold the pen for indignation.
What is it all about ? Just rc ad, and res! rain your
disgust, if you can. We quote from the Evaruwo
News :—“ A man applied for a free pass this morn-
ing at the Immigration office, and, having been
supplied, asked for one for his dog.” And he was
refused 1 Yes, gentlemen, In this broad, free land,
with the blue sky over it and the sun rising regu-
larly onoe a day at the eastern end of it —never
making a mistake and rising at any other corner—
this hapless stranger was, in open daylight, refused
a pass for his dog I Is it any wonder that the people
we have inveigled from their sumptuous dwe'lings
in the old world to come out here, aie lull of bitter-
ness, and gather together at Hyde Park gate to
chew tobacco and curse everything created ? Little
did they think when they were leaving their luxu-
rious homes that they would have to starve, and
sleep out in the Domain on cold rainy nights when
even the stray cur was reposing in the comfort-
able, if not resplendent, ash-box. Little did they
think they would be offered a miserable five shillings
a day for their work. Just imagine It-five
shillings a day! Why, it costs three shillings a day
for a man to live—to get three square meals to eat
and a good bed to sleep in. And then how much is
there left for beer? Two shillings! Two paltry,
petty, wretched, insultiDg shillings! It would
take a man—who has anything like a strong head
—to save up for two days to get enough money to
get drunk upon. But the subject is too distressing.
Still there are some craven-hearted creatures who
would submit to even this degradation rather than
Starve and s'eep under dripping trees. Cne day
last week two of these gave in and betrayed the
cause. Only two, however; the rest nobly prefer
t® starve rather than submit. Some people may
sneer at them, but in times to come—when history
is written by reporters of the Hum—they will be
venerated as martyrs. Speaking of the press, we
are deeply grieved to see that most of the papers
published in this city are hostile to the unem-
ployed. But, after this instance of the dog, we
think they will, in common justice, seethe error
of their position. We can hardly stop thinking
about that dog. A poor man—presumably starv-
ing—has a valuable animal, which be wouldn’t sell
under a very high figure, and he is refused a pas
for it! We suppose, now, they would not give an
unemployed person with refined tastes a free pass
for his piano. It is all too shameful. We thill say
no more, except that we are glad to have had this
opportunity of expressing our deep and genuine
sympathy with these oppressed people.
• * *
Uneasy is the head that wears a crown.
Acute readers may perceive that we have bor-
rowed this remark from Shakespeare. We did. It
was all we could borrow from him. But, to the
point. The empire upon which the sun never
sets is—or ought to be—onoe more plunged in
grief. This is what we get from an English paper:
—“ The Queen has recently been much concerned
by the serious illness of her favourite collie, who
has been in her possession twelve years, and who
is her invariable attendant in her walks and short
drives.” Here is another commission for the Lord
Laureate. If he intends to keen up with the royal
bereavements, he will have to work twenty-four
hours a day and take his meals through an india-
rubber tube. There is a rumour that ho i« going to
strike for an extra supply of gin. We would if we
were in his place. The genuine ring of distress is
absent in his later bursts of elegy. Some profound
psycho-physiologists have thereupon concluded
that there is an intimate connection between
elegiac and other bursts. Maybe so, but we will
never see a brother bard stuck - though we cannot
help him being stuck-up now that he is a peer-
while we can sweep a sorrowing harp. This verse
may give him a start: —
Day after day the poor die in the gutters,
Night after night Despair lies down with Hate;
The world is merry and the Court en fete !
A royal dog is sick—put up the shutters 1
One day la9t month a Chicago “drummer,’
driving along near Denver, found a piece of rope
about ten feet long. There was a branch of a tree
tied to one end of the cord, and the neck of Eli
Madlong, formerly of Freeport, was fastened on
to the other. It appears that Eli 1 hought he had a
call to be a doctor, although he knew no more
about the business than a bob-tailed paddymelon
does, and, as a natural result, the first paMent ho
treated died howling mad after eating half his bed-
clothes. Then the Progress Committee thought
they had a call to hang Eli, and so they did—just,
as the foreman remarked, to give the doctor's
ghost a fair ohanoe to get his medical attendance
bill from his levanting patient. Country papers
ought to copy this, as there are many plaoes wbero
a similar game might be played with profit.
A Mudgee editor has got a poem in his
paper which he calls “ We mourn with Victoria.'.
Over Leopold, of course. Here is a verse:—
“ We mourn with thee. Victoria;
Thy loss must be our own,
For he was one wh n se future might
Have strengthen'd England’s throne.”
This is cruel sarcasm. The poor fellow had to be
supported by clamps, himself, most of the time.
If Mudgee were in Englaud the editor of the paper
would be dwelling in a neat, whitewashed cell by
this time. But people are too lukewarm here t
take any notice of him. Anyhow, this is the close
season for poets. The nights are too dark for them
to write, and, of course, candles are out of the
question. So the Mudaec man may drag on a
dreary existence a little longer.


Here’s another upper-cut for Satan. 'Not
long ago, the fishers of the Melbourne Salvation
Harmy landed a prime mullet in the shape of an
old, snuff-brained dame who resides at South Yarra,
and is popularly credited with possessing one of
the bulkiest gold-lined stockings about that aro-
matic district. One night last week, the Harmy*
having assembled for the pur pose of giving glory
to the Looard, and raising en ough loot to enable
the officers to get their boots half-soled and heeled
for the winter campaign, t,r< >tted out their new
convert, who related her experience on the
battle-field, and with refreshing innocence re-
ported that during the past month she had,
by constant prayer and en treaties, succeeded
in getting 243 publicans to al low her illuminated
scriptural texts to be hung up in their bars, and
that one whisky mill alone us«>d upwards of 150 of
her single-sheet tracts every day. The barman at
this house of iniquity seemed to appreciate the
gifts because, as he said, they were nice and long
to hold, and didn’t burn the u ser’s fingers. Only
that very day she had spoken to a poor old man
who had been into a place culled the Currency
Lass seven times before dinner, and when she
spoke to him, he told her in a voice broken by sobs,
that “he went again and agstin to that public
house on purpose to learn ono of her scripture
texts by heart.” What a nice old man to be sure I
And we wonder how much the c>ld lady was worth
per week to himself and the Cui rency Lass.
* * *
We are occasionally favoured by admiring
friends with letters for insertion in our “ valuable
columns.’’ These letters arrive at the rate of
about seven van-loads a day, and they are some-
times good—sometimes otherwise. As a rule, the
bulk of them are otherwise. Here’s a very fair
sample of the latter :
“ Sludgetown
ma the forth.
“deer our. The inoloased man is a Bkunk.
he is Also the Town Klark an Thinks hees
Better then peepil what is his Sooperyurs in
berth, an edjucashin, an Respecterbility. Now
cur. This Town clark.-Bagly is his naim,—hed
the Ordassity to git up a public meetin hear
for the purpis of lightin the town With gaz.
I attended That meetin as a inflooenshil sitter-
zin, an I tole that meetin that we didn’t
want no gaz; ile was good enuf fur
peepil that wasn’t hupstarts, an things -
an I looked at this puppy of a Klark whin I
sed it an’ med him squirm. Then the chareman,
who! is the Town Klark’s tool an a Methody
saddler what orter be in jail an Hogged fur the
gurlß hees rooined cur, he rules me out of
Order an’ sed he’d call in perlice to Me. Now
cur, i want you to giv this meen spirited retch
a good slatin. His Fathur was lagged out hear
for Hiway Robry, an he starvid his own
Mothur to deth. You might put that in yure
valyubil papir, because the peepil oughter no
the kind of swine he is, an also arsk him hoo
cut the nanney gote's throte an pizuned Missus
Jonsin’s dorgs. P.B. That’ll make him as mad
as Hel, cause he nose in his own Lyin hart
he dun it, Cur. Also say, you hev evvydins
to proov he forged a check fur siks pouns
on the mare, and falserfyed the Korpurashin
books to make it Rite, an he got kikt out of the
Kartherlik quire for tellin filthy Yarns durin
serum time. Put that in to. it will rile im
wurse than awl, an I’ll send you some more
about this retched aborshin nex week.
“ P.s. the sekund. Awlso say, * What giv the
town-klark’s wife the blak ey on good fryday ?
He nose,
“respektfuly yures
“ Gorge Stubbs,
“ Sekretery Band uv hope,
“Sludgetown.”
We don’t print these letters. We even doubt if
Rothschild or Vanderbilt could well afford to do so.
Many of us wonder why anyone thinks lit to write
them. But there are some persons in every com-
munity who are so disinterestedly enthusiastic for
the public good that, in order to expose what they
consider a grievance, they would willingly sacrifice
everything in the world—that happened to belong
to other people.
BRIEF MENTION.
One Waterloo alderman called another the
other day in Council a “damned contemptible
tinker.” Yet people say you never can believe
what an alderman says. Pooh!
The largest cask extant was built the other
day. It is twenty-one feet high, and over twenty-
one feet in length. What a splendid newspaper
office it would make—for the Rum, say !
Laudatory notice quoted in the Rum:—
“Read the Queanbkyan Age and the Sydney
Tribune and you will want no more.” Most true.
You will want no more. At least, not much more.
Only a coffin.
Crushed-strawberry oolour is not now con-
sidered the correct thing. The newest colour in
fashion is “the inside of a mule’s ear by starlight.”
The outside of a mule’s heels is always ready at
short range to furnish the starlight.
The Cumberland Fergy is mad at having
been bowled out as a traducer of the workingman,
He idiotically thinks that abusing us will help him
somehow to wriggle into the good opinion of the
class he maligned. We don't mind. Wriggle away,
man, wriggle away!
How’s this for the fragrant weed de-
tractors ? It is an officially stated fact that during
the many and the highly successful smashups on
the Victorian railways, not a single occupant of
the smoking-cars was ever injured. Pass us an-
other mild Havanna, and do you happen to have a
match about you ?
In the course of a seduction case, tried
before Sir George Innes lately, the delendant said
he did not care for kissing—“it was adverse to his
nature.” The jury, on hearing this, promptly
gave the plaintiff a verdict for £3OO. Few right-
thinking men look with approval on a (humph!)
—even when it is told on oath.
One of the Gundagai papers calls th« other
the “ Raver, Insulter, and Pretender." This is the
kind of journalism that Matthew Arnold would
love to read. There is a “sweetness and light”
about it which is rarely found outside of the lock-
up or the inebriate asylum. It must be a good
thing to live in Gundagai. Hades will seem tame in
comparison.
Next to the happy occupation of being a
night policeman, or the equally desirable situation
of being in a position to know all about railroad
deviations, the best paying game out, to-day, is
that of carrying goods from Nyngan to Bourke.
Freight on that route is now £l3 per ton, with an
upward tendency. And yet parents will persist in
making editors, and lawyers, and clergymen of
their eons.
An elegiac bard living in Goulburn, or
somewhere thereabouts, heads some memorial
lines on a deceased friend with the remark that be
“passed away like the summer cistus, as fragile
and as fair.” And, in all likelihood, he had a fist
as big as a loaf, and a foot as big as a horse’s skull,
not to mention an appetite like that of an alli-
gator. But poets will always idealise.
No wonder this age is going to the dogs.
Only twelve persons were hanged in England and
Wales in 1882. This is a fearful falling off from the
average—Bo a year—which held good in the first
quarter of the present century. But what are we
thinking about ? The reason, of course, is plain.
There is no need to go to the expense of banging
people while they can make C.M.G.’s of them.
In a Victorian town there is a policeman
still doing duty who is said to be worth £40,000.
He made all this money while in the service. We
have plenty of policemen over here who own
terraces of houses, but we have no such million-
aires as this. When we get old and tired we think
we shall join the force ourselves. There is a good
deal of money to bo made by an intelligent con-
stable on dark nights.
The Parramatta Independent averreth
that a local beak holds that “ information received
on a Sunday is not legal.” An’ this be a true bill,
that worthy J.P. deserves to go down to posterity
along with the Sabbatarian Cameronian who
bound his cat in a chain, and high hanged her on
a tree—
“ For killing of the Lord’s own mouse
Upon the Sabbath Day.”
The Wagga Jones, for some unexplained
reason, has been having a slap at Henry the
Eighth. “ Let him pass,” says our contemporary,
with sublime indifference to grammar, “for ex-
cesses indulged in by a regal blackguard, who was
base and wicked enough to bring about the execu-
tion of an innocent wife, can be easily imagined.”
Bad as Henry was, he didn’t deserve to be kicked,
when down, by such a bucolic mule.
This is zeal, if you like. The Bishop of
Paris is going to build a floating cathedral, to be
propelled by steam, and to be used for Roman
Catholic services on the river Amazon. This
evidence of regard for the spiritual welfare of the
benighted alligators that inhabit that river is very
touching. If the missionaries do not make angels
of the alligators, it is safe to predict the alligators
will make angels of the missionaries.
We print this information for anybody
to whom it may be interesting. It does not in-
terest us—but it might interest the ladies of the
ballet. Very well, then, the tinned lobster trade
is already threatening to exterminate the lobster.
In a short time that savoury bird will be seen only
LOVE ME, LOVE MY DOG.
Mr. Abigail said that he sympathised very deeply with Mr. O’Connor. No member
liked to see the labour of years of his life treated like a mangy cur.— Parliamentary
Report.
in museums. But what do we cax-e ? As long as
the sausage remains, the Press will be free—not to
say easy. While the saveloy flourishes, we laugh
at fate.
The faithful worshippers of one of our
border towns were recently scratching themselves
bald-headed in their frantic endeavours to get rid
of their late ministor. and it now appears they’re
just as mad to dispense with the new one. It was
a case of “ out of the frying-pan into the fire,” and
now the devout ones sadly sing—
“ The difference is very small, you see,
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedlodee
especially Tweedledee.
The Metropolitan Cemetery Conference,
held in Melbourne a week or two ago, decided to
have the new graveyard at Frankston, which is a
long way from Melbourne. The dead will go there
by rail. If the trains are run at anythinglike the
speed at which some of ours are run, it will not be
an uncommon spectacle to see the corpses getting
out and marching off with their coffins on their
backs, so as to reach their graves in time to get a
little rest before the Resurrection.
Poetry from the Echo :
“ The stars seem brighter since she fled,
The heav’ns a deeper blue;
It is her wings fan clear my skies,
Queen-angel of the True.”
We like to read ethereal verse of this kind. It is
elevating and ennobling. It compels reverence.
At the same time we think if we had an angel of
this description, we should patent her as a punkah
—or a windmill. But tastes differ.
Woore, the Quesmbeyan P.M., lives some
15 miles away from his official headquarters, to the
intense inconvenience of every one save stipendiary
Woore. As the office which he holds was estab-
lished for the benefit of its occupant, the grum-
blings of the Queanbeyanites, even when focussed
as it were into a stormy Gale of indignation, don’t
so much as ruffle a curl of Cohen’s placid whisker.
Justice demands- ah! would that Cohen knew her!
That at his post should “ camp ” this P. M. Woore.
Who wouldn’t be a squattah after reading
this lot ? “ Four hundred sheep from a selection
at Ellangowan were sold the other day at Too-
woomba for a shilling each.” Later reports declare
that the sheep in question were used to decorate a
Lord Mayor’s ball. The wool was first knocked off
with a stick, after which the sheep were cleaned
and dressed, and lighted candles stuck inside of
them, Then they were hung up around the ball-
room and made splendid substitutes for Chinese
lanterns.
i Thus spake Father Pat in his churoh down
South, ou Sunday last; “ Tb’ free odjikashin of
thim divil’s schools, fwhat they calls public
schools, dishtrys the indipindince an’ the manliness
in the min an’ the wimin that sinds their childnn
to thim. D'ye moind that, now, fur the fuchir.
An’ if y’ don’t want t’ see yer childrin haythins
down in hell, y’ll take thim frum thim divil’s
schools intirely.” Of course, Father Pat’s indi-
pindince wouldn't allow him to accept State aid in
any shape or form whatever.
On an up-country Bench, not many days
back, sat a solitary “beak,” against whom, not so
many moons ago, drink prohibition orders were
out; and before him stood a shiverir g “drunk,”
who never made such a mistake in his life as when
he imagined he would receive a grain of sympathy
from the whilom intemperate J.P. Sympathy be
blanked ! “Seven days. These inebwiates are
ineweasing, and must be put down!” And it’s not
so long ago since we saw Rhadamanthus sleeping
off a heavy booze in the gutter of the main street
of his native town.
For reckoning up a situation at cost price,
it takes a smart man to run the rule over Mr.
Davenport of this city. A few days ago, the con-
versation at the caf6 dinner-table turned on the
Egyptian trouble, and when all the others had
had their say, Davenport chimed in, “Ah. Yes.
But look here, my friends, the way I reckon that
bill up is this : England’s balance-sheet will show
all loss and no profit, but El Mahdi’s will show that
he’s all prophet and no loss.” And then the
speaker turned over his change to see the waitress
hadn’t given him an “Oriental ” sixpence.
There’s a parson in England whose mis-
fortune is to be vicar of a cure bearing the too
suggestive name of Eton SocaD, Beds. Pronounce
the name of the place, and you’ll see how appro-
priate to a fat billet it is:—Eat an soak on: beds.
We would never have heard of the place, however,
had we not noticed an annonce of the anproaching
marriage of the vicar’s daughter in a fashionable
paper, u nder the heading of “ High Life.” Imagine
one of the Apostles going in for “ high life ”! We
forget, though. Christ is rather fashionable just
now. The Queen somewhat approves of Him.
Scene: Stubbs’ Monument. Two “ontel-
lergint Dimycrats,” after a fierce dispute, walk
over to fat, but otherwise respectable-looking, old
file, and first Dimycrat says: “’Scuse me, sir; me
an’ this man ’ere hez hed an argymint, an’ you,
bein’ a scholar like, we wants you t’ settle it. Now,
which is the correctest thing t’ say; ‘ The wages
ov th’ worrukin mahn is too low,’ or, ‘ The wages
ov th’ worrukin mahn are too low ?’ ” “Neither
of you is right,” replied the old rooster, rather
angrily; “ I should say the wages of the working
man—such as you—is a d—d sight too high for all
the work you do. There; that’s my opinion on the
subject.” The deputation left.
Persons who take an interest in up-ended
visceras, or caved-in scapulas, and such like surgi-
cal humerosities, would do well to pay a visit to
the cheerful old city of Newcastle, as scarcely a
week elapses without some wonderful operation
being recorded. For example, one Jessie M. Wat-
son was recently taken in band: had a broken
knee and three cracked ribs taken out, and new
ones put in, alter which she was as sound and as
good as ever. [As the above happens to be written
on the back of a Custom House form, we are
somewhat doubtful as to whether Jessie is a brig
or a belle.— Ed. B ]
Draw the porridge-stick, Scotland ! A
man writes to the Melbourne Argus to say that he
has discovered in the possession of an old woman
the teapot which belonged to the mother of Robert
Burns. It would be a graceful thing for Sir John
Hay to buy this relic and present it to the High-
land Society. Perhaps some of them might imbibe
poetry by drinking from it. They have never had
any since Robert Burns died. If somebody could
only discover, in addition, the mangle which be-
longed to the mother-in-law of Macpherson, who
invented the poems of Ossian, the Scotch would
be set up in relics.
This Is ourious. For every novel printed
and published in England, ten are written and
rejected. This makes an average of 3000 novels
which are written and rejected every year. No
wonder that buttermen have a reputation for
wide reading. Buttermen and butchers. The
same thing obtains here on a smaller scale. We
have five hundred poets, who send us on an
average about five score poems a year, lour-score
and nineteen of which we instantaneously and
joyfully reject. But this does not disoourage them.
They go ou writing until they write themselves
into the Benevolent Asylum or the Inebriates’
Retreat.
A considerable number of Wollongong and
Kiama Volunteers maintain that the breakfast
supplied them on board the steamer which con-
veyed them to the Easter eneampment was not fit
to be eaten. Inquiry having been made into their
allegation, it turns out (according to the report of
the officer commanding the artillery) that the
breakfast was excellent, “consisting of hot corned
beef, pickles, and bread.” Of course, the report
of the artillery commandant, who wasn’t present
at the sumptuous dejeuner in question, is a com-
plete refutation of the tale told by the fellows
who bad the misfortune to be there, and who
asserted that the high old sa t horse, acetous
piccalilli and injuns, and ropy 6c ugh were served
out for rations.
Just so. A few years ago the “Female
Blondin,” while crossing a tight rope at Highbury
Barn, London, put her foot where the rope was
! absent, fell, and, while her mangled coruge Uy
stark and stiff in one room, a quadrille assembly
was in full swing in a saloon adjoining. This
kindled such a lire of indignation that the neigh-
bours got up a petition, and the Barn lessee lost
his license. Last Friday week, poor young
Fletcher, a pupil at Newington College, was killed
on the railway, and several other collegians were
badly injured, but the Newington College sports,
which were advertised for the Saturday following,
took place just the same as if no such tragedy had
occurred Death's sting doean’tseem to hurt very
much at Newington.
Blue Ribbon Booth’s line is very similar to
Mr. Honeythunder’s, only with more honey and
less thunder than chat acsensed that eminent
philanthropist. Under both you are required to
go to the official Haven, get your card of member-
ship and your riband, and evermore to live upon a
platform and evermore to say what the Apostle
says, and what his committee say, and what the
sub-committee say, and what the chief clerk says,
and what the deputy clerks say. And their usual
say is on this wise:—“ That this assembled body of
professing philanthropises views with detestation
the criminality of those who do not belong to It,
and pledges itself to make as many obnoxious
statements as possible about them, without being
at all particular as to facts.”
Just at the present date, the poor man’s
Paradise is situated about a thousand miles any
side you like from Windorah (Q.). “Tucker” is
evidently about as scarce up there as scented soap
is in the Chinese quarter at Narrandera, for the
following notioe is now disgustingly prominent
in the Windorah hotel dining-room: “All Meals
Five Shillings. To prevent disputes, plank the
cash with the carver.” Touching this gastronomi-
cal grievance, a Windorah scribe feelingly ob-
serves: “Considering that each diner is allowed
only a certain quantity of bread, and no sugar
in his tea, it is rather sultry, isn’t it?” When
travellers meet in this part of the world, one of
the first questions asked is. “Can you lay us on to
a patch of pigweed, mate ? ”
Mr. Humphreys, nightman, of Stawell
(Vic.), as we learn from the local Chronicle,
“has found it necessary to take a partner so as to
enable him to devote more time to the perfecting
of a labour-saving machine connected with the
profession.” You laugh at the idea of “profession,”
most noble swell, who art perchance of the legal
or clerical or medical or sugar-sanding or invoice-
palting profession 1 And yet, we think, ’tis a word
that suits a whole lot of businesses straight down to
the ground—for, in truth, now-a-days, tnere’s a
deal too much of profession of knowledge and of
capacity for service and too little possession
thereof. Any braying jackass can be a profes-
sional man; it's the professional man we go in for,
be he nightman or barrister, corn-doctor or arch-
deacon.
Jonathan and David, Damon and Pythias
Antonio and Bassanio, and all other “buzzum
friends” have, it is said, been knocked as high as
the price of rump steaks by a couple of damper-
punishers who, whilst working on Teeba Station,
Diamantina, made a solemn compact that, should
hard times overtake either of them, that victim
should hang himself and the survivor was to
follow suit. One went to Budsville, swamped his
cheque, was seized with the “ jumps ” and hanged
himself. Some time after this, his mate, who was
in sound health and sound mind at the time, heard
the news, and immediately going out about a mile
from Mooraberrie Station strung himself up and
followed his partner to that lone, dark land whrr®
the wearied in strength are at rest, and snaik-
juice is a thing unheard of.
Those who go ! to hear Mr. Booth appear,
for the most part, to be people who never had aay
trouble with their latoh-keys during the whole
course of their lives. Of course, therefore, they
take the pledge like one man. But what is the
use of this? All the time these good souls are
jubileeing, the genuine drunkards, for whose
benefit the mission is intended, are danoing on
their wives or engaged in deadly combat with
green-eyed snakes. How are they—the drunkards
—to be gathered in to hear the lectures ? The only
feasible plan we can suggest is that Mr. Booth
should advertise that he will supply free drinks
to all topers who will attend his lectures. Then,
when they get sufficiently drunk, he would find
no difficulty in getting them to sign the pledge.
But they would have to be sufficiently drunk.
Thev are a grim and fearful lot the Irish
dynamiters. A gory battle is a Sunday-school
treat, and blood a mild though cheerful beverage
to them. When Lord Coleridge was at St. Louis,
several of the desperadoes formed a plan to kidnap
him. They were going to get into his room in the
hotel, between two and three o’clock in the morn-
ing, chloroform him, and then carry him off. The
plan did not succeed. There was a dog at the hotel
door which stood on guard glaring at them but
never moving a muscle or making a sound. This
scared them so much that they forgot their ghastly
vows and fled. And it was an iron dog after all.
This story is our own. We got it from the ghost
of Horace Greeley, which we had the pleasure of
meeting at a Spiritualist shivoo the other night.
Speaking of Horace, he says he is as well as can be
expected. But, then, nobody expected much.
A man was recently called upon by the
Parramatta Licensing Bench to show cause why a
keg of beer found on his premises should not bo
forfeited. His answer was that in the pursuit of his
calling as a boarding-house keeper he was in the
habit on pay-night of giving his lodgers a glass of
beer on settling. The Bench said they thought
that if defendant desired to treat his lodgers he
sould take them to the neighbouring pub. Here
we have an instance of the folly displayed by
beaks when travelling out of the record to enun-
ciate a mal-apropos sentiment. Considering that,
beer can be bought wholesale in a keg for less than
Id per glass, and that beer at a pub. costs 3d. per
ditto, the lodging-house keeper who treated his
boarders on squaring accounts to a weekly long-
sleever would be an ass to take them to a pub.
when he could treat them at home for a third of
the coin.
A good illustration occurred the other day
in England of the strong belief entertained by
members of the legal profession that their vested
interests are paramount to the general interests
of the community. On the hearing of an appli-
cation made to have a solicitor struck off the roll
for the embezzlement of a client’s coin, a Q.C.
appeared for the defaulter, and had the impudence
to ask the Court to take into consideration the
fact that respondent had already twice been im-
prisoned for defaults in the matter. The Court
(fortunately for the public) couldn’t see it, and the
rascal’s name was struck off the roll. The stu-
pendous scandal is that the defaulter should have
found brother professionals so anxious to retain
him in their ranks as to plead his having served
two sentences f®r proven scoundrelism as a reason
why his name should be permitted to remain on
the roll of a profession, the members of which are
“ gentlemen by Act of Parliament.”
Grannt, on the comparative merits of the
A.M.P. Society’s, and the N.Y.L.I. Society’s modes
of doing business, surpassed herself. Of course,
Black is the white-headed boy, but yet, in proving
this (to her own entire satisfaction), the old lady
contrives to show that tontinism mav, after all, be
a most admirable institution, despite the black
assertion that ’tis promotive of battle, murder,
and sudden death. The venerable one is, as ever,
an eclectic,
“ ez to choosin’
Twixt this and thet, most plaguy lawth;
She’ll leave a side thet looks like losin’
But while there’s doubt (or advs. ooming in) she
sticks to both.”
Or, as another poet puts it:—
“ She finds, with keen discriminating sight,
Black’s not so black, nor white so very white.”
Talk about the Amurrikin citizen being
smart in the advertising art. Bah! he’s not a
“tarnation soorcumstarnce” compared with ore
of our own photo, fiends in this city. For further
particulars transport yourself to the marble halls
of our Central Police Court, and listen. Citizen
Sawkins is in the box, and citizen Sawkins swears,
“ Yes, the prisoner is the man referred to.” Soli-
citor Bluebag: “Do you know the prisoner?”
“No; I never saw him in my life before, but if he
. wtuj bo.kd do yn into soup, I comd swear to hia


very bones.” “ How is it you oome to be so posi-
tive as to his identity ?” “ Because I once saw his
nhotograph. It was a life-like representation,
every lineament was distinctly marked, every fea-
ture perfect. Nature herself could not make a
face more like, and this photograph, allow me to
inform the Court, was taken by the world-re-
nowned ‘Helios Photographic Company of this
r»itv Cabinet copies only twenty-seven-and-six a
dozen ” This made his Worship stare and wonder
to himself whether it would be better to rush off
and get “ took,” or give the witness seven days in
gaol for contempt of Court.
Those in Melbourne who have been ob-
jecting to the removal of the General Cemetery
out to Frankston seem to have been unaware of
the existence of the top hole in their flute. They
have been blowing away as lugubriously merrily
as the subject would let them, but, with this hole
stopped, the general effect of the music was not
persuasive. The stopper is out now. A monu-
mental mason dug it out with his chisel, and the
Using His Backbone—For Once.
Bouncing the Commander-in-Chief.
first blast denotes that there is really a reason for
keeping the dead where they are, and adding unto
them as a kind Providence allows. “ If,” speaks
the top note of the flute, “ you stow the corpses
away in Frankston, their Melbourne friends won t
put much of a monument over them.” It seems
the corpses will lie there right enough, but, if this
mason is to bo credited, the monuments won t.
Won’t what? Won’t lie there, of course. But
why should they lie in Melbourne and not at
Frankston ? Because Frankston is 27 miles away.
But what has that to do with it ? Here is what the
mason pipes: “ Vanity is certainly the moving
power which pays for costly monuments, and
people are not going to pay for them unless they
can be seen by everybody. 1 ’ That’s a new aspect
of the question, and there’s a power of truth in it.
Nothing will do them at Dandenong but
playing with burning subjects. And when they
lose their coats they howl. Last week they got
into the Mechanics’ Institute, a building by no
means fire-proof, and the Rev. James Martin* Mr.
Bowman, and Mrs. Moore started off on a little
entertaining carouse. The lady ground the music,
Mr. Bowman heeled it around the house with a
plate, and the Rev. James hauled up the ghost of
Martin Luther and cantered over the stage with
the smoking piece of mediaeval property in his
arms. The result might have been foreseen. It is
said that a kerosene lamp fell and set fire to the
flooring. But it is not so clear that it was not the
tip of Luther's tail that touched the boards. Any-
how, the flooring blazed up. It was all one to
Luther. He just lay back and said he was used to
that sort of thing this last couple of hundred
years. But the Dandenong people weren’t used
to it. They won’t be as well used to it as Luther
until they are as long dead as Luther is. So t hey
threw off their coats and stamped out the flames.
Now they want the insurance company to pay
them for their coats. But it was not in the policy
that Martin Luther was to be brought up. No sane
company would accept risks like that. Therefore,
they’ll get no coats.
“Man proposes,” &c. It appears from the
evidence that a certain young linen-grocer in the
Kiverina district has been paying his clandestine
devotions to the daughter of a wealthy resident
with such marked success that the old man got
“ wind ” of the business, and swore he’d mark the
gay what-can-I-show-you-next young Romeo.
Accordingly, a few Sunday nights ago, he set one
of his largest .and most reliable dingo spring-traps
down near the back gate, where he was dead sure
the young man would pass, and then he crept into
bed and fell asleep, just to clear himself if the
young man were killed. That night, however,
Juliet accidentally met Romeo at the front gate,
and mamma, who happened to be the lady presi-
dent of a missionary society connected with the
Methodist Church, was detained at a meeting till
ten o’clock. Just about eleven thelwhole neigh-
bourhood was aroused by the most fearful
screams, and the lover, rushing round to the back,
had the happiness of releasing the old lady, who
was firmly caught in the teeth of the trap that
was set for him. Soon after this, the old joker
tramped down in his shirt, and said “Some of
them dam careless men hev been an’ done that,”
after which he was forced to ask the nice young
grocer into the parlour, and thank him over a
bottle of whisky for his timely assistance. Romeo
is now a regular visitor, and mamma will be able
to hobble round in time for the wedding fes-
tivities.
Owld Misthur —well, we’ll call him Fla-
herty, for the sake of euphony—is one of the best-
known men in the Southern district. When be
first landed in ’37, his total assets consisted of the
cl ithes he wore, a sore-eyed dog, and 18d. which
he lost on the voyage out. (That’s the way he tells
the tale himself.) Now, however, he is positively
“rollin’in goold,” and, of course, his aspirations,
like the cattle market, have an upward tendency.
His two daughters are the belles of the country
for miles around, and it is a standing wonder that
such an ugly father could ever beget such hand-
some children. Speaking of the girls to a travel-
ling bagman, the other day, he observed, “ Whin
my gerrils marry, they'll not be dipindin’ on their
husbands fur a gory farden. Thev’ll hey more
money than they’ll know fwhat to do wid; but
what I want thim t’ marry is blud— plinty av blud.
D’yemoindme, now?” ’’Well, in that case,” re-
plied the drummer, “ the best thing you can do is
to marry the girls to a pair of slaughter-house
men, or butchers.” Then he dodged the old man’s
boot round the side of the house, and cleared. The
atmosphere seemed unhealthy.
This knocks Enoch Arden stiff in the first
round. A marriage took place in a certain town
out Westwards. The invited guests, together
with the bridegroom, were all assembled at the
residence of the bride’s parents, awaiting the ar-
rival of the minister—or executioner-when a
gentle tap was heard at, the front door. One of
the revellers opened the door, and in walked a
young man who was well and favourably known
to all the company. He knew nothing whatever
of the fun that was about to follow* but just
dropped in to spend the evening, and tell the old
people all about the weather, and the best time to
set the eggs of the long-eared, brindled duck, &e.
Noticing the gay surroundings, and sniffing the
fragrant smell of the roasted poultry, he asked,
“ What’s up ?” “ Oh, nothin' much as yet,” replied
the young man who opened the door, “only I’m
agoin’t’get married.” “ Married 1” said the visi-
tor; “who to?” “ Why, to Miss Lucy over there,”
said the other. “To Lucy,” gasped the new-
comer, as he caught on to a bridesmaid’s hair to
prevent his falling; “great ’eavens! why I—l used
to court that girl myself.” And then he mean-
dered home with a face as long as a ha'penny kite,
or a master tailor’s memory.
The Armidale Chronicle informs the
public that it is the business of one of the writers
on its staff to condense articles from the English
and colonial papers. “Perhaps,” says the Chroni-
cler of Armidale. “out of half a column, a short
: terse article of half-a-dozen or a dozen lines wU
be made. The news is taken from elsewhere ; the
construction is the work of this journal. The
Tamwokth Observer observes these paragraphs,
and, concluding they are clippings, coolly inserts
them without any acknowledgement whatever.
It is rather annoying sometimes to find an article
which has taken us perhaps half-an-hour to com-
pile deliberately piltered by our friend with the
paste.” It must be most annoying. Our bowels
yearn for the staff of the Armidale Chronicle,
especially for the terse young fellow who does the
condensing. Here, now, is one of his crisp pars,
into which, by an adroit alteration of a single
word, he has been able to make of a novel Ameri-
canism a neat little thing of his own Don’t
come on Sunday night; I’ve got a boil on my
neck, said a post-card sent to a young man in
Armidale this week.” Only imagine how vexing
’twould be were that larcenous Observer to coolly
appropriate that gem with no acknowldgemerit
whatever. Concerning the ChRONiCLE’s big com-
plaint and little reason for it, we feel inclined to
say —Ant(h)ill parturltur et naecitur ridiculus
rnvs(h).


“Rotjoh on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, files, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, Insects,
ska,nkF, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Mom & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXT URES.
We than be glad to home tbit in-iaz potted up by
secretaries of racing clubt and managers of
sporting events in general^
RACING.
Canterbury Park - -May IT
Bourke May 32. 33, 24.
Sydney Turf Club May 24.
Queensland Turf Club .May 34, -6.
Richmond J.C May 29.
Liverpool May 31.
Mudgee R.C Jl * ne *• s *
Clarence River J.C 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10, n.
Hawkesbury August 21,28.
AQUATIC.
Guliford (301 b.) v. M’Clerken May 17.
Glebe R.C., Senior Pair Oars May 17.
Hanlan v. Laycock and others, on the
Nepean May 22.
Grafton R.C. Regatta May'24.
ATHLETICS.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. 5p0rt5.............. May 17.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society s
Grounds May' 24.
Royston College Sports May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap... May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May
Queen’s School Sports May ??•
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground , May 24.
THE GUN. „
Yass Pigeon Matches May 23, 24
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
“Cloanthus” has ceased to edit the rowing
notes in the Australasian. The new man writes
under the nom-de-plume of * Visor.
Dan’l O’Leary is still on the tramp in the
States. At latest, he was to meet his old antago-
nist, Henry Schmenl, in a seventy-five hours heel-
and-toe.
In Canada, several iceboats were timed
over a measured m<le on Toronto Bay. The wind
blew a Rale, and one boat oovered the distance in
lmin. 60sec.
The New Zealand Footballers are to as-
semble at Wellington about the 18th May, and
leave for Sydney about the 19th. Nineteen players
will come over.
The footballers are looking' up their war-
paint, and the season promises well—for the medi-
cine men and the undertakers. Mr. James A.
Brodie opened the ball last Saturday by breaking
his collar-bone.
Says a Yankee paper: “T. M. Gleeson,
the well-known amateur mile runner of Tipperary,
Ireland, has sailed for Australia, where, it is stated,
he will compete for the championship at his
favourite distance.”
The Northern Hunt Club have decided
that the hounds shall visit Sydney during the
season, and that the Annual Hunt Club race
meeting shall be held at Singleton in August next.
Mr. Edward Terry has been unanimously elected
M.F.H. for the season.
It was once a part of a N.B.W. horseman’s
creed that the Julian Avenal stock never fought
out a game race. Exeter and Garfield, however,
burst this theory up completely, and Walter
Hall’s two Avenal colts helped him to the biggest
cheque over the last Randwick meeting.
The Carthona-Oriental matoh for the
Junior Cup was continued on Saturday last, when
the Oriental innings came to a conclusion for 336,
and the Carthonas lost two wickets for 72. The
match now stands : Carthona, first, 135; Oriental,
first, 236; Carthona, second, two wickets for 72.
At the Masonic pionio at Botany, on
Thursday last, Mr. Isaac Myers, from soratch, ran
away with the 100 and 150 yards spins. Mr. Zollner
was the favourite for the 150, but he looked fairly
galvanised when the Glebe sprinter dashed past
him like a flash of lightning or one of the rockets
for which the firm are so famous.
The Countes? of Stamford is going in for a
breeding stud, like the Duchess of Montrose at
Newmarket, Lady Emily Peel at Bonehill, and Miss
Anderson in Ireland. Her ladyship has a choice
collection of mares at Park Paddocks, Newmarket,
and it will be there that Barcaldine, who cost the
Countess £BOOO, will take up his quarters.
Charles E. Courtney, the Yankee sculler
who has received such a gruelling at the hands of
the American press, has at last sinrned articles for
a match with Wallace Ross. The rase is to come
off on 30th May, for a purse presented by some
speculators who are trying to work up a new
course at Oak Point, New York, three miles with a
turn.
The last addition to the list of “ Professors
is no less a person than Young Dutchy, the tfentle-
man who figured so prominently at the timeof the
Edwards-OXeary matches. Professor Young
Dutchy acted as judge for Whistler in the recent
Whistler-Muldoon wrestling match at Frisco, and
the local Chronicle states he received a severe
guying from the roughs.
The race in light skiffs over the champion
course, on Saturday last, between Matterson and
Nichol, resulted in an easy win for Matterson, a
Clarence River man, who has been brought out
under the fostering wing of Mick Rush. Matter-
son pulled in a new skiff put together specially for
this raco by Messenger, slightly shallower than the
two bolte ho made such a hit with Nichol is a
very rough diamond, and will require lumps being
knocked off him before he is in even a fit state for
a polish.
The N. Y. Clipper gives the following list
of amateur reoords made since the Ist March
but Yankee reoords require a load of seasoning
before swallowing, judging from the swindle over
Murray’s alleged wonderful walk.
hoo-step-and-jump—29ft. 2*4in., M. w.
nitv March 19. 1884; Two-nand vaults ft 3f£tn.,
C Atkinson, Harvard College. Maroh 22. 1884 ;
Fifty yards run-5%8.. M. W. fcord, Brook yn, N.
Y., March 22,1884; One-hand vau 3%in., M.
w! Ford, N. Y. City, Maroh 23, 1884.
Pedestrian Edwards could not work up
♦Ho aironv in ’Frisco, so went East, but had to leave
Seymour his manager, who. at latest, was lying
dangerously ill. Both Edwards and Vaughan have
a denosit of £5O up tor a match, but Edwards
wanta to walk in ’Frisco, and Vaughan prefers
New York. The Australian, however, in a letter
to the N. Y. Clipper, stated he was willing U» meet
Vaughan in New York, if ho was allowed £5O for
expenses. Edwards has evidently given up the
idea of getting a matoh on with Harriman.
On Saturday last, at Ashfield, the local
Amateur Athletic Club held their fourth meettrg.
when J- H. Atkinson, from scratch, won the 100
vards and the half-mile, and would have appro-
priated the quarter had he not stumbled near the
finish R. Barbour won the maiden half-mile
walk- E. Taylor oarried off the 150 yards maiden;
j Dunn won the under 17, 150 yards: T. i arrach
won the mile walk handioap; W. Thompson won
the 440 yards Schools, and E. G. Allen finished up
by winning the 300 yards Stranger’s Handioap.
On Saturdav, March 15, E. P. Weston com-
pleted his task of walking 5000 miles over roads
and tracks, in England, at the rate of 50 miles a
day, Sundays excepted. Weston walked on the
teetotal racket, and the tour exceeded In duration
the greatest journey ever before undertaken by a
pedestrian. Of the 5000 miles walked, 1099% miles
were done on the high roads, from measurements
made by the Ordnance Survey, and 3300% in balls
and enclosures, by measurements guaranteed by
the judges who have accompanied him through-
out the entire tour. Weston walked the last mile
hut one in 9min. 17sec.
The Murrumbidgee Turf Club held their
Autumn meeting on Thursday and Friday last.
The first day opened with the Mares’ Produce
Btakes, won by Reginald; Anglo-Saxon annexed
the Selling Plate; the Tradesmen's Purse was won
by Omadnaun; Alpha appropriated the Hurdle
Raoe; and Reginald made a second win in the
Flying Handicap. A fair attendance showed up
on the second day. when Impulse won tho Mile
and Open Handicaps, the first and last races on the
card; Reginald won the Maiden Plate; Bonnie
Bee carried off the Autumn Handicap; and Rival
won the Prinoe of Wales’ Stakes.
“Puskie,” probably the only surviving
charger of the Crimean War, died in the thirty-
fourth year of his age, on the very day when his
owner, Sir Evelyn Wood, sailed for Egypt. When
midshipman Wood, he purchased the pony for £B,
and on one occasion, when carrying his owner at
night with despatches from Lord Raglan to the
naval camp, the former lost the track, and found
himself going towards the Russian posts. The
reins were dropped on the pony’s neek, and he
took the right track home to the Diamond Bat-
tery, where he used to be tethered to a gun, and
learned to run backwards and forwards in har-
mony with It.
Last year the Victorian, W. W. Gordon, got
in very light in the amateur handicaps, and swept
the board. The handicappers for last Saturday’s
sports did not forget the circumstance evidently,
as they only gave film four yards in the 300, and he
didn’t come off. In the 100 yards spin, Grainger
left Falrland on the scratch when the pistol fired,
but he very fairly went back, and they started by
mutual consent. Falrland had no show, and did
not persevere after forty or fifty yards had been
covered, and Falrland trotted In In front of him.
A. Lee, the bicycle crack, came out in a new style,
and won the mile trike race, from scratch, with
ridiculous ease.
The oold water people in England are in
great glee oyer Weston’s successful 5000 mile walk
at the rate of 50 miles a day, without any alcholic
or malt stimulants. On the other hand, Weston
might have covered 60 miles a day, had he taken
the stimulants they have such a down on, so that
It cuts both ways. We once know a man to walk
from Bookham to Bowning. a distance of 15 miles,
on a hot summer’s day, with an order for a drink
at the other end, given him by some jokers just to
see how far an old soaker would walk for a
“ booze.” He got his drink, and tramped back to
Bookham the same night. How many cold water
men would do the same for a glass of their much
vaunted liquid ?
Some folks are partial to the slenderness of sweet 17;
others prefer tangible charms. Now, these two ladies
would have different ideas of beauty.
The abject terror which our demon scul-
lers inspire in the hearts of the Yankees can be
distinguished in the following par. from a N.Y.
paper:—“ Australia is said to have another great
oarsman. His name is Cliilord. It is a pity that
New South Wales has not more at the present
time, for Hanlan is now in Australia, and would
be just as eager to defeat a dozen aquatic wonders
as one. It is my opinion after Hanlan fills bis
slate and beats Trickett, Laycock, Pearce, Beach,
and probably Clifford, that the Australians will
not think they have a ohampion in their country,
for what chanoe would he have to row even our
fourth-class oarsmen when Ross beat the best man
in England after giving him a start of ten se-
conds ? ”
Every race brought off now-a-day is for a
championship of some sort. The race on Saturday
last between Brett and Wood was no exception to
the rule, and was billed “Amateur Intercolonial
Sculling Championship,” but as Fittcs happens to
hold the coveted title at present, we fail to see
where it come? In. Wood, who rowed a determined
and plucky rto3 from start to finish, had a slight
lead at Uhr’s Point, which he increased to a clear
length at the Mile. Brett then drew up, butseemed
content to keep second place till nearing Glades-
ville, whore he spurted past his opponent and led
as he pleased over the remainder of the course,
which was covered in 25 min. 46 sec. There was
very little betting on the event, as It was looked
upon as a foregone conclusion for Brett.
As usual' with the enthusiastic Glebeites,
their pair-oar race has filled up well, no less than
five pairs having signified their intention of com-
peting:—C. Williams and F. Bull, F. Williams and
Durrell, Fairweather and Cox, Ickerson and
Robertson, and Drew and M’Crae. As the club is
not possessed of sufficient equal skiffs to allow of
the race being pulled straight off, the crews will
row for boats this (Thursday) afternoon, when
Fairweather and Cox will meet Williams and Dur-
rell; Ickerson and Robertson will row against
Williams and Bull, and Drew and M’Crae will run
a bye. The final will bo rowed on Saturday after-
noon, when a good contest may be looked forward
to between the winners of the first and second
heats, but the general opinion Is that Drew and
M’Crae are outclassed, and it seems a pity one of
+he other crews did not have the luck to draw the
bye.
’Frisco would appear to be the Graeoo-
Roman’s paradise, judging from the hold that kind
of wrestling has upon the public. Professors
Miller and Bauer first started the game on the
Pacific slope, some 200 people witnessing their first
match, but at their next meeting some 3000 showed
up, and the sport haa not since lost Its popularity,
as fully 6000 persons must have witnessed the
recent bout between Muldoon and Whistler at the
Mechanics ’ Pavilion. In a previous match Mul-
doon threw Whistler and injured his shoulder, so
the agony was worked up on the supposition that
there was bad blood between the pair. The men
wrestled for three hours without a fall being ob-
tained on either side, so the usual draw was de-
clared. It was afterwards stated i hat the men had
privately agreed to make a draw of it. ’Frisco is
not the only place where wrestling matohes are
fixed up beforehand. Such things have been
known to happen in Australia.
The Association Ground oommittee have
evidently made up their minds to “sweat” the
bicycle and athletic clubs during the coming sea-
son. A prominent bicycle club was desirous of
holding a complimentary meeting, and offered the
committee a very fair thing for the use of the
ground, but were informed that they could only
have it on the following terms:—A very slender
issue of complimentary tiokets, and the ground to
take 50 per oent. of the gate money; so their com-
plimentary intentions have fallen through. It is a
pity for amateur sport the ground islnsuohhands.
But the various dubs have it ii their power to
bring the £ s. d. committee to their senses by
banding together and refusing such extortion.
True amateur sport would, without doubt, be
benefltted in Sydney by a change of Ground oom-
mittee, or the formation of a new ground; and it
is indeed to be regretted by our amateurs and
their well-wishers that the Agricultural enclosure
has such bad surroundings, as otherwise it would
pay to put the track in first-class order. But the
Association people have a monopoly, and they
evidently intend to bring in the dollars at the
expense of amateur sport.
George Bubear, the souller who was con-
sidered by the Britishers to be the ooming cham-
pion of the world, until Wallace Ross made such
easy work of him, was born at Crediton, Devon-
shire, England, in 1859, stands sft. Biin. high, and
weighs, in condition, just about list. 71b. His
father is a farm labourer, and he also followed the
same calling for several years. At sixteen years
of age he made up his mind to journey to the
metropolis, where h« worked as a sugar baker
until the year 1878, when he moved to the Soap
Works, Hammersmith, and, coming into contact
with several boating men, he joined the local
Alliance boat club, and won several club events.
Bubear’s first match for money was with Henry
Hawkins, for £25 aside, which he won. In 1881 he
was twice defeated by Godwin. In 1882 he twice
beat J. Rix, reoeived forfeit from J. Flynn, was
beaten by 8. Gookan, beat D. Silver, beat C.
Brightwell, beat D Godwin, but the stakes were
awarded Godwin on a foul; beat L. Gibson, and
beat D. Godwin. In 1883 he defeated Largan from
Putney to Mortlake in 22min. 38sec., which time
has never been beaten in a championship match.
In 1882 he made a holy show of Elliott, which was
his last race previous to his defeat by Ross.
“Blower” Brown, the once celebrated
long distance pedestrian, went the way of all flesh
on March 9, In England. Deceased was born in
London in 1843, was sft. 81n. in height, and weighed
133ib. His principal long-distanoe races were as
follow: Won second prize in a six days’ go-as-you-
g lease race for the championship of England, won
y W Gentleman (“ Corkey ”), London, Oct. 28 to
Nov. 2, 1878. Brown covered 505 miles 754 yards.
Charles Rowell was third. Won first prize in the
second competition for the same trophy, $5OO each
and a share of the gate-money, London, April 21
to 26,1879, covering 542 miles 440 yards, and beating
G. Hazael, “ Corkey,” and E. P. Weston. Won the
same belt again. Fob. 16 t 021,1880, scoringss3 miles
165 yards, and defeating G. Huzael, Sam Day, and
others June 16 to 20, 1879, he had been beaten by
E. P. Watson in the fourth competition for the
original Astlev six-day belt. The race took place
in London, Charles Rowell (who had won the
trophy in a contest with Dan O’Leary, John Ennis,
and C. A. Harriman, in New York city, in March
of that year) not taking part. Brown was ahead
at the close of the second and third days, but sub-
sequently gave it best. Like most of his class,
Brown died entirely destitute, notwithstanding the
large sums of money that must have passed
through his hands.
It is now hinted that John L. Sullivan will
write his autobiography in verse. Mrs. Sullivan,
according to report, says that no one except her-
self realises her husband's power and beauty as a
poet. She says he has in his nature that excessive
modesty which has prompted the habitual mask-
ing of poetioal work beneath a nom-dc-plume.
According to those who know, or claim to, one
morning at the breakfast-table Sullivan composed
the following poem, which the sunset had inspired.
It begins:—
The storm-goaded mountains and trees that had
battled
With winds sweeping angrily down through the
years.
Turned red in the blood of the roses of heaven,
’Neath fires lit by sunsets on vanishing spears.”
After receiving a despatch that the boxer, Ryan,
would not flgnt, he orumpled it in his hand and
hissed “Cowardl” He then quietly resumed his
writing. Mrs. Sullivan informs a reporter that
her husband covered the Ryan incident in this
verse :
“ His Cain-branded foes I How they creep in the
valley,
And creep o’er the hills in their dastardly
fright;
Afraid lest the Boston Professor should rally,
And in one little round knock them out with
his right.”
If Baron Tennyson is anywhere now, let him come
to the front, and Boston’s pride will give him his
dose.
The Suburban Bicycle Club were in luck
on Saturday last, both as regards weather and
attendance; and the arrangements, with a couple
of exceptions, we r e carried out in good style. One
mistake on Saturday was having the telegraph
board surrounded by tables, stools, and a crowd of
officials and bicyclists, in consequence of which it
was only the lucky ones in the grandstand who
caught a glimpso of the winning numbers; and
the times, which were wrttten low down on the
board, were completely hidden from view. The
procession was a success both in numbers and
execution, the Suburbans, who showed to the best
advantage, taking pride of place, and the anti-
larTiklns bringing up the rear. The one-mile
maiden handicap fell to G. Attwood; A, Lee car-
ried ofT the trloyole race; for the five-mile olub
championship. 0. R. Wood waited on his field and
won cleverly in the last fifty yards; R. S. Lambton,
120 yards, won the first heat of the one-mile open
handicap; J. M. Ferguson, 90 yards, won the secon
and the final; A. Henry, 10 yards, won the 3fo
yards’ flat race; C. Maddock appropriated the
34-mile serpentine race; the lOOyaras’ flat race fel'
to E. A. Grainger; A. Edwards, Bsec., won the mi e
without handles; C. R. Wood, 110 yards, won tie
two-mile open handicap; R. Shute never made a
mistake in the medley race, and won by about a
quarter of the course; andT. W. Mulholland and
J. B. Wellings, 80 yards, won the mile double
trioycle handicap, although Mulholland ran a fair
chance of dislocating his neok from the rapid and
fesrful manner in which he turned his head to
watch his opponents.
Matters pugilistic are remarkably brisk
in the States. Mervine Thompson is the last pugi-
list with whom it is intended to try and take down
the Yankee wonder, Sullivan; but though he is a
perfeot Hercules and has some reputation in the
ring, it is looked upon as a foregone conclusion
that he will go the way of all Sullivan’s would-be
knockers-out. Thompson has some remarkable
reoords in the way of weight lifting. He has put
up at arm’s length a 2601 b. anvil with both arms,
and with one he has elevated a bar of iron weigh-
ing 2001 b. Thompson has no need to fly at such
high game, as Sherriff has put up a deposit offering
to box or fight either Thompson or Charley Mit-
chell, but without response from either. Sullivan,
according to a Boston paper, has since he started
on his present tour, sent borne money enough to
pay off the mortgage on his place of business in
that city, and makes his mother a present of £lOOO.
George M. Robinson received some £620 for his
cowardly show against Sullivan, but in return for
it he has stood a whitewashing from the Press, and
the Olympic Club, of which he was previously the
star boxer and heavyweight lifter, has unani-
mously passed a resolution expelling him. Miller’s
aocident will prevent his entering the arena for
months to come, but had he been iu the best cf
fixes, Sullivan does not seem inclined to follow up
his challenge to knock the “ Professor ” out in
four rounds or forfeit all the gate money. Mitchell
has replied in the N.Y. Clipper to Foley’s chal-
lenge, and states he is willing to meet either Foley
or Miller, with or without the gloves. Foley is a
clever boxer with any amount of bottom, so,
should he take his intended trip to the States, a
slashing encounter may be looked forward to,
whichever way it goes.
In Peru the pace is not an artificial gait.
The great majority of the native horses are pacers,
whioh has doubtless arisen from the climate,
the nature of the country, and the extensive
sandy deserts in which a trotting and galloping
horse, sinking fetlock deep, would soon exhaust
himself ; but, apart from practical uses, the gait
has there attained the position of a positive art,
and it requires a very practical rider in that style
to do justice to a true “ caballo de paso.” There
are at least ten recognised varities of the “ paso,”
or pace, known to be initiated—the “ paso andante,”
the “paso compsgnero,” &c. We once saw a
natural pacer at Moruya. A couple of unbroken
colts were one day put up for auction, and we
persuaded our paternal parent to carry out a long-
standing promise, which resulted in one of the
pair falling to his nod. The pony was destined for
our use, and a lively bargain he turned out. After
he was broken in, and we got the regular mount,
we don’t think it is vanity on our part to state
that there wasn’t a youngster in those parts could
touch us for mounting ; but this was not to be
wondered at, considering the practice we got.
Not a move could we get out of him once he felt
the weight of a stick, and spurs were a pure waste
of steel on him. We would jump down, seize a
sapling, wave it wildly above his head, and he
would go for some fifty yards and then stop dead,
till we went through another performance with
another tree, so that in a three-mile ride it does
not take « mathematician to calculate that we
jumped off and on that steed two thousand six
hundred and forty times. The other colt turned
out the pacer we referred to, and such a pacer!
He had no other gait, and, press him as you would,
he would not break. Such is luck in horsebuying.
In connection with the Foley-Farnan
trouble, it seems Foley was only protecting him ■
self in not starting for the Cabbage Garden metro
polis until the stipulated £5O for expenses wig
placed to his credit, as—although the sum was sale
enough in the stakeholder’s hands, so far as the
stakeholder was concerned—the Farnan party
could have placed an embargo on it by a scratch
of the pen, and had Foley at their mercy. Farnan
has travelled long enough on Foley’s name, and it
seems about time he did something more to entitle
him to the claim of the championship than fight
Foley through the columns of the Melbourne
Sportsman. Foley, as a rule, is rather long
headed, but he gave himself away for a certainty
when he entered into negotiations with Farnan
over the latter's bit of bombast that he could
knock our man out in half an hour. Farnan, who,
previous to this, had no pretentions to champion-
ship form, had no money to back up his proposal,
and, as his friends did not think it good enough
to put the needful on him, a benefit was “ readied
up *’ for the stated purpose of clinching the match.
Farnam realized £l3O out of the show, which sum
ho seems quite content to pocket, without risking
his beauty or the newspaper title of Champion of
Australia. So far as Newton is concerned, though
a pretty and showy boxer, he does not possess the
stamina and terrific bitting power of Foley, and
notwithstanding his extra weight and challenges,
at latest there was no show of his putting up any
money and chancing another milling from Foley
such as they received last time they met. To give
Foley his due, when he defeated Hicken he proved
himself the best man in Australia, not through the
columns of a newspaper, but in a fair, up-standing
fight, and as neither Farnan nor Newton appears
anxious to face him, he will carry the Australian
championship into the 24-feet ring in which it is
stated he intends to meet the English champion,
Charley Mitchell. And all the harm we wish Larry
is that he may carry it out—with another cham-
pionship tacked on at the end of it.
At New York, U.S. Bibby, the American
wrestler, has been trying conclusions with the
Japanese wrestler, Makada Sorakichi, in Japanese
style, and a gay old time Bibby had of it. When
time was called the Jap rose to his full height,
stretched out his arms, clinched his fingers, bent
over baokward and roared with the mighty roar of
an angry bull. Then he dropped his head forward
as though his neck were broken and screeched
like a frenzied owl. The muscles stood out all
over his body in huge rolls and bunches, and the
sinews of his neck and arms were like whipcords.
Bibby stood with his legs well apart and his hands
outstretched, watching the Jap with amazement.
Then the Oriental stamped hisnare feet like pile-
drivers.rubbed his hands on the floor,and without an
instant s hesitation shot headforemost at his rival,
going forward as if shot from a catapult. His head
caught Bibby just on the shoulder and sent him
flying against the ropes. The Jap claimed the fall
and then there was misunderstandng and wrang-
ling, it being finally agreed that they should begin
again. Once more the Jap shot forward, but
Bibby was ready for him. The Englishman
lowered his head and the two athletes came to-
gether, the Jap dashed forward, seized the English-
man by the back of his head and by terrific effort
yanked him forward. Bibby, taken entirely un-
awares, shot head first to the floor on his face, and
the Jap won the first fall. So he did the second,
and then came the fun. The Jap once more tried
to butt, but Bibby was ready for him. As the Jap
oime at him he lowered his head and dashed for-
ward. He got lower than his antagonist and
butted him partly on the face and partly on the
chest. He loosened the Jap’s teeth, set the blood
flying from his nose and made him pant for breath.
Jap butted again, but once more Bibby got in
on him. Then Sorakichi gathered himself together
and dashed forward again. Bibby aoted as if he
had been caught in a cyclone He was knocked
half way through the ropes and before he could
1 gather himself together was yanked forward onoe
‘ more and sent sprawling on the floor. He didn’t
know what had struck him. The Jap roared with
delight danced around the stage and then joined
his friends.


The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This Is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and It Is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in whioh the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induce suffering in’
valids to use tbeir stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B*
Many others started nostrums put up in simila r
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
wnioh the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believo they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All sueh pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or.
“ Hope “ in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine Amerioan Hop Bitte.s, with
a bunch or cluster of green Heps on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s nmne blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
Caterers
(LIMITED),
to the
A.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR B*LL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking 1 Lounge. All Goods are Gnartmteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMAGHE, General Manager.
'X’lxo ZESeila/tole !
[t_i
7%
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
Hr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILILIX.A.M FLEMING-, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK
NESS, Ac.
PRICE 2a. #d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist.
43 KRSKINE BTREET.
fnli! hv W. P. BnTTf k and all (Thom lata
UMBRELLAS
RE-CQVEREu.
QTUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos-
tum«. Rnmln nnufiy axe.
sated
J. O-. Hartoorow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per g.B. Valetta. 3 eases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades;
a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS .
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A larfire stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming: season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—In great rariety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STilAWa—ln all new shapes.
Having- engaged a flrst-ciass French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now propared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
above line. A large stonk of FANCY" GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address— J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Maohine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion customer.
Write to us,
OK
Call on us.
Jm»IAJR.TIItf&COMPY.
389 GF.ORGF, STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Laycock did 3% miles on the Nepean in
23 minutes. All he has to do now is—Hanlan—
At Glen Innes, W. Doust defeated J. Bourke in
120 yards spin, for £3O At Cobar, Best defeated
uurner in 136 yards spin, for £6O, in the stated time
of 134 sec At the postponed race meeting of the
Little Billabong T.C., Gay lad won the Maiden Plate,
Cranky Jack the Billabong Handicap, Marksman
the Flying Handicap, and Novice the Corinthian
Stakes.
• • •
A Bill has been introduced in the Legisla-
ture of Ohio (TT.B.) the object of which is to pro-
hibit not only regular nakod-flst P.R. contests,
but also glove-fights and sparring exhibitions....
At the sale in Paris of the effects ol the late
Comte De Lagrange, the bridle worn by Gladia-
teur when he won the Derby brought 636 f. A
portrait of the horse brought 2420 f., and a silver
statuette which he won in 1866 brought 3310 f
A thousand hares were recently shipped by a
Chicago (U S.) commission merchant to England,
which created muoh comment in America and in
that country. They turned out to have been
shipped dead and sold for food in the English
market. Someone must have been having a little
“game” over the affair Three or four Arabian
horses have gone over from India to take part in
the Arab race at the Newmarket July Meeting....
Jim Mayne, in his day one of the best sprint-run-
ners in England, and an opponent of Westhall,
Pudney and others, died in London Feb. 23.... A
sawing-match between Robert Amos and Wm, J.
Cockburn against J. Worthington and McClifford
came off at Hamilton, Ont., March 11, the former
couple winning by cutting through a 23in. log in
lm. 45s A couple of stallions, draught and
trotting, recently had a big shiveo at Preston,
U.S. The big horse burst through the side of his
box and a solid board fence to get at his antagon-
ist, and for a few minutes the contest raged
until the horses were separated by their
owner. Both horses were badly out and bitten,
the trotter rather having the best of the fight.
Mr. James Mirams, the pugnacious little
Victorian legislator, took the chair at a Harmy
demonstration, and—it’s hardly necessary to men-
tion-made a speech. James can always struggle
through a speeoh, even under the damping in-
fluence of groans, out on this occasion, enoouraged I
by vollevs of “Hallelujahs 1” and “Praise the
Lords,” he beoame more than usually communi-
cative. In the course of his remarks, Mr. M. stated
that he had been a careful “ student of Salvation
Army literature," and, strangely enough, he
seems to like it. Some of the “ despatches ’’ in the
War Cry have convinced James that the Harmy
is “taking a message of peace and love to the
people,” and as he is essentially a man oi peace and
love himself (especially in political matters), it was
only natural that he should express his hearty
sympathy with the movement. “We are all,” said
Jimmy, “of one body, working for the one grand
object we have in view—the salvation of a dead
and dying world.” But what on earth does the
little man mean by “a dead and dying world ?”
Stoddart! W. C. Stoddart! Who the
devil’s Stoddart? Never heard of the bandit
before, and yet he seems to be slightly acquainted
with some of us, for in a recent Overland
Monthly (San Francisoo)thls concentrated essence
of Trollope, Forbes, Moncure Conway, Ananias,
and Reuter says:—“The travelling Australian
colonist is an angular nonentity, tipped with a
cork helmet, and with a field-glass on his hip, or
he is a perfectly round and well-fed, if not over-
fed, person, whose face seems to have all expres-
sion scrubbed out of it; on the street he is an
i nterrogation in a puggerv, or a satirioal, paren-
thetical comment enclosed in feminine brackets’
...... The old kangaroo in knicker-
bockers, and the dowager emu on his arm,
turn from us disdainfully when we have
been ogled to their heart’s content.” Shades
of the mighty dead! Listen to this daring
ink-slinger’s diabolical blasphemy 1 Calls our
silvery-lock'd patriot’s “old kangaroos”; and
“dowager emus” is the title he gives to the
Mother of our Gracchi 1
A few Sundays ago, just as the drought
was breaking up and the weather was showery, a
company of the Gospel Blue Ribbon Harmy—a
sorry crowd, indeed—pitched their camp in the
afternoon under a tree in the Domain near the
Picture Gallery. After the usual preliminary
howling, one of the gang took a shift at praying.
“Oh Loard,” yelled the loud-mouthed and illite-
rate prayist, “ we beseech thee to send the refresh-
ing rain on to the ground, and Loard, send it at
once; yea, send it now.” But the boss of the pro-
ceedings, who was perched on the back rail of a
seat, quickly interposed in a kind of pig’s whisper,
“But not, Loard, until our little meeting is over,”
and he beamed with a saintly smile, as much as to
say, “ I think that was nicely dovetailed in as the
weather is threatening.” And then an irreverent
navvy, who was standing alongside, addressed his
mate: “Look at the fellow a-larflng, Bill, at
his own words what ’e said to the Lord.” But
the Loard took no notice of the Oapting’s saving
clause, for the prayer of the full private prevailed,
and the plumes of the Harmy presented a be-
draggled appearance after a copious shower.
Phew! Talk about a night policeman’s
loot; look at this lot. At the Central Criminal
Court, London, a letter-carrier named Peter Bagly
was recently charged with stealing letters. At the
prisoner’s lodgings was discovered an astonishing
variety of articles supposed to have been ab-
stracted from letters and parcels. About twenty
sil/er brooches, a number of chains, Bibles, wed-
ding-cake, garters, solitaires, eighty boxes of pills,
ladies’ ornaments, gas-fittings, diamond rings,
twelve boxes of worm powders, “Life of at.
Patrick,” dog-collars, three richly embroidered che-
mises, two cruppers, package of eye-water, a copy
of Her Majesty s last work “More Leaves,” four
packets of rat-exterminating powder, two copies
of “Marriage Reform” (byAnnie JBesant), and a
corkscrew, together with enough papers to soak
up the Atlantic Ocean. The prisoner at first de-
clared he didn’t know how these things came into
his rooms, but, being closely pressed, fie owned up,
and recommended himself to mercy on the as-
tounding plea that he was “ drunk at the time, and
didn’t know what he was doing.” Mr. Bagly,
therefore, must have been constantly “ corned ’’
for the past four years, or else he must have been
able to nave humped round an almighty big load
in one delivery.
Minister Abbott opened the new Publio
School at Plattsburg, the other day, and, in the
course of his speeoh, made needlessly unhappy
reference to the convict strain in the district
population. Nothing could be in worse taste than
this:—“ I find that 48 years ago there was In the
county of Northumberland a total population of
5016 persons, of whom 1978 were convicts, in 1838
there was only one school in the county, supported
wholly or in part by the Government, and that
was in the city of Newcastle. . . . Well may
we feel that we have done something to oarry
out the views of the Right Honorable Lord Vis-
count Glenelg ” (Abbott wouldn’t call a Lord out
of his name for the world) “who, in writing to Sir
Richard Bourke, on the 30th November, 1838, said
That in no part of the world is the general educa-
tion of the people a more sacred and necessary
duty of the Government than in New South
Wales.’ But, much as we have done, there is still
much—very much—to be done.” O, Abbott,
Abbott, where was your tact ? The Right Honor-
able Lord Viscount’s innuendo was plain enough,
and, at the time, apropos to the time—but do you
wish it to be inferred from your deliverance tnat
the “ strain ” is strong up the Hunter way ? If
not, why speak as you did ?
Some experiments were made last week
near Fort Macquarie, to test the merits of cyanite
as a protector of linen, oanvas, wood, &c., against
fire. “ The crowning experiment,” says Granny’s
young man, “ was the firing of two wooden sentry-
boxes, one painted with cyanite and the other left
in its natural condition, but both filled with and
surrounded by shavings saturated with petroleum.
There was such an amount of fuel that both were
consumed, but it was evident that the cyanite
formed a good protection for the boards to which
it was applie i, some of them being oharred on ouo
Bide by the Intense heat to which they were sub-
jected, while there was not a trace of fire on the
outside. This experiment was not such a success as
it might have been had the supply of fuel been less
liberal." But let us suppose the supply of fuey
had been less liberal, and the “ success ” of the
cyanite more marked, how about the value of the
experiment ? It seems to us that unless one can
always so command the precise amount of heat to
be put into aotive force at a fire so as to keep it
below the degree that will play the dickens with
cyanite-proteoted boards, one had best not go into
using the preparation very extensively. That
cyanite evidently formed a good protection
against fire for the boards of a sentry-box that
was consumed by fire, is one of those enigmatic
faoing-two-ways S.M. Herald-Ibids that no fellow
can understand.
Fooling around in a liv© lion’s mouth is
fun enough in itself, and so is that diluted
insanity known as Spiritualism; but when the two
things come together, the joy must be something
heavenly. All of which leads us to believe that
we’ll shortly take a trip to Paris, for a show is
now being run up there by a Spiritualist, who is a
bit of a mesmerist also, and the lion-tamer in
charge of a big menagerie. According to tho
Parisian papers, there was high old sport in this
circus not long ago, when a beautiful young girl
was thrown by the Spiritualist into a cataleptic
sleep, after which the lion-puncher carried her
into the den, and when one of the lions had been
lashed into fury, the head and arm of the unfortu-
nate girl were poked into his mouth repeatedly.
But the apparently dead body did not excite the
animal’s appetite any more than a log of blue-gum
would, and at the end of the scene the girl was
released, and went smiling away, whilst the
worthy proprietors of the snow scooped in a big
pot of money. Some of those nights, that lion will
tumble to the trick that’s played off on him, and
then it will be a case of Sing hey the merry maiden
and the guillotine.
Now that “ retrenoh ” is our battle cry,
how would it pay to boil down the expenses in-
curred in printing useless acres of returns moved
for by some of our brilliant legislators? How wouH
it do to saddle these worthies themselves with
part of the cost ? The amount of money slopped
away every year in this style of egregious “ dam-
phoolishnesB’‘ (to use a Hebrew word), is simply
enormous, and, as a sample thereof, take the fol-
lowing. On Deoember 8,1881, Mr. Kidd, who was
one of the members for Oamden, Kidded his
brother Solons to carry a resolution to the effect
“that there should be laid on the table of the
House copies of all reports made during the last
five years as to the trials of coal from ooal mines
situated on the Great Southern Railway.” Tim<?
rolled on, and Mr. Kidd rolled with it. In faol, he
even distanced the old ohampion pedestrian, and
rolled clean out of the world altogether. But
the commission t© report on “ them coals ” kept
plodding along at the usual departmental, mud-
turtle pace, until at last, on 29th November, 1883,
the ohf-f of the enquiry declared tho report was
Seady for Mr. Kidd’s speoial information. But as
£r. Kidd was at that time being measured for a
new set of summer wings to enable him to flop
round on the Golden Shoah, he took no interest in
the respective merits of Great Southern Railway
ooals whatever, and the hardly-worked and badly-
paid commission felt fit to kick itself with rage
when told of ex-Benator Kidd’s want of enthusi-
asm for the subject of enquiry. The invaluable
documents referred to occupy nearly forty sides
of foolscap, but the only use they can be put to
now is to wrap Ministers’ lunches in, or to plug up
the rat-holes in our dazzling halls of legislature.
As a last hope, however, the Government Printer
has bound the cheerful chat together, and, with
a faoetiousness worthy of the foreman of a
coroner’s inquest jury, he informs the hungry
publio that copies can be had on payment of Is. 6d.
each. As yet, the work has not exactly reached its
32nd edition, neither has the seraphio Kidd acknow-
ledged the reoeipt of his own particular copy. And
this is but one of a thousand other similar rob-
beries on the public purse.
We think it is about time to give p®or old
John Brown a rest. Of course we mean his
memory. His mortal part is quiet enough now,
and his kilt frays the back of his legs no more. It
is quite enough for his soul to be marching on
without running his reputation from post to
pillar. We have noticed with subdued regret that
certain journals have betrayed a tendency to play
at shuttleoock—or sticklebat, or battledore, or
whatever the phrase may be—with the stories of
i his devotion contained in the late life-ary master-
I pieoe of Her Majesty. This oonduct, if persisted
In. is likely to shako the foundations of the Con-
stitution and flood the land with anarchy and hop
bitters. Should suoh a deplorable state of things
come to pass, we will have the pleasure of thinking
that we did our best to avert it. When we inform
you that the Queen has decided to permanently
close the rooms at Windsor Castle which were
ocoupied by John Brown, and to place a
large brass plate in his sitting-room with
an inscription recording his virtues, and de-
ploring his loss, we think we have nearly done
our duty. We will only add that if Her Majesty
intends to be exact, a good deal of the plate will be
taken up with the deploring. Yet, we may as well
say before we conclude, that the Queen, though
she has manifested muoh genuine sorrow about
his decease, has hardly done the generous thing
with regard to his sepulture. She should certainly
have had him buried in Westminster Abbey. That
historic home of the illustrious dead is pretty well
full, but it would have been easy to have carted
away the dust of a few poets and useless people of
that sort, to make room for the remains of a man
of such immortal merit as John Brown. We would
have willingly assigned our own claim to a tomb
there and gone to rest in the honoured, if unos-
tentatious, gin-case of our fathers, had Her
Majesty put the matter nicely to us. But she did
not. Our family and the Royal family were always
on cool terms. Still, wo think this fact should
have been forgotten in a matter of such national
importance. However, even this slight will not
prevent us—when we go home—from making a
pilgrimage to the grave of the illustrious Brown,
and planting something there—a sausage, say.
And now, if we ever mention the name of Brown
again, we will consent to be buried in the family
vault of Henniker Heaton.


JIURNITURE SHOW BOOHS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Bpring streets, Bydney.
Hall f urnit urk, hatstan i». _ •«c
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINET” for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for (dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, & c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods.
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDRO.OM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 00s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from lOsftd; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
r'C
5
jQQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOII strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 86s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCABIONj4LcTABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, Ac.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 46 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EABY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from S feet long and up to 20 teet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
8
SSS
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Use above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can he obtained, Instantly, and witb but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterle and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT Items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very extern
sive assortment iu Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
-|7l RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
X? TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con'
□ell-street.
W
ASHSTANDB, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
a t AIiDKX SKATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
VT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B~ EM TWOOD FURNITURE.— A very complete
Assortment; best make, low eat prices.
SOCIAL
A conoert in aid of the choir of St. John’s
Church, Wagga, was given to a high-class audience
in the local Masonic Hall. Ihe chorus li c
in its beauty,” from “ Donna del Lago, was well-
given by the choir and amateurs. A trio, In
magic-wove scarf,” followed, by Miss A. Baker and
Messrs Broadhurst and Hall; and the lady also
sang “When sparrows build, and, as < , er ? c 9 r ®’
“ Yes, Sir.” The next singer, Mr. Dart, failed to
appear, and probably Cupid’s dart stopped him,
“Mark how the heavens,” by thes h ,9 lr ’ t r aS ii? e °l
the best items. M iss L. Philips and Mr. Broadhurst
played a good instrumental duet; lolanthe by
Mr. Flood caused a “ fresh” of applause; and the
Masher duet by Messrs Monson and Jamieson
made us laugh almost as much as when we read in
the Noos that John Macintosh had made a very
eloquent speech.”
*
The Mercantile Rowing Club Ball will be
held again early in July, and this y® ar . t^. er ®
be no fancy dress. The fact is, the .ball has in
eight years become so enormously popular that it
has grown really larger than is wanted, ana a very
responsible affair to manage. The committee now
intend to limit the tickets; to exercise such pre-
cautions in circulating them as will ensure a
thoroughly select assemblage ; and to have the
ball more like it was when first started as a pleasant
annual reunion among the members and their
friends. Messrs. D. Murray aud W. A. Blackstoue
will again take the helm.
* * v
Nithsdale Rooms, on Friday, held the third
Bachelors’ Assembly of this season. The fourth
will occur second Friday in June, and end the pre-
sent series. During the next four months, a
second series will be held, and those desiring to
continue their membership, have to renew it at
once, as there are so many desirous of entering.
Mr. C. J. Roberts, vice-president, sent an apology
for not being present as expected. Mr. Needs pro-
vided fine music, and the catering, as usual, was
capitally done. Indeed, the whole affair was as
smooth and agreeable as anyone could desire; the
young ladies were not matronised as much as they
occasionally are, and the programme included
about one-third waltzes. A Castlorragh-street
lady displayed the newest stylo of ball dress, the
tulle skirts very amply extended falling without
flounce or trimming of any kind right from the
waist to the hem; a style which the gliding move-
ment of dancing renders effective. Low bodices
of silk or satin, and short or no sleeves, are gener-
ally worn with these floating waterfall skirts.
Two Cockatoo visitors were marked for prime
dancing skill; and to circle around with the
wearer of white and pink pompons, or the
ruby and maroon of her sister, seemed
to be the yearning desire of a score of
youthful hearts. Another beautiful waltzer
was in old gold covered with blaok lace. A
College-street lady in cream excelled in dancing;
and there was no room on their programmes for
all the admirers of two Phillip-street sisters, both
in blaek and claret. In white and striped pink si'k
was a pretty Redfern petite, with a complexion
such as the scriptures say David acquired by shep-
herding, though the little Redfern belle probably
didn’t get hers in the same way. A graceful young
dancer wore a simple dress of cigar-brown, and
few looked daintier. A tall, bright girl from Ash-
field was in black broche, aud none was handsomer.
A little brunette with pearls in her hair, from
York-street,wore a delicious toilette: the bodice of
bright crimson velvet, and the skirt of fine white
lace—dazzling white. It was one of the very
prettiest toilettes, and, besides that, a pair of tiny
crimson shoes drew attention to the fact that the
fresh-looking little wearer was the airiest and best
of partners. Dances were made a fair length, and
all the “squares” were quickly formed, which is a
great comfort, as everyone knows. Above the
conservatory the roof was open to the sky, which
is also a comfort on a warm night, to say nothing
of the great help which ferns, and dim solitude,
and moonlight afford to a girl with a purpose in
this providential one year out of four.
• • •
On Tuesday last-week, the Petersham Owls
had another social evening, which the members’
lady friends blessed with their inestimable pre-
Bence. As usual, it was half singing and half
dancing; and, as usual, those vital young people
who think that the globe was specially built for
dancing purposes, thought the first part of the
•evening thrown away. Nevertheless, there was
<very good musio at the concert, and the Owls are
(fortunate in being able to secure the services of
such musicians as Misses St. Clair, Deakin, and
Roberts, Herr Francik, Mr. Fairfax, &c. Two or
three new faces were seen. A New Zealand
visitor’s solb was appreciated, sung with fine full
voice and in good style. Pretty Miss Josephine,
who was arrayed in pink with a quilted satin front,
was the acquisition of tho evening with her two
sweet solos, and the Owls will probably be wise
enough to get her every time—it they can. Miss
Marie St. Clair and her sister Madeline, who wore
a pretty straw-tinted silk, decollete and sleeve-
less, with ivy trailed across, sang solos, and also a
trio with a gentleman whose voice was not heard
to its best advantage, in consequence of his omit-
ting to use it. Messrs. Jeffreson and Ivimey also
sang; and soon after 10 o’clock dancing com-
menced, and was kept up till the midnight train
was due.
• ■ •
Suburban Bioyole Club race meeting last
Saturday. It was an important day, and the
weather-wise knew, when they saw the thick
white mist in the early morning, it would be a fine
one. Whether the weather is bright or bad makes
a difference of a huudred or two pounds to a
Sports Club on its annual race-day, so the Subur-
bans were in high spirits as they rode in procession
from Wynyard-square to the Association Ground.
The Naval Brigade band played a selection of airs at
one end of the staud. As the 5-mile club champion-
ship race was fixed third on the programme, those
who did not come early missed a splendid race, in
which the skyblue silk of C. R. Wood came home
in front. And they missed, too, the sight of Lee,
on that beautiful gem of modern mechanism, the
new Humber tricycle, making what is called “a
show” of all competitors with its extraordinary
speed. A couple of novel items were placed on
the list—in the }4-mile serpentine race the riders
raced half way round on a clear course and then
had to wind in and out round a number of hurdles,
which devious way »f travelling resulted in several
riders coming to grief, in consequence of their
equilibrium not being equal to their enthusiasm.
The medley race was very funny; only four were
in it at the start, and immediately afterwards
everyone could see there was only one in it, for
Shute ran almost out of sight of the others. The
others were so grieved at his leaving them, that,
after pushing their machines the prescribed % lap,
they seemed too much affected to be able to get
on. After riding one lap, all had to finish the nice
by carrying their machines 14 lap, and this was the
part where the competitors especially began to
suffer grief and pain. The machines weighed only
about 401 b., but if all the spirits of perversity had
planned together, they couldn't have devised a
thing more refractory as an article of freight than
a bicycle. There are a great many good points
about a bicycle, but there’s not one that won't
dig you in the tenderest spots, in spite of all care,
directly vou begin to handle the pesky thing; and
it is full of angles that squeeze your fingers, and
tear your clothes and scrape your skin all the
time. As a horse, the machine has its advantages,
especially when corn is dear; but when a man has
to carry one, he feels it a device of the adversary
to make him use bitter language. At 4 o’clock
there was a parade, when over a hundred bicyclists
and tricyclists manoeuvred round the ground in
single file, twos, fours, and sixes, led by the
Suburban Club ; the Sydneys, Redferns, Wan-
derers, Balmains, -and Orientals following. The
Suburbans came in for rounds of cheers each time
they passed. On the lawn, the show of costumes
was fair, and there was a constant parade. Velvets
and homespuns in dark colours prevailed. One
white bridal satin, draped with broad white luce,
was worn by a tall Darlioghurst lady. Simple blue
and white check under a straw bonnet suited its
young wearer deliciously. Another white was
liberally offered for inspection during the whole
afternoon; it was worn by a young doctor’s sister,
with a chaudron plush hat and long black wrinkled
gloves, and looked very fashionable and graceful.
Rather new in idea was the style of a green home-
spun, which stood out from the waist perfectly
plain, but was circled by half-a-dozen two-inch
tucks right round the skirt above the hem. A
petite young lady from Leichhardt was garbed in
the neatest of black surah silks, parasol and hat to
match. Three handsome sisters, of whom two are
married, were together. One wore a grey silk
polonaise and dark velvet underdress ; an-
other, a curious combination of biscuit-coloured
stuff and golden-green plush a dress that
was unique, yet in perfect taste; and the
third lady, exquisitely pretty, and not Jong
since a bride, wore combined velvet and silk
of gunpowder blue, with bonnet en suite. The
handsome step-daughter of a reverend gentleman
was entirely in black, and in faultless style. Brown
brocks and silk garbed a graceful musician ; and a
Hebrew lady, who paraded early, showed a well
made burgundy velvet with peaked bodice, full
skirt, and a puce peaked hat. Two other young
ladies, who, presuming they are good, go to the
synagogue, wore nice costumes of modish design ;
one was brown velvet and ottoman cord, four-
nounced skirt ; the other a com-flower-blue
broche, ruffed neck, waterfall cashmere skirt and
ribnons to match. A fair girl wore all crushed,
strawberry in satin ottoman and looped ribbons;
and in her company was a nice dark green ottoman
faced with green velvet and edged with grey fur.
A unique dress was of very coarse homespun
draped in a pouf at back and trimmed with fur
exactly matching, that is, a rich seal brown. Two
neat mono-coloured costumes were worn by
sisters, all leaden-blue, bunched behind, velvet
zigzagged across the bodice and edging the back
drapery, yellow suede gloves; hats like the
dresses. Two Balmain ladies looked charming
in the different shades known as Oxford and
Cambridge blue; and two apparent sisters were
very brilliant in Naples blue satin and velvet
A pretty style of the lace Jabot-Fichu is
shown above. The material is cream figured
net, but chenille spotted gauze is still more
pretty. The loose gathering at the neck is
finished off by numerous loops of velvet or
heavy ribbon.
trimmed with blue laee; hats of cream. A navy
blue dress with five flounces was edged with gold
braid ; and several costumes were seen with the
same style of trimming. Very queenly was the
figure seen for but a little while on the lhwn—
garbed in rich green velvet with hip drapery of
green silk, small green velvet hat, the whole dress
being splendidly made. Decidedly the figure of
the lawn.
* • •
Preparations are being actively made for
the Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball, which takes
place in West’s Rooms, on the 30th inst. Sir. G. W.
Allen, as patron, benignly smiles upon the occa-
sion. All details will be carefully looked to, good
support is promised, and for the benefit of ladies
we note that almost all the committee are smart
young fellows, and still single.
** * '
A new social movement has sprung up in
England. It appears to have originated at Oxford
University, where a number of the undergraduates
have decided that the title of ‘Esquire” has be-
come so much vulgarised that it ought to be aban-
doned by gentlemen. Parents and guardians are
astonished and somewhat amused by solemn in-
junctions from the young men at college never to
address them as “ Esquire ” any more. An effort
is being made to get up the same agitation at
Cambridge. Plain “ Mr.” is henceforth to be the
distinguishing badge of social eminence. We can
quite understand the feelings of these young men;
and when we were young we used to feel just the
same way, and wonder how the deuce it was the
world didn’t recognise our merit. Somehow, we
never hit upou this brilliant plan.
* • •
A curious piece of news comes from
America—that the giving up of seats to women in
the street cars of New York has almost entirely
ceased to be a practice. No matter how young or
handsome a woman may be, or how well dressed,
she is usually left standing in a crowded car.
Brokers, professional men on their way home
from down town, merchants with excellent man-
ners—all these now sit complacently while women
stand at their very knees. Old woman are an ex
ception to this rule, and there is one other, accord-
ing to observers. During the hours of the late
afternoon, when the cars are full of mechanics
and working women, mixed with shoppers in
finery, the men in the garb of labour will relinquish
their seats readily to those whose dress similarly
betokens toil, but never to those arrayed for
leisure.
* * *
The Eureka plain and fancy dress ball
came off on Tuesday, the 6th instant, in Tatter-
sail's Hall, Castlereagh-street, and proved to be
an event of so enjoyable a character that it will
doubtless have a red letter mark among the
socialities of the season. Not a small share in the
success of the evening must be ascribed to the ad-
mirable efforts of Mr. C. Gee’s band, by which
good danceable music was provided for the twenty
and one “ events ” set forth on the carte de dame.
The programme itself was a tasteful production,
and with its gay colouring and silver cord contri-
buted a pretty attachment to the dresses of the
ladies. The opportunity for bright display had
not been lost sight of by those present, and fancy
costumes were universal, the exceptions being un-
uoticeable. This was a different experience from
that of many plain and fancy dress balls, in which
the saving clause has been so generally availed of
by unobtrusive people as to rob the dances ef
their most charming feature. Mr. J. C Callaghan
providored with a lavish hand, and his catering
was fully appreciated, the supper—or series of
suppers, because the refreshment room was thrown
open repeatedly without any lack of material or
patronage-being properly enjoyed on all sides.
Turning to the costumes, an ample field for
description and commendation presents itself; not,
perhaps, on account of the originality displayed, so
much as for artistic taste. There was the Colleen
Bawn, represented by a little city lady, and a
pretty colleen, too. If the original was anything
like her, no wonder Myles-na-Coppaleen took that
blood-curdling flight on the old rope to snatch
her from the cruel tide. Then there was Little
Red Riding Hood, like a cutting out of the picture-
book of childhood’s days. Sailor Lassie, a neat
conception in blue serge—not a bit like the sailor
lassies we recollect, with limbs like gladiators,
humping tackle on the sad sea shore—was a bright
eyed girl, the sister of the Colleen Bawn; and,
when that battery of two pairs of eyes was
brought into action, the effect was terrific. Clau-
dine was very charming; and so was Mari tana,
oven to the tambourine and the inevitable
streamers. We protest against these streamers,
however, which appear to have been added to the
character since the advent of a certain Victorian
artiste on the Sydney stage. Pretty little Rose
Mers6e never wore them, and, when we listened to
“ The harp in the air ” and lost ourselves, in a
maze of music and black eyes, we didn’t put down
our No. 10 and say there is one thing wanting
and that is streamers. Miss Long appeared in the
character of a French Cabin Boy, in a costume
quite good enough for “going to sea.” Miss
Geoghan did havoc asHelen Macgregor,wearing the
orthodox Rob Roy tartan. Next comes Patience,
pretty and winning, with a pail that would get in
the way, and a dainty little costume that never
in this wide world would do for milking cows.
Then there was the Colleen Bawn—but we have
mentionod the Colleen twice already: strange how
our thoughts stray. Miss Service looked well in a
gracefully-fltting evening dress of claret-coloured
plush and pink ottoman broche, trimmed with
pearls and eidelweißS lace. Miss Burns and Miss
Taylor as Harlequina and Derby Girl respectively,
were prettily attired in costumes which, to look at
was to admire, but to describe is—orkard. Many
other bright and fanciful costumes—School Girl
and Nancy Lee, aud Moonlight, for;example—were
to be seen; but brief notice must content us, as
time is cruel. Among the gentlemen, Mr.
M’Donald was Night and Morning, one haif of him
in a perpendicular line being white, the other
black; and he fitted his part successfully, even to
smiling on one side of his mouth, while the other
remained bathed in melancholy. Mr. Rice was
dressed as a Clown, not omitting the conven-
tional paint and powder. The latter disap-
peared as the evening wore on. Perhaps
it was the dancing, or perhaps-but we know how
powder uoes wear off sometimes. The genial
reveller who wore the costume of Bunthorne was
too jovial a spirit for the character of the sour
aesthete, but the incongruity was not unwelcome.
Mr. Maxwell as a Sailor, another gentleman as a
Jockey, a Spanish Nobleman, and many more con-
tributed to the variegated aspect of the gay and
animated scene. On the stroke of four, the last
strains of music died away.
• • ■
Last week a most pleasant Social was held
on the premises of the Compagnoni Catering Co.,
being given to the employes of the establishment
by Mr. Mr. E. D. Tollemache, manager, and the
company. About 50 were present, and dancing
commenced at 9 o’clock, to the capital music of
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Drowsiness, biliousness, pains and aches,
and ague, Hop Bitters always cures. Bead.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and iloral decorations. 604 Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roi'bts. mis
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbi;?. <:■ &i e 1
§ut by "Rough on Rats.” Mosul, .M'vst .o.
ydney, General Agents.
Pxtxbxwlly wllurn. One might think this
is Welsh or any other outlandish lingo, but it is the
sweetest, warmest, lovingest sentence your sweet-
heart can tell you, and says a great deal more than
we could venture to print. For the key see the
Confidential Correspondence Guid®,’’ advertised
in ogr columns.*
In days gone by it was the custom for ladies to
bestow upon those they favoured a glove, which,
carried in some conspicuous way, was a kind of
incentive to mutilate “the human form divine,"
and generally to seek “a bubble reputation even
at the cannon's mouth." In this prosaic 19th cen-
tury, our fair friends do not, shall we say provoke,
their admirers to such deeds: iu fact, as the world
has grown older it has become wiser, and ladies
wear their gloves as ladies should. At the same
time, we find our sisters and sweathearts—and, by
the way, our wives—not averse to the gift of any-
thing under a dozen pairs. A few days ago, we
ourselves felt under an obligation of this nature,
and to redeem it, we assayed to reach the Palace
Emporium in the Haymarket. The Little Glove
Case was, as usual, besieged by fair buyers, and
we were soon satisfied that we had come to the
right shop. A young lady fitting on a new pair of
gloves, is a pleasing and instructive sight. We
naie the delicate, yet firm manipulation of each
and every linger; we have patience, perseverance,
fortitude under difficulties, and other golden
qualities shining out pre-eminent. Your big
sloppy ill-made glove glides on to the hand with
ease, or splits in an unprofitable struggle ; the
genuine article is tender yet strong, and provokes
only to please. Our experience, on this occasion,
was of “the genuine article,” und after purchas-
ing our dozen pairs, we came away inwardly con-
scious that we had done the correct thing.*
Biz.
William Ritchie’s Agricultural Imple-
ment Works, Granville.
There is, perhaps, no manufacturer in all Aus-
tralia more widely known than William Ritchie*
agricultural implement maker, formerly of Parra-
matta, but now of Granville. For upwards of
fifteen years has Mr. Ritchie’s implements of
husbandry been before the Australian public, and
there is, probably, no other manufacturer in the
colonies wbo has been in more competitions or
carried off more prizes. And certainly the success
ho has *von is a reward for patient industry, honest
work, and inventive skill. Every farmer almost
in the colonies can run his mind over the various
improvements in farming appliances which have
at last landed us in the present satisfactory con-
dition of affairs. Well, this improvement, as re-
gards Mr. Ritchie’s innumerable productions, is
the result of gradual practical tests. For
instance, no new pattern of plough has ever
be-en turned out by Mr. Ritchie without being
first tested at work by himself in land about
Parramatta and Granville. Hence, whenever his
ex hibits came to be tested at all the great agricul-
tural shows, a. practical trial invariably resulted
in the highest awards. Mr. Ritchie is the holder
of between thirty and forty medals, and notably
the International prize and the Hordern Silver
Cup. Almost every farming district in N.S.W. and
Queensland has been largely supplied with ploughs
or other implements by Mr. Ritchie, notably the
new Northern farming districts of Queensland;
and it’s not surprising, though hardly fair, to find
Mr. Ritchie’s designs copied by well-known English
and German manufacturers, who otherwise find
the competition with Mr. Ritchie too severe for
their success. Mr. William Ritchie commenced
business as plough and farm implement maker at
Parramatta fifteen years ago. There he made his
biig success, and visited one time or other all the
gireat shows of the two colonies. Now he is at
Granville, where there is greater room for work.
His factory, one of the best lighted, coollest, and
b( ist fitted in the colonies, can turn out upwards of
sixty single and double and three-furrow ploughs,
ai id scarifiers, dam ploughs, scoops, &c. per week,
ai id twenty-live to thirty hands are constantly em-
ployed, the whole work being under the personal
su perintendencQ of William Kitchie himself. Yisi-
to rs to the metropolis are specially invited to the
w orks The proper and only address for the great
pi ough maker is now William Ritchie, Agricul-
tural Implement Maker, Granville.
Mr. John Try’s Brickworks, Merrylands.
’The adage, “every naan to his own business,” is
well proved by the success of the branches of
manufacture established by Mr. John Try, in con-
nection with his extensive contract work. Mr. Try
is comparatively a young man, but his name is
associated with some of our principal building
undertakings—notably with Frazer’s splendid wool
warehouse (Trebeck and 1 Son), Circular Quay, and
Solomon’s store, York- street. To expeditiously
carry on these works, Mr. Try established large
joinery works in Cast Jereagh-street, opened a
quarry at Randwick, ar id started one of the most
promising steam brick i ind tile factories at Merry-
lands, Granville. It is well known that our prin-
cipal contractors sub-J.et their brick, stone, and
joinery work, with the inevitable result of loss or
delay. With these th ree successful branches in
his own hands, howe’ rer, Mr. Try, besides econo-
mising enormously, bias been able to build with
expedition—Solomon’ gstores in York-street being
notable proof in poin t. Mr. Try himself supplied
the whole material for those Mammoth Stores.
Mr. Try’s brickwork s at Merrylands, which form
the subject of this ai •tide, are three-quarters of a
mile from the Gran vil’e Junction, and are cer-
tainly the most eco notnically rmauaged works of
the kind in Australia This is an essential
point, for while similar undertakings with
largo subscribed ca pital have proved disastrous
failures, these work g, started on a sound economi-
cal basis, have prov< »«1 asolid success from the first.
A well-chosen site < if between eight and ten acres
alongside Merry land Is Station, with inexhaustible
water supply, and a depth of workable clay of
40 feet and an additi oraal belt of shale of 35 feet, is
simply what this tint i Merrylands property is. The
land once secured, Mr. Try commenced work in-
stanter, and within pi month a kiln full of bricks
was ready—no wash iful expenditure of money for
machinery, but prr ictical work to pay from the-
outset. The work grew, till the capacity of the
works has reached a capability, if required, of
100,000 bricks per we ek. Three Kilns are in opera-
tion—one of the Cu pola, and two of the old
pattern—and, as tisi lal when well built, t.htwSjfontt
turn out bricks of < lxtraordinary durability. Tht,
extensive workings, commenced about the centre*
of the ground, have now reached 30 feet deep,
over an area o f 150 feet, showing the vast extent
of work. These excavation* show the nature of
the country, 30 ifeet of clay showing in the
face, under which lies the belt of 35 feet of
shale. A trol ly runs from the excavations to a
height of 60 feet, steam hauling gear operating;
the clay b.eing dropped over the rollers
by means 'of a mechanical appliance, which,
on return of the truck, likewise closes it.
Not the siig htest hit ch occurs in this work all day,
and no care or attention is required from the
workmen. The rollers and pug-mill are of un-
matched compactness, and the driving gear is so
well arrar.ged, that winding, grinding, and pump-
ing, die., are done with a splendid little 8-h.p.
engine, tjurning only % ton of coal fortnightly.
Mr. Iry s own patent operates in the pug-mill,
with surprising results, the pug being delivered in
splendi d order. The workmen s tables are handy,
and near by are tile extensive drying-sheds,
*y but strongly put. up, capable of holding
* n a( ldition to which are track-grounds for
lOO.iyjO more. The kiln-burning, which is a most
imp ortant feature, turns out a splendid, clean-cut
brlok, hard as adamsmt. One of the principal
branches is the different shaped and coloured
brick which Mr. Try’s manager can produce .An
avpliance on the pre mises allows of a thousand
•different shapes being moulded, and then burnt to
any colour, from dark brown to the brightest red,
as seen in Frazer’s splendid warehouse, .Bridge-
street. Any pattern oi bricks, any colour, can be
delivered in thousands, three weeks from the
order. It’s not surpriuing from all this, that Mr.
Fry is able to deliver pricks in Sydney and
district at rates which give him very great
command of the trade. Mr. William Gray is
manager of the Merry 1; inds works, and brings to
the enterprise great capability and 40 years’ prac-
tical experience. Mr. T’ry’s economical system is
also worked out at h*s Sydney Joinery Works. In
a compact space, here is a network of the latest
mechanical appliances, driven by al6-h.p. engine,
from the largest vertical boiler in Australia
probably. There is no practical builder or trades-
man who could not learn something from Mr
'fry’s well-planned establishment. Mr. Try has
just been entrusted with the William-street Post-
office. to co t£3ooo, and the N.S.W. Club building
in Bligh-street, to cost £lB,OOO. He is certainly
to be complimented on the thoroughly efficient
economic;*l, and profitable plan on which his whole
work is constructed.
Archdeacon Uriuaway contrives to craft
on to hiaiuober clerical function the livelier one of
a mimetic artist. His rendition of an Aboriginal
war song- the other night at Rundwick proved him
to posses® qualities which, fostered aright, would
mane him an A 1 corner-man in a nigger troupe.
The strange thing is that one so lively on the plat-
form should be so dull in the pulpit. We presume
it s the conventionalities of surplice, band, and
hood that swaddle him in the latter place. If it bo
so, why doesin t he get episcopal license to discard
them and go in for subdued pantomime, pious
break-downs, and that sort of thing? He then
would draw —and the Jingling shekels would
dance upon the plates. Selah!
Mr. J. Somers at the piano. The evening was in-
terspersed with singing, some of the pieces being
extra good, and the whole affair was a very merry
one It is intended to hold these socials about
every five weeks through the winter months, to
afford the employes of the house pleasant recre-
ation after their labours. It is a thoughtful idea
which a good many business houses might turn
over with advantage.
•* * *
Last week a number of South Coast gentle-
men held a social dinner party at the Oxford, when
Mr. R Finlayson (now of Balmain) was presented
with a gold wateh from people at Shoalhaven,
where he was lately manager of the B.S. and A.
Bank. .The wedding ball of Mr. and Mrs Thompson
took place at Nithsdale on the 6th instant, on their
return from the honey-moon. Mr. T. J. Thomoson
(nephew of Mr. John Harris, Bhane’s Park)
was married in the Presbyterian Church last month
to Miss M’Kee. A score of dauces, to Needs’s
music, employed the guests till well on in the
morning.... Mayor of 'Adelaide gave a picnic,
which included ladies ...A delicate, kindly act was
the presentation, by employes of the late W. M.
Aide rson, of a memorial wreath to his widow last
Wednesday. Some of them had worked for him for
25 years Mr. S. Patfield, of Paterson, opened his
new store building with a ball lately —Mr. A. H.
Gee, conductor of Newcastle Liedertafel, in place
of Sivnor Lardelli... Dr. Bromby’s 75th birthday
is to be specially marked by his friends in Melbourne
Orchestral Society started in Brisbane A
meeting of the Buffalo Lodges under the Surrey
Banner, on Friday, decided not to hold meetings in
hotels—Old Boys of Church of England Grammar
School held annual dinner in Melbourne, on Satur-
day night. Over 60 present; Walstab (Mayor of
Brighton), chairman. Deakin (Public Works) pro-
posed “The School.” Another social at Tatter-
sail’s Hall to-morrow night (16th) On 23rd inst,
Mr. G-. Jamieson, the city warehouseman, gives a
fashionable ball in the Ashfield School of Arts
On dit, the marriage of Sir George Strahan,
Governor of Tasmania, will soon take place, to a
lady of that colony. A divinity that shapes his
end, rough Hew-itt how he will At Colac (V.),
Miss E. E. Smith was married to Mr. Thomas Smith,
ex-manager of Oakland Meat Preserving Co.,
Sueensland, and son of Mr. T. Smith, of Grafton,
.S.W. The bride was popular in Colac; a ball
was held at night, and the happy pair started for
Melbourne and Sydney. Prosper the great family I
We can’t refrain from shedding a verse,
Just a little poetical pith,
To say, in rhythmical syllables terse,
That we congratulate Mr. Smith.
Perchance in a paper, a window frame,
On some necropolitan monolith,
It was—but, somewhere, we’ve seen that nai e
Before—familiar, respected, Smith 1
We wonder if Tom was a stranger quite,
Or if iss E. E. was cousinly kith
To the wooer who proffered her Woman’s first
Right,
By taking her name—and yet leaving her, Smith?
But a virtuous wife is a husband’s crown;
So, Tom I our heartiest wishes herewith!
And whoever may smile, or whoever may frown,
You will always be popular, “ Mr. Smith.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ashfield Assembly May 16.
Professor West’s Birthday party (at his
Rooms) May 19.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....May 23.
Assembly Ball (Balmain) May 23.
Petersham Social May 23.
Randwica Races May 24.
Governor’s Levee May 26.
Consul’s Dinner (Compagnoni’s) May 26.
Contractors’ Dinner (Compagnoni’s) May 27.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) May 30.
Glebe R.C. Annual Bali ( West’s Rooms) May 30.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale)..June 5.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall). .June 12.
Masonic Ball (Parramatta) June 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nitnsdale)..... June 18.
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms).. July 11.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—l am sorry to have it to say,
but it's a fact, that the last Matinee was not so
successful, from a musical point, as any of the
former ones Madame Marius and Miss Thompson
have given. Miss Wilshire. although a nice pianist,
not make a good accompanist, so all the songs
suffered more or less. Now, you must understand,
dear, that I do not think one whit the less of Miss
Wilshire as a performer, simply because she has
not the gift of following and sympathising with
the voice in her accompaniments: indeed, it often
happens that a most brilliant player makes a
wretched accompanist. So, I want you to know
that the young lady gave us Rosellen’s “ Don Pas-
quale” with a certain vigour and brilliancy that
satisfied us that she is an industrious and conscien-
tious student. Mr. Carl Hartmann sang two solos
—well— nicely. Had it not been that it was an-
nounced on the programme that it was that
gentleman's first appearance in Sydney—thus lead-
ing us to conclude he was a great star—we should
not have expected much from him, and, therefore,
suffered no disappointment: as it was, however,
we were foolish enough to imagine we were going
to hear a Sims Beeves or a Mario. Why, we have
amateurs in our midst whose singing of “Non 6
ver ” would, perhaps, astonish Mr. Hartmann. I
don’t like judging on a first hearing, but I
must own I wasn’t over much impressed
with this gentleman’s singing; and yet the
voice was pleasant enough, and his style not bad,
but we want more than that now-a-days. Young
Smith played a violin solo, and was accompanied
on the piano very nicely by his sister. You will
say I am in a grumbling mood. I am afraid, for I
am going to find fault with thjs talented boy as
well. In the first place, he was rather scrapy: but
I observed he was much troubled about his bow,
as the hairs would, keep splitting. And again, ho
seemed to play more mechanically than is usual
with him, but, for all that, his solo was very
praiseworthy, and his pose and bowing splendid.
He plays his long solos entirely from memory, and
js perfectly self-possessed throughout. Miss
Thompson is rapidly building for herself a sound
reputation as a pianist, and t he of tener we hear her
the better wo liae her. The Mendelssohn duet,
sung by Ma ame Marius and Miss Thompson, was
not one of their successes, for it seemed to me
that their voices did not blend nicely. I never
neard Madame Merz in better voice. Her ” Deh
}ueni non tardar ” was altogether enjoyable.
Madame Marius and Miss Thompson both sang
Boloa, and, when I say that the matinee was less
Meritorious than usual, I do not for a moment
blame these two ladies, who do all in their power
to please us; but the fact of the matter is there is
sucha stinted supply of available talent in Sydney
tnat it is no easy matter to obtain sufficient to give
variety to six concerts.
Miss Alice Rees honoured the matinee with her
presence, and looked quite herself again after her
recent severe illness. The only difference I see in
ner is that her hair is now short and curly, which
makes her face look fuller. She wore an electric
blue sa.tin dress, Dlack shoulder tippet, and blaek
hat and feathers. Miss Thompson was seasonably
a™ r ®d in a dark claret dress and hat. Miss
•i!L Bhlre ’, la myrtle green with crimson spots and
ribbons, looked altogether nice. Madame Marius,
as usual, wore black, with light-coloured bonnet.
I caught just a glimpse of Miss Want’s fine form in
a black velvet velours, which was very handsome
indeed.
We were at a nice dance at “Kingsley,” Bur-
wood, on 1 riday night. The Misses Boss, daughters
of the hostess, wore—the one, pale blue veiliug
with white flowers; and the other, cream satin. A
cousin, in a pink veiling flounced to the waist,
looked ever so pretty and graceful. There was a
nice cream surah satin, trimmed with crimson silk,
worn by a Miss Giles. We had music and singing
between the dances, which is so much better than
going straight through the programme without
any rest, as if it were a matter of life and death to
get through the dances.
At a Brisbane ball, the other day, two dudes, who
had more spirit than good taste, varied the enter-
tainment by a fight. It appears that dude No. 1
crossed No. 3 s name off a lady’s programme. No.
3 was naturally indignant, bo showed light; and,
much to the mortification of all the ladies,
with whom he is no favourite, he suc-
ceeded in giving his enemy a sound thrashing.
I also hear that the Brisbane ladies have had a
tennis match, their opponents hailing from the
Downs- The Brisbanltes won, so gave their visi-
tors a picnic at the racecourse. The luncheon and
speeches were good, but the arrangements for en-
tertamments a total failure, as no one seemed to
think of putting up the tennis nets till it was time
to leave. However, the ball in the evening made up
for all short-comings at the picnic, where a white
satin dress, draped with pompons net, was worn by
a charming young debutante, who, I hear, was de-
cidedly the belle.
The Metropolitan Liedertafel gave their third
concert last Wednesday evening, in the new
Masonic Hall, and I need hardly tell you it was
well attended. Of course, we don't expect them to
give us as good a concert as the Sydney Lieder-
tafel, so we were not disappointed. Herr Alpen
worked hard, as usual, and must have had great
satisfaction in knowing (as he must have known)
that his pretty part song, entitled “My Song,”
was one of the best things of the evening. The
solo part, however, was not quite satisfactory, it
being rather beyond the singer’s range. Miss
Moon’s “Casta Diva” was marred by the accom-
panying chorus, which rather overpowered
her. Mr. Hollingdale and Mr. Clancy both contri-
buted solos, the latter gentleman scoring quite a
success. I notice a great difference in Mr. I'oms’
pianoforte playing of late years He seems to me
to have made rapid strides in his profession ; I
have heard that his sincere admiration for
poor Henri Ketten impelled him to work
harder than he had ever done in his life
before, and now his solos are quite masterly. At
this concert he played that spirited little galop,
“Le Bernhais,” but wisely!declined to accept an
encore. Young Smith played two solos; but as he
had already taken part in the matinee that after-
noon, he showed signs of fatigue, consequently
his playing lacked his usual spirit. A novelty in
these concerts is the really good singing of a young
lad, who has one of the nicest alto voices I have
ever heard. He uses it well, too, and is, I believe,
a pupil of Herr Alpen. On the whole, then, this
third concert was very creditable, but many of the
voices are very raw, and show not a little inclina-
tion to disregard light and shade, without which a
male chorus is ineffective.
The Ashfleld sports, held in the grounds, on
Saturday last, were well attended, but, as we had
neither brothers nor cousins taking part in ihe
proceedings, we found them rather slow. Mrs.
Devlin gave away the prizes, and was attired in a
peacock brochd dress, handsomely trimmed with
chenille fringe of same colour. The Misses Adams
wore neat brown cashmere costumes, the skirts
kilted to the waist; and brown plush hats. Miss
Jamieson looked well in a beautiful garnet dress
of satin and brocaded velvet. A tasteful costume
was a fine grey lustre, heavily trimmed with rich
prune velvet. The new pointed apron was shown
on a dark navy serge, and bordered with four
rows of narrow gold braid, which looked very
stylish. The Sack Race was very entertaining, and
the only wonder is that there were not more com-
petitors for that—graceful and manly pastime.
A lovely dress which has been haunting the
Block this week, isa green satin, just the shadeof a
camellia leaf, rich and glossy. Two cloth of gold
roses are worn at the throat, and a coquettish
jockey hat completes the costume. Another nice
one is a skirt of electric blue plush with redingote
of cashmere to match trimmed with gold braid.
Oh! and I never told you what a beautiful dress
Maggie Moore wears in the character of Nellie
Denver. It is the richest seal brown ottoman silk,
with body and train of crimson and brown velvet
velours. Her dressing gown is black satin, hand-
somely worked in crewels. It’s cunning of her to
wear dark dresses, is it not ? for I suppose you are
aware they tend to make the figure look slighter.
Amongst novelties in head gear is a hat wrought
in imitation of a spider’s web. It is made of fine wire
or thread, lined with coloured silk, and, to carry out
the illusion, flies are upon it, as it' caught in the
coils of the spider. For trimming there is the large
choux in front, which may be of ribbon to match
the lining of the hat, or it may be of lace, and in
this case is generally of a greyish yellow or twine
colour. I have seen some parasols lately bordered
with marabout trimming in place of the customary
lace or fringe. I cannot say I like it, as it is de-
cidedly too heavy-looking for the purpose. In
order to be in the heighth of fashion, it is now
necessary to wear eye-glasses. They are uncom-
fortable, no doubt, but they certainly give a look
of distinction to the wearer; and who wouldn't
stand a little discomfort for that, I should like to
know ?
Charlie Huenerbein has composed such a pretty
waltz, and is just about to publish it. This gentle-
man has been making himself altogether too scarce
at our concerts lately. Ii is quite a rare event to
see his name on a programme now; but when he
does show himself on a platform, he is always sure
of a hearty welcome.
“Impulse ” opens to-night at the Royal; and, as
it is time to dress, I must say good-bye. I wish
you were going with us, dear.
Yours,
MAN.
Pastor Fry, the Christian lambs’ fry of
Balmain, was farewelled by his flook with ad-
dresses and sovereigns. The opening hymn on the
occasion was “ Blest be the tie (i.e., the white
choker) that binds.” Appropriate, since Fry’s
white - chokerism was binding yea, even unto
absolute mental constipation.
Parson Byng, of the Anglican persuasion,
holds that jealousy being a carnal attribute, there
will be no ructions in Heaven upon a much mar-
ried man renewing acquaintance on the elysian
shores with his first, second, third, fourth and
fifth wives. In this eclectic sort of opinion he is
about on all fours with the grood Teutonic dame
who had pegs in her hall for the Sunday hats of
“® r d®P. ar , te d Nos. one to thirteen, her living spouse
)Au 0, being also permitted the use ol one.
rhough trusting to the “ larger hope,” this excel-
lent woman yet deemed it prudent to anticipate a
welcome trom each of her former partners by a
thoughtful posthumous attention of the most
delicate kind.
Thus PrirQ ate Barry, at Moore Colleger-
Theological colleges had their special fun ition,
and the ministry or the Church, like all other pro-
fessions, though it should have as a basis a broad
liberal education, still needed its own peculiar
technical training. The training mainly consisted
in the study of that science which has been called
the queen and mother of all sciences—theology. It
was astonishing how that, in this age of science,
the science of theology was ignored at our Univer-
sity. That being the case, the function of a theo-
logical college was even more important here than
in England.” When theology is called a science it
is distinctly called out of its name. Theology sig-
nifies the knowledge of God as He is. and that
most assuredly is a knowledge wholly beyond the
powers of finite human nature to attain. Theo-
logy’s ultimate ground is admittedly above and
beyond nature: yet ecclesiastics pretend that the
supernatural has been made manifest to human
comprehension in a recorded revelation. This
revelation supplies the theologian with what he
calls divine facts and laws for his interpretation.
Inasmuch, however, as he assumes the truth at
the revelation, his entire position is non-scientifte,
since it rests upon a most debateable postulate.
In a word, theology dealing with the Unknowable
cannot be a science. On the other hand, science is
a religion, since it is the pursuit of knowable truth.
The theological so-called science fosters supersti-
tions which narrow their cultured as they brutalise
their ignorant votaries. Such frauds as the alleged
miracle-mongers are now carrying on in New Zea-
land and South Australia, would not be possible
but for the insidious machinations of the “ queen-
mother of all the sciences,” the degrading result
of which has been the development in the mind of
the masses of a huge capacity to believe any lie
that is presented to them tricked out in the garb
of religious supernaturalism. Dreaming about the
Supernatural paves the way to a Hell in this world
of castes, feudalities, hierarchisms, divine rights,
priestcraft tyrannies, and every abomination. The
true guide of conduct is the reverent knowledge
of Nature.
Presbyterian Melbourne is terribly ex-
ercised, just now, over the effort being made by
the Scots Cnurch congregation to filch that me®
little bit of property from the Presbyterian Chureto
of Victoria. At least, the Presbytery says it’s
filching, and very likely it is—on the other band,
very likely it isn’t. But, anyway, there’s semne-
thing sadly—we repeat the word sadfj/-divesfiing
about the way in which the Presbyters endeavour
to throw a cloak of holiness over what is nothing,
more or less, than a simple business squabble.
Said the Rev. D. S. M’Bachran, in opening the ball,
“I rise to move that the assembly declare the
action of a portion of the Scots Church congrega-
tion, in attempting to wrest said property from its
rightful owners, co he unconstitutional,, illegal,
and unjust.” So far, so good; but now comes the
humbug. “I do so with very great reluctance,
for I confess that I have little heart foo a discus-
sion of this sort. It is an ennobling thing to con-
tend for principle—it is not always ennobling to
contend for property.” Now, as Mine’s notion of
contending for principle meant worrying Charles
Strong out of the country, a good many people
will think that he is a good deal better employed
in going for the sugar, as at present. Mac. isn’t
going to retire from the contention, just because
there’s nothing ennobling about it, you must
understand; for, as he feelingly added, “It is not
for us to choose how we shall serve God.” But
how about the service of his Master not being
“ ennobling ?” There’s a mistake there.
The Adelaideana have caught on to a fresh
craze, and are now busily engaged in hustling up
their maimed, their halt, and their blind, to he
cured by “the laying on of hands” by an itiner-
ant howler named Woods, a late arrival from
Melbourne. Woods has found a congenial soul in
the quondam Rev. Archibald Turnbull, and, in
conjunction with that follower of the Loard, he
has hung out his shingle under the banner of the
Cnristian crusaders. Turnbull does the spouting,
and affects the cure of souls, and his “ card ” heals
the infirmities of humanity by the laying on of
hands. In fact, their joint shingle should read
“souling and healing done with neatness and
despatch by Turnbull and Woods.” Anyhow, the
pious pair have struck it rich this time, and have
created quite a furore in the city. But there are
some scoffers, even In Adelaide, who profess to
doubt the efficacy of the laying on of hands, and a
a local medico has offered to give £lO to the
Adelaide hospital if one case of permanent cure
can be shown. It is said that the money will
be claimed—immediately the pigs begin to fly.
There is also a rumour current that the miracle-
working Woods, who cures those only who
have faith in him, is somewhat like the Yankee
doctor that was called in to prescribe for a sick
child, and after studying the infantile malady for
sometime, remarked, “ Wal, I can’t diagnose this
case, nohow, but here's a powder that’ll throw the
youngster into tits, an’ I’m hell on fits.” So with
Woods, A married woman named Fawk, who was
troubled with some disease, placed herself under
the holy paws of the sanctified Woods a few weeki
ago, and, as she was full to the chin with faith, he
manipulated her in the ancient apostolic style.
But before that good inau could remove the cause
of the complaint he had to howl and sing and pray
over her until, at length, her reason gave way,
and last week she was sent by the City Bench to
the Adelaide Asylum a raving lunatic, suffering
from religious mania. And now the “ healer ’
Woods and the “souler” Turnbull are on the look-
out for a foundry where they can get iron-plated
pants made to order, for the disconsolate husband
is furious about his unfortunate wife, and is now
on the war-path with a bludgeon and iron-shod
navvy s crab-shells, with which ho desires to cul-
tivate the acquaintance of the healing firm of
Turnbull and Woode.


HER SPEECH RESTORED
Clair View, Inverell, December 10, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results:
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and nas been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER,
Political
Points
Mr. Justice Manning re-elected Chancellor
of Sydney University, and Mr. Justice Windoyer
Vice-ditto. Let’s hope next elections to those
offices will be by Convocation.
Blowitz (of the London Times) thinks that
if the Australian colonies will refrain from cla-
mour, the recidiviste scheme will possibly be aban-
doned, for two reasons, namely—the wisdom of
the French senate and the costliness of the scheme.
In this the Paris correspondent of the Thunderer
shows he isn’t such an ass as Edmnu i Yates would
make him out to be.
The Yass Courier believes the Fisheries
Commissiouers mean well, but is more than half
afraid, thatuuless legislators keep an oye on them,
they will develop a very hateful system of meddle-
some interference, unreasonably restrictive on
legitimate business, unnecessarily vexatious to
the fishermen, and individually expensive (by end-
less “billet ’ creation) to the taxpayer. Which is
true for the Courier.
The Times’ telegraphed descriptions of the
battles El Teb and Tamanieb, written by a youth-
ful son of the late Frank Ives Scudamore, were
regarded as among the best specimens of war cor-
respondence extant Another Times correspond-
ent in the Soudan was Mr. St. Leger Herbert, who,
though a simple civilian, wrote his admirable
account of the El Teb cavalry manoeuvres with a
severe bullet wound in his thigh. Many of the
telegrams sent at intervals through the night were
written by moonlight on the field of fight.
A Cootamundragenius says:—“l contend
that b.ame does attach to Mr. Want for assailing
the public character of an absent man. «o matter
what any have been announced regarding Mr.
Watson’s coming, Mr. Want had no right to assail
him till he was tnere on the spot to defend him-
self. Mr. Want stands guilty of a breach of
courtesy by his action in the matter.” Prima
facie that sounds manly enough, but analyse it
and ’twlil be found to contain the main elements
of ekunkiness. If the Cootamundra chap’s
grinciples be correct, moneyed scoundrellsm,
y ever adroitly avoiding being on the spot,
would be able to do pretty nearly as it jolly well
liked, in the case iu p lint, on the other
hand, Waut would have been recreant to duty
had he refrained from direct reference to Watson's
political past.
Henniker Heaton to contest Canterbury
(Eng.) in the Jingo interests I What a come down
for a fellow with an interest in a professedly
Liberal newspaper I At present the writ for the
city of Canterbury is suspended. Bribery, cor-
ruption, and so on, you know. When it’s issued
again, there’ll probably bo a sort of virtuous
reaction, just for the first go off ; and if there be,
it’s not our Johnnie who'll havo a show. His
chances can only depend on the mopuses spent;
uence, if the crafty Canterburians assume a virtue
for the nonce, in eider to raise the figure at the
next following election, why Heaton will drop his
coin into *he funds of the Conservative Associa-
tion to no purpose, so far as he is concerned,
though doubtless much to the satisfaction of the
association, who lovo nothing so much as skinning
an Australian would-be big bug.
General Graham is one of the mutual
admiration clique of soldiers who regard Wolseley
as their oracle, philosopher, and chief ; hence it is
in no way astoni hing to hear of the hero of Tel-el-
Kebir publicly stating that Graham possesses
qualities whicu enable him to render any force he
commands invincible, and that the late brush with
Osman Digna's Arabs was the hardest-fought
battle within the memory of man. These state-
ments, however, are somewhat discounted by the
fact that Wolseley, in speaking of Graham’s burn-
ing dovn Osman’s villages with no loss and but
trifling opposition, refers to that action as a bril-
liant deed of chivalric “derring do.” So far as we
can judge, it wasn’t even justified by necessity.
Item: Wolseley was ’cute enough to say nary a
word about the peculiar gallantry involved in
Graham's offer of a reward for his foeman’s head.
The talented Continental correspondent
of tue S.M. Herald writes:—“lt is quite certain
that the Dutch Courts and Government is (sic)
aware of the identity of ‘Naundorff’ with the
(sic) of the Temple, that ‘Naundorffs’
tome bears the inscription, with the assent of the
Government, ‘Louis XVil., King of France,’ that
the Dutch public in general regard the so-called
•Naundorff’ family as being really the heads of
the House of Bourbon, and that the present Pope
fully a”d openly admits their claim.” Surely thero
should be enough “savez” at the corner of Pitt
aud Hunter streets to prevent such inaccurate
statements being palmed off as trustworthy news!
At the tiial in ’74, when Albert de Naundorff
claimed to be Albert de Bourbon, the son of Louis
XVII (who it was alleged had escaped from the
Temple and lived to manhood in England under
the name- of Auguste Me ves), the evidence adduced
was dead against the assertion.
The Cooma Express means well, but finds a
difficulty in saying what it means. Here is a junk of
its aouud views, but involved periphrasis:—” This
period what may be called in our experience in the
.Australian colonies:-The period of transition—
wii.en this new territory is about to be monopo-
lized by English capitalists—and their fair lands
with g)l their virgin treasures affording a safe
refuge for millions of people free from poverty
and waut—is about to be placed under the same
banelul influences as those that grow out of the
aeml-civilized condition ot our ancestors when the
plunder they made aud w,.ich they sealed with
blood of their victims; the former owners of the
territory they Seized, and which has been by de-
gree# contracted into the possession of the few,
which wnnatural conditions have occasioned the
reckless arrogance of the one class aud inveterate
hatred of the other, which in times not yet remote,
excited the oppressed people of France to revo-
lutionary action, and is now firing the fuse ot the
Infernal dynamite agent of destruction, with a
thousand and one other forms of protests agaiost
existing power.” Though tnis defies •* analysis,”
there is a lot of truth carefully concealed about it
A contributor to the Yass Courier per-
tinently in marks, with reference to Parkcs s Aus-
tralian investment Co. and similar specs:—” These
companies will go on aequi'ing properties ut a
rapid rate—seventy-five per cent, of the profits
of which will fin I its way out of the country for
good and all. Given that c very 2000 acres of pas-
toral lauds will carry 1000 sheep, and that the wool
of those 10C0 sheep will realise £200; then the annual
profits on 1000 sheep (or 2000acrep will be £2OO, minus
say £lO for shearing and washing, £l7 10s. for car-
riage, £lO for boundary riding (a boundary rider
attends to several thousand sheep), and £7 10s. for
fencing, foat-rotting, etc., hence we have £2OO
.mUjus £45—£155 net profit; then 75 per cent, of
£lss £ll6 ss.—the British shareholders’ share of
the plunder. If 25 per cent, be deducted from
.£ll6 ss. (profits) to cover losses (by drought and
market fluctuations), we Will still have our national
.exchequer brained annually to the tune of £B7 odd
for every 2000 acres of the public estate occupied
by these foreign (Australian is a misnomer) invest-
ment companies. Supposing those companies to
.oocupy an aggregate area of 20,000,000 acres—and,
Jarge as this area is, its acquisition will be but a
question of a very short time—then those British
capitalists will subject New South Wales alone to
an annual drain of £870,000 odd that should, in all
fairness, form part of our national capital.” A
true bill in the main.
Ex-Crown Land Bailiff M‘Lean has been
unfortunate in his maiden race for the Moira
(Vic.) stakes, for, not only has he lost the seat, but
also has seen the last of his £5O deposit note.
Mac’s transactions with the farmers of Moira,
which have extended over a matter of live or six
years - more, perhaps—inspired him with a certain
amount of confidence in their promises, and, on
the strength of a monster requisition from 500
electors, he risked his cash and lost Which goes
to show how much dependence can be placed on
electioneering: pl°dges, as he only got 256 votes.
Considering that the M'Carthy O’Leary was not
generally known throughout the electorate, he
mado a very respectable show on the poll, and
will, if he make a dash for it at the next general
election, be prct y well safe for a seat. He has
cert’inly some ability and education to recom-
mend him, but we can’t say too much on that
score for the present representatives. Mr. Hall,
the senior member for Moira, has not yet proved
himself to be a born genius as a politician, but as
chairman at a dissenters’ church tea-meeting, he
can give a long start to all competitors. It is said
that he even can take a hand at an impromptu
prayer should things be slack in that way. That
is how Hall secures the votes of a big section of
his constituents. Mr. Georgre Graham, the newly
elect of Moira, has a large interest in farming in
the district, and a good deal to do in his public
capacity as chairman of the local Water Conserva-
tion Commission. He has gone in on the "far-
mers’ friend ” ticket, and a supporter of the Coali-
tion Ministry, though a Protectionist—so far as
the policy affects the farmers.
Areeent decision of the Victorian Supreme
Court gives a nasty jar to property-tax defaulters.
One Finlay purchased of J. Mcßain 26,000 acres of
laud, and then divided it among his children, re-
taining 6800 acres for himself, and the right to
graze his sheep over the alienated portions of the
run. On the strength of this transaction, Finlay
contended that he was liable to the land tax only
for his own portion. The registrar refused to re-
move his name in respect of the 19 200 acres, and Mr.
Justice Molesworth supported the official. Finlay
then appealed to the Full Court in vain. The
contention of the registrar was that the trans-
fers worfe not “ bona fide and for valuable con-
sideration.” The only argument in opposition
to this brought forward by Finlay’s oounsel was
that the trant'erees were bound to indemnify him
against certain mortgage debts taken over with
the estate. Justices Hlginbotham and Holroyd
held that an obligation arising by law out of the
acceptance of a gift was not a valuable considera-
tion, that the gift was merely one of an estate, nof
clear but cum onere, and that the responsibility for
payment of the encumbrances on it rested, not on
the donees, but on the donor. “The owner of a
landed estate subject to a mortgage,” said Justice
Holroyd, “is an owner subject to the land tax,
notwithstanding his liabilities as mortgager, and
if he voluntarily tranfers the mortgaged estate,
without further consideration than that arising
from the acceptance of the transfer, he transfers
the subject of the tax without any consideration.”
This is very explicit ruling (says the Age), and if
it is to obtain for all time, one means of evading
the land tax, at any rate, has been put out of the
reach of the land-owners.
That troublesome man, Mr. Labouchere,
made himself very disagreeable, in the minds of
“ail right-thinking people” in Parliament, recently,
by calling attention to the fact of public money
being used to pay Garter fees for the Prinoe of
Wales’ son. This young man is still at school-
college is only school writ large—has never done
anything worth notice, and is, as yet, only a big
boy. Notwithstanding this, however, the nation
has to pay a large sum of money for his invest-
ment as the knight of a mori or less ornamental
order. The item was £548, fo ‘fees paid on the
installation of H.R H. Prince Aluert Victor Chris-
tian Edward, &c. &c.&0., as Knight of the Garter.”
Mr. Labouchere moved its rejection. “ Wby,” he
asked, “should the nation be oalled upon to pay
the Dean of Windsor about £5OO for tying a Garter
round the leg of a young man who has done no-
thing for the nation ? If the youog person wants to
wear a Garter, let him, by all means, but not to the
tune of £548.” Anothor item which the editor of
Truth strongly opposed was £920, for “special
packets for tne conveyance of distinguished per-
sons.” Royalty possesses several yachts, which
oost the nation an immense sum annually. Yet,
when one of their Royal Highnesses takes a plea-
sure trip to the Continent, he engages a special
packet at a cost of £4O, and quietly exclaims,
“Tick it up to the nation.” Mr. Courtney, Secre-
tary to the Treasury, defended both the votes,
stating that the Queen’s children are entitled to
use ships of the navy, “ by ancient prescriptive
right.” With respect to the charges for tying the
Garter on Master Albert’s leg, this was his ex-
planation, delivered amid mocking laughs: -“ £4l
went to the Registrar, £9O to the Garter King, £2O
to the Black Rod, certain small sums to singing
boys and the Chelsea drummer, the remainder to
the Dean of Windsor.” Here is a catalogue for
those who eat their dry bread in sorrow 1
Everyone now in London goes “ slum-
ming.” Dukes and bishops poke their noses into
the entrance of unspeakably horrible holes, and
wonder that heaven doesn’t send a judgment on
the “abject poor” for being so miserable and
dirty. They look upon them with all that noble
condescension shown by the French Princess, who
was told the people of Paris were starving for
bread, and inuocently asked, “Then why don t
they buy penny buns ?” But really this discovery
of how the poor live is very useful. It is so hard
for the aristocracy to find anything novel and
interesting. They lead a cruelly hard life. Noon
after noon they rise from bed, and, like Lord Tom-
noddy, ask “what may a nobleman do to-day?”
and suffer unutterably in the effort to find some-
thing worth their weary, well-bred attention So
this “slumming” appears to be a providential relief.
Fancy fairs, concerts, bazaars are being got up for
the “abject poor,” and these enable well-dressed
people to congratulate one another on feeling lor
the lot of their less fortunate brothren. ud as
they have themselves never felt the temptation of
an empty stomach, they find it easy to fancy they
are extremely virtuous, slumming, however, has
the stamp of fashion set upon it by the Prince of
Wales, who formed a praiseworthy resolve to do
the slums personally, and did make one attempt,
but, as he was rushed out as a bailiff from the first
slum he entered, hasn’t visited them since. The
Prince of Wales is 42 years of age, and during
these years he has never before taken a scintilla
of interest in the dwellings of the poor. He is
going to be quite busy about them now, though;
and when he went home from Parliament one
night, he said, “Mother,,! just made a speech to
the Lords about the condition of the poor. Some-
thing ought to be done.” “ Yes, Albert,” said the
Queen; “and you will be glad to hear I have
a ready done something myself to ameliorate their
sad condition.” “ You /” said the surprised heir.
“Yes,” replied Her Most Gracious Majesty, most
graciously not noticing the ambiguous accent her
son placed on the pronoun; “I have sent them 500
copies of my “Journal in the Highlands” for no-
thing.”
An English artist and poet, who is enthu-
siastically imbued with the spirit of democracy,
or, in other words, with love towards his fellow-
men, writing recently from London to a friend
now on a visit to Sydney, says;—“Siuce I wrote
last, much has transpired that would have in-
terested you largely had you been in England. To
begin with, the cause is growing, is advancing by
‘leaps and bounds.’ As. of course, you are aware,
Henry George is over here, and has been all over
t ie country holding enthusiastically - attended
meetings from Plymouth to Wick. London, Dun-
dee, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Birmingham, Oxford,
Newcastle, Cardiff, Skye, and numerous other
places bavo been visited by him, and he will in a
week or two hold a second meeting in London. I,
together with my wife, attended his meeting at
Bt. James's Hall, and it would have done your
heart good to have seen the crammod house and
heard the applause.” The same gentleman writes
further on:—“I am exceedingly glad that the
dynamite attempts have failed. Had the different
railway stations all been destroyed simultaneously,
as the bungling fanatics designed, it would have
been most disastrous to the cause. The mere
attempt has done It sufficient misohief. In what
respect the destruction of cloak-rooms and book-
ing-offices could have helped to emancipate Ire-
land, surely no man, not Hibernian in his logic,
oould explain. The Nihilists, on the contrary,
seem to have employed their forces in a legitimate
direction; but to slay Lazarus because Dives
kicked me, is one of those things that no man
without MUesian brains can make out.” Referring
to a leading artiole which modified the censure it
expressed on the acceptance of a Peerage by the
Poet Laureate by acknowledging that “he would
not be entirely lost in the obscurity of the Peer-
age,” the writer’s friend says, in another para-
graph of his letter: “I was a little sorry to see
that you let the ooronet fall so easily on the brows
of the author of ‘ln Memoriam.’ To my mind, it
is the most absolutely humiliating reflection on
human nature that has occurred in my day, that
such a mind should acoept such a bauble, carrying
with it a breach of his own teaohing, and an out-
rage in its hereditary acoompaniment of the
‘ rights of man ’—for, because a man of conspicu-
ous ability is made a legislator to-day, his possibly
idiot or depraved grandson may legislate over onr
grandchildren half a century hence. Where was
your instinct of right when you could apologise
for such backsliding ? Had Tennyson been Albert
Grant, or any oommon huckster that attained to
wealth by stock-jobbing, cornering, or laud-shark-
ing, it would have been in the order of things—but
for the author of ‘ln Memoriam,’ pah I—you
oughtto go into sackcloth and ashes foramonth.”
“ The Democratic Federation,” says the same
trusted and spirited correspondent, “is steadily
* pegging away,' and extending its teaohings ; ana
the old platform of the Chartists is sinking into
absolute insignificance. Marat, Daaton, Anaohar-
sis Clootz (Robert Owen, even) would all find
themselves distanced by the utterances of to-day,
the teaching of which appears to be ‘ Why should
I have to labour to support the idle ? On the con-
trary, why should not the idle have to labour to
support me? Isn’t one man as good as another,
begorra ?—Yes, and a divil of a soight better,
begorra.’ All this is unfortunate, and makes me
think some ©f these men are in the pay of ultra-
* law and order ’ men. It Is a trick that was played
by the aristocracy in France when they saw things
were getting serious. Well, thank God 1 they
burnt their fingers over it a little, but their inten-
tions were doubtless sincere. The mischief was
that the petard burst before they got sufficiently
clear ; perhaps the torpedo of to-day will do the
same. Man proposes, but God Almighty, or
chance, or too shot t a fuse, has to be taken into
the account.”
• • •
Buchanan suggests that a Bill should be
introduced for the purpose ef making oriminal
all actions of negleot on the part of railway em-
ployes Under oertain limitations, a good idea...
Mr. Speaker has, without question, a perfect right
to be present and take part in a debate when the
House is in Committee; yet, at the same time, it
is most inexpedient that MS should do so, sinoe a
point of order which he may have spoken to, or
may himself have raised in Committee, might sub-
sequently have to be referred to his decision
With the stupendous mulishness of the typical
Briton, Granny observes that “one of the great
difficulties in dealing with the Recidivist© question
is to get the French exactly to understand the true
state of the case.” What a complacent assumption
that the question can only be properly regarded
from one standpoint, and that standpoint the Aus-
tralian 1 Granville thinks Recidivist© question
demands prudent handling. —Sir George Grey ad-
vocated a land tax to a monster meeting at Christ-
church ; his proposition unanimously affirmed.
• • •
Catholio bishops and priests taking shares
in Parnell’s Land Purchase and Settlement Co.
Now that the dark nights are coming on,
and there is not light enough for pitoh-and-toss,
dog-fighting people will have to take to literature
to pass the time. That is, of oourae, they will if
they have lost that fine, first, early yearning for
odd-man-out and Yankee grab which fills the
romantio heart of youth, and flushes with a sun-
rise rose the leaden skies of Life. A good book
for them to read, under these circumstances of
bereavement and blast don’t-care-a-damlshness,
will be “ The Now Luoian—a Series of Dialogues of
the Dead.” It is clever, and interesting, ana scep-
tioal. The dead, in some of these dialogues, speak
in a very lively manner, and show themselves to
be corpses of considerable information and vivacity
of expression. Also, they lappear to have kept
themselves well-posted down below as to what was
going on up above. The book is written in a style
somewhat similar to that of Landor’s “ Imaginary
Conversations,” though the writer —Mr. H. D.
Traill—is hardly either a Luoian or a Landor. Still
he writes well. His dedicatory sonnet is very
finely unoertain, and well expresses the views of a
certain ourrent school of thinkers. Here it is:—
"What matter though such things have never been,
Nor shall be ? The Eoclesiast has said.
Though, but in mockery, the Samesatene
Imagined his confabulating dead ?
What matter, though nor knowledge nor device,
Nor work nor wisdom, in the grave there be ?
Does not the Preacher bid us onoe, and twice,
Live out in joy love’s life of vanity ?
So live we then ? Nor heed what whisper tells,
That closest union heaviest reckoning pays
In shook of loss, and anguish of farewells,
At that eternal parting of the ways.”
It has struck us on seventeen several occa-
sions that the way in which the daily newspapers
of this city dish up their items is not in accordance
with the highest form of art. There is a lack of
refinement and moral reflection about them which !
is strangely sorrowful, and suggestive rather of
the more inferior kinds of plug tobacco than of
the mysterious lotos flowering in a lonely Oriental
tank. But, then, we are too finely fastidious for
this sordid age. Matthew Arnold told us we were,
on one occasion when we called upon him, and he
had nothing in the house but furniture polish,
which we, on religious grounds, objected to drink.
By the way, it may be interesting to our readers
to know that the apostle of culture glvts this liquid
to new disciples, to produce what ho calls exoteric
euphony. Now, with regard to Alice Maud Hilder.
This young lady passed away from the sorrows of
the world one day last week. She hung herself on
a bedpost. That is the coarse and curt manner in
which the daily papers put it. How would we do
it ? Listen :
Alice Maud Hilder, the sunny-hearted daughter of
dreams, is dead!
Her cheeks were like tomato sauce—no more
will the beefsteaks vanish between the pearly
teeth of Alice Maud Hilder.
She made an experiment with a rope and the post
of a bed;
And-alas for the rarity of human charity under
the sun, aDd the difficulty of obtaining drinks
on credit—the experiment killed her.
How is that for touching and pathetio ? But why
should we ask? We hear your sobs like far-off
thunder.
Even as the average parson invariably
entertains an exaggerated regard for the souls of
his richest parishioners, so, in like manner, is a
newspaper with strong religious views a persist-
ent bulterer of royalty and the •* hupper suckles.”
The Melbourne D.T., naturally enough, has quite
gone off its holy head on the subject of the Royal
Commission to inquire into the housing of the
London poor, and fairly dropped into delirium
over the appointment ot the Prince of Wales as an
“ordinary committeeman.” The Royal humility
(in consenting to be anything but President) ap-
pears to have made a deep impression upon the
piety slobberer, for it hastens to observe that
“ The spectacle of the heir to the Throne sitting
and voting in a committe on the same footing as
commoners ot the realm is certainly symptomatic
of a new departure and a new spirit. Who
could imagine the possibility of suoh material for
history being furnished a few generations back ?
t Let our readers imagine, if they can, George IV.
serving, when Prince Regent, in suoh a oapaoity as
our Prince of Wales honours himself by acoept-
I ing.” Incidentally, we will ask: “ Wbo,arew years
back, could have imagined the present condition
or the ‘outcast poor ?” But we will not ask our
readers to imagine the Prince Regent sitting on a
committee, because he couldn't have done it.
However, the D.T.—still piling on the butter—
refers to “Wales’s” oft-quoted remarks, at the
opening of the Royal Collage of Music: “The
time has come when elass can no longer stand
aloof from class ; and that man does his duty
best who works most earnestly in bridging over
the gulf between different classes.” “These are
sentiments,” says the D.T.. “worthy of all accepta-
tion, without respect to the utterer, but they are
■peculiarly refreshing as coming from the heir to
the throne of the British empire.” Now, consider-
ing that the P. of W.’s “ bridging of the gulf ”
consists in making himself amiable (too amiable,
the missus says) to pretty actresses, and in inviting
J..L. Toole to come and be funny at a Sunday
dinner at Marlborough House, we can’t help think-
ing that the D.T.’s “ sentiments ” are even more
“peculiarly refreshing” than Wales’s; but, then,
ours isn’t a religious paper, so people say, there-
fore we can only criticise the words and deeds of
a Prince of the Blood from a fnaterial, and not
from a spiritual, point of view. For the D.T.
appears to find something quite heavenly about
any passing spasm that agitates “swells,” and con-
cludes its article thus:—“When we couple his
actions and utteranoes with the well-known in-
terest (at it again I) taken by the late Prince Leo-
pold in the condition of the poorer classes, we
think we may safely say that, while many stars of
hope brighten the thick darkness which overhangs
the condition of outcast London, the earnest in-
terest which the leaders of the highest classes in
society are taking in its reclamation must be
reckoned as amongst the most conspicuous.” As
Major Barker might say—“ Hallelujah! God bless
the highest classes!”
Geelong writhes under a most unkind cut.
Moses, the Queensland tracker, who had been
stopping there a few days in the exercise of his
profession, arose one morning and “in language
that you would mistake for an Englishman’s ”
cursed the place and prepared to run. He spat at
the town, radiant as the citizens thought it robed
in its mantle of daylight. Why Moses should have
thus heaped contempt on the rising centre of demo-
cracy was for a while a mystery. But as it was of
importance not to let him run, he was induced to
spend half an hour of the remnant of his sojourn
in laying bare the basis of his settled conviction.
Moses, then, had been employed with the detectives
on a murder case; his eyes were better than theirs,
his testimony was as useful as theirs, and, putting
everything together, he thought he was as good a
man as any of them. 80 he was till dinner-time.
But, when dinner was served, the detectives were
put sitting down to a table with a cloth on it,
and before dishes tempting to the eyes as well
a» odorous to the nose, while sable Moses was
shoved into the kitchen, and given a platter on his
knees. That’s what maddened Moses. After all the
talk he had heard in Geelong about the glorious
dignity of Manhood, about Equality, Fraternity,
and the Brotherhood of labour, he found that
when it oame to the matter of hash, a harsh line
of distinction was drawn between the blood of the
black kings of Queensland and the blue blood of
the Victorian detectives. Moses called the whole
system a sham and a shame, and casting the platter
on the floor, looked northwards, towards his
native sorubs. and straightened his legs for a race.
“Not in Geelong,” as Moses said, “but in the
gunyahs of the North, was a man a man. In Gee-
long,” said he, “a man is but an ape, and
not even a good one at that.” Don’t
mind, Moses. Adversity gives us strange bed-
fellows, and you’re not the first one that has
fallen from a high estate.
Plato was of opinion that the nature of
dreams depended on the state of the dreamer’s
liver, and we are inclined to chime in with this
venerable party’s opinion. The patriarch Joseph,
who rigged the Egyptian com market so success-
fully, was a renowned dreamer; and it is a notable
fact that at the inquest on his “ demnition dead ”
body, the medical evidence went to prove that his
liver was a complete "fluke” so to speak,
and, as a natural sequenoe, he earned more money
by one dream than a night cabman could make in
a week, even when a deputation of Australian
delegates are on a visit to this olty. We once had
a dream ourselves. It was posterior to the de-
voural of 3Tb. of lobster salad, one watermelon
four plates of devilled kidneys, seven glasses of
rum, six bottles of whisky, and a quart of picnic
gingerbeer, which we were told was a good thing
to use as a sort of gargle. Then we went to sleep
—perchance to dream. And you better believe
we did dream. We dreamt, first of all, that we
were seized by a band of Apache Indians (reading
Mayne Reid the night before), and these Indians
at onee threw us over a pine log, and began
to scalp us just as enthusiastically as if there
was a Government reward for every hair
But we were bald-headed at the time, and
wore a wig; and this so thoroughly disgusted
the noble red man that he dragged us through a
forest of Bathurst burrs and Scotch thistles pro-
fusely adorned with oyster shells and broken
bottles, and then strapped us down on the tram-
line, just as the loaded cars were pushing home
from the Randwick races. Mad dogs with fiery
fangs and sulphurous breath were crowding round
as the tram drew near, when suddenly an able-
bodied fiend, with a tail like a ship’s hawser,
dragged us from under the wheels, and threw us
over the Gap at Bouth Head. But we caught the
rocks as we fell, and hung on by our hands, and even
laughed In our sleeve, when suddenly 250 of the
“dimycratio” unemployed came down and began to
pound our fingers with their hammers for ss. a day
aud their rations. Then we smiled no more. Finger
by finger slipped, and a bloody sweat oozed out
from every pore as we gazed on the angrv waves,
and the razor-backed rocks below. \t last, the
dread moment arrived. We were holding fast by
the dirt in our nails when a workman’s delegate
hit us a whack with an axe, and then we fell—and
dragged the wash-stand and things with us. We
are reminded of this to-day by tbe fact that the
Boorook correspondent of the Tenterfield Star
declares that a young man “employed at the
silver mines, who was in the habit of sleeping in a
deserted battery at Saw-pit Gully, dreamt the
other night that he was being blown up in the air;
he was relieved on awakening to find himself all
right, and was soon off to sleep again—only to have
the dream again with more startling vividness. At
daylight he went on a tour of exploration through
the mill, and found in a room, directly under
where he was Bleeping, a couple of kegs or powder
n pen, and a quantity of dynamite. He had been in
the habit of smoking at nights, and often carelessly
let drop lighted matches through the cracks down
into the room beneath.” Moral: Never sleep in a
saw-pit unless it “ looks like rain ”


PALING
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETG.
a
EO
h iVT*
"i
• iv
MM
!sl»
SI
i
SO
Pi
te
Iliii 'i',,'* 1 ,>,
M
itt
flw
✓•V
mmimm
H>l'l
m
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
ifr Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
in, man, ui warn mam
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AOENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES’
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ia g and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathee, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
•Toilers’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
ngle, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Laud Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach BtrinnEKS’ Sondbies.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
387 George Street, Sydney.
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand tirst in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the {treat keeping qualities ol the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTBLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRLBRB TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
80UTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
Socthbrr District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yaaa
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Book
Culcaim
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Whstbrn District, N.8.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nynjran
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonambie
Bourke
Nortmrn District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnodah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Ural la
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Bogantunßan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line;
I Townsville
I Charters Toners
Ravenawoob Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world,
ijL'-rt)' l '
%
nil
no
3k
INVALUABLE
V: „ ct SUFFERING
T H 0 5 F-
F *o
f 0
u
V 3
in
He
stie
*s
fu(3
*bf(
ft?
ADAPTED FOR 1
!jv
THE
Colonies
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBI
*
3%
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and 80N8»
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T GAYEN’S
Bobn«pps and Geneva.
A. Mo,i/V .N .jid SONS’
Edinbu g n Pale A .e.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
[NE EXTRA STOUT.
GENUI
*3
f
m
3 c:
1
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINB I
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM*
tf.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH ACJME*
RAINS, BRUISES, rSURNS. SCALP!, &c- and
;akcn internally cures DIARRHCE A, D Y'SEJ'J.L.iaRY*
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interna aches
tnd pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, SOLE PROPniTOR,
MELBOURNE -A-TsTD o _ DISTEY.
PAINT
%
MA
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brann
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO.. Sole Arents.
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint s
that spring from lack of nerve foroe, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour tq
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
Sold everywhere. Sole Proprietors. MARSHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.8., Manufacturipg Chemists.
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park,
Hvdnev. N.R.-Ail imitation* illegal, TAKE NO
SUBSTITUTE. .


Indigestarians! Indigest while you can
for after one trial of Professor Von Plomskys new
Stomachic Remedy you will be able to digest any-
thing, from a Rum leader up to a barrow-load of
broken bottles. Professor Von Plomsky at one
time possessed a stomach so delicate, that it would
refuse to hold even a penn’orth of wafers or a
billet in the Lands Department, but Professor Von
Plomsky kept “ van leedle canary-pird ” that used
to eat sand by the bushel—in fact, he used it after
every meal just as we do dessert. This made Pro-
fessor Von Plomsky mad, and he swore a fearful
oath that if his measley old stomach couldn’t
stand as much as the craw of a two-inch canary
he’d drag It out with the tongs, and stick it up on
a pole for all the hoodlums round to pelt mud at.
Accordingly, he set to work and ate an ounce of the
bird’s sand, much to the disgust of the little war-
bler, who had stuffed himself with a bottle of seed
and a dozen chilis. Strange to say, Professor Von
PlomBky’s feed-bag not only held on to the sand,
but it successfully gripped with a plate of hash
half a lobster, and a bag of dried apples also.
Prom that day forth, the Professor administered
doses of sand to all his patients with such marvel-
lous results that he brought a famine on the land
and there wasn’t a solvent cookshop within a
radius of 750 miles. Professor Von Plomsky has
had the honour of attending on the Royal stomachs
of Kaiser William and the Queen of Spain, both of
which were as tender and fragile as the breast of a
three-and-sixpenny shirt, but, thanks to his sand-
jig mixture, they can now hold a strain of 3001 b. to
the square inch. The quantity of sand to be used,
of course, depends on the nature of the patient.
For some, a small piece about the size of a lump
of wood will be found quite sufficient, whilst
others may require to use two or three tombstones
after every meal. Dyspeptics should give the new
cure a trial. Send size of stomach last birthday,
religious persuasion, &c., and twelve stamps to
Professor Von Plomsky, Binjicburstehn Hotel,
Baden Baden.
A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA..
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady in one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of it, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by ail Storekeepers and Chemists
VARIOUS VERSES.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Stand By !"—(Captain Cuttle.)
Tins from the Blakuey Creek correspondent of
the Yass Twilight Gray :—“ On Thursday last,
Mr. James Dunlay had occasion to leave home on
business, accompanied by his wife; and on his
return he was surprised to find that his beef-cask,
which, when he had left home, was quite full, was
half empty—some mean, cowardly scoundrel hav-
ing taken advantage of his absence to rob him.”
Some “mean, cowardly scoundrel!” No more
than this, and the most holy shrine of the Press
despoiled—tho high idol torn from its secret place
—the beef-cask left half empty! O, soft-voiced
scribe of the bountiful bush, hast thou no tongue
to curse this nine times trebly damned monster—
this hellish, inidnight-hearteC, cat-footed, four-
eyed Satan—this corned-horse-devouring fiend ?
Bah! what canst thou know of our feelings? In
the bush are there not ho'low logs?—and do not
’possums inhabit these, and are not ’possums rich
in brain-forming matter? Does not the luscious
frill-lizard lie dreaming in the golden glow of the
glad sunlight? Does not the early York wallaby
bound and abound there ? And what ails the “ go-
hanna?” Arc there no bush-rats, anyway ? Where
have the boneless paddy melon, and the slipstone
wombat gone to? Does not the fruitful earth
furnish the nourishing yam, and the elongated
bait-worm ? At worst, nas the phylloxera ever
affected gum-leaves? O, happy, careless scribe,
sitting amid thy abundance, little canst thou know
the thrill of fear thy story of the new crime sends
shuddering through the sanctum of a comic jour-
nal 1 Let the brazen cymbals clang I let the awful
trombone snort and rumble right away down in
the fissures and caverns of Perdition, while we lift
up our voice and sing:—
O, drowsy scribe, to hollow Want a stranger,
Where native bears thy slightest search may
bless,
Hast thou no clarion-voice to shout this danger,
This awful spectre menacing the Press ?
Stoop down thine ear, and let thy cheek grow
scarlet,
While we give all our outraged soul relief,
And shame thy tardiness to curse the varlet
Who has designs upon our cask of beef I
Our heart is touched, and what we’re going to
utter
Wells out spontaneously—for others’ good;
We’re strong, but when our private bread and
butter
Is threatened, nothing since the general Flood
Can touch the towering terror of invective,
The cataract of anger, touched with grief,
We pour; and now our policy’s Protective,
We rise to guard the sacred cask of beef!
With curses that no curses can compare to,
Thought out with care by bitter monks of old,
That Kehama’s would seem a Maiden’s Prayer to,
And Saint Gengulphus’s sound dull and cold—
And all that it cost bulky Papist purses
To have bought off, in days of True Belief-
Now listen to our catch-as-catch-can curses,
On him who robs us of our cask of beef 1
May V-shaped devils round his soul cut capers,
In Hades, while eternity holds out;
May he, for ever, look through all the papers,
In search of something new to write about;
May he be told the latest things in cricket;
And, when he yells for mercy and relief,
Hear lots of news concerning Beach and Trickett,
Who dares lay fingers on our cask of beef I
May darkness hold him in a gulf Cimmerian,
Half-lighted with blue tongues of withering
llame—
May Hades’ heats take turns with chills Siberian,
And mortal toothaches shoot through all his
May M’Elho’ne, up here, proclaim him brother,
And, down below, the foul, inhuman thief
Be cooped, for ever, with his first wife's mother,
Who would despoil us of our cask of beef!
May plaid-stripod ban-dogs, grinding tooth of iron,
Pursue him through dank caves, where green
eyes gleam,
While Satan, having shoved an extra fire on,
Keeps up, and tips him “ Murmurs of the
Stream ; ”
May smoke like that which rose of old from
Sodom,
Belch in his eyes, unsaved by liandkerchiof,
While nitred tridents from the starboard prod
him,
Who would half empty our one cask of beef 1
May his namb feet o’er many a North-Pole hum-
mock
Of glaring ice, plod, without hope of rest;
May toothless Furies dance upon his stomach,
And red-hot raven-beaks explore his breast;
May bull-voiced demons, wearing Highland bon-
nets,
Told off for special service by the Chief,
Improve his inind with Douglas Sladen’s sonnets,
Whose hand would stretch towards our cask of
beef I
May he be sent to amateur recitals,
To hear “The Bells” gone through for ever-
more;
May sickly adders feed upon his vitals,
And sandy-blighted vampires sip his gore;
Mry brindled asps, and poley salamanders
Be round him, thick as ears upon a sheaf;
May he get chilblains, leprosy, and glanders,
Who would appropriate our cask of beef!
May bulbous horrors, without name, confound
him,
And slimy feelers touch him iu the dark;
May every deadly reptile hiss around him
That Noah sailed about with in the Ark ;
May lop-eared swine, of many a midnight farrow,
For ever round his pillow grunt and sniff;
May scorpions sting him to the spinal marrow,
Who from our homes would steal our cask of
beef!
May such a lot be his as far eclipses
The direst dreams of Dante at their worst;
May many a double-headed dropsied Dipsas
Bite him to paroxysms of quenchless thirst;
The [?]
All things change—even rabbits. The last fact about them is of much interest,
especially to biologists. It might, of course, have been foreseen that they were not
likely to remain the same under novel conditions—that they would drop some habits,
and adopt others more useful to them in their new country and strange environments.
From being essentially “burrowing” animals in England, they are turning their
attention “to swimming creeks and climbing fences in Australia.” The branch of the
family evincing a penchant for the water is becoming web-footed and duck-billed like
the platypus, while that practising on fences and trees is acquiring a prehensile tail
like the opposum and spider-monkey. Here then, under our very eyes, we have what
will ultimately become distinct species starting from a common stock. Whether the
evolution will continue till the one becomes a fish, and the other a bird, is a question
on which we would sooner not commit ourselves to a positive opinion, as we deal with
facts only, and leave speculation and hypothesis to our contemporaries.
May ho be fried until he wilts and shrivels,
As summer’s breath curls up the fallen leaf,
And turned by well-initiated devils,
Who secretly deprives our cask of beef!
May he be left for aye without tobacco,
In weary ways, where company is scarce;
May fiends of lowest status call him “ Raca,”
And one each side read the late Punch’s verso;
May drunk Medusas for ever-more affright him,
In front—the ruthless, unexampled thief—
While bell-mouthed Hydras slip behind and bite
him
Who hunger’s for another’s cask of beef 1
May Yulcan forge upon him rusty fetters,
And chain him deep amid Avernus' ooze;
May Mrs. Green keep on inditing letters,
And send them to him in the Evening News;
May twy-prongod Ellops, with their tusks impale
him,
May C.M.G.’s surround—but, to be brief—
May all that ails the damned for ever ail him.
Who at tho Press strikes through its cask of beef!
Ecclesiastical Eccentricltien
The Reverend Peter Pottle was an eminent divino,
Who adhered to all the Articles—in number thirty-
nine ;
He shepherded a diocese, brought sheep unto the
fold,
Yet we grieve to say of Peter that a naughty
story’s told,
He “ laboured in the vineyard of his Master so
he said.
He vowed he couldn’t “look upon the wine when
it is rod;”
He wrote somniferous sermons, yes, and preached
them, too, as well,
And held out small hopes of heaven, but was very
hot on hell.
His women-folk were proud of him, and said he
was so good 1
Lord knows who most admired him as he in the
pulpit stood;
They knitted woollen stockings, too, his “tootsies”
warm to keep,
And cosy nightcaps by the score for comfort dur-
ing sleep.
But though tho Reverend Peter seemed to lead so
good a life,
And was, of course, quite virtuous—because he
had a wife;
Yet people said he liked the cards, knew quite well
howto “stack,”
And could deal himself four aces from the bottom
of the pack.
’Twas said, sometimes, the night’s carouse ex-
tended to the mom,
In fact, the scandal grew till it no longer could be
borne;
So the Reverend Pete got cautious, while he
worked a little scheme
For his friends to presentise him, “ as a mark of
their esteem.”
He attended to each christening, to each meeting,
day by day,
And on Sundays he exhorted all “ to seek the nar-
row way; ”
Until, one morn, a rumour spread—it shocked not
us alone—
The parson had mistaken someone’s Mrs. for his
own.
Of course, this accusation his churchwardens
much annoyed,
And countless female bosoms had their happiness
destroyed;
For, as we have before remarked, though ladies
ne’er confessed
Their love for him, Lord only knew who loved the
parson best.
What did the Koverend Peter do, when thus he
stood accused ?
Did he refute the calumny, and say he was
abused ?
Or wail “ thus is it ever, when good men lead godly
lives?”
No; he just eloped to Utah with his six church-
wardens’ wives!
REV. MR. HALLELUJAH’S HOSS.
tion and destruction on every hand.
This is also true of the perambulator,
or baby-carriage. I undertook to evade
a perambulator twelve months ago lust
spring, as it stood in the entrance to tbe
George-street Arcade. The child was not
injured because it was not in the oaniag j
at’the time, but I was not so fortunate
I pulled pieces of perambulator out of
myself for two weeks with the hand that
was not disabled.
How a sedentary man could fall through
a child’s carnage in such a manner as to
stab himself with the awning and knock
every spoke out of three wheels is still a
mystery to me, but I did it. I eau show you
the doctor’s bill now.
The other day, however, 1 discov< red a
new style of riding animal. The Kev. Mr.
here are a good many difficult things to ride, I
find, besides the bicycle and the buck jumper.
Those who have tried to mount and successfully
ride a wheelbarrow in the darkness of the stilly
night will agree with me.
You come on a wheelbarrow suddenly when it is
in a brown study, and you undertake to straddle
it, so to speak, and all at once you find the wheel-
barrow on top. I may say, I think, safely, that the
wheelbarrow is, as a rule, phlegmatic and cool; but
when a total stranger startles it, it spreads desola-
“ The trade started across me platform with him."
Hallelujah was at the Station when I arrived, and was evidently
waiting for the same train that I was in search of. Rev. Mr*
Hallelujah had put his hand-bag down near an ordinary
luggage-truck which leaned up against the wall of the station
building. He strolled along the platform a few moments)
communing with himself and agitating his mind over the sub-
ject of Divine Retribution, and then he went up and leaned
against the truek. Finally he somehow got his arms under
the handles of the truek as it stood up between his back
and the wall. He still continued to think of the plan of
Divine Retribution, and you could have seen his lips move
if you had been there.
Pretty soon some young ladles came along, rosy in the
summer air, beautiful beyond compare, golden glitter in their
hair; smiled they on the preacher there.
Mr. Hallelujah returned the smile, and bowed low. As he
did so, as near as 1 can iigure it out, he stepped back on the
iron edge of the truck: that the porter generally jabs under the
The small hoy who smiled.
rim of an iron-bound sample-trunk when he goes to load it.
Auyhow, Mr. Hallelujah’sfeetHewouttowardsnextspring.
The truck started across the platform with him and spilled
him over the edge on the track live feet below. So rapid
was the movement that the eye with difficulty followed
his evolutions. His bag was carried onward by the same
wild avalanche and “busted” open before it struck the
track pelow. I was surprised to see some of the articles
that shot forth into the broad lisht of day. Among
the rest there was a bran fired new set of ready-made
teeth, to be used in case of accident. Up to that
moment T didn’t know that Mr. Hallelujah used the com-
mon tooth of commerce. These teeth slipped out of the
bag with a Sabbath smile and vulcanized rubber gums.
In striking the iron track below, the every-day set which
the Rev. Mr. Hallelujah had in use became loosened, ana
smiled across the road-bed and right-of-way at the bran
lired new array of incisors, cuspids, bi-cuspids and molars
that flew out of the bag. Mr. Hallelujah got up and tried
to look merry, but he could not smile without his teetn.
The back seams of his clerical coat were more successful,
however.
Mr. Hallelujah's wardrobe and a small boy were the
only objects that dared to smile.
BILL NYE.


THE
IGNO
ll‘
ft
»F
THE
ZE^lu^^TO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Migrnon
X s LAJsT©
Is Tron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Mig^non
DFl.^.3iT©
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
O
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
Wilmer
ZE=X.^©TO
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NIGHOLSOtT AND GO.,
325 George-streef,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
fc# 1 TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osbornk ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co.. Reims.
DOBERT BUTCHER & C< .
(Late William Long),
lar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases •which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Gatiiartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of tlieso
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing 1 could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
1 have over found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in tlieir praise, and I always do so
wheu occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., dune 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. I-larlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spito of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They nave
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
Whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s SJarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; §l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO,
Wholesale Agents.
m
6/J
\\
, Water baths
ising&wi'cmAking establishment
/ & 141 OXFD\RD\S‘ f . x
HALF HOL/Df\ YCU'FH Y TS/UASOAY
n
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
DE
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard aoainst fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 839 Oxford-street, London."
OLEND
MARS]
[trade]
m
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—Thin is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents. ; .
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
«S?Sr5»
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCHNAPPB.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
&T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN'B COFFEE,
PAPEKHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERB,
FRIEZES to match.
NURSERi PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ Si DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White l>ead. Oils, Paints, Colourß, Va
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
ALCOCK & CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
80LE AGENTS:
CHARLES DOB ail DO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
ET TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES G-IVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
Z
0
3
S
t-6-
DC
£
o
o
fr'<.
o>
03
S»
0
B
8
a
a?
o
to
*
\
<4/>
a.
<.
X 1
s
fir!
r
o
ftt
1
CA
%
©
6}
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA. ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
TRADE
[j ßcrjtetercd .)
MARK - .
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
*** 2s. Gd. per lb.
Our TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar*
ket and unex*
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength;
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving- a Tea of
uniform standard
an«l excellence.
J. Henochsberg,
Managed.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
]ggp Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatio Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
-Wlllr3n.ore’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the abovo establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit Lioense, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 tirst-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial st-eamera
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.


Last Monday week, one of the chosen
people, who runs a clothing store in this Gity, and
calls roast pork “potted salmon,” was dancing
madly about the footpath like a Wide Bay kanaka
with seven inches of Cooktown rum in him, when
another Yidisher came along and said, “ Hello,
Shacob, vat you mak a gangaroo av yourself, an’
shoomp aboud like dat for?” “Oh, shelpmegor,
Misder Levi, lem ruinedtl Dis morn in’ I margs a
hat 95., an’ somepody turns de tigkit downside up,
an’ dat dam new poy vat I gets from Goldsten-
kraft’s brother’s vife goes an’ sells it to a pushman
f’r six sheelin.” “ Vell, veil! Und you lose de three
sheelins, Shacob.” “ Three goot sheelins, Misder
Levi; budt never mindt, I deescharge dat poy so
queek vat his hedt doan hef time to shwiml
About an hour after this, Misder Levi was repass-
ing the store, when he ivas astonished to find ms
friend Shacob with his thumbs stuck in the sleeve-
holes of his vest, pacing up and down the patn,
laughing, and jabbering away to himself like an
old kookaburra over a dead snake. vats up
now?” asked the astounded Misder Levi: did you
discharge that poy?” “Oh, goot day, Misder
Levi,” shouted the excited Shacob; dot poy vhas
sll righdt, sir! Vhen I comes to inquire into it, 1
doan let him go ef I haf to pay him some more
vages. He makes a pig misdake on dat hat, out
showst afder dat, a feller cooms in for change av a
City Bank ten-poun’ node, und s’belp me never,
Misder Levi, ef dot poy didn’t give dot man efry
van of my Oriental Bank von-pounders. () Het a
glass ef prandy ? Now, do, Misder Levi, do.
Intrigues under-
way for securing ap-
pointment of Dr. Herbert
Vaughan, Bishop of Sal-
ford, as co-ad jut or to
Cardinal Manning, with
right of succession to the
see of Westminster. Leo
doesn’t see it yet!
The Sisters of Mercy
teach three schools in
Yass, viz., the general
school, (91 pupiif)
the select school, (29); and
the school lately built
for the aboriginals (29).
The little darkies, who
wore some few months
ago “rounded in” in all
their aboriginal primi-
tiveness, are now (says
the local Couhiek) able
to spell and read pretty
fluently. What fair-
minded fellow but will
take off his hat to those
practical philanthropists,
the Sisters of Mercy of
Yass?
This is another
clerical and Payne - ful
item. The Rev. Payne,
of St. John’s, Darling-
hurst, vowed when the
C.E. Synod squabble was
on, that if Canon Barry
was elected as his Bishop
he would throw up the
Bponge, and resign
gtraight off. But, when
Bishop Barry arrived in
the harbour, Payne was
the loudest amongst
his cheerers, and the
most nauseous in his
slobbering at the feet of
the new Gamaliel! And
it was in Payne’s pulpit
that Barry preached his
first parisn sermon. The
Rev. Mr. Payne is evi-
dently a pane that wants
considerable scrubbing
in order to let the light
of consistency shine
through a little mofe
clearly.
Were a Christian
denomination to care to
undertake anything
directly practical in the
sphere of morals, one
could imagine it per-
forming by means of its
executive machinery
somewhat similar work
to that performed by the
Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty te Ani-
mals, undertaking prose-
cutions in cases where,
although morality was
directly outraged the law
officers of the State didn’t
see their way clear to
initiate proceedings
against the offenders.
"For example, at the first
blush one would have
hought that an organi-
sation professedly estab-
lished to promote good-
ness would have “gone
for” lottery promoters
with the eagerness of a
game terrier at a rat;
but at the second blush,
of course, the lovely idea
will collapse. It is
a melancholy fact that
there’s nary a sai-disavt
goodness - promoting
organisation but what is
tarred with the self-same
brush as the rascalliest
tontiner.
You can bet your life that the next time
John Evans gets run in for being “full” he will
favour the police with his right name—the name
bequeathed to him by his ancestors. A little
while ago John got very merry, down at Sale, and
his jollity attracted the attention of the local
“force.” There it was that John committed the
indiscretion of describing himself to tho Inspector
as “ David Jones.” He never indulged in a more
unfortunato flight of fancy in his life, because
David Jones (to whose description John happened
to answer pretty closely) Avas “ wanted ” tor wife
desertion at Melbourne. So John David Evans
Jones Avas packed off to Melbourne, charged at
the police court with his conjugal offence, and
remanded for a week or two, until Mrs. Jones
could be brought to " identify him. In vain did
the unhappy man protest that his name was Evans,
and he hadn't a Avife. For three weeks he was
kept in gaol pending “ identification,” until at last
the father of the deserted Mrs. Jones appeared
upon the scene, and John Evans became once
more a free man. Now he is vowing vengeance-
fearful and summary vengeance—upon the zealous
‘ coppers ” of Sale.
Under the “ refreshment basket ” system,
introduced by Speight on to the Victorian rail-
ways, travellers will be able to secure a refresh-
ment-basket at any of the licensed rooms and
leave it at any station along the line. Basket
to be Itiiu. long, llin. wide, and 4!4in. deep. In a
rack underneath the lid are spaces for two pairs of
knives and forks; in the basket itself space for
two plates Bin. in diameter, a pint bottle, two
paper napkins, tumbler, cheese and butter, bread,
pepper, salt, mustard, and vinegar, and also for
celery, lettuce, and tomatoes. Charge for a basket,
3s. 6d.; contents half a chicken, two slices of ham
or ox tongue, two breaisfast rolls, butter and
cheese of each, pint bottle containing ale
porter, or lager, claret, hock, or other native wine,
lemonade, tonic, or soda water, or milk. There is
also to be a set table at every refreshment-room of
the first-class, where, for Is. 6d., will be provided a
“ feed ” of soup, or fish, or hot joint, with veget-
ables, bread, butter, cheese, and marmalade, salad,
pickles, lettuce, celery, or tomatoes; ice during
the hot season, and a large cup of tea and coffee.
Or, in lieu of the joint, chops, steak, ham and eggs,
etc. At second-class rooms are to be obtainable
counter refreshments, on payment of Is. Soup or
Irish stew, chops, steak, ham and eggs, sausages,
or anything of that kind, with potatoes baked and
boiled, and half-a-mint of Victorian wine, ale, milk,
or cup of coffee oftea.
Plaiu-clothes Constable Whyte, of Mel-
bourne, had a very trying afternoon, reoently. It
Avas a Monday (that’s a day Avhen no one seems to
be able to settle down to work properly), and Mr.
Whyte had become a little bit wearied of looking
round for criminals, when his eagle eye fell on his
young friend M’Namara. Being Monday, nothing
came more natural than an adjournment to the
CorkscreAv Hotel with his young friend, and, being
in the Corkscrew Hotel, nothing came more
natural than “ shaking ” for a pound a time. The
landlord was persuaded to join in, too, just to
make it more friendly, but plain-clothes Constable
Charity and Umbrellas cover a multitude of sins.
Whyte wa* so lucky that afternoon that he won
about £45 off the pair of them. So, radiant with
success and champagne, Mr. Whyte sallied forth
to renew his soared for criminals, and, finding
them scarce, determined to do just a little some-
thing towards upholding the dignity of the
“force.” Without more ado, the pot-valiant
plain-clothes constable stopped a young man
named JJenis, and, after announcing that he was
“ the best man in Australia,” challenged the
latter to fight. To the Constable’s subsequent
sorrow, Mr. Denis did fight—and knocked out the
guardian of the peace in two short, decisive
rounds. It was in a very blood-stained and dis-
ordered state that plain-clothes Constable Whyte
sought the nearest police station and preferred a
charge of robbery against his conqueror. God bless
the police!
As usual, Mr. John Plummer is still diffus-
ing intelligence among the masses, and a few even-
ings ago ho undertook to fill the Sydney Technical
College with one of his golden-mouthed orations
on “Heraldic Crests in relation to Ornamental Art.”
One strange peculiarity which the gifted Plummer
pointed out in connection with this subject is the
fact that, in order to be an expert in tne metal-
chasing branch of the business, one requires to
possess some little rough information about
heraldic things in gonoral. This is where henraldry
differs from the art of lecturing. Given any
definite subject to hold out on, one has only to
procure a bald-beaded chairmau, a borrowed
water-bottle, a bad house, and a total ignorance of
what he is required to speak about, in order t •
become what Granny calls “a most learned a..a
interesting lecturer.” During the course of the
brilliant Plummer’s remarks, he observed that
“ each metal and colour, when represented in
carved work, was indicated by the texture of the
surface. Thus, in a shield on which was shown a
red cross on a silver ground, the whole surface of
the cross would be covered with horizontal lines,
denoting red, the surface of the remaining portion
of the shield being loft perfectly plain, denoting
white or silver. This was often overlooked by
wretched die-sinkers, and miserable seal-engraverSj
and others who were thereby led into mistakes.’
This was, indeed, information to some of Mr.
Plummer’s hearers. As a matter of fact, red is
represented by perpendicular lines, blue by hori-
zontal; so that the only way to benefit by our
heraldic friend’s remarks would be to up-end all
he said, or to read his lecture backwards. Next
time Mr. Plummer orates, he would do well to
borrow half-a-crown from some gentleman in the
audience, and carefully observe the obverse of
the coin in question. He will then be inclined to
deal more leniently with the misguided metal-
chasers, and enabled to know a little more than he
does about this important subject.
It was a day of humiliation and prayers
for rain in the Banoora district, and the churches,
of course, were crowded. So were the pubs. The
devotions in the former places of worship were
knocked off at 1 p.m., but it was 1 a.m. before they
began to case off in the latter. And, as a natural
consequence, many of the pub.'s pious supplicants
felt tired. So much so, in fact, that the thoughtful
high priest of the “Green Lion ” ordered a coach
to be brought out to convey his congregation,
which consisted of the gifted editor of the Ma-
noora Mangler, two doctors, one and a half
bank clerks, the local postmaster, and a bush
missionary, to their respective homes. Having-
stowed the faithful inside the coach, he called the
driver, a recent arrival from la belle France
named Pettier M'Fadden, to the door, and said,
“ Listen to me now, Pether. That joker on the
right is an editor-, and lives at the ‘Pines,’ the two
on the left live near the pound, the one and part of
one at Mother M'Gee’s, and the other .joker at the
Post-office. Dump them down carefully as you
go along.” “oh thrusht me fur dat sur,” replied
Pether as he skipped on the box and dashed off
with his pious cargo. About twenty minutes after,
however, Mr. M'Fadden returned, and battering in
the hotel door, yelled out: ** Oh bad ciss t’ me soul,
Mr. Doolin, but these fellers here hav’ bumped
about an’got so messhed up on the tiure av’ th’
coach, that d—n me av oi kin tell where t’ dhrop a
single gossoon av im, ’cept th’ noosepaper man,
wid th’ patch an th’ sate av’ his breeches, an’ divil
a fut he’ll sthir out for any wan.” And Mr. Doolin,
being a prudent man, ran the coach back into the
stable till morning, when the crowd of humiliators
were found washing themselves in a horse- trough
—all except the missionary who was discovered
shining up on the roof of the kitchen, in order, as
he afterwards explained, to get away from that
j swarm of crimson-headed, blue-bellied, green-
tailed alligators that were swimming around the
yard endeavouring to squirt coloured tire am 1
forked lightning over him. However, the lot of
I the humiliators came-to next day, and Saturday 8
mangler observed, “ The religious services in
I connection with our day of humiliation and
| prayer passed off with great ecl&t.”
Hallerlooyur! Here’s another bloomin’
brother saved I A London Salvationist recently
wrote to Major-Giniril Booth for a uniform, and
enclosing a £5 note, sent in the following lovely
letter:—“2llth Blood and Fire Corps. Beloved
brother Booth,—God bless you. I think you can
guess the size of the overcoat by the other things.
God bless you. lam beautifully saved, thank God.
lam expecting and believing. lam your brother
in Christ, W. Hartley.” The genial General ac-
cordingly blessed a “ sojur’s ” rig-out, collared the
cash, and forwarded off the “ overcoat and other
things.” Here's where cachinnation enters. It
afterwards leaked out that Mr. Hartley, who was
so beautifully saved, was a letter-carrier, and so
great was his yearning for a sloosh in the bleeding
fountain that he stole the £5 out of a letter, alleg-
ing as his excuse that “ heavenly glory was far
above all earthly considerations, and that people
were always telling him he couldn’t expect to get
to heaven without the soldier's suit, the overcoat
especially.” The man who lost the “ fiver,” how-
ever, declared that in his humble opinion brother
Hartley would stand in far greater need of a case
of fans and an ice-chest in the world to come; and
then the lost-beyond-redemption Judge not only
sent Mr. Hartley up for a beautiful stretch of 18
months, but he also ordered the saintly Booth to
ante-up the “ fiver.” Of course the gallant General
shouted “Hallerlooyur!” but it was a very sick
sort of shout, indeed, and sounded more like the
agonised squeal of a rat who had unintentionally
«?ot his tail jammed under the beautiful end of a
cheese-knife.
“Therefore I say
unto you, take no
thought for your life,
what ye shall eat or what
yo shall drink, nor yet
for your body, what ye
shall put on.” So spake
the meek and gentle Son
of God in His sublime
Sermon on the Mount.
But neither the Church
of Rome nor the Church
of England, with their
inseparable broadcloth
and lawn, were invented
at the time, and the menu
of the Apostles of those
days didn’t embrace gold-
top Roederer and York
hams frisking in pink-
paper filagree-work, or
He might not have been
what the “jaynil” one
would probably call so
“ sevare.” We have read
the report of the Con-
secration of St. Saviour’s
Cathedral at Goulburn,
and we were struck by
the rapid strides which
the profession of pro-
claiming the One born in
a manger has taken since
Peter used to preach his
Master’s word on a fish
diet, and Paul do a bit of
tent-making to keep the
pot boiling. We read
that at the Luncheon
given to Christ’s paid
Shepherds, after the cere-
mony, “ the tables were
literally loaded with
tempting dishes, and
such other delicacios as
go to make up a very
pleasing and palatable
feast. The “ other deli-
cacies” were bottled,with
a good head to ’em. An
improvement on locusts
and wild honey with the
chill off, Kerryistian
lriohds. No goats-hair
shirts about that crowd.
The Hon. James Chis-
holm, M.L.C., was chair-
man, and R. C. Joplin,
Esq. (who, the paper
hastens to inform us, is
Manager of the Commer-
cial Bank), vice-ditto. A
rum position for an R. C.,
to be vice-chairman at a
Protestant celebration.
In proposing the health
of the Bishop of Goul-
burn, the chairman said
the members of the
Church “were the only
British subjects who left
their country to benefit
others. All the rest left
to make money.” We
think the hon. gentle-
man must have got that
sentence out of The
Bulletin somewhere,
though we don’t seem to
be able to “place” it just
at present. And the R.C.
in giving the toast of
“ The Primate and the
other Bishops ” seems to
have been mixed. He
said “clergymen should
be men of culture, edu-
cation, and strict piety.
Hitherto this had been
rather neglected. Men
who wish to command
respect, must be gentle-
men in the first place,
and it is also necessary
that they possess scholar-
ship.” Wo think so
neither, but when wo are
chairman of an ecclesi-
astical turn out, we al-
ways feel the wisdom ol
the serpent stewing out
of us, ami shut up about
such things. The Bishop of Goulburnspeaking of
the late architect of the Cathedral, said “Mr.
Blackett was a lirst-rate man in ail directions.
When he (the Bishop) first met him they bad many
conversations over difficulties which Mr. Blackett
saw in portions of the Old Testament, but these
were all overcome in time.” Wo have often felt
that we are a first-rate man at finding the same
difficulties. But we are glad to see that in these
times those who take up their Cross and follow
Him, have a generally rosier way to walk in than
they of old who humped it, so to speak, up Blue
Mountain tracks, and over weary wastes of sand.
Not much gravel in their watertights now. And
we are equally pleased to find that there is one
portion or the Sermon which they cling to with a
great cling, and loudly teach, always, and every-
where, viz.—“ Leave there thy gift before the
altar, and go thy way.”
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 26 O’ConnelLi-
stkeet, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents lor
the salo or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*


WHISKEY!
lflE whiskey is
JKOlf and CAMERON’S
Qauty unsurpassed.
D Hy Brothers,
S.W. and Queensland,
1 <®Bg WffisS ISKIEB
eor Se Street, Sydney
rish Whiskey
'^pCS.S. ,iWHIBKI ' T
'f* 1 , for it, see ths?/, hiskey Doctors.”
a Brothers,
R6ntS f ° r N - S ‘ W - and Queensland
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
JST C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-atreet, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
RAPES and
to Respec tpully invite inspection of their
tW SEASON’S GOODS,
as follows
Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
Uprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
Ik l2s^6( 1. to * g^ OR ' MAD a ULSTERS,
toUineaf3
r ° m 5S - M - t 0 30s -
Q Ui ' J ACi<K T f Ulsters - New Cloths
iS VEISI 111 NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. ttd
each
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER' 5 , from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin .Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
BrocateileSilk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
iiSiV ave
Tweed Clothing.
®N’S rvuw?,''', <?Pen for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment- of
Of thev« J: MA ? E CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
various classes of goods enumerated below.
&3® 4 8taT«"S£
LIIiED WOOL. 30s„
Y??»SJ *2£S^)SJ^SCO.ATS, 635.
W Ur Passed. 1 Joocl Honest Value
K», l " 1 ' 1 •S? m r 'i !' LOWS !
I Jv* ir >s n - !l' ~ds - th
ft, ° k Co& ts a ( of w’ 50s ‘
& "' Vest ■ hn 'Hand Broadcloth:
ifg 8 ;. .^fl°'ghni'ni^ Doeskin ' 355., 30s
ISaen nk and well madt
LSMraous^-^s.eaeh
k>tr
k,tt 4 6 fe panned s? otc r h 0 R VNS ’ in F 1
• to 84a. °otch Kmcker, Quill
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. (id.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicber Suits—-The Norfolk, 10s. 6d ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Mau-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HAT'',
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES. Vs. lid , Bs. 6d.
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
French' Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
•*£&
OEOfinr SHAW
STUB® f
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
£z Son’s
" Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
I
p ßem/ses, 107 pitt street,
.. Open.
hotel,
f of KING and castlereagh streets.
Bar* McCLEERY
(late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
T He ONLY genuine tintag
TOBACCO
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
SJSj FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco
Ueror * Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
1 1 O'EROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
~lj> ' f,r *i of I'ioea Cisrsrs, and ail Tobacconists* Sundries.
' U °K” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY-
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling's Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort.
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
502n.0 33etz;stsi:r
352 Ssorge Street-
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
Y EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
JLi drink of the army, navy, the elube, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading-
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the ottener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNe Ss CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
T Charges strictly moderate I
MARSHALL BROTHERS I
dentists | O6MARK etst e.
a ll dental operations performed
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
ansesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
gassed. The magniflcient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TXxxcLertsLlsex,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
Hew Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing aIL the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse.
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
RvBU.BG IS
Hi
mil
'i'-K
mm.
mSSmMMm
TKY r BUKG-IS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from IBs. rid. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STEEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sell-measuring
forwarded to any part ox the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 187'
Paid-up Capital ~.£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund £133,500
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
iry Mor
George S. Caird, Esc
Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
~ ~ “ ~ 'LG.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.Mj
Auditors :
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager :
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyng'an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G
Geo. I\ Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tb IMtilsS limtirs
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantations by
ijiir own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
w.
HL .Ariel! & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
raanby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4 ,14, and lib. tins*
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
-^yiLCOx
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £l lO
: 1
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walmu-x
Wood,
«c. &c.
HEBBLBWHITE & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
REGBBtiM.II TOUS,
TEACHEII OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
|3T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows :-SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS OEBiLBTY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
he
a HALM.
TREATMENT.:
kR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
J MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old ag'o, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any ease. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purohasor will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect, a eure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia*


G-olcL T e-wellery
/
fes
a
O-
#•
WATCHES, PEOM 3Qs.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually atten >
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
i'IS
J. «3T.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER.
Ts OPENING
SUITS, TROUSERS and VEST S, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET WAm"
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIER 1,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
Come early and inspect the
Stock
to #
Both shops are thorougly chock full.
keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in p
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING 0 j|
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hay" 1
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near
Mark®*
J.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lanoet.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK BTREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPT.,
6? GEORGE STREET WEOT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
mm
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PJRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
5 lock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
Quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKJER & CO., Sole Agents,
316 George-st.reet. Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MH. F. WARE,
SURG-EON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
J3T* Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
ASther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HIGGINS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OR PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
'rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE BT-. SYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
wm
Idrn;
ORW.
_ w 1
fljtvHm
!®Snd
wkiittjb
Wm
mUnCuA
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should bo carefully compared, as largo
Quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beveraeoshould com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
BT THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The 01' y Tobacco combining- Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
5
will’: Titat Hi., Lis.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENOE STREETS,
An-i can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Register'd according- to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect. the public against spurious and worthless
BLAKE’S
P
H. P
17 PlT T
gypUE^
ARE SOLE AGENTS
S tocK^ d
’UMI’S pD!
and have jo
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED I>L>l
TANK OR LIGH t ®
MINING P UMPS ■ ■
COMBINED AIH&°
TANNERY pUM pS
sugar-house pvtti
VACUUM PUMPS pfl I
deep-well-siE# 1
SEND
a£o
FOR PKICPS
CATALOGU ESP^
H.
WA P
iof!
CA riP .
CO
uthor of “Modern
Queen’s t
Patients <
34 0 CR G
Late with D r '
paints-
OILS.
&
&
A
QA
pi
y.
Office: 330
8TOBBS:
r. /
N.Tt.
pjvtt*®
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of frated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
0<"
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Licjued rs ’
It'
P ll '
