

SUIQ£E:E3 SEiISOIT. ISS4=_
lITHOUYIOUEU k SOIS,
E3ivd:^= > o^z _ cr^vd:,
Uaymarket, oktly.
the largest drapery establishment
AND THE
Cliolcest Assortment of G-oods
IN THE
A.ULS'feraJ.x &jJOl Coioniesi f
Anthony
HORDERN AND SONS
palace emporium, haymarket, only,
p
>.
Showing a Most Magnificent STOCK of GOODS in every one of onr thirty-six departments, comprising all the
Hlk LATEST NOVELTIES and the MOST APPROVED EASIIIONS from London and Paris, in
Dresses, Silks, French and English iiiilinery, Parachutes and Sunshades, GSoves, Ribbons, Laces,
Nets, Wells, and the innumerable accessories to fashionable attire.
Assortment of English-made EUBNXTUBE, Electro-plated Goods, Carpets, Bedsteads and Bedding, Chinaware and
q Glassware, not equalled in Sydney for Price or Quality.
CASES are filled with the choicest products of the leading manufacturing centres, and are alone worth a visit.
OUR ONI/ST ADDRESS-
tNTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.
The Bulletin New Series


if
>rai
-
eat
/•S'
-
=¥K
ess
aawm
'■s:S
&s&* v%*
m
fet
vest*;
JM
71
w
mm
si--L'.:*&
B&B
lew South Wales.
El’6
»
@1
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMER GOODS.
- - ■ -
.ctof
JOHN HUNTEIi has much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufa ct ' ,
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing the &
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The eu° r
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices eliarged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of » sS
and those who favour him with their custom will he sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
mms, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping §nd Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY" GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL A*ND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Hoad Office : HONGKONG
J, C. Goatling'and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Softs and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers’(Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, Ml Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—PatenwDry Gas Meters.
Vivian and pons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De VVendel aryl Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Dry.brough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Parent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freree, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE (AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and MuLlaly, T. Allsop, Hi J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. G ibson.
SouthCAustralia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
tST - INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
MEINRATH AND GO.,
s®is , x , m.a.k::sx3s,
96 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
Ihe patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies* are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from .any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotyj >e, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
fhe same staff of A’rtjsfs, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all, negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from w inch copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
L W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
2L
m
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRIT
Begs to announce to Ms town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Departiffy
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock; of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirit 3 ’
his recent visit to Europe.
selected by the proprietor during- his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently r ® C fl 0 (l r
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a B^
patronage,..which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
8 d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very ©id) bottled by P. R.L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 6 6
Pine Old Pale, bottled by P. S. L. .. ..66
Hennessy’s Battle AxeA*) SO
Martell’s Blue Label (*) .. .. .. ..60
Flasks 3s 3d and 3 6
Halt-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** ~ ..6 6
Martell’s Old 6s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. 6 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 3 0
Better 2 6
Still Better 3 0
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 6 0
No. 2, „ „ .. ..4 6
No. 3, „ » .. ..4 0
No. 4, «• „ 3s and 3 -6
Flasks .. Is Od and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALS.
Very Finest .« .. ..4 0
Red Heart 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart ..50
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s 6d and 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 3 6
Ettamogah, red „ 2 6
„ Muscat „ 3 6
„ Reisling .. .. .. „ 2 6
Fallon’s Shiraz „ 2 6
» •> pints 1 6
PORT WINE.
'***
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
****
No! ***
No. ** „ ... ...
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial qua* - *
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
V ery Finest Amontillado (very dry)
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry...
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial fld
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine •••
Orange Wine ••• ’
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s*** -
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by °
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky »g
Jameson’s ••• „ H
Dunville’s ...
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial qd"
Jameson’s „ „
Flasks p
SCOTCH WHISKY
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend ... ... ...
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock ••• <w
Glenlivet ••• f
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial
Flasks
G!N.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva.- 12 e, *
Celebrated Key Brand, very large' ® ft
bottle containing more than ad js
Flasks Key Gin
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the beet quality* It
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. u 0 f° u
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case „ -vCifi-Ui
5 Quarts KEY GIN, , 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR j
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, I Quart SUPERIOR A§
TOTAL-1S QUARTS. \\ilipV
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are ail guaranteed of the best
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please ,! .
Orders payable at the Haymanket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
Iff
/
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant « y
George and Gippg Sts., Haymarket, Sy^


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 42.—New Series
SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1884.
Frioe—6d.
East Sydney.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1884.
The reason Mr. Dibbs gave for withdrawing
his taxation proposals is valid enough. The
Government was put into office to rectify
the land-laws of the colony. These laws
have not yet been amended. The Govern-
ment supporters, elected to assist in the
same reform, are desirous of obeying the
mandates of the constituencies in that
matter, and look to the present Cabinet to
lead them. But many members are at
variance with the Treasurer respecting his
taxation proposals. Had the Government
pressed these proposals, they must have been
defeated—ln the Assembly. We are disposed
to agree with the view expressed by Mr.
Garrard at Balmain, the other evening,
that the constituencies would have sup-
ported the Government had the property-
tax been made a test question instead of
being abandoned. There must be hosts of
colonists who, unless the drift of expression
for years past has been utterly misconstrued,
would welcome with enthusiasm any at-
tempt to proportion the burdens of public
expense to the breadth of the shoulders
which have to support them. And we hope
Mr. Dibbs will be true to his promise, and
revive the property-tax proposals, should it
again fall to his lot to make provision for
additional revenue. But the complication
created by an appeal to the country on
these proposals would have been too serious.
It is only the other day that the country
was appealed to on the land question. The
constituencies then gave a reply so distinct
that it amounted to a mandate that the laws
shall be reformed. That mandate remains
still unfulfilled. It would be absurd, there-
fore, to run to the electors for fresh orders
respecting quite a different job, until the
first one is out of hand.
* * m
It is easy to perceive where a mistake has
been made, after its occurrence. The Ministry
has blundered, but the blunder was not dis-
covered by anyone earlier than by them,
selves. They attempted to do too much at
once. They had in hand a great principle to
bring into action with respect to agrarian
law, and incidentally it fell to them to make
temporary provision for additional revenue.
In seeking to supply that, the Treasurer took
in hand another great principle—one involv-
ing as severe a struggle as the question o
land reform. Either furnishes material to
convulse the constituencies, and to divide
colonists into opposing sections. But the
lines of division are not identical. In other
words, the party of land law reform is not
necessarily compounded of the same material
as the party of taxation reform. The two
things ’are quite distinct. A man may be
heartily sick of the past land legislation of
the colony, and yet eminently conservative
respecting the incidence of taxation. It is
difficult to know whether to be glad or sorry
that the Treasurer opened the war against
the immunity of wealth from proportionate
contribution to the revenue. On the one
hand, the campaign is no sooner opened than
it is closed, and closed, too, under conditions
which have more than a flavour of disaster
One effect has been to alarm the enemy, and
set them organizing their by no means des-
picable forces in view of a renewed attack.
On the other hand, the trumpet blast whioh
has been sounded may serve to rouse many a
hopeless or slumbering fighting man. Ex-
pectation of any Ministry having the con-
victions which would induce them to cham-
pion such a cause, or the courage of their
convictions, had, before Mr. Dibbs made his
proposals, scarcely entered, we venture to
affirm, into any man’* hopes. Now, bow-
ever, the gage has been thrown down, and
although the challenger has had to pick it
up, and “take it back” in a most compro-
mising and undignified hurry, there are
hosts who will buckle on their arms and pre-
pare, on the next occasion, to do hearty
service in that cause.
* * *
The working classes will especial'y profit
by the suspension of hostilities. They will
have time to think the whole matter out, and
to satisfy themselves whether the Minister
who first in New South Wales had the pluck to
declare for taxation of property, is really
their designing enemy, as some clever
parties would have them believe. To listen
to such persons, one would think that the
proposal to tax redundant wealth is but an
insidious attempt to squeeze poverty
SIR G. W. DES VCEUX, GOVERNOR OF FIJI.
afresh. By the rule of contraries, we pre-
sume that were a Treasurer to propose a tax
which would fall directly upon the poorer
classes it could be shown that the scheme
concealed a deep laid plan for mulcting the
rich.
* * *
It is certainly true that the proposed ob-
jects of the property-tax would have em-
ployed every device and expedient to slip
their own necks out, and let the yoke fall
upon those beneath them in the scale of
fortune—that landlord would pass the tax
on to tenant, and so forth. And it is pos-
sible that many of the expedients pointed
out by newspaper correspondents as likely
to be resorted to, with that end in view,
would have been effectual—if not provided
against. But clearly, in dealing with de-
tails, it is just prevention for such trices and.
dodges that the Government would have
provided when framing their bill.
* # •
However, it matters little now. The Go-
vernment have had to retrace their steps )
having gained only a much-disputed repu-
tation for those virtues of the weak or luck-
less—“good intentions.” The chances are
that their Land Bill may, as it eertainly
should, provide sufficient revenue to fill the
void in the Treasury, and to obviate the
need of fresh proposals for readjustment of
taxation. No one who is aware of the ordi-
nary constitution of Ministries will hope or
expect that any Government will be so
virtuously Quixotic as to open up the ques-
tion of a property-tax, merely as an abstract
duty of good administration, without special
necessity, and without heed to the risk of
provoking a political crisis which might re-
sult in their own overthrow. Meanwhile,
the battle of land reform has to be fought;
and the mettle of the Ministry, exposed
to some suspicion by this incident of
the property-tax, will be brought to
a downright ordeal. It certainly seems as
though the Opposition respect the courage
of the Government much more seriously
than they would fain have the public be-
lieve. Every device is certainly brought
into play to abate the strength and resolu-
tion of the Government before coming to a
general action on the subject of land re-
form. And every prank that can be played
with the chance of postponing a real trial of
strength and resolution on that convincing-
ground, is being set a-going. Jack-in-the-
box tricks for upsetting Ministers’ seats, are
among tljese, not yery creditable, devices;
and although the residents of East Sydney
retain the right to elect a representative,
Sir John Robertson and Mr. Wisdom exer-
oise, through Mr. A. G. Taylor, the privi-
lege of unseating the elected representative
when it seems to suit themselves. It has
been currently affirmed that the Constitu-
tional flaw which has invalidated Mr. Reid’s
seat, was known to Sir Henry Parses and
his Cabinet—was known to invalidate the
seats of several members of that Cabinet—
but that the nice delicacy of conscience
which impelled Mr. Wisdom to set Mr. Tay-
lor in motion, when Mr. Reid’s seat could
be affected, did not operate powerfully
enough to induce action when a colleague
of his own was concerned. If the electors
of East Sydney consider that they are to be
made sport of in this fashion, and set to
choose another representative to suit Messrs.
A. G. Taylor, Wisdom, and Sir John Ro-
bertson, they can do no better than humbly
return the nominee of those gentlemen.
Every opportunity will be afforded them
for swallowing the rejected of other constitu-
encies. Mr. John Davies, that much re-
speoted politician, has been fermented into
revived activity, and has a man ready to
shove down their throats, if they will only
gape their gullets wide enough and shut
their eyes and noses. If, on the other hand,
the electors do not see why they should
change their choice just to suit a gang of
intriguers, they can send their old represen-
tative back to his plaoe again. We don’t
know anything against Mr. Reid, ourselves.
And, so far as we can discover, no one else
has any charge to make against him. But
he doesn’t suit Sir John Robertson and Mr.
Wisdom. His defeat might compromise the
prospects of land reform; and, if the eleotors
of East Sydney can only be humbugged
into helping to compromise that, what a
noble thing it would be!
Dear Defence.
From the Estimates for the year 1884 it
appears that the sum of £83,000 (exclusive, be
it remembered, of the votes asked for mili-
tary stores and for ordnance and barrack
purposes) is required for the maintenance of
the Army of New South Wales. Inasmuch
as the total number of troops is given as
2650, each warrior, taking them all round
will cost the colony no less a sum than £3l
Since this is about ten times as much as the
average cost of a Canadian or Swiss, and
considerably more than that of either a
German or a Bjritish soldier, it might not be
amiss were New South Wales economists to
take the whole subjeot of the military
establishment of the colony into prac-
tical consideration. For the Permanent
Artillery Force, 323 strong, the sum of
£33,000 is ’asked. This is over £lOO a year a
man. For the so-called Volunteer Force,
2327 strong, £50,000 is asked, or over £2l a
year a man. The totals, as before men-
tioned, £83,000 and 2650 men, give the general
average of £3l a year a man. The military
force of the Dominion of Canada (exclusive
alike of the Imperial garrison at Halifax
and of the Colonial reserve) numbers some
45,000 combatants, and costs (inclusive of
warlike stores and the maintenance of three
military colleges) £155,000 a year—that is
something over £3 a year a man. The total
active military force of the Swiss Republic,
some 203,000 men, costs in round numbers
£700,000 'a year—that is something over £3
10s. a year a man. For the year 1883-84, the
British Regular Army, Militia and Volunteer
Forces, in all 640,000 strong, cost £15,000,000
under £24 a year a man, inclusive of the ex-
penditure upon warlike stores and all other
effective services. The annual cost of the
German Army, some 700,000 strong (exclusive
of the two divisions of the Landsturm) is
£18,000,000 —over £25 a year a man.
• V •
It is thus abundantly evident that the
military authorities of New South Wales,


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
ellects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for si case of swelling; in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ployfi in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
±lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars. 143 Pit.t-st,rent,.*
Don’t Die in the House.—“ Rough on Rats ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
A pure stimulant wisely medicated with
tonic and alterative vegetable agents is what the
weak and feeble need, and it it has been provided
in Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit in the
world.
A Beautiful Painting.—Mr. G. G. Green’
of Woodbury, New Jersey. U.S,A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
fine pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee’s German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each 3s. fid. per bottle, or sample bottles
for fid. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
prove their value at a trifling cost.*
Coughs and Colds,
THE Best Cure for the above is Bum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
08. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Mies
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
■where you can obtain for
Q<SL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open iD
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
TSRDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. Bd. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
pUBLIC NOTICE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET!
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob. TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SHO7
EVERY
M&M
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marston’s Rsw A Work
ft-
Describing how sufferer; from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and’Book FREE. Address—
Marstcn Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
GILBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCK UK & CO., Sole Agents,
3?fi George-st.reet. Sydney.
EMIK'MIiiIiEI
The ELDRE D'G E®
\ Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
» FOB, THE LEADING
SEWING MACHINE OF THE WORLD,
Pull particulars, catalogue and prices
..mailed on application.
SEWING MACHINE CO.
W. H. AR9ELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
Swallow & Ariell’s prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 12 kinds—Canterbury, Normanby,
and Family Cakes, Pium Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour, Treacle and
Golden Syrup, in all size tins, casks, and bottles....
Excelsior Mills.—Superior Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b. bags.
..Dillon, Burrows & Co.’s Drize assorted Confec-
tionery... A. M. Hunt & Co.’s prize Baking Pow-
ders, in 14, J 4, and lib tins.. R. Whittington and Co.’s
prime York Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
General Pro visions.... Victoria Lion Preserving
Company’s superior assorted Jams. .Scandinavian
Condensed Milk— Gold Medal Brand,
343 &345 KENT-6TREET, near King-st„ Sydney,
instead of having endeavoured to imitate
the prudent policy of States who maintain
singularly effective defence forces at ex-
tremely moderate rates, have managed to
succeed in bringing up the expenditure per
man of a singularly inefficient defence force
to a figure considerably higher than that of
the sum which such an essentially military
nation as Germany is called upon to
pay per man for a highly trained soldiery
during a period such as may not inaccu-
rately bo termed an armed truce. The sole
consideration that could possibly justify the
abnormally high military expenditure of
New South Wales would be the exceptional
efficiency of the defence system secured by
it. When, however, competent criticism
comes to appraise the quality, the organisa-
tion, and the interior economy of the New
South Wales Army, it is only too patent that
it is a force seriously behind-hand in all the
elements that go to form modern military
effectiveness. Putting aside the fact that
the local Artillery corps is numerically in-
adequate to th? task of manning the
batteries along the several lines of de-
fence, the quality of both officers and
men of the Permanent Force is below
third - rate. A large majority of the
officers, as was clearly evidenced by the
recent examination revelations, are utterly
unfitted to be instructors and leaders in
what should be pre-eminently a scientific
corps; and, as a natural consequence, the
rank and file are—what they are. From the
Commandant downwards there is not a
single officer, either iu the Permanent or in
the Volunteer branch of the Defence Force,
who has the reputation of being thoroughly
well up in the modern technique of his pro-
fession. What, however, the New South
Wales Army lacks in quality of officer is
abundantly madeup for in quantity. Forty
to one is the minimum ratio that should
exist between the men and the officers of a
military force. Thirty to one is usually re-
garded as the maximum. In the New South
Wales Army it is twenty to one, there being
actually 126 combatant officers out of its
total strength of 2650. Even on the hypo-
thesis, which we dare not venture to make,
that fifty per cent, of that number of offi-
cers are worth their salt, it must be obvious
that Parliament will be endorsing a mis-
chievous and ridiculously expensive mistake
if it consents to continue to maintain the
ratio of commissioned officers to men above
all reasonable requirement.
* * *
Not only is the New South Wales Army
unreasonably over-officered by men who, in
the matter of professional qualification, are
much below the lowest standard of requisite
efficiency, but the salaries paid them are
extravagantly high. Here are a couple of
instances. The Commandant’s pay and
allowances tot up to £879, which is within a
few pounds of the salary paid to the Com-
mandant of Chatham garrison—a Major-
General with a distinguished record —whose
duties are necessarily a great deal more
onerous and responsible than those which
Colonel Richardson is called uuon to per-
form. In a word, New South Wales is pay-
ing a gentleman—who, even as regards the
brief active military service he ever had, is a
fossil—a salary that would attract a soldier
of proven capacity and up-to-date experi-
ence. Or take the pay and allowances, in
all, £677, the preposterous amount which is
set down in the Estimates for the Aide-de-
camp of His Excellency the Commander-in-
Chief—why, it is more than half as much
again as the sum paid to the soldier who
ooc.upies the responsible position of Mili-
tary Secretary to tho officer commanding
Her Majesty’s troops in Ireland !
m 9 u
When extravagance, nepotism, and inar-
tinetism constitute the fringe of a military
establishment, tolerably efficient qua a de-
fence force in spite of such serious supple-
mental defects, Parliamentary conni ’ance
at those defects, though'inexcusable, is not
wholly unintelligible. But how will the
Parliament of New South Wales be able to
justify votes for the maintenance of a mili-
tary establishment not only not in any way
efficient a 3 a defence force, but so badly
organised, and with its interior economy so
extravagantly administered as to neutralise
any chance of its ever becoming so ?
* * *
The New South Wales Army, as at present
constituted, must be abolished. For the
sum of £155,000 a year Canada can maintain
what is acknowledged by competent critics
to be an efficient Defence Force of 45,000
men. New South Wales, by an expenditure
of more than half that sum, is only just
able to maintain, in a state of ineffi-
ciency, a Defence Force one-seventeenth of
the numerical strength of that of the
Dominion Army. This way surely lies bank-
ruptcy, both of pocket and prestige. In the
Canadian way seems to lie value for cash
paid, and an adequately defensive militarv
establishment. New South Wales should
lose not amomentin endeavouring to amend
her way. by dropping the absurdfjnotion of
maintaining an aristocratically modelled
military toy wherewith to play at soldiers,
and going in for securing, as speedily as may
be, that “ cheap defence ” of a sensible
nation—a scientifically trained, practically
equipped, hard drilled, and democratically
organised V olunt && Force,
Sir G. W. des Vceux.
The present Governor of Fiji, whose poitiait we
give in the first page, first emerged into notice
when in the position of a Stipendiary Magistrate
in Demerara. Certain representations which he
made regarding the treatment of Indian and
Chinese immigrants led to the appointment of a
Royal Commission. “ Whitehall ” Jenkins wassent
out by the Anti-slavery Society,and contributed an
account of his observations to Good Words,
on the occasion. Mr. des Voeux, on leaving
Demerara, was stationed at Trinidad, and after
some service there, was appointed, on Fiji being
made a British colony, to accompany Sir Arthur
Gordon thither. On Sir Arthur’s transfer to New
Zealand, Mr. des Voeux was appointed Adminis-
trator of the Government of Fiji in his stead, and
was knighted. Subsequently, on Sir Arthur Gor-
don returning to England, the functions of Com-
missioner for the Pacific Islands devolved upon
Sir George W. des Voeux as Deputy. Ho is as un-
popular with the Fiji planters as was his prede-
cessor in the Government, and apparently for the
same reasons.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“F.C.G.”: Roman Catholics in the world,
152 millions; Protestants of, all denominations, 100
millions; Greek Church, 75 millions “L.L.”:
What the Ldo you mean, L.L ? We employ pro-
cess. However, in view of your other virtues,
which are many, we forgive you “Culex”:
There’s not much in your screed. Certainly not
more than the paper will contain. However, we
will try and make ssmething of it “Tabitha
M'Master” (Carlton): Your essay, like a long-
sleever, has merit, but not proportionate to its
length. Try something short. A nobbier is
“something short” with spirit in it. Try a
nobbier “ X.Y.”: Your note has been forwarded
to the proper quarter “J.J.” Next week. ..
“Madyn”: Verses received. They are madyning.
. ..“J.B.P.’’: We feel that there is a wide sphere
of usefulness right in front of the person who can
make “brow” rhyme with “know.” Talent like
this cannot always remain in obscurity. But the
fate of Sydney Punch warns us that the age is
too prosaic for high-class verse “ C.E.S ”: Yes ;
your verses are ot some merit, but we do not print
verses which are “of some merit,” especially
when there are forty-three stanzas. The number
exceeds even our forty-two'd “S.A.”: Item is
three weeks too old, now. Would have been wel-
come earlier.. “T.”: Well meant, butnot brilliant..
“ J. 0.” (Woolbong) : In the first place, there is no
such paper (to our knowledge) as Sydney Budlin-
tin. You tell us “ the old Bulldog was seen,” and
state “ It is a great loss to our to wn that we have
not a Punch in it in which to take him off.” Well,
wo don’t Know much about your town ; but we
should say, as far as you are individually con-
cerned, you are nearer getting a punch than you
seem to be aware of W.S.G.” (Hunter’s Hill):
Your contribution is an enigma. What’s all this
about “things” and “aldermen,” and “tram?”
You say you are unable to sketch. That ought to
be a comfort to those that love you, anyhow. In
any future favour we beg of you not to leave
anything to our imagination. It won’t bear
the strain. We might suggest, though, that the
style of contribution we should esteem most
highly from you would be something light
and sparkling— in a Jjottlc.. . .“ J.S.” : Thanks—
“G.M.”: You say that you cannot write, but you
send the idea. We have looked carefully in the
envelope, but can’t find it—“Anonyma”: You
tell us a story of a servant-girl of 14 being taken,
with her parents’ consent, from one place where
they didn’t want her to stay to another where she
didn’t want to go. What of that ? Young girls of
14 are supposed to be under their parents’ control
We can’t see anything in it. We wonder, now,
“ Anonyma,” who was that “dear, kind mistress,”
who, when the little slave parted from her, “ her
grief could only be assuaged by the assurance that
she would be back in a short time?” Eh?—
“T T n” (Charleston, N.Z.): We are glad
you have found the remedy \ ou advocate effective.
It would, doubtless, only succeed in certain cases,
and your own is one of them.
[?]
Rev. A. Eustace held 150 meetings in Vic-
torian bush last half-year. Says he will remain
“ a boundary-rider after the sheep straying from
the Lord’s fold.” A new metaphor, we think.
The Bishop’s palace at Maitland is just
finished, at a cost of £fl)00, and it is alleged that he
will have a pious “spree ” on taking possession of
it. And next “Sawbath,” no doubt, he will tell
how fond the Galilean was of the poor I
St. John’s Church and Chalmer’s Church,
at Sandhurst, want to be amalgamated. They met
to do it lately " in the interests of Presbyterian-
ism. ’ But which was to be the dog and which the
tail? They quarrelled over this. Neither would
wag. So they sliddered. And “the interests of
Presbyterianism ” are on the shelf.
Mr. Booth, the temperance orator, laid
down the three planks of his platform in Mel-
bourne—“ Christianity, Total Abstinence, and
Charity.” This is loose. Surely Christianity in-
cludes charity and such an abstinence as would
leave Booth without a mission. By making them
three separate plaDkshe is, from his own point,
heterodex.
Twelve members of the Hotham branch of
the Salvation Army have received sentences
amounting, ia the aggregate, to 209 years. They
are all captains and colonels now, and occupy com-
manding positions in the ranks of grace. Some of
them have fiddles, some have banjos, and some
tambourines, and they are all leaders in the glory
burst. Religion, what farces have been acted in
thy name 1
Thus the Rev. Mr. Camm, preaching the
other Sunday on the “Outcasts of London”:—
“The insolent wealth and flaunting folly of a
London season, recorded day by day in the jour-
nals of what is called society, had as their back-
ground, before which they played their careless
comedy, the fires and the woe, the blackness and
the crimes of hell.” And yet this "insolent wealth
and flaunting folly” is just that class of society
which is courted and flattered by fat bishops and
rectors.
We had thought that when wine-bibbers
had got the length of calling one variety of their
favourite liquor Lachryma Cmisti—tears of Christ
—the profanity of gluttony had pretty nearly gone
far enough. Not so. By toe advertisement of the
Temperance Alliance, backed up by the testi-
monials (genuine) of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John, we are invited to call at street, and take
wine as drunk “ by our blessed Redeemer;” price,
so much a glass. Next thing it will be “ No agents.
None genuine unless signed Matthew, Mark, Luke,
John. Registered trade-mark f.”
“Layman,” who complains that the ar-
rangements made for the reception of the Anglican
Bishop of Sydney will “preclude the attendance
of the middle classes, to say nothing of those
walking in low grades of life,” quite forgets that
the Anglican Church is an institution devoted*
above all, to the propertied classes—an institution
sharing and serving the prejudices of rank and
property instead of contending witn them—an in-
stitution whose authentic tradition is a fascinated
awe of class-privileges, station and “ proputty,”
and a firm belief in the Divine appointment, the
perfectness and the perpetuity of a social arrange-
ment that gives the man with the biggest bank
balance the best pew and the first snow on all
ceremonial occasions. It “Layman’ be a walker
in the middle or lower grades of life, and be also
an Anglican, he should have learned his catechism
better than to speak otherwise than lowly, humbly
and reverently of the big bugs of his denomination.
Archdeacon Dunstan, lecturing on Free-
thought the other day at Forbes, repeated the
standard orthodox lies about the death-beds of
Voltaire and Paine, Said the Venerable one:—
“ VoUaire, the prince of philosophical, and Paine,
of vulgar infidelity, died most horrible deaths.
The doctor who attended the death-bed of the
former said that the furies of Orestes were nothing
to the tortures of Voltaire. The nurse declared
she would never nurse another unbeliever. He
would ask were those the only consolations that
infidelity could supply in the hour of nature's
agony?” Says Colonel Hamley, in his work on
Voltaire:— “ He bore his last grievous illness with
fortitude, and met death with equanimity.” Says
Conway of Paine’s end :—“ In truth poor Paine
did have a hard time of it in his closing days. No
sooner was it known that his end was near than
fanatical preachers (the Dunstans of the place)
and women managed to gain entrance to his
room and tried to convert him. To the ministers
who told him that if he died without believing
on the Lord Jesus Christ he would be damned,
Paine replied, ‘Let me have none of your popish
stuff Good morning.’ A woman came saying
that God had sent her to tell him that unless he
repented and believed In the blessed Saviour he
would be damned. Paine replied that God would
not send a foolish old woman with such an imper-
tinent message. One after another these obtrusive
zealots were dismissed; and finally, in the words of
his relentless enemy, Cheetham, * Thomas Paine died
placidly, and almost without a struggle ’ In the
year of his death, 1809, Paine wrote his will, at the
close of which he says: ‘I die in perfect resigna-
tion to the will of my Creator, God ’ ” Gibbon,
the two Mills, Hume, and Darwin were as pro-
nounced freethinkers as Voltaire and Paine, and
all their deaths were placid.
The Very Rev. Dr. Walsh, whose name
stood second on the list out of which the R.C. Arch-
bishopric of Sydney was to be filled, is a very suc-
cessful divine. There has been no floundering
about his career, no stumbling, and no slipping
backwards. His feet were always firmly planted,
and step after step was straight to the front. He
must be now about 40 years of age. We don’t
speak from records, only from old friendly memo-
ries. As a student he was clever, extremely clever.
Although his class was large, he came out at the
end of every year with.a Double First. His prac-
tical experience of the life of a secular priest is
very trifling, as he was only a few months ami ng
the people of the county Dublin. He returned to
the college again to assume the office of Professor
of Theology. In the transition period when the
Disestablishment of the Church made a re-arrange-
ment of the affairs ofjthe college necessary, he
filled the post of secretary to the Board of Bishops.
At this time he was working very hard at theolo-
gical studies, and was, besides, cultivating an
acquaintance with periodical literature. To the
Month, and another little journal whose name we
forget, he used frequently to contribute. He was
not a genius, and ambitioned neither the themes
nor the style of a man who had anything of a heroic
consciousness within him. But, on homely matters,
or on minor questio. s of practical ethics, he
was transparently lucid. He was terse, rapid,
pungent, incisive. He is so still. He is no orator,
and, as a platform speaker, car* do nothing. In the
pulpit, unless to a thoughtful few, he will not
shine. But, fron-i his Iprofessor’s chair, few could
make so plain what tney wanted to say. He is a
little man, very little and very dark. The Graces
did not lavish many of their favours upon him:
but .although his manner is abrupt and angular, he
has been allowed to possess an eye which assures
you of manly integrity. As Pr< sident ot May-
nooth College he has a title to an Archbishopric in
Ireland. His predecessor, the late Dr. Russell,
declined such appointments several times Even
though the Pope, then, had selected Dr. Walsh, it
is not so certain that he would after all have come
out to Sydney. Dr. Walsh is a competent musician,
a good singer, and a good pianist. Fourteen or
fifteen years ago he published, in conjunction
Dr. Hacket, a valuable musical grammar.
* * *
At a prayer meeting in a Cincinnati
church one of the brethren, while petitioning the
Throne of Grace, was struck dead with paralysis.
A good deacon improved the occasion by making
a few remarks on the uncertainty of life, and was
keeled over by appoplexy. Prayer meetings are
discontinued until further notice.... Rev. J. Cosh
off to Europe with £4OO of his parishioners’ cash.
The Rev. Thomson forsakes Cooma. Can t get
his “screw” in... Mir. Joseph Symes, London
Freethought lecturer, comes to Melbourne by the
Lusitania under engagement with Australian
Secular Association.


Political
Points
The following article should be added to
the Democratic Alliance programme. The re-
sumption for State uses of all alienated lands
having a water frontage to the “ beautiful har-
bour ” or its tributaries.
The Chief Justice of
England has £BOOO a year;
the Chief Justice of the
United States £1800; but,
then, in the States the
People have a more
direct say in such matters
than in England.
On the eve of Lord
Mayor's Day (Nov. oth,
also the anniversary of
the birth of the Hope of
the Empire) placards
were stuck up about
Clerkenwell calling upon
London’s unemployed to
organise monster meet-
ings to denounce those
who would revel and
lea.it while thousands
were starving to death.
"Many who will partake
of to-morrow's feast,”
said these insolent pos-
ters, “have grown rich
out of the ttlthy slums
which disgrace this city.”
Of course tlio city police
were equal to the task of
suppressing the contem-
plated meetings, meet-
ings which would have
been in such extremely
bad taste! There must
be poor, you know; and
as starvation is ordained
of God, and possesses
sacramental graces, Mho
but low blackguards
would seek by parading
it to spoil the appetite
of a City Father intent on
turtle ? DouDtless, as his
Chaplain said grace at
the three thousand gui-
nea banquet, the Lord
Mayor and eke his guests,
felt complacent enough
towards “ a system which
enables the rich to repre-
sent all the happiness of
whieh society is capable
and the poor all the
misery.”
It is all very well
for Gladstone to be culled
the Grand Old Man in a
country the size of Eng-
land. Out in Victoria he
would find his proper
measure taken. Stretched
out full length alongside
some of the public men
of Victoria he cuts an
indifferent figure. Morty
told him that long ago,
when the annexation
question was ttr?t raised,
and although Afncanus
Hendersm held a con-
trary opinion one time,
the authority of Morty is
the safer to deler to.
Gladstone must now bow.
The logic of events
makes him. He had un-
derrated the immense
ben fits derivable from
a cordial relationship
with “the intensely
loyal” colony. And le-
thargic Derby had don''
so also. Time justified
Morty, and abashed the
shortsighted statesmen.
Tho British Government
were unable to crush the
rebellion in the Soudan.
But Victoria was there,
with The Smith before
and The Morty behind.
“Here,” said The Smith,
“take our boats and go
and crush it!” “How
many ?” asked Gladstone,
as he mentally reviewed
the glorious fleet that
covered the seas.“ Three,”
said The Smith ; “three
little onesl” And Glad-
stone lay back and said,
"Now the Empire is
saved! A Smith has saved
it 1 Tell me. Smith, is
there any other man as
great as you behind?”
“There is,” said The
Smith; “there’s Morty.
Hei’e’s a leading article
of his.” And Gladstone
read the first sentence,
and his doctors prescribed
complete rest for a week.
Lieutenant-General Lord Chelmsford, it is
said, is to succeed Sir John Adye as Governor of
Gibraltar. Screw, £5OOO. If the man to whose
bad Generalship Isandula is due gets as a reward
the very snuggest of military commands, what on
earth can be found good enough for Afghan
Roberts when his time comes for something good ?
Edinburgh will probably be employed in
Egypt. So the wire tells us. Let’s see. Our arms
have been rather unsuccessful under Royal Dukes.
Cumberland at Fontenoy, York in Holland, Cam-
bridge in the Crimea, have left some pleasant
reading in our military annals. It only wants an-
other to do something for the navy. Oiel! if some
reverse should only occur, how those Cockney
Radicals and Levellers would give tongue!
Our French friends in New Caledonia are
almost, but not quite, as festive as we are. Their
Governor inaugurated a bridle track from the
East to tho We,st coast, the other day, and got
banqueted all along the line. They are getting on.
By the time they begin to give dinners on the
occasion of the laying down of drain-pipes, and
feasts to the Ministry whenever they want a foot-
bridge, they will be pretty nearly parallel with us.
Not till then, however.
Dr. Moore White writes to the papers,
complaining that the Education Department have
abolished the Irish National School reading-books
and substituted Collins's series, “which ignore
the existence of a Divine Being.” For the doctor's
Information we may state that, in comparison with
any series of reading-books now published,
teachers will tell you that the Irish books are now
a? far behind the ago as the old Tommy and Harry
\arns, and spelling-books of 100 years ago. Their
religious lessons are bald and tedious, narrations
of Jewish exploits and traditions now utterly dis-
credited, and their other matter about as well
suited for a Zulu as for an Australian child of
1884. With reference to Collins's series “ignoring
the existence of a Divine Being,” it is plain the
learned doctor has never looked through them.
The politely veiled refusal bv the Horne
Government of the loan of the Victorian gun-
boats has not, it is refreshing to find, damped the
patriotic ardour of thatcolony. “An Australian,”
writing to the Melbourne Herald respecting- the
Victorian “fleet,” gushes in tnis wise: “As most
of the disturbed Egyptian uistnets are inland,
their services could scarcely be deemed of much
avail. Therefore, I would suggestthat, if Victoria
is really desirous of having a record in the niche of
fame, she should, in addition to her fleet, place the
services of the Minister of War and his taff at the
disposal of the British Government. . . I am almost
persuaded that not a ratepayer would murmur even
at increased taxation, if such an offer were accom-
panied by tho knowledge that such a move would
save Egypt to the Crown.” There aresome very ex-
cellent sentiments in this letter. We don’t exactly
know what “An Au'Mi-alian ” means by “saving
Egypt to the Crown”—but wo’Jl think it out.
However, there can be no doubt that Victoria
An East Sydney Figure Head.
ought to look about for the “niche of fame,” and
leave its record there; and the best thing it can
do is to place the services, not only of the warrior
and his staff, but also of sundry other Victorian
officials, at the “disposal of the British Govern-
ment.” And the sooner they are disposed of the
better.
There’s a good deal of truth in this sar-
casm of Max O’Rell’s anent John Bull : - “ What
does it profit to a man if he gains the whole world
and loses his soul ? The Scriptures ask this ques-
tion, and so does John. He therefore takes care
to stand well in the kingdom of heaven, which in
his mind is just as much a British possession as
India or Australia. France tights for glory, Ger-
many to exist, and Russia to draw attention from
internal disorder. But John Bull is reasonable and
moral. He tights to promote commerce, peace,
and order on the face of the globe. If he con-
quers peoples, it is to teach them how to make
money and read the Bible—in short, to make them
happy here and hereafter. “ They give their ter-
ritories ; he sends them shirtings and Bibles
Exchange is no robbery.”
Thus a correspondentAs an Irishman,
permit me to thank you for the fair way in which
you treat that most unhappy country. I wish you
could persuade all good Catholics (I am a Catholic
myself, remember) that the greatest living enemy
of Ireland is he who now occupies the Papal
Chair.” Our correspondent’s thanks are welcome,
as testimony that our endeavours to reason on
principles, in lieu of being swayed by the senti-
ment of the Jingo or Chauvinist sort which obscure
so many worthy men’s sense of right and justice,
have been not unsuccessful. In this connection,
we may mention that we have been honoured by
a formal call by representative French gentlemen,
who similarly desired to express their apprecia-
tion of what they rega-ded as the fair spirit in
which their nation has been dealt wi h by The
Bulletin. With respect to the Pope and Ireland,
we pointed out long ago that t- e Homan Catholic
Church is an aristocratic institution; and if we
were correct in our insistance that the Irish
trouble is more an agrarian than a national one,
the Church of rtome, which has always striven to
stand well with the great ones of the earth, aud
which is itself a social anomaly, consuming but
not producing, was bound to range all itsintiuence
on the aristocratic side—f.e., the side of absentee
and other landlords. Who can forget that the
perpetual whiae of the last and the present Pope,
since the formation of the Kingdom of Italy has
been that these “estates of the Church” have
been taken away. In short, the Pope wants to be
a landlord himself. How, therefore, can he be
otherwise than bitterly oppposed to an agitation
which has for its aim the abolition of landlordism ?
The subjoined plain English of London
Truth was evidently inspired by the Sydney
Bulletin’s artioles and cartoons on tho arinexa-
tion question:—“Public opinion in Australia is
being- worked from London in favour of the annexa-
tionist party. . . . The colonists, for the most
part, know very little of the relative importance,
or Gven of the party character, of English news-
papers ; and accordingly the London correspon-
dents of the Australian annexationist journals
telegraph over extracts from the Morning Ad-
vertiser and the London Figaro, which the
Australians are. no doubt, quite prepared to ac-
cept as fairly representative of public opinion
over here. . . . Englishmen are quite as much
mistaken if they imagine that public opinion in
Australia is unanimously in favour of a forward
policy. The truth is that annexation is a party
question there, juot as much as “imperialism” is
a party catchword here, and the denunciations of
the proposed annexation in many of the Austra-
lian papers almost exactly correspond with those
in Liberal papers here of Lord Beaconsfleld’s
policy a few years ago The only thing is that the
case against annexation is stronger, if possible,
from the Australian point of view than from our
own. Australians have more than half Australia
to annex as it is; and as to the argument that the
annexation of outlying islands is necessary in self-
defence, this is about as reasonable as it would be
to say that a nation which held all Europe
(Australia) and the British Islands (New Zealand)
could not feel safe unless it possessed also Iceland,
Sardinia, Corsica, the Azores, and the lonian
Arehipelego.” That was exactly what we said
when the annexation of New Guinea, etc., was
first mooted.
Here’s a bit of Tamworth scenery, as
sketched by school-attendance officer Dixon:
‘ In many houses the fronts and rears of the pre-
mises were found almost unapproachable for
rubbish and garbage. The interiors of many of
the»e places are also wretched in the extreme. In
one case, a poor woman was found, crying bit-
terly, in a house devoid of all furniture but an old
snfe. There was no food in the house, and the
children were knawing some bones that a neighbour
had given them.”
An epi 'emio of swearing is going on down
South. Everybody is at it. Some swearing off
and some swearing on. The swearers off, as
might be expected, are found rolling up in a day
or two to do it again; but it seems the swearers
on are beginning to go in for what has been truly,
but not elegantly, designated “damnable itera-
tion. ’ By the Militia Act the oath of allegiance
must be taken before the commanding officer of
the battalion. But the wording of the Act is
somewhat obscure, and officers of batteries have
been administering the oath right and left. Every-
body took it, and now it is discovered that the
only man who could legally administer it was
Commandant G. N. Turner. AH those who sworo
on are now spitting out and coming round to have
another shot with Turner. But some people are
beginning to discover that there is an informality
in the appointment of Turner. If so, the whole
soitting and swearing on must be done again. It’s
the same in principle as swearing off.
Thus does Patrick
Ford del'y England in
the Irish World:—“I
believe in making repri-
sals, eye for eye, tooth
for tooth. I believe
every informer ought to
die the death of a dog. I
believe all material dam-
age possible ought to bo
inflicted on the enemy,
and that war against ou r
foemen ought to be per-
sisted in, without quar-
ter, to the end. J believe
this species of warfare
ought to be kept up until
England, hurt as well as
soared, falls paralysed
upon her knees, and begs
Ireland to depart from
her. No wanton act
ought to be committed ;
but Ireland is entitled to
her independence, and
every move taken, every
blow struck, looking to
that end, military neces-
sity will justify.” How
often has England ap-
plauded to the echo
similar expressions when
uttered by a “patriot”
Kosciusko, or Kossuth,
or Poerio, against the
tyranny of a ruthless
oppressor; yet how
blind she is to the fact,
so patent to thousands of
impartial men (not Eng-
lishmen or Irishmen!,
that her coercive treat-
ment of Ireland consti-
tutes an oppression
winch, if not quite as
brutal as a Bomba's, is
every whit as much cal-
culated to impel true-
hearted sons of Erin to
armed revolt against it.
Main features of tiie
Parnellite parliamentary
programme for the cur-
rent year “It being
taken for granted that
the Government intend
to include Ireland in the
expected measure for the
extension of the house-
hold franchise to coun-
ties, one division of the
party will devote atten-
tion to securing a n
equalisation of the fran-
chises in Ireland with
those of England. Should
the Government attempt
to deal with county
government for Great
Britain, it is possible the
Ministerial scheme may
not be applicable to the
special condition of
tningsexistingin Ireland.
Mr. Healy has, therefore,
prepared a scheme of
Irish county govern-
ment, and it will be at-
tempted to engraft its
main provisions on any
measure which the
Government may apply
to Ireland. His sugges-
tions are based on a
purely elective system of
county boards under the
popular control, and does
not provide for the reten-
tion of the ex officii)
magisterial element. The
consideration of the
House will also be invited
to further land legislation
with respect to glebe
lands. Should the
Government introduce a
measure for the reform
of London government,
the Parnellites will en-
deavour to secure the in-
sertion of a provision
making it compulsory on
the part of the Corpora-
tion to sell its Irish
landed estates to the oc-
cupiers at a valuation to
be fixed by the Land
Commission.
About the most cheering proposal for a
substitute for the abandoned taxation, is one to
come down on the dead for revenue. It is sug-
gested that heavy succession duties should be im-
posed. This is Just what we have been waiting
for. It is plain that the living don’t want to pay,
as why should they ? Are not the dead the
majority ? Having been cut off with a shilling
ourselves, we are free to advocate this impost
with some vigour. If organised wealth is strong
enough to stave off payment during a whole life-
time, what seems fairer than that the State should
step in before Dives goes under, and ask for
a little settlement ? And when Messrs. Hey don,
and Luscombe, and O’Sullivan come into power,
the Christian burial of the wealthy dead will in-
volve the hanging on the tombstone of a Govern-
ment wreath, enclosing the Treasurer’s receipt in
full for taxes up to date. Otherwise, they will be
bundled into unconsecrated ground.
• ( •
The object of the River Darliug Naviga-
tion Company, is the locking of the river between
Wilcannia and Wentworth. Area to be benefited
38,400,000 acres; estimated cost £310,000 Mem. for
Dibbs : Abdooi Hamid, in face of a deficit of six
millions in a budget of twelve, has just increased
his Grand Vizier’s screw from £250 t.o £750 per
month, and that of his other ministers from £2CO
to £300...1n the Queenland Parliament, Mr. Aland
resented a personal imputation, and demanded an
apology from the “ gllegator.” Aland is a small
ironmonger.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Junmy M’Gill is dead. You didn’t know
Jimmy? Then the loss is yours. He stood beside
Peter Lalor at the Eureka Stockade, and had £lOOO
offered tor his capture, dead or alive. Peter lost
his arm there, and might have lost it in a far worse
cause.
Borthwick Pasha, brother of Sir Algernon
Borthwick, has been appointed Commauder-in-
Chief of the East Koumeiian militia. By the terms
of the Treaty of Berlin the duties of tbe Koume-
iian militia are limited to assisting the gendarmerie
to maiutain internal order in the Province.
It is reported that Ouida, the novelist, has
turned religious. This was about tho only thing
left for her to turn. Wo suppose we shan’t get
any more about Circassian slaves in Park Lane
now! By the way, Ouida has contradicted the
report, and threatens to prosecute for slander any
one who repeats it.
Villard, who, a year or two ago, was
master of the railway, river, and ocean communi-
cations of the vast region West of the Great
Lakes and North of California, and said to be
worth from two to four millions sterling, has just
retired from the presidency of the last of the three
companies, having lost his whole fortune.
The Melbourne Would doesn’t know who
Boyd D. Morehead. of Queensland, is. It says
loftily: “ We don’t know anything about this per-
son, only that he puts himself forward to delay
annexation till MTI wraith returns.” Hoot! Ven-
ture to say that Morehead knows Morty-on the
principle that the greater includes the less.
Graham Berry is a warm supporter of the
Salvation Army in Victoria. This news, commu-
nicated to us by ex-lteverend Horsley, will be to
those who already like the very successful politi-
cian an ample justification for their affection.
And it will cover with confusion the few insignifi-
cant persons who have been Avont to thiak that
Berry Avasn’t the greatest man fashioned in the
century. It is plain that he is now both great and
good.
The grey mare turned out to be the better
horse at the Geelong railway refreshment rooms.
This is a figurative way of saying that a Avoman
licked a man there. The horse Avas Duncan Gillies,
and the—well, she Avas Miss Mulligan. Duncan
tried to eject her. and brought all the law and
authority of the Department to determine her
lease of those enjoyable premises. She at first
prayed, then she defied, then she took counsel’s
opinion, then she triumphed; and Duncan, with
his head down, went off to badger tho clerks.
It was under the editorial regime of the
late Thomas Chenery that the notorious “ mis-
print” occurred in tne Times’ report of a speech
by Sir W. Vernon Harcourt. The misprint (which
Avas the result of disaffection among certain of the
compositors) was only in the very early issue of the
paper, and frantic efforts were made to call in the
spicy copies, with such success that the Igav avail-
able were the same evening in big demand at ten
■shillings each at the London Clubs. Ten shillings
for one indecent line. And you can buv the Even-
ing News for a penny 1
A Loudon exchange says:—“ The old
Marquis of Salisbury, father of the present peer,
built a mud-wall round Hatfield, and when the fire
occurred, and a still older Marehioness Avas burnt,
charged the insurance company with the value of
his dinner spoiled by the accident.” We remember
the old fellow well. Once when we were picnick-
ing in the part of Hatfield Park thrown open to
the public, an old felloAv came up and said as the
Marquis didn’t like to see egg-shells, &c., left about
the sward, he would pick them up and make things
tidy for the consideration of a square feed. The
terms were accepted—and the Marquis (for ’twas
he) got a free lunch !
Tbe London Echo recently published a
clever idyll, in Tennysonian metre, entitled “ The
Last Peer.” It ends thusly:—
“ Ah, he would be a lord,
And sink the name round Avhieh his glory grew.
And so there came a herald with a scroll,
One Avho makes ancestors and coats of arms,
And gives alike to poet and to peer
A pedigree as long as Piccadilly;
And he brought with him much emblazonry,
A quartered shield, with, on the dexter side,
The grand old gardener, Adam, and his wife,
A-smiling at the claims of long descent.
Cablegram announces the death of Ad-
miral Carr-Qlynn, less known to fame on account
ot his naval exploits than as the very particular
friend of the late Adelaide Neilson, the actress.
To the gallant Admiral, it will be remembered,
Miss Neilson left nearly the whole of her consider-
able fortune, and a very pretty little scandal was
the outcome of the business. The Referee ac-
cused Clement Scott, theatrical critic of the Lon-
don D.T., of extorting money from Admiral Glynn,
under threat of publishing certain Incidents in the
actress’s career. Scott brought an action against
the paper, and received a salve for his wounded
feelings in the form of £l5OO damages. Months
after the affair was settled, the Referee honour-
ably admitted that it had been misinformed, and
expressed regret at having published the state-
ment.
We have always thought—and now we are
dead certain—that Counsellor Duffy, of Melbourne,
is a countryman of the great Sir Boyle Roche, who
was the Andy Lynch of the Irish House some
years ago. A few days since, Judge Cope was
doing a little criminal business across the border,
and, in answer to a certain question, on 3 witness
admitted that he used to pause occasionally in his
slavery to listen to a feilow-workman giving
selections from “Henry V.’’ and “Hamlet.”
“Fwhat!” thundered the Milesian Cicero, “do Oi
understhand you t’ say you have niglicted your
wurk to hear your fellow-labourer murdher the
immortal bard av Stratford?” Whereupon the
opposing counsel, Mr. Hood, was so overcome
with the idea of murdering anything immortal
that he had to dash outside and soak his head in a
trough to cool his boiler-bursting feelings.
From the rival paper we find that little
Bailey, the great head of the Gundagai Herald,
has been getting himself a bit unpopular with a
certain clique of the inhabitants or Gundagai.
There was a meeting of the Progress Committee
the other day, and little Bailey sarcastically sug-
gested that the Minister for Works should be inter-
viewed, and requested to grant a sum of money
to wind the town clock. We should have thought
our small but eloquent friend would have had
enough wind to do this himself. Then, with more
vigour than elegance, he designated the members
of the Progress Committee as a “lot of skunks.”
The morp hot-headed of the members resented
this as an insinuation, and even the cooler heads
considered it a retlection on the character of the
committee as a whole. Little Bailey will soon be
famous—or dead—if he goes on at this rate. Most
likelv dead.
Henry George is on a lecturing campaign
in England. Michael Davitt was on the platform
when he gave his first address in London. Davi < t’s
association with George commenced during the
former’s lecturing tour in America, in a manner
not altogether flattering to that gentleman. At
the close ot one of his lecturers a lady rose and
criticised Davitt’s opinions, taking her ground
upon the arguments contained in George’s book.
Davitt was so impressed with the arguments that
he at once yielded the contested points. When he
returned to England, Davitt brought “ Progress
and Poverty ” to the notice of his friends, and the
result was the publication of an English edition,
from which, notwistandiDg the enormous numbe,
of copies sold, George did not receive a single
penny. He is now arranging, on more advan-
tageous terms, for the publication of his new
work, “ Problems of the Time.”
In Otago, N.Z., arival to MilnerStephen has
started, called Otijo Hug. Of his manner, says the
Times: —“ He tak es hold of the hand of a patient,
and apparently falls Into a trance. In much the
same way as Mr. Thomas Walker, the Spiritualistic
lecturer, who visited Dunedin some years since,
did. He then pcroceeds to state the symptoms,
generally oonalu< les by writing a prescription, and
tJ»eu awttJtee, auti from his manner seems quite
unconscious of what has happened during the
time his eyes have been closed.” Otto Hus: is,
doubtless, popular with the ladies, at least he Otto
Bee, though it is not set forth in the paper as to
whether Otto is a pretty or a Hugly man. We
wish to call Otto’s attention to the fact, that
Thomas has since owned up that his trance business
was all Walker.” And where is old Milaer, we
wonder? Where is the dear old boy and his tin
can, passes, and red bunting? It ought to be
some time yet before the Caucasian’s quite played
out.
The Hon. Miss Baring declares that she
recently gave Jean Luie £-400 to come out to New
South Wales and collect evidence on behalf of the
Claimant. Jean was out here a short time ago,
we know, and residing under the wing of Joseph
the philanthropist. It has not transpired, ho wever,
what evidence he has collected; and, indeed, it
would seem that his efforts could avail but little
now, since the Claimant is to be so shortly dis-
charged. The hotel idea seems to have been re-
vived. and “ a magnificent building on the South
Coast” is to be rented, on dit, in the name of the
“oppressed noblemen.” There is very little now
incongruous in the idea of a baronet turning boni-
face, since so many of our noblemen are either
stock-jobbers, green-grocers, or coal-retailers.
The agent in advance of the Charles Wyndham
troupe in America, is no less a person than Sir
Randall Roberts, Bart.—a gentleman, it is said,
who is somewhat of an adept in the art of social
inflation. When we were poor, and in the banking
business, we were once in an office in New York,
with Lord Campbell, son of the Duke of Argyle.
Campbell was learning banking, and so were we,
and it would have been hard to state which case
was the more hopeless. The young lord used to
live at the Travellers’ Club, ot which A. Chaplin—
brother of H. Chaplin, of racing fame—was secre-
tary. Chaplin was also in the banking-house, and
two sons of Lester Wallaek. Few of us received
anysalai'y, and Campbell got £3OO a year from his
dad; but, as the New York toadies were always on
the alert to “set ’em up ” for him, he did remarK-
ahly well. Both of us wore in the Coupon depart-
ment of the bank, and were required to check the
vouchers, which, however, never by any chance
came right. So we occupied our time chiefly in
reading Florence Marryat’s novels, chewing candy,
and making bouts rimes. The bank used to pro-
vide us with lunch-joints and ieed-water ; but
most of us used to wander out in the middle of
the day and drink lager bear—not a bit, be it said,
like the bottled compound you have to part
eighteenpence for in Sydney. Regarded intel-
lectually, Lord C. was feebleness personified; and
we see that he is about to be divorced from his
wife—the daughter of a wealthy commoner—who,
if what we hear is true, contracted, in her house-
hold, an attachment which John Leech called the
“ knee plush ultra of sentiment.”
While Mrs. Langtry was touring the
States, exciting the curiosity of the men and the
spleen of the women, nowhere was she worse
exactly reversed, and what is more, all the world
knows it. American papers, no doubt, will not
forget to extract a little satire from the charming
treated, socially, than in Boston. Boston society,
as everyone knows, assumes to be more higb-
t oned than that of any other American city, Yet
it was here that the “ladies,”
making the Lily’s imaginary
“goings-on” with Freddie Geb-
hardt an excuse for displaying
their jealousy, put their little
heads together to devise a cruel
insult for their fair visitor. An
invitation was given to Mrs.
Langtry to attend a certain soiree
: or conversazione, or something,
and as it was understood that it
would be a very select gathering,
the invite was, in all innocence,
accepted. Well, the pleasant
plot of the Boston “ ladies ” was
that the entrance of “the crea-
ture” should be the signal of
their departure, thus leaving her
“alone with the men she ad-
mired,” and expressing their own
virtuous inability to breathe the
same air with one so abandoned
Fortunately for the credit of
“society,” though, this little
. scheme was discovered by Mrs.
Langtry’s business manager, and
she never “turned up ” to receive
the mortification of spirit so care-
fully prepared lor her by her
Boston sisters. And now comes
news from this cultured city that
the “ladies” have been honour-
ing Ellen Terry with a special
entertainment. This is a little
too much. That they have a per-
fect right to fete the popular
actress no one will deny; but that
the same society which expressed
“abhorrence” of a well-bred
woman, against whom no scandal
has ever been seriously suggested,
should go out of its way to wor-
ship another one with a public
“blot” on her character, only
proves how very artificial that
“abhorrence” was. Mrs. Lang-
try has. at present, but little to
boast of professionally, but
socially she has much. Now,
with Ellen Terry the case is
inconsistency in the receptions accorded to Lang-
try and Terry by the Bostonians.
The death is recorded of Mr. James Simp-
son, who occupied for sixteen years the post of
editor of the Hobart Mercury. Mr. Simpson first
entered the Mercury office as reader, but. having
written several articles of merit, he was promoted
to the position of editor. As a writer he was
matter-of-fact and argumentative, but now and
then indulged in a touch of dry Scottish humour.
Politically, he was a power in the land, and a
stranger would never have dreamt that the some-
what untidily-dressed old Scotch gentleman, who
limped (he was lame) up the stairs of the Mercury
office, held the fate of Ministries in his hand, or
rather his pen. Personally he was of what best
may be described as a “ fldgetty ” disposition, but
concealed a kind disposition under a brusque
exterior. He was devoted to his work, and his
untiring energy, no doubt, hastened his death.
Owing to ill-health, he was < bliged to retire from
office a couple of years back, and died last week
from aneurism of the heart, in his 68th year.
It was in the Police Court, Melbourne, that
long M’Kean was engaged for the prosecution of
two well-known “speilers” who had got at an
innocent young mau from Camperdown to the
tune of a few hundred pound?, on some racing
swindle. Under cross-examination, the complain-
ant admitted that he was not such a guileless
youth as M'Ktan’s eloquence would lead the Bench
to believe. On re-examination, the latter produced
a document, and asked the witness if he recog-
nised it. ** I cannot say Ido at that distance,” was
the reply. “Then i’ll walk round and show it to
you,” said M’Kean. “The sergeant will pass the
document across to the witness, so as to save the
time of the Court,” suggested the Bench. “Oh,
I'll walk round with it myself,” retorted the can-
tankerous solicitor, as he suited the action to the
words. “Humph!” ejaculated Mr. Whelan, the
C.P.S., in an undertone, as he adjusted his eye-
glass and scanned the lengthy Mac. from head to
foot; “ after a walk round there is always a break
down.” And, sure enough, the case did break
down a few minutes afterwards, much to the satis-
faction of the gentlemanly speilers, though the
lengthy lawyer was not so well pleased with the
result of his pleading.
One of the political lights of Tasmania has
just gone out through the death of the Hon. T. D.
Chapman. He has been a prominent figure in the
political world of the Southern Island for over a
quarter of a century, and was one amongst those
who helped to frame the Constitution Act in 1856.
He at intervals occupied the position of Premier
and chief Secretary on numerous occasions during
his long political career, and was ever a leading
man, whether in office or in opposition. In this
respect he might be termed the Robertson or the
Parkes of the Tasmanian legislature. Mr. Chap-
man was a forcible and fiuent speaker, though,
like most political enthusiasts, he frequently drift-
ed into a sultry impassioned style that led to
many a wordy battle—and sometimes very nearly
a muscular one—in the House. His views were not
always on the popular side, as he was imbued with
a good share of Conservatism, but no one ever
doubted his honest wish to do the best for the
little colony he so often steered. With him
passes away another of the few connecting links
between the old political regime and the new.
From the World:—'“Miss Fortescue has
beon invited by the Earl and Countess Cairns to
spend a few days with them at Lindisfarne,
Bournemouth, this week. It is expected that Miss
Fortescue’s marriage with Lord Garmoyle will
take place in June.” Now, we wonder how it
came to be broken off ? Did Miss Fortescue hear
anything about Lord Gumboil, or did Lord Gum-
boil hear anything about Miss Fortescue? It has
been our privilege (under Divine Providence) to
know a good deal about theatres in our little hour;
and peopie behind are not charitable. In Sydney,
the pros, say the most dreadful things of each
other—things that would choke off in one short
scene even an intended (Jew) bridegroom, who
was “on” for drawing the girl’s salary. But we
never believe anything we hear, bless you! If we
had done so, our belief would have killed (or got
us killed) long ago. Why, you wouldn’t believe
that even * Yes, fancy that! And they say to
that § and t have 1 which is, to say the
least, extraordinary.
* Eliminated. § Excised. + Struck out. J Held
over. By order of the Editor.— Printer.
Bulwer Lytton’s son threatens us with five
volumes of a life of the novelist. We have
wandered through two, and have decided to re-
serve our further acquaintance with that author’s
movements until we have finished our little task
of reading through the whole of the works in the
Public Library, together with the School of Arts
library, by way ot Sunday reading. We judge by
that time we shall get all that we shall want to
know aoout Bulwer from an article B. in some
Cyelopcedia. There is something peculiarly ex-
asperating in this exaltation in five volumes of a
second or third rate novelist’s negotiations with
booksellers, end interviews with celebrated nonen-
tities. Who will write five volumes about us when
we are dead? There is one bit of information,
however, we clip out as a warning to local bards.
Lytton thought he was a groat poet until he was
50, and then decided that he wasn’t For ourselves,
we may say that the muse was never more
gracious than at present, and that we are now
trilling off stanzas in large quantities at an afflatus
ranging from fair to middling at current quota-
tions. The News supplied at the shortest notice,
and on the most liberal terms. No connection
with Halloran.
A grand piece of country was Tulloona,
and a grand, if somewhat rough, old man was
“Dicky” Dines. Peace be to his ashes! for, like
many others, it was only when he shuffled it off
that he was missed, and people realised that
another good man was gone. His many acts of
charity and assistance to those in need were per-
formed in the darkest secrecy, and it would not
have been over safe for anyone to have taxed
him with them. He it was who, on his shearers
“striking,” let the jumbueks “rip” till the next
shearing came round, and then took off the two
season’s fleece. Once, too, being at a swell dinner
party “down below,” a letter from his overseer at
Tulloona being handed to him, he, opening, read
aloud, with many a Estrange ejaculation, to the
assembled company as follows: “Dear Sir, You
will be glad to hear that Mrs. C. was safely de-
livered of a fine baby boy Thursday night. Child
weighed 151 b. at birth. Mother and son both
doing well. Thank God.” “ And not a word
about the sheep or the weather,” wound up
“Dicky ” almost in the same breath, but all the
same with a well-pleased look on his ancient mug.
His Worship the Mayor of Prahran, Mr.
John Turner, is at loggerheads with the Council,
the cause of trouble being the Salvation Harmy.
Since Mr. Turner has been elevated to the position
of Mayor he has joined the Harmy, and now
ranks among the “saved.” The by-laws of the
borough do not prohibit the Mayor from being
saved if he has a disposition that way, but they do
forbid the Harmy to parade the streets with its
big drum, or make night hideous with the howling
in the open air ; yet the Mayor yearns to head a
street procession, and has been moving neaven
(by prayer) and earth to secure the privilege for
the Salvationists. In order to show his partiality
to the “lovers of the Lord,” he dismissed a case
upon which he adjudicated in hia official capacity
as chief magistrate, where a Salvationist was
shown to have committed a gross breach of the
by-laws. His brother councillors are now up in
arms against him, and at the last meeting of the
corporate body a resolution was passed requesting
the Crown Law Department to insist upon the
magistrates who adjudicated upon that occasion
stating a case for the opinion of the Supreme
Court.
Here is a little human nature working
under the old blind Fate of the early world:—
Thirty-three years ago, with the down on his
cheeks, and a proud martial spirit within his
breast, George Robert Browne swashed about as
ensign in the 88th Connaught Hangers; a light-
hearted soldier, and known among his companions
as a brave, daring man. Up from ensign to
lieutenant. Up again from lieutenant to captain.
Off to the Crimean war. Bold and brave through
Alma and Inkermanu. Wounded at Sebastopol.
An arm left behind on the Redan. Still upward;
his voice still cheery and his spirit still strong.
Into the Indian mutiny; awiy among the lire of
Cawnpore ; and with the first in the assault at
Lucknow. Up still. Riddled with shots; covered
with medals. Becomes major; becomes adjutant-
general in Canad u Is in Australia. Up still. Up
repeatedly. Up for false pretences. Gets into the
neighbourhood of Ballarat; puts his name to a
paltry cheque for a paltry few pounds. Is tried in
a little court; found guilty, and sent to gaol once
more. Ergo, a first-class soldier may be a thunder-
ing poor sort of min. Ex. gr.: one-armed Browne
and Valentine Baker.
Mary Anderson, whom rumour has
selected as the beautiful bride elect of a good
many different persons since her theatrical cUbut
in England, has cabled a very modest and reassur-
ing message to her American friends. This is the
message: “I am wedded to my profession alone
and I authorise an emphatic denial of the published
stories about matrimonial engagements with the
Duke of Portland, Henry E. Abbey, or any other
person. Please send out this denial, so that my
friends may know that I am, and will remain
Mary Anderson.” It’s very thoughtful and con-
siderate of Mary to let her friends know that she
doesn’t intend splicing herself to a wealthy young
duke, for they must have been grieved at the bare
notion of such a mesalliance. SI ill, in this case
she was “rumoured” in pretty good company'
seeing that the lovely Countess of Lonsdale and
the eldest daughter of the Prince and Princess of
Wales have each been mentioned in society papers
as possible Duchesses of Portland. It was rather
rough, too, on such a “bit of blue blood” as the
Duke of Portland (he’s directly descended from
one of Charles the Second’s mistresses, you know)
to couple him with Henry E. Abbey; and it was
rather rough on both of them to go dragging their
names before the American public in connection
with a married woman. For Mary must be mar-
ried,lif she’s “ wedded to my profession.” And the
affectionate way in which she speaks of him, too—
“my profession.” Lucky dog, that 1
Alderman Ingrey has been elected Mayor
of Grenfell. The retiring Mayor and he ran a
dead heat, so they had “a shake for it, and Ingrey
turned up trumps. The proceedings were very
sultry—in fact, more than usually GrenfeJlian—in
their character. For example, Alderman Pyne
adduced, in proof of Alderman Ingrey’s unfitness
for the office, two allegations. One, that the latter
had been fined at the court for indulging in big
big D’s, and sundry sanguinary expletives, and the
other that—prepare to blush here—he had had his
portrait taken in Sydney in a state of nudity.
Alderman Pyne is evidently an extremely modest
man, and has no good opinion of Mayors in purls
naturalibus. Doubtless he would anathematise
those outrageous celebrities who in the past
placed themselves in the hands of the sculptor,
without so much as a twopenny stamp, or a pair
of spurs to hide their blushe?, He is not at all
gifted with the happy nonchalance of Princess
Pauline, who had her graceful figure reproduced
in marble by the great Canova. When asked if
she did not feel rather uncomfortable, she coolly
replied “No, there was a fire in the room,” Aider-
man Pyne and Pauline would never have hit it
The very idea of even a naked Mayor has so"
thoroughly shocked him that he declares his in-
tention of retiring from the civic arena entirely.
It’s his best plan. Poor Pyne would assuredly
pyne away if he sat at the feet of a Mayor who
pinned his faith to the “unadorned adorned the
most ” fallacy.
In 1860, just fourteen years before Disraeli
took office as Premier of an Administration which
was to last for six years and sixty-seven days, and
during the course of which he was to dazzle
Europe by his brilliant political pyrotechnics and
amaze England by his adroit legerdemain, the late
Lord Lytton (who bad been his colleague in the
second Derby Administration) wrote the following
prophetie sketch of his future career:—“He will
leave a higher name than I should say his intellect
quite warrants, or than would now be conjectured.
He will certainly have very high honours, whether
official or in rank—high as compared with his birth
or actual achievements. He is likely to live to old
age, the close of his career being much honoured.
He will be to the last largely before the public
much feared by his opponents, but greatly be-
loved not only by those immediately about him,
but by large numbers of persons to whom he is
personally unknown. He will die, whether in or
out of office, in an exceptionally high position,
greatly lamented, and surrounded to the end by
all the magnificent planetary influences of a pro-
pitious Jupiter. He will bequeath a repute out of
all proportion to the opinion now entertained of
his intellect, even by those who think most highly
of it. Greater honours far than he has yet ac-
quired are in store for him. His enemies, though
active, are not persevering. His official friends,
though not ardent, will yet minister to his success.”
The curious aspect of this is that Bulwer, who
dabbled in the “black art,” got all that by regu-
larly drawing Disraeli’s horoscope.
Jimmy Richards was a good specimen of
the “ Cousin Jack ” miner, who struck it lucky in
the Oriental mine, Stawell (Vic.), some fourteen
years ago. The possession of wealth was the pass-
port to municipal honours, as well as the entrie to
good society on the diggings; and, in due course,
Jimmy” occupied a seat amongst the local
councillors, eventually attaining the position of
Mayor During his term of oilice as Chief Magis-
trate the new Town Hall was built, and it was
decided that the opening festivities would be fitly
celebrated by a ball in the new building. Great
preparations were made for the event, which was
to be on a scale of splendour unprecedented in the
district. It was arranged that the Mayor and Lady
Mayoress should lead off the first quadrille, but,
being strict Wesleyans, who never had indulged
in such frivolities as dancing, they know as much
about the [figures of the set as M’Elhonedoes of
the principles of politeness-and, besides, they
were rather too far advanced in years to learn.
Nothing daunted by the difficulties of the situa-
tion, they immediately put themselves under a
course of private tuition, and wore out many
pairs of boots in their efforts to master the in-
tricacies of the set. Before the ball came off, they
were tolerably proficient, and promised to acquit
themselves fairly. And they would, too, had not
the novelty of the situation been too much for the
Mayor, who was gazing abstractedly around when
he should have been swinging partners. The Lady
Mayoress recalled him from his fit of abstraction
by remarking sharply, “Turn Jemmy. Dost hear?
Turn.” He did “turn,” and as they gyrated, the
Mayor murmured audibly in her tear, “Thee
musn’t talk like that, wife. Dost think thce’st
speaking to a whim-horse?”
We reoently quoted a good story from
Skene’s “With Lord Stratford in the Crimean
War.” Here are a couple more “Mehemet Ali
Pasha, husband of one of Abdul Mpdjid’s sisters,
was Minister of the Navy. He had recently pur-
chased a beautiful Greek slave, and he saw her oue
day at the open window in conversation with a
Greek gardener. The poor thing had been glad
to find some one to speak to in her own mother
tongue. The Pasha approached the girl in silence,
and stabbed her to the heart with a dagger This
reached Lord Stratford’s ears, and, when Mehemet
Ali Pasha next called at the Embassy he was not
received. The Sultan sent an aide-ne-eamp to ask
the ambassador why he had refused to see one of
His Imperial Majesty’s Ministers, and his brother-
in-law. ‘Tell the Sultan,’ said Lord Stratford,
that an English ambassador can never admit to
his presence a cruel assassin.’ Another attempt
was made, through the medium of the Grand
Vizier, to appease the ambassador’s anger ; but it
was in vain, and Mehemet Ali Pasha was dismissed
from office. Every member of the Royai Family
was to him (Lord Stratford) an object of un-
bounded deference. When the Duke of Cambridge
was about to become his guest for a few days at
the Embassy, he wont in his dressing-gown at an
early hour to]see that the rooms prepared for His
Royal Highness were in order. Finding the Duke's
valet arranging the portmanteaus which had
arrived, the ambassador began to give him direc-
tions how they should be placed. The man left off
working, and stared at Lord Stratford. ‘l’ll tell
you what it is,’ be said at last. * I know how His
Royal Highness likes to have his things arranged
better than you do. So you just shut up, ana be
off, will you, old feller ?” Lor i Stratiord left the
room in a towering passion, and calling one of the
attache, ordered him. to.’go and tell that man who


Tae Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the samo time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
Wells’ “Bough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney. General Agents.
The free use of pure perfumes acts as a
safe-guard against all infectious diseases; thus it
is that in those sick rooms where Murray and
Lanman’s Florida Water is constantly
sprinkled, perfect safety is insured to every mem-
ber of the household.
it was that he bad ventured to address such
language to. The attachi soon returned. Well,
what did you say to him ?’ asked the ambassador.
1 1 said to him, my lord, that the person to whom
lie had ventured to address such language was Her
Majesty’s representative in Turkey.’ ‘Ah, quite
right! And what was his answer?’
my lord, that he had never said you warn t. :
Here is an idyllic lie for you. At the his-
toric luncheon on Sir Donald Currie’s yacht in the
harbour of Copenhagen, Tennyson, in conversa-
tion with the Empress of Russia and the Princess
of Wales, asked by what title he ought rightly to
address those ladies. “I do not know,” he said,
“ what I ought to call you.” “ Oh,” said the Prin-
cess, “there is no difficulty ; Minnie and Alec, to
to be sure.”
Some thirty odd years ago, the late Lord
Panmure, then the Hon. Fox Maule, M.P., rented
a small shooting lodge and moor at a place called
Dromore, in Perthshire. One of his gillies at that
time “during the grouse season” was a raw country
youth named Sandy Macdonald, now a well-known
and popular Doctor of Divinity in Canada. Sandy
at this time was studying for the ministry, and
was known among the keepers and gillies of the
place as the “Minister” His duty on the moor
was to take charge of the dogs kept in reserve,
and this work leit him plenty of time to pursue
his studies while sitting on some moss-grown rock
among the hills, with the dogs at his feet, It hap-
pened, however, rather frequently, that the
“ Minister ” got so absorbed in his studies that he
could neither hear nor see the signals made to him
from a distance by the shooting party when fresh
dogs were wanted. On these occasions, the Hon.
Fox would lose his temper, and damn the poor
minister with volleys of double-barrelled profanity
of the most sultry description. But Sandy’s turn
came for reprisals. In due course be was licensed
to preach the Gospel, and after emigrating to
Canada, where he obtained a church and be-
came very popular, ho returned to Scotland
for a short time, and accepted an invita-
tion from the minister of Glen Esk Free
Church to fill his pulpit for a few Sundays.
This church was on the property or his
late employer, now Lord Panmure, who was an
ardent Free ChurchmaD. and attended regularly
when he lived in his lodge at Glenmark, a short
distance away. His Lordship had no idea who the
Rev. A. Macdonald, from Canada, really was, but
when he saw his late gillie, shaggy-headed and
rough as a Highland collies, ascend the pulpit, and.
after the usual preliminaries, give out as his text
the words, “ Swear not at all,” he could not help
feeling a cold sensation pass down the small of his
hack as he thought of the many times he had
damned the rev. preacher to his face on the moors
a few years before. The sermon was eloquent and
to the point, his Lordship’s vulgar habit of profane
swearing was shown up and condemned in the
most orthodox style, and the rev. g&ntleman
finished his discourse by calling on those before
him, who were addicted to the vice, to mend their
manners in future lest a judgment from Heaven
should fall on them. The sermon was puDgent
and pointed, and his Lordship had to grin and bear
it. He did not invite the rev. Sandy to dinner that
day, but Sandy dined, nevertheless, at the manse,
anil enjoyed a good dinner, and had a hearty laugh
at the way he had turned the tables on his Lord-
ship of Panmure.
£4OOO a year is the pay attached to the po9t
of military commander in Bengal, to which the
Duke of Connaught has been appointed. He has
had no soldiering experience beyond sham fights,
and is never likely to have ; and in Egypt the
Guards were kept carefully out of action, as safely
as possible, just because he was in command But
it’s pretty certain that this harmless person is
really meant to succeed the venerable Duke of
Cambridge as Old Woman in command of tho
British Army. £4OOO a year may not seem avast
sum to add to the moderate £25,000 a year Con-
naught already draws for his misfortune in having
a royal mother; but to the aged generals, scarred
with service, it would be a gi-atef ul reward. The
Duke of Edinburgh, too, deigns to accept £25,000
a year from the country, in return for which he
plays on the fiddle. Yet he has been appointed to
the command of the Channel Squadron—the best
post in the naval service—the Admiral who occu-
pied it being coolly ordered to China. In 1878, Lord'
Beaconfield absolutely declined to put Alfred in
command of tho fleet ordered to the Dardanelles
because he' would have done more harm than
good. Then there is the Marquis of Lome (who,
by the way, is Marquis by courtesy only)—he is to
enter the House of Lords as Baron Sundridge, for
his valuable services in Canada, for which he was
amply paid. Gladstone, it will be remembered,
emphatically refused to send another of the
Queen's sons as Governor to Canada—the Duke of
Albany, a young man with a thin skin which is
always out of order. There’s a great number of
calves deriving sustenance from that patient cow,
the British taxpayer.
Mr. R. S. Smythe possesses, in our opinion,
an extensive “knocker” even for so gigantic an
individual. “R.S.” is now sojourning, he tells us
in elegant print, at “ Upper Hawthorn, Victoria,”
and “all communications are to be addressed to
him respecting the tour of Miss Geneviove Ward ”
(Ada—no relation—is, by the way, Figaro sayS,
“ disengaged in Paris hem!). Mr. Smythe for-
wards us an interesting trifle consisting of a 32-
page pamphlet,'from which we shall make copious
extracts as soon as Widow Rolgurry has found her
poly or when a vicar smiles upon a parishioner
who jingles down 3d. in the plate. We may state,
however, that a great many of Miss G.’s plays are
by the author of “The of Fashion,” and her
announcements are generally of a (Sydney) Grun-
dyose nature. Miss Ward—like Ada—how is it—
something in the buskin ?—picked up with a Count
—a Russian named de Guerbel, who married her.
We may state, en parenthese— when it come 9 to
clothing our copy in a French garb, you can wager,
Alfred, we’ve got ’em Ahn! [Get on, get on. This
is very poor stuff.— Ed. B ]—we may state, then,
that Ada’s Count was called Washhouseki, and is
now a big merchant in New Caledonia!) Well, no
sooner was Miss Genevieve married thantheCount
began to Guerbid respecting the validity of the
ceremony, when Miss G. journeyed at once to
Russia and interviewed the Czar-, who signed a
mandate for the immediate marriage according to
the rites of the Greek Church—His Majesty deeming
this a special ukaseon. But though they were
married according to Greek rites, Genevieve had
so many English wrongs that she left the Count
forthwith, and took to the stage. Whether she
has married again, however, does not appear ; but
we may as well just take the opportunity of
jotting down that our address is 24 Pitt-street !
Rut little R. S. has got a bigger thing on than
Genevieve. He has engaged, through Archibald
Forbes, George Augustus Salafor a lecturingtour.
It is, on the whole, about time Mr. Sala went on a
lecturing tour and made enough money to enable
him to write less ; for of late he has been perpe-
trating a deal of senile bosh in the Illustrated
London News. Always a gourmet,. G.A.S.’s in-
stiucts appear to have become positively cookish;
since, in recent number of the Illustrated, he
devotes three long columns to a dissertation upon
how to prepare, and the ingredients necessary for
the manufacture of bouillabaisse &la Busse! sala’s
strongest points are social gossip, town sketches,
and hreezy travel-mems ; but he failed utterly as
a novelist. His works of fiction consist of “ The
Seven Sons of Mammon,” and a host more
novels of a mediocre and “patchy character;”
the flimsy philosophy, overdrawn characters, and
impossible plot of the first-named book, covering
its author, at the time of its appearance week
after week in Temple Bar, with ridicule. A good
many years ago, a book was published in London
called “The Gentle Life,” in which a character
that could be mistaken for no other than Sala, was
treated to a wholesale and indiscriminate lashing.
He was charged with being a drunkard and aroo£;
and G.A.S , acting upon advice, sued the author of
the book and obtained £5OO damages; besides a
portmanteau full of apologies from the publishers.
George Augustus must be now quite sixty, and as
such a number of celebrated people are always
coming to Australia who never arrive, we should
not ba surprised much if the veteran did not
turn up; the more especially—to quote Forbes—as
“ he is so full here, and earning so much money.”
Mr. Sala is an excellent speaker, but a sad proser,
withal; and, like Fosco and the great Napoleon,
can, it is said, command sleep at any time. When
John Oxenford. critic of the Times, was alive, he
and Sala generally occupied the same box, and the
actors used to bet drinks behind on which of the
two would go to sleep first. However, we don’t
care how much Mr. Sala sleeps, out here, himself,
as long as he does not impart to us a drowsy ten-
dency through the medium of his lectures. It has
not transpired, by the bye, whether or not G.A.S.
was, like poor, Moncure Conway, “the friend and
companion of Carlyle and Professor Huxley ;” but
if the “Exceedingly Travelled” will only assure
t:s he was Dr. Johnson's uncle, or the pa of Person,
we shall strain ourselves in trying to believe him.
We learn that His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales “ has been nominated by desire for
the New Club;” an establishment started to com-
mence acting, at midnight, French plays that are
forbidden by the Lord Chamberlain, and where
gambling for practically unlimited stakes is cheer-
fully tolerated. We remember "The New Club”
when it was Evans’, and bossed over by "Paddy
Green.” Then ladies were rmly admitted to dark
boxes, where they could see and not he seen, and
the place was wholesome in every way, the glees
sung by the juvenile chorus being a great attrac-
tion. Later they turned it into a music-hall of the
ordinary class, which was a signal for tho habitues
to get their chops and baked potatoes elsewhere.
Later, it was metamophosed into,the Falst?ff Club,
with the biggest names in the peerage on the com-
mittee. But it didn’t succeed, possibly because
the nobs did not pay their subscriptions, and the
promoter lost £35,000 in six months. Now it is
“the New Club,” and, of course, the surroundings
being a bit dieoileUs, it has pioved a huge success.
Talking of the Prince, by the way, reminds us that
another of his pals hxs come to grief—Mr. W. G.
Craven. Craven married a pretty woman and set
up a grand house at Stockbridge, drove four-in-
hand, and entertained in a princely style. One day
he and his wife were missing, bill of sale over the
furniture, and the butcher let in for £700! Nobody
had been paid a ball-penny for over two years.
No one seems to know where Craven is; so he pro-
bably is in—alas!—Australia.
The ever p op ular|“ Pygmalion and Gala-
tea,” in which beautiful Mary Anderson is reduc-
ing London mashers to the verge ot idiocy with
her statuesque poses, has been very disparagingly
spoken of by Alma Tadema, It.A., the great clas-
sical painter, who dismisses it as “clumsy and
silly, without any archaeological pretensions.”
This rough criticism on his friend Gilbert’s play is
accounted for thusly. Tadema permitted himself
to take a lively interest in the present production,
and suggested a white wrap for Mary’s head as
being archmologically correct, but the practical
author, regarding "pit” prejudices as being of
more importance than high art, insisted on his new
Gal. sporting the same hair arrangement as her
predecessors had done. Hence the great Alma’s
spiteful remarks. Gratified as Gilbert is with the
success of the new “statue,” he hasn't rounded
on the creator of the character—Mrs. Kendal—
whose performance he maintains to have been
“dramatically more effective,” though “artisti-
cally less beautiful,” than that of her latest rival.
Few, though, who remember Madge Robertson (as
Mrs. K. was then known) in the character, endorse
the latter part of the verdict, and, although the
English actress is some fourteen years older than
the American novelty, and the “ mother of five ”
to boot, the universal opinion of playgoers (not
mashers) is that she could-to-day just as well as
heretofore—act Mary’s Galatea “off her pedestal,”
both in a dramatic and artistic sense. Mrs. Ken-
dal’s expressive face, g-aceful figure, and sweet
voice are bad to beat by «nv living actress, but
the family brains of Tom Robertson’s sister want
more beating still. By the way, Kendal has a
brother in Queensland, well up in the Civil Service
there. Of course, Kendal is nat the name.
« • •
Charles Kerr, who showed such Kerr-age
in rescuing a lad from Lachlan River, awarded
Royal Humane Society’s medal Carr-Boyd has
commenced legal proceedings against Wilson and
Cotton, of the Cambridge Downs Pastoral Asso-
ciation. Libel is alleged to consist in a letter
written by them to the Argus, accusing Potjostler
of deserting his comrades while pioneering ... Mr.
G. A. Sala is to arrive in Australia in April, 1885.
He is to be in Melbourne to witness the race for
the Cup. George always had a partiality for the
“ cup.” —Scott, of the National Bank, Melbourne,
died on the 11th instant, of paralysis. It will be re-
membered he was in charge of the Euroa Bank
when the late Mr. Ned Kelly appointed himself
inspector of things in general about that district,
and carried the whole of the bank staff away to
Faithful’s Creek station.
* * *
General Booth, of the Harmy, once a
pawnbroker’s assistant a fact that throws a
light on many things Writes Sir George
Dasent: “There are those yet alive who once
saw at Hughenden Manor, then the abode of
the family of Norris—and now-Sir Salmon!—
a vision of fine clothes in the shape of two
gorgeously-dressed young men, who descended
from a tandem to pay their respects to the young
ladies of the house. Both were beautiful to be-
hold, but one far outshone the other. On his head
was a slouched velvet hat with a white feather
twined about it, and he was clad in a green velvet
gaberdine and a violet cut velvet waistcoat hung
with a heavy gold chain. His legs were wonderful
in puce-coloured satin beinhlcider. That one, who
wore love-locks, was Benjamin Disraeli; the other,
less gorgeous, being was Edward Lytton Bulwer...
Theodore Tilton is in Paris devoting himself to
literature. If he had devoted himself to Mrs. T
a little more some years ago, it would have been
better for both of the n and Brother Beecher, too.
Arabi Pasha’s son enters the British army.
(The grand-nephew of the little Corsican whom
England spent hundreds of millions to put down,
did the same, and-worse luck sti'l—lost his life by
it.— Ed. B]—Tennyson’s full title runs thus:
Baron Tennyson, of Aldworth, in the County of
Sussex, and of Freshwater, in the Isle of Wight
Johann Gung’l, the famous waltz composer, has
just waltzed out to slow music at his residence in
Hungary. And, as Alf. would say, Mr. Gung’l will
prove “a valuable addition” to the ranks of the
great celestial choir When Austria’s Kaiser
goes out shooting, he means biz. Attended by a
single jager, he scales mountains and penetrates
the remotest glens. When Germany’s Kaiser and
his grandson Prince William go in for chamois-
hunting (a sport usually supposed to be as danger-
ous as exciting), they fix their Imperial capaciUs
in easy chairs and pot away at a herd of tame
chamois which are driven past them by an army
of drivers. Sham-y sport, eh?... Dr. W. Howard
Russell, erst Times special war correspondent,
about to be married to the Countess Antoinette
Maloezzi, of Ferrara The Duke of Marlborough
cannot make a duchess of lady Aylesford, as her
husband can’t get a divorce from her. This is very
sad all round—for her Ladyship the harlot, as well
as his Grace the adulterer Henri Blanc, last
French survivor of Trafalgar, died in January
aged 96. He was on board the Mont Blanc, which
had all her masts shot away, and only surrendered
when in a sinking condition. For seven years he
was a prisoner in England. . In terms of the late
Professor Holloway’s will, the head of each de-
partment in the pill biz., has received a cheque for
£lOO, and a rise in screw of £3O per annum. Other
clerks similarly bonused according to length of
service Dr. Ferrers. Master of Caius, com-
menced his term of office as Vice-Chancellor of
Cambridge on the 10th January, vice Dr.
Porter, Master of Peterhouse, resigned..
Lord Palmerston’s opinion of Gladstone, while a
member of the same Administration, was “that
he would first ruin his country and then die in a
madhouse.” Rough on the G O.M We clip
from a New York paper the following “ The
largest farm in the world is probably that of
Samuel Mackey, New South Wales. His land runs
700 miles in one direction, and comprises 5,000,000
acres, and has been nearly all reclaimed from the
desert.” Archie Forbe’s Australian letters have
evidently placed some jealous rival on his mettle...
There are three Grand Dukes Nicholas in the Rus-
sian Imperial Family :—(l) “Old Nick,” the Czar's
uncle; (2) “ Young Nick,” “ Old Nick's ” son ; and
(3) “ Crazy Nick,” a first cousin of the Emperor,
and the same party who wa> a year or two ago
exiled to Tashkend (whence the other day he made
an unsuccessful attempt to escape into India), for
easing- his mamma of her jewels, in the interests
of his Yankee mistress.
Swiss Commissioner's Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work.
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen I I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of tho
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, i persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Locle, I showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘ take it down ’—in ether words, to take it to
Eieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
ere is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, 1)4 seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took It down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
LA round of aoplause followed the sneaker as be
dosoendod t.h« trihnns. I
Prahran, South Yarra, and Toorak are
populous suburbs of Melbourne, and several well-
meaning ladies in these places nave combined to
carry on an association whoso object is to relieve
the indigent. They do not limit themselves to sex,
age, condition, or colour. Wherever want is, these
ladies feel they are wanted, and unostentatiously
they tender help. Occasionally, however, they
publish a report. They published one for the
fortnight ending 7th February. We hope they
will not do it any more. We like to look with
steady admiration on the benevolence of the
ministering angels. The spectacle is a cheering
one in this world of dust. But we can’t with that
report before us. The ladies say they “ relieved ”
81 adults and 75 children during tne fortnight.
We are full of admiration at this part. But they
add that the sum total of the relief came to £lB
10s. That, for 150 souls, is—how much apiece ?
Alas, we are tired of cheap heroisms. But it used
to be only men who woDt in lor them. Don't,
pretty creatures, don’t imitate these cheap bene-
factors
He was a swagsman—also, as any comp,
could tell in a second by his hands—a craftsman;
and he stopped at the door of the Iguana office
and looked wistfully in. The motive power was
busy with his dinner—a .‘lib. loaf and some “ point”
—and the literary editor, sporting ditto, and
manager was hammering away at the old double-
demy, which had suddenly refused duty. “Can
you,” said the traveller, “give a fellow a job at
the table for a day or two ? Hard up, you know.
Or, if you’ve got nothin’ to do, 1 suppose you
could spare a square feed, anyhow.” On this, the
motive power at once made double quick time
with his dinner, whilst the management, etc.,
smiling ghastly, replied: “ We don’t want anyone
just now, and,” looking regretfully at the last
vanishing crust, “ we’ve got precious little to eat
now the river’s dry. and people won’t dub up.
However, here’s a copy of yesterday’s paper—it's
all we can do for you.” He look it, faintly mur-
muring his thanks, and, as he tramped down the
dusty street, he was observed to suddenly stagger
and nearly fall. However, still immersed in the
pages of tne Iguana, he got along for a few yards
further, when he again reeled, and this time went
down, as the motive power remarked, “lumpus,"
whilst, the dread cause of his swoon vanished in a
whirlwind When the unfortunate revived, it
was found that be was hopelessly insane—not
violently, his mama only consisting of repeating
perpetually, and in a heart-rending tone, the
Iguana’s leader on the “Town Pump.”
“ An Admirer” who evidently thinks that
our little weakness is flattery, eends us some
complimentary stanzas, which he kindly and
generously states we are “at liberty to insert.”
We thank him kindly ; and, if we do not print the
whole of his verses, it is less, perhaps, from their
lack of literary excellence, than that we wish so
far as we are able to “ spare our blushes.” He
commences as follows, the stanzas (we have bor-
rowed this from a cricketing reporter) possessing
a fine (poetic) “ break”:—
“ As soon as I got the Bulletin,
I lay do wn on my bed,
And soon began to pull it in,
The news, I ought to have said.”
This praise from “an Admirer,” is, of course,
eminently satisfactory to our feelings, and we feel
now more than ever that we have something to
live tor. The feeling of pleasure is enhanced, as
may be imagined, by the following:—
“ Our statesmen and our big bugs,
Tho’ they don’t think you are near;
But when your satire assails their lugs,
They must feel very queer.”
No doubt. It would have been well, however, had
our admirer stopped here. But, no I Flushed
with success, he goes headlong to destruction.
Mark :
“ Your paper is hailed with interest
Wherever it has been;
Of colonial comic papers ’tis the best
Australia has ever seen.”
Well, after this—but listen :
And have we lived for this - done ceaseless toil
Our meter cooked when out of “ midnight oil,”
Our weary brain fer lightsome follies wracked,
And all the realms of lairy fancy sacked ?
Oh, “ comic paper,” worst of grisly terme,
n name replete with dull Gloom’s spectral germs,
O word which is the sign of feeble rot,
That “ comic ” dubs itself when it is not.
“ Admirer,” do you in this sheet descry
The little “wheeze” which in itself’s a sigh ?
The riddle which but constitutes a moan,
The “ wholesome fun ” which is a dying groan!
The small biographies, too thin by half,
The “In memoriams” which make you laugh;
The whole enveloped in a shroud of glcom—
The idiot’s pleasure and the sane man’s doom?
It is nearly time another band of angels
came down and brought peace on earth and good-
will to men. Is there never to be an end to wars
and rumoursof wars this side of the Day of Judg-
ment ? Candidly, we don’t think there is. Pug-
nacity is one of the iirst principles of human
nature. If there were only two men left in the
world, they would quarrel over the sharing of it.
One would not be content to keep on his own side
of the equator, but would try to corner up the
other at one of the poles. As war is, therefore,
one of the inevitable things, it is just as well that
we should try to make the best of it, and fix it on
a business basis like any other transaction. If it
has to be gone through, let it be gone through
sharplyand suddenly. 1 his seems to be the opinion
of Colonel Hope, of the City of London volun-
teers, who has invented a gun which sends a pro-
jectile at the extraordinary rate of 4000 l’eet a
second. The peculiarity about his guns is that
they are wonderfully light in comparison with
their power. Thus, the Hope 30-ton gun would
equal the 150-ton Armstrong gun. This is a satis-
factory thing to know. Certainly, this is a progres-
sive age. But it will fade into insignificance before
the age that is to come. We can see a vision of
war such as the world has never yet seen. Science
will be supreme, and mere might of arm nothing.
We can see one country declaring war against
another, and the combat carried on from the capi-
tal city of each though hundreds of leagues apart.
We can see the mathematicians, who will then be
commanders of the army, calculating the neces-
sary course of a projectile intended to strike the
stronghold of the enemy a dozen degrees away.
This will be easy enough when a sufficiently strong
explosive is found. That this will be found is a
moral certainty. What follows will be a mere
matter of figures. The attraction of the earth
and ils velocity on its axis, witha few other trifles
will have to be allowed for, and the guns will then
be pointed at the moon, or any star that will indi-
cate the height of the required curve, the powder
exploded and, behold, like a thunderbolt of the
sky, the death-shot drops into the capital of the
enemy. The victory, under these circumstances,
will be to the nation which has the finest artillery
and the cleverest military mathematicians. Money
will bring forth these, and so the poorer peoples
of the earth will, as usual, have a rough
time of it. Still this kind of warfare will be in-
finitely preferable to that which prevails at pre-
sent. It will do away with standing armies and
commissariat banditti. It will do away with bed-
ridden generals, and royal, and costly, and useless
commanders-in-chief. And various other things.
Besides, it will settle difficulties speedily. War will
be declared in the morniug, and when the enemy
has had enough of it, peace will be proclaimed, by
telephone, in the evening. On the whole, we
rather envy the gay old times posterity will have.
But there is one thing which consoles us—one
thing will always make this age superior to any
other—one thing whieh which we have, that pos-
terity will not have— John Davies I


PE R A
HOUSE.
o
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer ..
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
First production in Australia of Sardou’s
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora,
MAJERONI MAJERONI
MAJERONI MAJERONI
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st.
Prices :—Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit. 2s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
THEATRE ROYAL.-Underthe Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MTSS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in
STRUCK OIL and the CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
fW~ For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B. —Amateurs “coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
Thanks to Messrs. WilliamsoD, Garner, and Mus-
grove, for offer at early date, but unable to accept
in consequence of present arrangements with
Signor Majeroni.
Dr a p.e rs’ annual picnic,
under the auspices of
THE DRAPERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W.,
at
CLONTARF,
On THURSDAY, MARCH 6th.
AQUATIC and ATHLETIC SPORTS.
Band of 20 performers.
4 LARGE STEAMERS ENGAGED 4
First boat from Circular Quay, foot of Phillip-
street, at 9 a in., and every half-hour.
BANQUET at 2 p.m.
Tickets-Steamer 2a.
Banquet 10s. Cd.
may be obtained at the various establishments in
city and suburbs, and from membeis of com-
mittee.
THOS. CUDDY, Gen. Sec.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &c.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people; splendid piano, scenery, &c. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORE,
Hon. Secfetary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
URNITURE FURNITURE.
TAKE A NOTE OF IT.
IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO PURCHASE
Just pay one visit of inspection. We import and
-\ve manufacture, and are in a position to otter
every inducement and give buyers every advan-
tage.
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING,
at the lowest prices.
Portable Rocking, or Stationary Cota, with Mat-
tress and Pillow, £1 9s.
Half-tester Cots, with Mattress, Pillow, and Mos-
quito Curtains, £2 Is. 6d.
Half-tester Cots, rail sides, with mattress, blankets,
pillows, piilow slips, sheets, quilt, and mosquito
curtains, all complete, £2l7s. 3d.
Half-tester Cots, with perforated sides, complete,
as above, £3 4s. 9d,
Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress, Bolster, and
Pillows, £llls.
Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster, and Pillow, £2 Is. Od.
Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster, Pillow, and Mosquito Curtains, £2l9s.
Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster, Pillow, Pillow slips, Sheets, Blankets,
Quilt, ana Mosquito Curtains, ail complete,
£3 18s. lid.
Four-post Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster, and Pillow, £2 4s.
Four-post Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster Pillow, and Mosquito Curtains, £3ls. fid.
Four-post .Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mattress,
Bolster, Pillow, Pillow s'ip, Sheets, Blankets,
Quilt, and Mosquito Curtains, all complete,
£4 Is.
Double Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses,
Mattress, Bolster, and Pillows, £3 7s.
4ft. 6in. Half-tester Bedsteads, with Palliasses,
Mattress, Bolster, two Pillows, and Mosquito
Curtains, £4 7s.
Double Four-post Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mat-
tress, Bolster, and Pillows, £3 4s. 6d.
Full-size Four-post Bedsteads, with Palliasses, Mat-
ti’ess, Bolster, Two Pillows, and Mosquito Cur-
tains, £4 4s. Bd.
Alter this they gradually rise in price until the
Handsome Brass-mounted, Bedsteads, with
best Palliasses, Horsehair Mattress, Kapok
Bolster, two feather Pillows, and set of Mos-
quito Curtains, reach £22105.
For BEDSTEADS and BEDDING-indeed, for
everything, come to the Royal Furnishing Arcade.
Ask for a copy of our Bulletin and Manifesto, con-
taining our latest revised House Furnishing Lists.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
or
for any other am out required.
The LOWEST CASH PRICE Placed upon Every-
thing.
A SPLENDID STOCK OF AUSTRIAN
FURNITURE,
Suites of Nine Articles, from £4lss. tid.
If you live in the country, write for a copy of
OUR BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,
containing our latest revised House Furnishing
Lists, also our Illustrated Catalogue of Austrian
Furniture, the most complete catalogue of the
kind published—47 illustrations,
POST FREE EVERYWHERE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
196, George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
T’ib.e BSelieible Buggies I
ES
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS. AND EVERT STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
■>■'lo Mm.
PATEN"
Ml
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
HAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonics. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
TOZER Si CO., Colt Agents, 007 George Stmt
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
AND]
BRUCE.
UPa
X
7 -r
281
GEORGE ST.,
opposite;
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
2Zeesla.a,:n.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
Has been further Improved and Lightened in weight.
The SPECIAL GLUB has always stood at the
head of the trade, and as now improved
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been offered.
Our SEMI-RAGERS are strong
enough for Road Riding,
o
OUR BICYCLES
The Special Club
The
The
The
Australian, club
Universal ho.
Own
&
%
«£n
£
1
■
The
. * Cheylesm©re
.The imperial Club
The Humber Pattern
&e., &c»
OUR TRICYCLES
FOR 1884 combine all
the improvements that were
suggested by the experience of
1883, and as each style of Machine
has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our TRICYCLES will be even more
popular in 1884 than they were during 1883.
Our. Cheylesmore and Imperial Club Tricycles.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Fort Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA ICONOOWARRA
BAKKABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea Mtrsbts a Imnttrs
28, 29. and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL AhCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plant itions by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visitour Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
6
GLOVES
HOSTERY
SUNSHADES
LACES
LADIES’ ROOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
FANS
PURSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 George-street.
QOULBURN LAND ART UNION.
DATE OF DRAWING POSITIVELY FTXED
FOR 14th MARCH.
Rapidly filling up.
Send at once if you wish tickets. Expected to
close in a few days.
36 Prizes in all.
Ist prize—Hardwicke Estate, value £BOOO
2nd prize—Farm, near Gunnning, value £3OOO
3rd prize—St. Kilda House, value £2OOO
4th prize—House, in Goulburn, value £BOO
sth prize—Allotment in Goulburn, value £4OO
11 prizes represented by Land, ranging in value
from £l5O to £25.
15,000 shares of £1 each. Add stamps.
Apply to FINLAY & CO., Goulburn, Agents for
JOHN SANDS, of Burryong,
Sole Proprietor.
COMMITTEE :
J. T. Gannon, Esq., M.L.A.
John Badgery, Esq., J.P. Sutton Forest
A. M. Betts, Esq., solicitor, Goulburn
R. C Cooper, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George
John Davidson, Esq., solicitor, Goulburn
S. Emanuel, Esq. J.P., Goulburn
S. Meyer, Esq , J.P., Goulburn.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Special Meeting-
of the Metropolitan Licensing Court will be
holden at the Central Police Office, George-street,
Sydney, at noon on Tuesday, tbellth day of March,
1884, for the purpose of considering applications
for the Cancellations of Licenses, and any other
business that may be legally brought before the
said Court.
C. DELOHERY, C.P.S.
Central Police Office,
Sydney, 25th February, 1884.
A Check to Drunkenness!
THAT Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes, fills our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates. yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “Nofamily should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Lithia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
for Rheumatism. Friedrichshaller bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. ObtainableatleadingHotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
37 Bourke-street, Redfcrn.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY BANQUET, 1884.
A MEETING of the Committee will be held at
Riley’s Supreme Court Hotel, Kiog-street,
Wednesday next (27th inst.), at 8 p.m.
J. G. O’RYAN 1
C. MOORE V ±lon -
F. J. RILEY.
Secs.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. Bd.
Maid, Wife, and Mother :
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, m
secure cover, for Is. 6d„ money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 0.P.0., Sydney.


' \
Os. Od. 7s. Od. ss. Od. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 tiaorge-
strect, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets),
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
< >rien<al Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Some of the goods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT-EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time.
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At 5s. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set ot Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Gd. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Aesthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—Ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, fuli jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-5s. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—10s. extra.)
Celt’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any seloc-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“ Struck Oil ” t> 8-
Opera House—“ Fedora ” ib.
Even in Hades there must be degrees of
punishment. It is absurd to think with Knox and
tis followers that all are thrown into the same pot
ind stirred with the same stick. But it is not for
+’,e Neros, the Borgias, the Bourbons, or the
afnurts the hottest corner is reserved. No; that is
thosempiternal abode ot the flend that first taught
nienhants to dance. This was uppermost in our
minds as wo saw Chiarinrs beasts gyrate on a
nniinle of inverted washing-tubs. We have seen
thpse beasts at their best, and at their worst—their
probably, among the forests of Borneo and
f>vlon; their worst, certainly, standing on three
nf their clumsy legs on a small platform and ring-
fm, a number of tiny bells with the fourth. Like
nid Johnson’s dog, the wonder is, not that they
rinv bells so badly, but that they ring them at all.
w it even at his best, the elephant is a mistake,
and'has for ages been credited with more sagacity
and good nature than he is rightly entitled to.
starting in life as a pig, away back in those early
times when man was an anthropoid ape, the
. nngation of his snout kept pace with his growth
until the one became a trunk, and the other a
nlumsy mass of pachydermatous protoplasm. We
„‘e glad to hear he is rapidly disappearing from
Central Africa, and trust the day is not far distant
when he will be ranked with the dodo, the ichthyo-
saurus, and the moa.
• •
And, while we are on animals, we feel that
the “ sacred cattle of Benares,” travelling with
this show, deserve a word or two. The sight of
these funny little beasts explains at once why the
British are able to keep SHch a firm grip on India.
Tt must be easy to keep in subjection people who
could worship them. Had they been a couple of
o-ood Irish bulls, one could understand it. But to
ask for the intercession of a pair of hump-backed,
weak-eyed, lop-eared mammals that would tremble
at the bark of a rat terrier!
* * *
Nothing that we have said must be taken
to mean that Chiarini’s was a “frost.” Tout au
eontraire—we say it now that he is gone—there
was no show in Sydney where you could have
spent a pleasanter couple of hours. The place
was crowded every night, and he must have swept
in enough money to build a gun-boat. We were
there on Wednesday and Friday, and were as de-
monstrative in our approval as the little fair-
haired maidens who accompanied us, and who
were as steeped in bewilderment as Alice on her
first peep into Wonderland. Eugene or Alphonse
(the papers omit his name—more’s the pity), the
“imbecile,” was in hisffiest form. If it takes a
wise man to play the fool, he is certainly the most
intellectual person between this and Madagascar.
At one time, we thought this was our line; but, in
view of the hopeless imbecility he can assume
when called upon, we feel it no disgrace to strike
our colours. For a look of ordinary idiocy, we
think we might tie him: but 1 or an expression of
hopeless, congenital fatuity—the fatuity resulting
from an uninterrupted descent from the primor-
dial idiot of the stone-axe and fiint-arrowhead
epoch—we feel how utterly hopeless would be the
attempt. # 9
And there was a new ring-master, too,
with a face recalling tender memories of bogs and
buttermilk, potatoes and potheen. A stern and
unrelenting man was he, who pursued the even
tenor of his way unruffled by the coarse pleasan-
tries of the clown or the more exasperating
familiarities of the attendants. Then came
Madame Ponente on “ Monte Christo,” the famous
leaping horse, and again the house became noisy
in its demands for a repetition. For “Monte”
sailed over the jumps as easily as a Woolloomooloo
larrikin over a 3ft. fence when a policeman is
“crowding” him. Riding like hers has not come
under our notice since we saw Kate Kelly mount
a horse at Greta to lead the “bobbies” a dance
through the bush. “Alas!” said the affectionate
“ Kitty ” on that occasion, “ I am the last of the
Kellys,” and then dived into the wooded gorges
with a string of officers on her trail, nothing loth
to follow where they suspected they would not
find the ogre Ned and his trusty henchmen. To
see la petite Zephyr suspended by her teeth from
the triangular perch borne by Madame Z. sug-
gested to one how cautious her future sweet-
heart must be before making up his mind to bring
another girl to a picn:c or a Sunday-school fete.
Even to woo a Zephyr has its drawbacKS. And
now came the great Chiarini himself, with his
three coal-black stallions After seeing him and
his pupils one begins to understand, not how much
horses are capable of learning, but how little there
really is they cannot be taught.
* * *
As for that, all animals are pretty much
the same. The amount of sagacity than can be
developed even in a pig would not be believed by
those whose acquaintance with that maligned
quadruped only commences when it has been con-
verted into sausaves. We once knew a poor Irish-
man, who commenced life with a stout heart and a
lean pig. Starting from Cork, in company with
this poor companion, he sold it to 19 people, includ-
ing the parish priest and a swaddling preacher,
before reaching Limerick. His plan was to re-
ceive the money, and at the dead of night
pass by the buyer’s house whistling “ Rise
up, Willie Reilly, and come along with me.”
The first bar of the familiar melody awoke
the animal from the soundest slumber, and,
clearing the door of the stye like a kan-
garoo, it wouid trot contentedly after its
master, keeping a respectful distance in rear in
order to avoid suspicion. Before this exile
reached Dublin he had amassed enough treasure
to carry him to the States and start him in busi-
ness as a “Head Centre,” while there wasn’t a
clergyman or well-to-do farmer on the road that
hadn’t a vested interest in the pig. Then the
master—ungrateful scoundrel—made a present of
the poor animal to an impecunious fellow towns-
man, who was anxious to get to Cork, and started
the pair back on the same route. The sequel is
soon told. A fortnight afterwards, the “ bonnive”
was in salt, and the new owner on his way to Spike
Island en route to Botany Bay. We saw him after-
wards on the Bench at Wagga, give a tramp three
months for stealing half a pound of pork, and it
was noted as a curious circumstance by the in-
habitants of that thriving town that whenever a
case involving the ownership of bacon was put
down for hearing, his Worship, Darby Malone,
would be there to see justice done, and regret the
abolition of capital punishment for this descrip-
tion of crime.
* & #
If we were a circus proprietor, and a
person asked for employment as a clown, our first
question would be “Do you sing?” If he an-
swered “Yes,” he would never leave the place
alive. There might be some difficulty in disposing
of the body and averting suspicion oi foul play;
hut, even if the worst came to the worst, any
Jury, the members of which had ever heard a
circus clown sing, could not but bring in a finding
of “served him right.” We are not naturally
hlood-thirsty, and would gladly adopt less
rigorous measures, but the thing is getting
too serious to be trifled with much longer.
“ ith jokes it is aifferent. No one, of course, ex-
pects any improvement in this department; ex-
cept, perhaps, that they might be let off in such a
low tone as to inflict injury on none but the attend-
ants, But it is otherwise with singing. No man
who happened to drop into a circus with an axe or
a clothes-prop should be held responsible for his
actions when the.clown begins to clear his throat
for a song. Wo have spoken before about the
tumbling of Ted, Eugene, and Victor Faust. We
might write from now till the laughter caused by
Jimmy Service’s offer of his two little cockle-
shell gun-boats to the British Government ceases,
without doing them justice. Indeed, it may be
®aid of the whole Faust family that, in their line,
they are far and away the best Sydney has seen.
• • •
The “ skating; carnival n was a jubilee of
Rtotesquerie. There was a masqueraders’ quad-
rille, reminding us of the can can with the indeli-
cacy left out. It was extravagance of the maddest,
wildest kind. As all the dancers had to tumble
head-over-heels three or four times during each
figure, and as the ladies had to take their partners
on their backs and scuttle out of the ring when
the affair was over, the dance is not likely to be-
come popular with people of retiring manners and
well-developed waist-bands. So Chiarini has left
ns and struck South, and it will be some time be-
fore we see his like again.
** * *
The Majeronis were crowded every night
till Saturday. Then they were crowded out. It
was a case of standing room, then, and very thank-
ful you had to be lor that. This is precisely what
we expected when we saw these excellent actors
and their talented company produce “ Fedora.”
You become interested in the beautiful Sclav
when the curtain rises. The interest increases as
the play develops, until it becomes engrossing-
absorbing. It bears you along to the end—till you
see her, unable longer to battle against the sea of
troubles surging round her, die in the presence of
the man she loved with a love as unquenchable as
her former hate. Even the commonplace, stolid
British tradesman, with passions as humdrum and
matter-of-fact as his occupation, discovers, in
following the scenes of her stormy life, that, out-
side the somewhat narrow sympathies bounding
his own uneventful existence, there may be hopes
and fears, aspirations and desires not the less real
because he is a stranger to them. A couple of
subsequent visits to the Opera House have con-
firmed the opinion we gave last week regarding
the acting of the Majeronis.
* * #
Somebody told us that Glover was a
Frenchman. We do—yes, we believe it. (Trust
the cherub on duty this week taking notes of the
tiny untruths told by men who wish to live at peace
with their neighbours, will not give us a black
mark for this little fellow.) And yet he looks like a
Gaul. But the accent—how do you get over that ?
Don’t tell us, pray, that the robust, dark-com-
plexioned person we saw before us last night,
bandying the rugged words of our stubborn
Saxon tongue with such ease, made the world
acquainted with his childish wants by means of
“owt” and “non,” “ faisoif commeDan O' Connor,”
or “ ma mere me donnera un coup de bdton as big as
a telegraph-pole when she placed her paws on me.”
D'd you ever know a Frenchman or a German to
get over our vowels and sibilants so as to be taken
for a Cockney? There is but one in the whole
range of our acquaintance—Daniel Bandmann.
But, then, look at the advantages he had. Why,
when but a boy of 4 [Stick to the Majeronis,
and let “Hamlet” alone.]
* * * #
Mr. R. J. Brooke need never bo long out of
a job. He should at once quit the stage and adopt
plush. He is our ideal of what a gentleman’s
gentleman should be. Once we had a valet, but—
the remembrance is a painful one. He was of
Keltic lineage, and appeared like a cross between
a bum-bailiff and a pawnbroker’s-assistant. Yet
he was useful in his way, and could scent a dun
round three blocks. But he had his eccentricities,
one of which was an unconquerable aversion to
water as a beverage. The aroma of overproof
rum that accompanied him into our bed-room in
the early morning, when he attended to receive
instructions and remove dead marines, suggested
the neighbourhood of a private still. Another
peculiarity of his was to discard the use of a tray
in conveying meals, correspondence, shaving-
water, or any of the requisites so necessary to
men moving in the highest social circles. At last
we “struck,” and said “no tray, no pay.” Next
morning he appeared before us with a pair of top-
boots on a silver salver. It was the last straw,
and we separated—he retiring through the window,
closely pursued by the boots.
• • •
As the Countess Soukareff, Miss Novaro
avails herself of the opportunity afforded her to
show the useful and interesting pursuits followed
by ladies of the highest ton. Her experiences are
varied. Married at 14, she is alternately caressed
and whacked by her husband, till she manages to
get him put out of the road, when she again ap-
pears in the matrimonial market prepared to
accept another bid. The second husband is “re-
moved” before she is 18. and a divorce settles the
hash of a third while she is yet in her teens. In
listening to her views of life, you feel instinctively
that the first spouse was to ulame—not for having
beaten her, but for not having thrashed her
enough. Anything worth doing is worth doing
well. To correct his wife is one of the duties a man
owes to himself and to society. The gravest com-
plications are daily resulting from the neglect of
this salutary rule This is why so much caution is
requisite before proposing to a widow—how
necessary it is to know whether her first “ven-
ture” conscientiously walloped her when he
found her stuffing him with cold mutton three
times a week, or discovered that, through her
laziness, the finger of public scorn was pointing in
the direction of his underclothing and pants.
Well, this Countess belongs to the large class of
rich, titled, superficial, well-fed ladies of un-
stable morals, who, in the absence of real cares,
are in perpetual conflict with imaginary ones.
The betting is always about even whether females
of this class become devotees, and leave their
money to be expended on masses, or submit to
social ostracism through their passion for a coach-
man. They dabble in philosophy, too, and, wearied
with sceptical reasonings they cannot understand,
they occasionally come under the influence of
some white-handed, soft-spoken, wide-awake
churchman, and are brought to see the cul-de-sac
they entered when embracing Freethought. Then
the “faithful” are confirmed in their opinions by
reading that the Princess so-and-so, or the
dowager Duchess what-d’-you-eall-her, has em-
braced the true faith, as if it made two straws’
difference to anybody what their Highness’ opi-
nions were on the soul’s immortality or regenera-
tion by faith alone.
* * *
Would we like a Princess like Fedora for a
wife ? No, we wouldn’t. There’s not Princess
in Europe we wouldn’t get tired of the first week
of the honeymoon, and run away from before the
completion of the second. Life, you see, is so
made up of legs of mutton, babies, adulterated
beer, humbug, sermons, Sunday-school picnics,
and lady helps, that the wife who is always in the
clouds always speculating on the destiny of
nations or the red sunsets, instead of looking after
the dinner or the children’s knickerbockers—is apt
to develop into an unmitigated nuisance. Avoid
her.
•* • *
There has been no change at the Royal
during the week, but on Saturday “Kip Van
Winkle ”is promised. The very name brings with
it pleasant memories of Jefferson and his inimit-
able “Rip.” “Struck Oil” has been a success in
every way, although it, of course, did not evoke
the same enthusiasm as when first produced a
good many years ago. So much depends upon the
stolid Dutchman and his hoydenish daughter that
the other people—always excepting Skinner—have
little to do but look pleasant. The part of Susan
Stofel is not a very big one, and yet it requires
careful handling. In it Miss Melville has few
opportunities for display, but she makes the most
of those. Her feelings towards the “ Deacon ” are
none of the friendliest, and, once or twice, ap-
pearances are strongly in favour of her getting
her fingers twisted in his hair. The difficulty he
would have in unwinding himself seems to suggest
itself to that cautious person, and so, to prevent
any mistake, he generally manages to be on one
side of a table or chair while she is on the other.
♦ '•*
The “ Chinese Question,” a piece of laugh-
able absurdity, gives further scope for “ Maggie’s”
versatility. As Kitty M'Shane she treated us to a
“brogue ” so racy of the “sod,” that half-forgotten
remembrances of mud edifices and ribbonmen —of
knee-breeches, black-thorns, and potatoes—of
" The bells of Shandon
That sound so grand on
The pleasant waters of the river Lee ”
came crowding upon us until the fall of the cur-
tain brought back the dull realities of life in N.S.
Wales.
Those everlasting Victorian gun-boats “ our
mosquito fleet,” as Victorian journals like to call
them—have brought bitter shame and sorrow to
the patriot who pens the leaders for the Melbourne
World. Only a few days back, he kindled a
bright flame of enthusiasm in the breasts of his
fellow-colonists—of such, at least, as read the
World— with a glorious article on Mr. Murray
Smith’s “ plucky offer ” to the G ladstone Govern-
ment of “ our newly constructed fleet, for service
in Egypt.” He brought tears to the eyes of Mel-
bournians when he told them that “ the child
shows his loving attachment and regard for the
parent when he places all his resources freely at
the parent’s disposal in time of need. What more
can he do ? What better proof of his filial devo-
tion can ho give ? . It is not in human nature to
withstand such overtures of friendship and kind-
ness. Our mosquito fleet was our aTloi munitions of
warfare that we had to offer, and we unreservedly
tendered it to the mother whom we so deeply
reverence and esteem. The Imperial Government
accepted the offer as frankly as it was made. It
would indeed have been ungracious to refuse it,
even though its practical worth had been much
less than it is. Mr. Gladstone, we may be sure,
felt a warm thrill of pleasure upon learning of
Mr. Murray Smith’s proposals.” There was a
sort of “ old folks at home ” style about this that
melted all readers. Victorian Jingoes felt a sweet
sense of magnanimity in having offered their “ all ”
in the shape of “ munitions of warfare ” to their
“ mother,” and experienced considerableeelf satis-
faction in reflecting that the offer had been “ ac-
cepted as frankly as it was made.” They had given
their best “proof of filial devotion,” and scouted
the hideous possibility of it being “in human
nature to withstand such overtures of friendship
and kindliness.” But then a black cloud, in the
form of a cablegram, came to darken their bright
sun of patriotism; and their very heart’s blood—
the blood they were prepared to shed, if necessary
for their “mother”—was chilled by the ruthless
Reuter— “The Government have declined the
offer made by Mr. Murray Smith, to place the
Victorian gunboats at their disposal for service in
tbe Red Sea.” And now the World’s leader-
writer weeps over the patriotic ink that has been
slung in vain.
The rules of the original Orange society
were revised by the grandfather of the present
Sir Hardinge Giffard. He was described by Grat-
tan in the following terms: —“ A hired traducer of
his country, the excommunicated of his fellow
citizens, the regal rebel, the unpunished ruffian,
the bigoted agitator, in the city a firebrand, in the
Court a liar, in the streets a bully, on the field a
coward, only tolerated by his own party because
he performs those acts which the less vile refuse
to execute.”
The Conservative notion that the House
of Loi’ds represents the moral force of the nation
would not be quite so ridiculously absurd did the
Upper Chamber consist of life peers raised to that
dignity on account of their being specialists in
matters relating to law or finance or war or foreign
policy. Inasmuch, however, as the proportion of
peers who can be regarded as specialists in any
useful branch of political knowledge, to those
whose right to legislate for the people rests on the
mere accident of their birth, is about ten to one,
the said notion is many degrees worse than ab-
surd. It is a notion as wicked as it is false. There
are a few good peers, doubtless. There are some
indifferent ones. But there is a majority of bad
ones, bad either directly or indirectly—notorious
profligates, gamblers, adulterers, rowdies, “grab-
bers ’—noblemen of the Ayiesford stamp, who
seek to imitate the Mohocks of the “great Anna’s’j
day by making night hideous with their tipsy
roarings, and assaulting everyone that meets them
as they roam the streets—noblemen of the Marl-
borough type, the ruffianly beater of his own wife,
the treacherous seducer of his friend’s—noblemen
of the Shrewsbury type—noblemen of the Hast-
ings type—but one might go on for an hour or
more writing down the names of hereditary legis-
lators of the same kidney as those we have just
named. And then this moral legislative force has
such peculiar views of independence. The “ Finan-
cial Reform Almanac” of 1884 exemplifies this by
a tabular statement of what living Dukes, Mar-
quesses, and Earls, and their relatives, who are
still alive, or who have died since 1850, have re-
ceivedfrom the public exchequer. It isas follows:
Dukes, £9,760,000 ; Marquesses, £8,305,000; Karls,
£48,181,202. The family of Gordon Lenuox of the
present generation have cost the British taxpayer
£1,600,000; that of Beresford, £1,308,200. What is
this but (as John Bright says) a gigantic system of
outdoor relief for the aristocracy. No ; while
Shrewsburys, Marlboroughs, Aylesfords, and such
like, are legislators by the mere accident of birth,
the House they sit in can oniy be deemed repre-
sentative of frivolity and turpitude and greed.
Of all the “attempts to assassinate” royalty
(there’s generally one a week) that ever we read
about, the recent “ attempt” on the King of Italy
seems to have been about the very mildest in its
bloodthirstiness. ’Tis just on a par with the crazy
“ attempt to shoot the Queen,” with a pistol minus
a trigger, which all loyal subjects—not of tender
years—so vividly remember. Let’s see: how ran
the ballad of that period ?
“ He fired a pistol at the Queen,
But quite forgot to cock it;
And when they took him up, they found
The trigger in his pock-et.” (Chorus.)
Ah! ’twas on that never to be forgotten occasion
that dear dead John Brown displayed such hero-
ism in the cause of his Sovereign Lady, by seizing
hold of the under-sized traitor and depriving him
of the Mn-deadly weapon. Excuse these painful
reminiscences; they are awakened, as mentioned
above, by the Humbert incident. The shock to
our system is none the less severe over this latest
“ attempt,” you understand, because the plot
appears to have been so peculiarly primitive.
Certainly not. The mere thought that the King
must have heard the little bit of dynamite go off
is distressing to us. Although not exactly a King
ourselves, we can feel for “them as is,” and
but we are just breaking out in profuse poetry :
A little attempt.
Oh! our anguish there’s no knowing,
When, the other day, we read
Of this fearful plot for blowing
Up another crowned bead.
Though the dynamite exploded
Some good distance from the King,
Sure his nerves were incommoded
By the noise it made—poor thing!
Merely reading of this treason
Gave us such a dreadful fright
That we tremble for our reason,
And refuse to dine a mite.
So we must have knuckled under
And been dead ere this, we think,
If we hadn’t (can you wonder ?)
Sought support and strength in drink.
A good story is buzzing around just now
touching tbe payment of members’ question in
Victoria. It appears that when the Bill was be-
fore the House on the last occasion, it was noticed
that Mrs. Gregory (who has charge of the Parlia-
mentary refreshment-rooms and bar) was stirring
up heaven and earth, and a certain tropical spot
under the earth as well, in her endeavours to
ensure the support of certain members on behalf
of the measure. Feeling a trifle curious, one hon.
gentleman asked: “ What, in thunder, interest can
you have in the matter, Mrs. Gregory ?” “ (>b, a
very serious interest indeed,” replied the lady;
“when the members are paid, I get my accounts
paid; but when there is no payment for the mem-
bers neithex is there any payment for me.” And,
as the inquisitive gentleman happened to be “ bad
on the slate ” himself at the time, he immediately
changed the conversation.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Talk of ascending Mount Cook, the Alps,
and other eminent peaks and precipices, why, we
once scrambled to the top of Mount Victoria, a
prodigiously elevated protuberance near Welling-
ton (N.Z.), where earthquakes, more or less jerky,
are of almost daily occurrence, and whore the
chances are, if one caught you on the top holding
on to your hair, you would be “ chucked ” across
Cook’s Straits like a cricket ball sent flying across
a corporation drain. The perils of that tenible
ascent we will never forget. One of the guides,
whom we had paid in advance, got sleepy on our
hands before we reached the top of the street
leading to the hill. When we approached the
barbed wire fence on the outskirts of settlement,
half a mile above the clouds, he could go no far-
ther, and wo were compelled to suspend him by
his antipodean garment on one of the spikes till
our return. We never returned—at least, not that
way, and he may be there still. As a guide, he was
not a success —as a scarcecrow, we had never seen
his equal. On proceeding further up [the moun-
tain, we met fresh obstacles at every step.
“Another glas ’er®,” cried the surviving
guide, who was three yards in advance, and
we knew at once he had reached the first glacier i
and that his guiding was not at fault, although his
pronunciation undoubtedly was. Instantly we
caught a glimpse of him through the mist, with
his head thrown well back, taking a long observa-
tion of the bushy heights above through an instru-
ment bearing the magic name of “ Kinahan.” Now
came the terrible part of our adventure. Beneath
our feet—it might be a thousand feet or a thousand
yards—lay the city, looking like a toy town; above
our heads rose the inaccessible manuka scrub, to
enter which was almost certain death. We tied
each other with ropes, seized our alpen sticks,
and then were seized in turn by a violent fit of
Sneezing, which well-nigh proved fatal to the
Whole party. At length we reached the top, weary
and foot-sore: but, in our efforts to stand on one
leg all at the same time on the sharp pinnacle, we
Unfortunately lost our balance and fell down the
precipice on the other side. Being all tied to-
gether, we rolled, one after and over another,
down, down the dizzy heights, for thousands of
feet—it seemed miles—and at last fell flop into the
sea. The sole survivor searched the pockets of
those who were drowned, as the tide cast them
ashore, and, finding nothing but six cork-screws
and a hymn-book, sadly wended his way to the
nearest pub., and sold the lot for a drink. That
was us.
* • *
Wave the cypress-bough once more,
Bang again the muffled drum,
Give the sexton an encore—
Lo, an item from the Rum !
An epitaph, of course. This dissolute journal
naturally dwells on dissolution. A poor and (we
daresay) honest man died, and this is the sort of
pend-ofl to Hades they give him
“ Pale death could scarcely find another
So good a husband, so fond a father.”
This is supposed to be the sentiment of his chil-
dren. When a man beeomes limp, any sort of
limping rhyme seems good enough to put oyer
him. We venture to say—at the risk of being
thought flippant-that if this corpse halts so much
in its grave as its epitaph does, it will miss the
Resurrection. Why not have combined veracity
and verse in this way;—
“ Pale death could scarcely find another
So good a husband—but you can, mother I
Why not ? But it is only minds like ours that can
combine wit with wisdom in this airy style. And
where can you find minds like ours ? Hardly any-
where, except in heaven.
* * *
“O gather your family round you, Sunday
morning 1” The Rev. W. H. H. Yarrington
preached a sermon against the use of the word
“ altar” in the Church of England. He says it is “ an
attempt to lead people away, and to attract them
with theatrical performances.” They don’t
need much attraction to lead them away now-
adays-a sojur-ant scrimmage is more than suffi-
cient. We shall next hear that it is a sensational
urtifice for a curate to part his hair over the left
ear instead of in the middle. Much anybody cares.
WHAT DID HE SEE ?
He gazed into the looking-glass,
Then gave a shriek of wild despair;
Could he have in his Robes of State
Beheld the last elected
IWe don’t think so; besides, we are rather partial
to his biscuits. They are the only ones we know
that do not bite the tongue; and when we ask for
them, we always see that we get them. In hot
climates, and to those accustomed to a generous
use of the table, they will be found invaluable;
*md it is rumoured that if you hold them up to the
li„ht you will see your future bride without being
uut to the expense of sending twelve sta,mps to a
Woolloomooloo soroeress. And this reminds us of
something. Some time ago a “well-connected
voung man of our acquaintance saw an advertise-
ment in some paper, setting forth that for a certain
sum of money sent by post would be forwarded
to the lovers of the artistic some pictures which
the brocanteur who retailed them called by the
somewhat euphemistic denomination of “spicy.”
The well-connected young gentleman, wishing to
advance his views on art, sent the money accord-
imrlv and received in return a portrait of Prince
Albert, an engraving of Dixson’s tobacco building,
and a counterfeit presentment (highly coloured)
of the Nun of Kenmarei—Ed. 8.l
o • *
Item for gumming on the banners of the
Blue Ribbon Army. Edward Payson Weston
some time ago announced his intention of under-
taking * pedestrian tour through England and
Wales “with a vi'-w to demonstrate the superi-
ority of tea over beer and alcholic drinks in
general, during periods of prolonged muscular
e portion.” He proposed to walk fifty miles a day
for 100 days. We don’t know whether he has
started yet or not, and, though the remark is
rather gratuitous, we don’t care. But he has con-
vinced us of the virtue of tea-f or other people.
When a man is such an ass as to start on a journey
like this with such an object, it is clear to us that,
«o«l«. m.y be tor the lees, it Is very
poor stuff for the brain. And, anyhow, who ever
said alcoholic drinks were of any account during
periods of prolonged muscular exertion? We
only drink when we don’t want to work. We
never want to work. But we have to do some-
thing now and then. This explanation will, we
hope, he found a sufficient excuse for our occa-
sional sobriety.
• • ■
AGAIN ?
“ The pain is in my little turn,
He blushingly, at length, admitted.”
W. S. Gilbert — “ Ben Achmet.”
Astounded all, we now are told
That they will row once more:
Of Trickett we are “ full,” and there’s
Too much Beach on this shore.
We’ve long, you noble scullers, lost
The faintest int’rest in you;
We don’t care if you’re “overtrained,”
Or if you’ve “sprained a sinew.”
“ Our troubles ’’ who has won the toss,
Or “ who’s first in his ship
Our cares, who “ looked a trifle worn,”
Or who’s “ got the first grip.”
We are aweary of this bosh,
And to ourselves we sigh:
“ When will you bores be kind enough
To make your wills and die?”
o • •
You will not care to read this paragraph,
because it is not local, but you are going to get it
all the same. By the way, we suppose the reason
so few of you read the Bible is because it does not
deal with local matters. If Moses, and Jehosbo-
phat, and Balm of Gilead, and the others lived in
the next street to you, you would naturally like to
read something to their discredit. But as they
don’t, you bluff the Bible Society at every turn.
Let us ask you, on this occasion, to spread your
ears and fly with us to Baku, on the shores of the
Caspian Sea. You will observe that it is a Land of
Fire. It is the cradle of the religion of Zoroaster.
This fact may not interest you as much as the
price of butter, but you have to grasp it for all
that. And now, perhaps, some of you want to
know who Zoroaster was. Well, as we have laid
ourselves out to improve your mind, we will tel l
ON THE PARRAMATTA RIVER.
EQUESTEIAN : “Is this the way to Hyde?"
NATIVE : “Not it. You stick your toes out too much.”
you. He was a flrc-king, who used to perform in
the Paddy’s Markets of Persia, two or three or four
or five thousand years ago—a trifle of dates about
which authorities differ. He had the biggest
mouth in Persia, and was held in high esteem
there for the quantity of fire he could swallow
without winking. One day the King—who had a
free pass to the show—came to see him, and that
was the last of him. In a fit]of loyal
he opened his mouth so wide that he swallowed
himself. He was made a god upon the spot, and
from that day the Persians began to worship Are.
Now you know all about it, and we can go back to
Baku. Baku was the Holy Land of the fire-
worshippers. There the fire had never died out
for thousands of years, and from there the sacred
flame that lit all the altars of the Ghebir world was
replenished. Well, what do you think Baku is
now? It is a petroleum preserve, a kerosene
emporium. Very likely you have burnt, and
almost certainly you have drank, many a gallon of
the liquid distilled from the sacred springs of Zoro-
aster. The price on the spot is threepence half-
penny a tun-just a halfpenny more than you pay
for it by the nobbier here. Talk of utilitarianism
after this! We are glad the Garden of Eden has
not been discovered. If it had, it would have been
a prize-hog farm by this time. And now to wind
up with something really interesting. How is the
poundkeeper’s mother ?
# * *
A well at Bourke was poisoned the other
day. It was cleaned out, and a package containing
some white powder was found at the bottom-
They put the blame on the powder, but did they
look at the paper in which it was wrapped ? Per-
haps it was a sheet of the Protestant Standard !
• •
An Adelaide paper is indignant because
some South Australian constituencies have got
jnto a habit of nominating a number of persons
to represent them, and then taking their pick of
the lot. We rather think it is a credit to those
constituencies that so many men can be found
among them who have not any previous convic-
tions against them. We know a town where the
two most respectable candidates for the mayorship
were a horse-thief and a roost-robber. They
ehose the horse-thief, and made the roost-robber a
Justice pf the Peaoe. We don’t believe in these
quarrels about representation in Parliament.
There was a constituency in the Far North which
fell into this error. They were always quarrelling
about who should represent them. They are
quiet now. They were represented by an alligator
at last, who came out of the river at night and
swallowed the whole blessed constituency. And
what does anybody care who represents these
poor little Pedlingtons in the howling bush ? They
might nominate a jackdaw to represent them, and
nobody would quarrel with their choice or say it
was not appropriate. And, anyhow, if the con-
stituencies complained of are some of the South
Australian townships we have seen, then there
can be only one reason why a dozen candidates
should nofr be nominated as well as one or two.
And that reason is that, if they were, there would
be left only the polling-clerk and the scrutineer-
with perhaps an old cripple or two who were too
infirm to come out, and the town drunkard, who
was too well employed to waste time—of the whole
male representation. If there were anything to
represent, we shouldn’t mind all this clatter, but,
as it is, these mud-pie politics sicken us. There is
none of this barn-yard cackle carried on in this
colony. When we want a man to represent us, we
elect him without any fuss—except the rounding
up of a few corpses to clinch the matter, now and
then—that is to say, we keep him until he gets into
gaol or is stolen by a travelling showman. This
is the way to do business. As for fighting about
who should represent us, we would as soon think
of fighting about who should pay for our drinks.
* *
The man who tried to overthrow a train
at Essendon (Vic.), the other day, is said to be
known to the police. Curious, isn’t it, that they
don’t apprehend him? But perhaps he is a J.P.
• a •
We begin to think that we are apt to be
too cynical at times. Perhaps we have put our
names to too many bills, or we have had too many
sent us with our names there already—or, perhaps,
we are commencing to grow old. Anyhow, we are
glad now and then to meet with an item that
warms into life whatever of humane and kindly is
left in our rugged bosoms. Such an item is this.
A boarding-house for cats has been opened in
| London lately. It seems that when the season is
I over, the West-end people are in the habit of
leaving their cats behind them to starve. Some
tender-hearted speculators have therefore opened
this establishment for the maintenance of these
domestic pets till their owners want them back
The charge is eighteenpence a week for ordinary
cats. Cats of countesses and the higher orders of
the nobility have private apartments, for which
sixpence a week more has to be paid. Men are
sent out to gather them in from the roofs and
chimneys when the season is over. This shows
how much better it is to be a West-end cat that an
East-end pauper. But what are we saying ? There
can’t be any starving poor left in London now,
when charity has to expand itself on the accom-
modation of cats. Still, we do read of deaths by
starvation occasionally. But, perhaps these are
only sensational paragraphs, or the people who
died in this way did so to spite the poor-law com-
missioners. And we know that, when any paupers
are found, they are gathered in just as carefully as
cats. They are usually gathered in with the police-
van or the dead-cart. We told you we were not
going to be cynical. And, by the way, we have
just read a statement to the effect that there are
now 84,931 paupers in London. Pass up the jelly!
• « m
Mud-baths are said t@ preserve the body.
Lots of people go to establishments in Germany to
take them. We have no need to go so far. When
a man in this country wants a mud-bath, he goes
into Parliament; or, if he can’t get there, the
Town Council will do almost as well.
• • •
Hurrah! Gather around us boys, and listen
to this. Every son of a red-nosed father among you
may now get as drunk as a madman, and care for
nobody. Two men died lately from drinking tee-
total beverages. One died in a South Australian
town. His death was brought about by an incau.
tious use of cold water. It seems almost super-
fluous to say that he was a new chum. We forget
where the other died, and we don’t suppose it
matters much to him now. A post moTtcxn exami-
nation revealed that be ** had died from a peculiarly
painful disease, to which it was proved that ab_
stainers are very liable.” This is good news, if
you like. But this is not all, After the inquest,
4 ‘ the doctor and coroner agreed that, since tee-
totalism had spread extensively, deaths from the
disease are frequent, and, strange to say, the out-
ward symptoms, when the case becomes serious
are somewhat similar to those shown by alcoholic
drunkards.” And we would lay something they
came to this conclusion over a bottle of James
Hennessy of glorious and immortal memory, by
the way, what a nucleus for a supper-party a
doctor and a coroner would make I We shall not
forget this when we are made Companions of
Michael and George and John Davies, and other
high-toned people. We will give a little shivoo to
which we will invite a doctor and as many coroners
as we can find sober at the time. These, with a
hangman and a gravedigger, two or three ghouls,
and a few other “companions,” ought to make a
very agreeable party. We foresee some objections
the hangman may have to meeting certain members
in any other than his professional capacity, but we
think we can overcome these by a little diplomacy
So there is fun in store for us somewhere in the
gloaming future. But to return to the teetotal
tragedy. Yet why return to such a dismal subject ?
We will go out and see if there is room for another
on the slate.
• • •
A man saw a snake near Yass, lately. There
was water oozing out of the ground close by. A
well was sunk, and has been running ever since.
Humph I There is usually more than water where
snakes are discovered.
• •
The Gundagai Herald says that some
men have run the local hospital “ for their own
especial benefit.” How can a man run a hospital
for his own benefit ? Perhaps when work is slack;
he gets his leg broke, and goes in to drink port
wine and eat jelly at the expense of the rate-
payers. If this be it, then there is more intellectual
ability in Gundagai than we thought. But the un-
compromising journal from which we quote goes
further. It says that “nepotism in committee
should be denounced by all right-thinking men.”
Fancy nepotism in a hospital committee! One
can as soon imagine favouritism on a coroner's
jury. But you can see this Gundagai genius would
just as readily use the word in writing of a com-
mission to report on stray cats. It is useless,
though, to try to chain down the soaring imagina-
tion of a country scribe. This gorgeous editor—
who we may as well say, without further mystery,
is our old friend, little bailey—winds up his hospi-
tal heroics with the suggestion that “ a collector
of an energetic disposition, who would actively
canvass town and country, should be appointed.’>
Evidently little Bailey wants a man appointed who
will canvass and collect for him and the hospital
at the one time. This is an ingenious idea, as the
man can go into the accident ward every quarter
for repairs at the expense of the hospital manage-
ment. He will, we suppose, take out his salary
from the hospital in lint and bandages, and his
salary from the Gundaoai Herald in—well,
almost anything. Say, paste.
• • •
It will soon be as good to be a mistress as
a servant. A housemaid at Dunedin, N.Z., was
lately sentenced to seven days’ imprisonment for
wearing her mistress’s dress to a ball. Served her
right. Servant girls here never fall into this error.
'1 hey don’t consider their mistresses dresses good
enough to wear to a ball. The most they con-
descend to do is to wear them at an occasional at-
home to the policeman and the butcher’s young
man, in the kitchen.
An American exchange tells of a German
who bet that he could drink fifteen glasses of
whisky in as many minutes. He won—and died.
It must have been very bad whisky, or he was a
very poor German. There are Germans out here
who could drink twice as much before the bar-
keeper could clutch the slate. A Woolloomooloo
infant could beat this record. Some of our light-
ning calculators learnt to count by watching their
parents putting down nobblers of whisky. It is,
however, but justice to the parents to add that
they did their best to keep ahead of their offspring
in these contests. And very frequently they suc-
ceeded, as any policeman can tell you. As for
dying after a drunk, such a foolish notion never
troubles them. When they can hold no more, they
go into gaol to gee nursed up to guzzling pitch
again at the cost of the State. We fancy this is
ahead of even American advancement. But you
can’t beat us when we are on our mettle.
• • *
THAT COOKIE.
It was a female cook,
Say Susan was her name,
And in a soft patrician heart
She lighted up a flame!
This big swell he was shook
Upon that little cook.
He often squeezed her hand,
Her ruby lips he’d taste,
And clasp her 33-inch waist
As she rolled out the paste.
That waist it was not slim,
Yet it was “ pie ” to him 1
He’d meet her when the hens
Were sleeping in their coop,
And compliment her warmly on
Her lovely chicken soup.
And that is just how, look,
He “ got round ” that there cook I
His dad was rather “ near,”
And on expense was rough;
So, oft she made him little treats
Of dumplings and of duff—
And, cooled by the night breeze,
He “scorfed ” these ’neath the trees.
Now faded is that cook—
Another rules the roast—
And other hands prepare the tea
And daily scorch the toast.
Departed she from thence is
With an interest in the census.
• • *
The Emperors are to meet shortly. The
performance will commence with a hugging and
kissing match, and we trust to the court journals
for a full description of the mingling of the ruby
lips and stiff moustaches of -their serene Majesties.
The business, it is believed, will take the usual
turn. Their Majesties will first consider the ad-
visabi'ity of melting their gewgaws, and handing
over the proceeds to the starving poor. Next,
there will be a mutual agreement to enquire into
t' i cause of social discontent, with a view to the


Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness in Hop Bitters. Head
and believe.
A planter up at Redland Bay (Q.) was
fined £2O, a week or two ago, for allowing a kanaka
to die from burns without calling in medical assist-
ance. The evidence showed that he put charcoal
on the burns, and permitted her to lie in the
stable. What more did they want ? If this kind
of law continues to be dispensed, sugar-planters
will soon have to quit Queensland or offer a re-
ward for the heads of magistrates. Why, we
suppose they will impose fines for shooting China-
men and killing blackfellows, shortly. Queensland
will soon be noplace for a sportsman. Woolloo-
mooloo or Surry Hills offer far finer advantages.
* * *
It was the grocers’ picnic, at Botany, and
they sat musing on the beach. When he had
pointed out where Captain Cook landed and de-
feated Julius Caesar, b.c. 47, he sidled up closer
and took her hand in his. With suppressed emo-
Changing Colour.
SKIPPER STUART: “The men won’t fight under that flag, George. Haul it down, and hoist the other.”
tion, he asked if the molasses of patience was to
dribble for ever from the cask of attachment.
She replied that the pickles of delay were just the
cheese to sweeten the sugar of expectation.
« But,” he argued, “ is there not a limit to the jam
of hope? may not the butter of fidelity melt in the
scales of delay ?” To which she replied that the
starch of true love could never grow limp, that
the sand of impatience might overdo the sugar of
prudence, and that the flour of common sense was
self-raising when it came to a talk of marrying en
thirty-bob a week. ‘‘But there is 10/e, ’ he
pleaded; “a quarter of a hundredweight of love,
and the bag thrown in.” “ I want,” she said, “ the
soap and preserved salmon of a home life. You
offer me love, and the sack.” “ Forgive, dearest,
the Australian Relish of my sauce, but has not the
currant of your affection turned from me without
raisin ? Oh, beloved, beloved, my prospects are
indeed indigo-but a word in your ear.” (Whis-
pers). Then her eye lighted up like the eye of
Buchanan under the fairy touch of Wisdom, and
she whispered, “ Oh, you dear old sugary, treacly,
jammy darling, you; so you are going to have £2
a week ? Say no more. Let us rejoin the giddy
throng. Thine for ever is this faithful heart.”
And, strolling back, they watched the strange
sunset, and figured it out that a three-roomed
house could be rented for 9s. a week, and that the
time-payment man could furnish for ss. a week,
and in the glowing horizon -of the future the
flowery paths of hope would be “Do you
think, Jack,” said a voice near, “that that sunset
can be accounted for on Russell’s theory ? Now,
Tabbutt maintains that the heavens ” “ Hang
Russell and Tebbutt. What do they know about
heaven ? Why, I’m there. Come to the spread in
three weeks, my boy.”
Now that Mr. Murray Smith has offered
the British Government the use of the Victorian
gunboats for operations in the Red Sea, it would
be a graceful thing for our Government to offer
the use of the Wolverene. She would do to carry
the dead away, at any rate. Or she might be em-
ployed to dredge for Pharoah and his host if no-
thing better offered. But the mo°t brilliant idea of
all—and our own, of course—would be to let the
rebels oapture her. The lot that boarded her
would not give much trouble afterwards, except
perhaps, by breaking the nets of the fishermen in
the neighbour rood. We suppose, however, the
cost of coffer-damming her befqre she could start
prevents any such magnanimous proposal.
* * *
establishment of internal reform. A sale of all ap-
purtenances of war w ill be agreed upon, the hea\ y
artillery being sent to Fiji, New Hebrides ana
the Soudan, for the use of people still in the flght-
ing stage. All political prisoners will be released,
and the press generally be invited to indulge in
free criticism of their monarchs' actions. It will be
decided whether Wilhelm hadn't better turn his at
tention to coffln-making and Aleck conduct experi-
ments with dynamite, with a view to going into the
quarrying business at a great advantage over
Peter the Great. Austria will, in the interests of
public liberty, try to get himself appointed his
own gamekeeper. Then, there will be another
mugging match, each monarch will tip his crown
jauntily on one side of his head, and make for the
nearest telegraph office, and wire that now ami-
cable relations are established, field marshals
are to push on the fortifications on the frontiers
and get ready to mobilise right away.
• • •
The Circular Quay water poisoned a police-
man the other day. He swallowed some of it when
he jumped overboard to rescue a drunken man
who had fallen off a steamer. The drunken man
was not poisoned. The moral of this is plain
always get drunk before you get on board a water,
suburb steamer. If you wait till you get to your
destination to get drunk, then you may fall over-
board and be poisoned like the policeman. And if
you don’t fall overboard, you wi'l get poisoned
anyhow unless you carry your liquor with you.
So you see there is only one course open to a man
of intelligence who wants to go down the harbour.
• • •
The editor of a paper published in a West-
ern township, as frequently as the potato-digging
pursuits of the proDrietary will permit, has made
a brilliant discovery. It is that the iguana is the
“natural enemy of rabbits.” It seems he saw a
“ goana ” one day with a rabbit in its mouth. And
therefore he concludes that “ the fact is a con-
vincing proof that the iguana is the natural enemy
of the rabbit, and should by every means be pre-
served.” At this rate of reasoning, the editor is
the natural enemy ef rum, for how many times
has he not had it in his mouth? Scarcely any. But
even the Sunday-school child knows that rum is
the bosom friend of the country editor. We have
a strong suspicion, however, that the paper in
question is edited by a “ goanna.”
• • •
Rockhampton pressmen are nothing if
not rhetorical. Thus some men killed a few fowls
on a farm there, a short time ago. The whole
story might have been told in as many words as
these. But mark the pomp of this paragraph
“ During the festivities at Lake’s Creek, advantage
was taken of the proprietor’s absence by some
cowardly miscreants, who killed half a dozen
fowls.” Why cowardly ? The fact that they
killed them is a proof that they were not afraid of
the fowls. Then more about the “featheiel
tribe,” winding up with this:—“The men are
known to belong to a vessel now in port, and the
behaviour of the delinquents is a slur on the fair
fame of the toilers of the sea.” Here is" fine
language for you. If this is how they write about
a roost-raid, how would they chronicle a church-
robbery. But we forget. The poorest thief—even
a post-office thief—would rather rob a Rockhamp-
ton editor than a Rockhampton church. In the
former case he might get a bottle with something
still left in it, and maybe a euchre pack with a
double set of bowers in it, but in the latter case
he wouldn’t get even the satisfaction of looking
at the plate in which the silver had been. The
parson always sees to that.


Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 26 O’Connell-
btreet, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. E 3?" Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
BRIEF MENTION.
The Madagascar correspondent (Garnet
Walch) of the Australasian says that Queen
Ranavolona had two sons— Ranivoninahitriniony
and Raniiaiarivony. And people wonder why the
French declared war!
A pie-eating contest amongst pressmen
has been projected. At a preliminary meeting it
was decided to eat according to the Marquis of
Bunbury’s rules—ten 16 oz. pies to each competitor
—poets to allow four pies start.
Ah, ha! Garranny’s own cablecrammer
wires:—“lt is unlikely that any of the present
Governors will bo transferred to Victoria- It is
desired to secure a strong, new man.” Argal, our
Gussy is merely a weak, old one.
Now we’ve got it! On his visit to New-
castle, we learn from a London paper, the
Prince of Wales had “a gratifying recaption from
tho Novocastrians.” Supposing the intrepid Field-
Marshal had gone to Jamberoo, what then ? Jaui-
brastrians ! !
' ■
ft\a\
OurSHEftfs»>.
kHxWwSSv^^
($1
To
N
mi I'liMH iii'i i m >llll ly'ipi max iiiiinimmn 1 1 11,1 111 \ 1
EmeO mo OUKfttVflM'-nMI
W vNi fcViWys Ou\U
v _
C.E_
Sa£> (/£-}-tiy
'M't'al
THOSPER.ITJ
Our Suggestions for New Carvings four the Post Office.
It will be of absorbing interest to many
persons who have relinquished the noble profes-
sion of retailing Bodalla cheese to learn that Lord
Shrewsbury (premier Earl of England!) has
“ decided to call his new steam yacht, Lady Nelly,
after the Countess.” This is not a Sunday but a
Mundy item.
The Daily Northern Argus man give 3
a thrilling loyal leader to his last issue on the
Egyptian fiasco. Of course wo get “the flag that
braved,” &c. &c, ad nauseam. The “hash” very
appropriately opens with “events in Egypt are
thickening ” Well, there’s one thing can never
thicken, and that’s the Akgus man’s skull. It has
already reached the limit of density.
The Melbourne Presbytery is still quarrel-
ling over its own typical M'Eachern. Somebody
said that, he was a mixture of Pecksniff and Uriah
Heep, and he is mad accordingly. Seeing that
M’Eachren embodies most of the Presbyterianism
of Victoria, the madness is naturally infectious.
Everybody shows a strain of it. But, painful as
that spectacle is, it would be more so if Pecksniff
and Uriah could come back for a while and ex-
press their sentiments, It is they that have real
cause to squirm at the comparison.
A Wileannia paper is nothing if it is not
original. This is what the local scribe “ dashed
off” in a late issueßenjamin Raymond, a
widower, aged 68 years, was drowned while bathing
in a lagoon, last week, at Kedrov Bio >k. He
leaves a wife and grown-up family.” And now
the wife and grown-up family of that widower are
on the paper man’s trail way West in the Barrier
Ranges.
Quotation from country paper—report of
the proceelings of the local Municipal Council:—
“The Press was then invited to retire while
tenders were opened. On re-entering, it was
found that the tender of ”—a man whose name is of
no consequence in European polities—“ for the
removal and destruction of dead animals -was
accepted.” Why should the local editor have been
invited to retire just then ? The only reason we
can see is that the councillors must have thought
he would have regarded the affair as a family
matter, and they wished to spare his feelings.
They have a very line satirical vein, these country
councillors. Now, if they had only voted a mourn-
ing-suit, or, at best, a crape band for the editor,
the sarcasm would have been complete.
Scene: Sydney boarding-house. New-
ehum lodger to quiet young man sitting beside
him: “Ah! May I ask what your profession or
business may consist of when you are ‘up the
bush,’ as you call it?’’ Q.Y.M.: “Poisoning.”
N.C.8.: “Eh! Beg pardon?” Q.Y.M.: “Poison-
ing, I said.” N.C.8.: “Ob, the devil!” Rushes
away to the landlord; and, presently, explanations
dingoes—and “fill 'em up again ” all round.
Thus rings out Barry’s Orange Peal, :
“ W* have no love for Mr. Reid, and, although we
cannot say that he has proved either an energetic
or wije administrator, we cannot at all under-
stand the opposition of the parti pretre.”
What do you love, we’d like to know,
Oh, answer quick, now, cornel
What do you love beside the “ nlate,”
And your round “little turn ?”
This is a very fair specimen of the style
religion spreads itself along the Burnett. Not
long ago a station hand was riding down the river
when he was overtaken by a remarkably seedy-
looking bush missionary, and, as the pair jogged
along together, the man of God asked his compa-
nion what he was. “ Me,” replied the other fellow,
“oh, I’m stockman, way over there on Yanda-
reema.” Then, after a short pause, he turned and
asked “ What might your little dart be, Mister—
hey?” “Me,” said the apostle, “I follow th’
Loard.” “Ah,” remarked the stock-wolloper,
“ well, et' I was him, an’ knew you were on my
track, I’d keep a smart eye on my swag and
grub-bag.”
At a literary and debating society’s meet-
ing in the suburbs, recently, th# essayist ventured
to wind up with what he humbly called “ a few
lines he had thrown off.” Every dabbler in the
room came down on him. They called it rot and
slush, and nonsense and stuff, and each sat down
in the full glow of successful criticism. The
essayist then quietly informed his learned critics
that the few lines were all extracts from Words-
worth’s Excursion, and showed the passage. They
said they thought there was a shower coming on,
and darted out before the benediction was half
over. [They might have stood their ground.
There are whole stanzas in the “Excursion” that
would be rejected by the Noose.—Ed. B.]
Phew ! Now we know what’s the matter.
Speaking of the extremely unsettled state of
colonial affairs at present, the Melbourne D.T.
says :—“ The lax and heathenish tone of society at
large on sexual vice-of the male sort—percolates
through to the lowest rank, and re-appears clad
in hideously-brutal lineaments.” D’ye catch right
on to that lot ? Sexual vice, it appears, has three
genders, but it is only the “ male sort ” that causes
trouble. Then, again, it must be a twin-brother to
drunkenness, and a fluidicial species of sin, or else
how in thunder could it precolate f And yet this
is scarcely the case, for we find it is also clad in
lineaments (whiebi is a mighty cool and pleasant
style of dress for this sultry season), but our ex-
perience is you ca n’t clothe fluids with anything-
except a canvass bag, or the epigastrium of a D.T..
reporter.
The truth of the well-worn saying, that
even the devil himself can quote Scripture in.
order to serve his cause, has just been exemplified
by Blue Ribbon Army Booth, who declares that
the origin of his streamers is to be found in the
15th chapter of Numbers, which says:—“And the;
Lord snake unto Moses, saying: ‘Speak unto the
children of Israel, and bid them that they make-
them fringes in the borders of their garments;
throughout their generations, and that they put
upon the fringe of their borders a riband of blue,
and it shall be to you a friDge that ye may look
upon it and remember all the commandments of
the Lord, and do them,’ &c. &c.” But, by the same
reasoning:, Brother Booth and his cranks might
Just as well polka round with nothing on but the
traditional fig-leaf, and then, when the “sarjint”
stepped up to arrest, they could blast Genesis into
his ears, and subsequently leave the Court without
a stigma on their character or their clothes.
Dr. Russell, in the Army and Navy
Gazette, states that wooden swords would be just
as effective as those supplied to the 4th Hussars.
Soldiers, he informs us, are now to be supplied
with slippers—and probably smoking-caps will
follow. The Government, however, don’t want to
go to much expense in equipping Colonel H.R.H.
Prince Leopold. A stomach-pump and a tooth-
pick would completely fit him out for the deadly
rray!
Make a note of this. It may save your
life—and give the insurance company a rest.
“ Since antiquity, the desire was to measure time.
Naturally day and night became the two divisions.
The revolution of the moon round the earth gave
us months. The return of the sun te the same
spot once a year gave us years. We called the
space of 100 years a century.” Fancy that, now
We doubt if a more interesting piece of informa-
tion has ever been made since Mrs. F.’s aunt an-
nounced th -re were mile-stones on the Dover road.
Our best thanks are therefore due to the poor old
Rum, who had to send all the way to their Parisian
correspondent (at the Model Lodging-house) to
obtain the above intelligence. Oh, and the same
free-luncher tells us “Janus was the first King of
Rome.” Janus was no more a K ing than the D.T.
is a live paper. Janus was a sort of C.M.G., or
two-faced god, and—this is rum-his Joss-house
stood close by the fo-rum. That’s why the Rum
desires to elevate him


The Australian Natives’ Musical Associa-
tion went up like a rocket. It felt it had a destiny,
and crackled and soared, and the Melbourne
horizon reflected the dazzling glare. Patting en-
couragement is more agreeable than asking quid
veil But, in noting its performance in the Exhi-
bition last November, our remarks were not so
much laudatory as interrogatory. Of course, the
general press patted. So men waste their money.
Messrs. Braham and Pirani, solicitors, on behalf of
Mr. Summers, now threaten an equity suit for
£BO, expenses incurred. Mr. Summers is a member
of the committee, and it is against the committee
the suit is threatened. And the November enter-
tainment was a pecuniary failure, and there’s no
money anywhere to do anything. Ah, the com-
mittee ought to levy on those who patted and cried
‘•Do it again: you’re all stars—you’re all stars.”
The great social reformer, Mr. E. Cyril
Haviland, has been writing to the Liberal about
barmaids. Says this gorgeous moralist:—“ If
there beany barmaids of superior culture, I can-
not explain their reason for accepting so unladu-
like an appointment.” Well, now, supposing a girl
to have been too delicately nutured for service,
but without sufficient education for a governess,
what would this superior gentleman have her do ?
Turn tobacco-twister, or go out as lady help to
perchance be bullied by some shrewish mistress,
and be made love to of a certainty by the boss?
“Can I expect,” hysterically cries this noMe-
minded exponent of public morality, “a larrikin
to respect my wife, mother, daughter, or sisters,
when every hour of his life he is thrown in con-
tact with degraded women, whom he may sneer
or jeer at, over a glass of beer, in any of the back-
slum hotels of the city ?” It is not in our experi-
ence that larrikins “sneer and jeer over a glass of
beer” at a barmaid, but rather that, unless the
customers are utterly depraved, the presence of a
respectable girl in a bar gives a tone of order to
the place that it might not otherwise possess.
iVhat this splendid social champion wants is
‘“abolition of Barmaids ' and the enhancement
of social morals.” We are glad to see Mr. Havi-
land take this high moral standpoint—very glad.
It shows that he has a sympathetic soul. All we
wonder is Avhat he has done with his mindl
Under the absurd heading “A Prodigious
Minister,” the Armidale Chronicle lately
thundered a very broadside of mixed metaphor
and flatulent bunkum at the devoted head of Mr.
Secretary Wright (ivho, notwithstanding the ter-
rific onslaught in question, looked remarkably
well the last time we saw him). The raisons d'etre
of the Chronicle’s ire are three:— (l) “the late
arrivals of trains in the ‘ cathedral city; ’ (2) the
ridiculous practice of proclaiming public holidays
without providing the necessary facilities to en-
able the public to reach the towns through whose
instigation the holiday was granted; (3) the Min-
ister's turning a deaf ear to those people who en-
deavoured to have the railway opened between
Armidale and Glen Innes.” These three things
co n Btituto, to the mind of the Armidale Thun-
derer, proof positive that “falseassertions, rotten
management, and self-interestedness abound to
an alarming extent in the Works Department,
which all indicate the making haste to fortune at
the expense of the public.” Towards the close of
his indignant screed, the “ Cathedral city’s ” boss
ink-slinger, rising to the very tip-top of his pro-
digious argument, shrieks these questions :
“ Should we submit to this departmental lethargy ?
Tamely permit the hoodwinking chicanery of these
double-tongued, crafty wire-pullers who have been
pitch-forked sideways into positions which they
ha ve not the ability or honesty to satisfactorily con-
trol ?” The conclusion is really worthy of Alfred at
his highfalutin’est. It prances along thusly:—“ rhe
milk-aud-Avater babblings of effete incapacity
must be stamped out with decisive, solid, and
stubborn assertion of our just rights.” We yearn
for the Armidale Thunderer to explain (when
his fine frenzy has worked off) how a crafty wire-
puller can be also an effete incapable, and how
departmental lethargy can be oomoatible with a
making haste to fortune. We should also exceed-
ingly like to hear this Armidale man's views anent
the best method of stamping out the whisky-and-
water babblings of bibulous idiotev.
REID
FOB
EAST SYDNEY.
On Monday night, addressing
the electors from the balcony of
the Oxford Hotel, Mr. Redd told
the story of his life. Thus :
“ I bad to light my way myself from the first. I
wont to work when I was T3f& years old, and from
that time I have been trying to im prove my mind in
order to rise into public life. It is owing to the
generosity of the electors of East Sydney that I
have achieved my ambition; and whatever hap-
pens to me now I feel that the year during which
I have been in ofiice has enabled me to leave be-
hind good work, which will blossom in generations
to come. Gentlemen, lam happy to say that I
have never depended on political prosperity for
my progress in life. I have the resources within
me, 1 believe, to enable me to win my way in the
world, whatever my political prospects may be;
but so long as a majority of the electors of this
country desire me to represent them for East
Sydney, so long will my best efforts be at their
disposal; and when you think the time has come
for me to retire, I will retire with a smiling face
and enjoy life just as much. But so long as you
think that I can be of »nv service to you, or to the
people of this country, so long will I go on using
my best efforts to promote the public welfare.”
Now, isn’t there the right sort of
ring in that ? Doesn’t that de-
scribe the manly kind of repre-
sentative for the decent electors
of East Sydney ?
Of Course.
Then VOTE FOR REID!
Artizans —Eathers of Eamilies
—read this. Mr. Reid said—
“l world like to tell you something of my own
career as Minister for Public Instruction, i took
the office of Minister for Public Instruction be-
cause I had a great desire to forward the interests
of the young men of this country; and I wili tell
you, gentlemen, how I have tried to do it. I estab-
lished, a short time after I took office, a system of
industrial education for the youth 01 this city,
we have down in Sussex-street a large industrial
college, whore the working men of this city can
receive an education which will make them better
Workmen and better pitizens. We have classes
attended by a large number of the talented youth
oi this city, who are receiving instruction in all
the useful trades and industries of the country.
Now, I think in doing that I have done more for
the yopth and workingmen of this country than a
hundred stump-orators cop Id do in a iife-tim*\
then, gentlemen, I was determined that the
Poorest man amongst you who has a gifted
child should have an opportunity for giving
that child the best education in the country,
a [id I established the High Schools for the
children of the masses of the people. The road
is now open for the poorest child of genius in
the country to go up from the Public School to
ice University, to become a distinguished man or
k distinguished woman; and money shall not s'and
m the way. I have done that for the masses of the
people of this country, and that is more than the
stump-orators could do in a hundred years. Then,
gentlemen, my revered friend, Dr. Badhara, when
he proposed that the benefits of the University
should be extended to young men in employment
who are unable to attend the lectures during the
day, I stepped forward and warmly urged upon
the Senate the desirability of establishing evening
lectures for the benefit of the employed youth of
the country. And it has been done. Now, that
great institution, the University of Sydney, with
all its culture and all its learning, has been brought
within the reach of the poorest man in the coun-
try. That is more than these stump-orators could
do for you in a hundred years. Now, gentlemen,
I ask you whether I have not fulfilled my promise
to do as much as I could for the young men of
the country ?”
Working men, who wish your
children to ha/e fairer play in
life than you have had, how does
that strike you? Is that the
right sort of Minister ?
Off Course!
Then VOTE FOR REID.
Sensible men, of moderate
views, just read on. Mr. Eeid
said—
“ Attempts have been made to influence the reli-
gious feelings of opposite sections of the com-
munity by circulating lying reports about me. I
am determined that so long as I am in public life
I will not attempt to interfere with any man’s
religion. So long as a man under me does his duty
faithfully, whether lie is a Protestant or a Catholic
will have no influence with me. At the last general
election you stamped out the attempt to tincture
the politics of this country with religious hatred,
and r will help you to do that now. I went
straight at those men who were trying to in-
flame the people of this country in this direction;
but so long as I have the honour ot occupying a
position in the Parliament of this country, I will
use all my endeavours to preserve the public
affairs of this country from the designs of those
who make religion a trade. It was because f have
done this that I have now become a marked man;
but I am safe in the hands of my friends, the elec-
tors of East Sydney.”
Off Course he Is!
PROVE IT TO HIM.
Believers in fair-apportion-
ment of taxation according to a
man’s ability to sustain it, should
read what follows :
“ Upon surveying the position of fiscal matters
we began to see that nearly all the taxation of the
country fell on the labouring classes. We deter-
mined that we would get any considerable sum of
money we wanted to raise from the property of
the country. We proposed to get £750,000 a year
from the property of the country. The bloated
capitalists did not like that. A great deal of mis-
representation was uttered in reference to our
proposals. It was said that we were going to tax
the household furniture, the jewellery, the clothes,
and the boots of every poor man in the country.
Now, I have a very simple way of showing you
that it is not true, because we did not intend
to count at all until we got over £3OO, and
it was never intended in any war to tax the
household effects of a single citizen of this
country. It has also been said that we intended
to tax the stock-in-trade of our shopkeepers.
Tnat is not true. The tax was to fall, not on the
amount of goods a man had in his shop, but on the
amount of money he possessed. A man might
carry on business with £lOO,OOO worth of stock, but
if his capital was only £5OOO he would only have
to pay 5000 pennies.”
Do you want the heaviest bur-
dens of taxation to be borne by
the poorest people, while the
wealthy grin, and use their
hoards to buy votes ?
Ir you do, Vote for Burdekin!
Do you want to see the land
laws reformed ? Bead this—
But we, seeing that this proposal and all our
financial proposals were received with great dis
favour—so far as we could gather-by a very large
number of people in the country, and with a great
deal of disfavour also in the House of Assembly,
felt in these circumstances that we could not hope
to carry out our proposals, if we carried them at
all, without a great waste of time, which we deter-
mined should not come in the way of our Land
Bill. The electors of this great colony sent in the
E resent Assembly to carry out a land law reform
ill, and the Legislative Assembly, or a vast
majority of the members, are strengthening our
hands to enable us to do it, and we intend to do it.
Now, gentlemen, we might have pressed on our
taxation proposals, and if defeated we might have
asked His Excellency to dissolve Parliament; but
we felt that wo would be traitors to the country
and traitors to the Assembly if we attempted any-
thing that would confuse the great leading isme
before the country, and that is the Land Bill. We
have been sent in to carry that bill, and we will
carry that bill, or perish in the attempt. Those
who are opposed to i*:s would like to lead us into a
fight over the propertv-tax, in order to strangle
land reform, but we will not play into their hands
until we have freed the public estate of this
country from the terrible evils under which it has
been labouring. We will turn neither to the right
nor to the left ”
Is that straightforward and
downright ?
Off course ft is!
Then VOTE FOR REID.
Vote for the Straightforward
Man.
Vote for the Downright Man.
Democrats, don’t he fooled by
Burdekin, the wealthy. Don’t
he bought; and, above all, take
care that you are not sold
by your professing friends and
leaders for the promise of a billet
if Burdekin succeeds, or
cheque, anyhow.
What do you think Burdekin
has in common with you ?
VOTE EOR REID, the man
who has worked out his own
career.
rpo THE ELECTORS OF EAST SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —At the general election which took
place on the 18th November, 1880, you took me, an
untried and comparatively unknown candidate
tor your suffrages, so warmly and generously by
the hand that I found myself in the distinguished
position of being returned at the head of the poi
as one of your representatives in Parliament,.
At the general election of November, 1882, yoi
again conferred upon me the distinguished lionou]
of being returned as one of your representative!
by the largest number of votes polled in any con
stituency during that appeal to the country.
Shortly afterwards, on the occurrence of a Min
isterial crisis, and the resignation which youi
action in that election did so much to force upoi
the Parkes-Robertson Government, I accepted the
office of Minister for Public Instruction in the
new Administration formed by Mr. Stuart, the
office in question being “an office of profit.”
The 19th section of the Constitution Act pro
vides. as you are aware, that “if any member o
the said Assembly shall accept of any office oi
profit or pension from the Crown during pleasure
or for term of years, his election shall be there
upon and is hereby declared to be void, and a wrll
shall forthwith issue for a new election.”
In accordance with that provison, on my accept-
ance of the office referred to, my seat was declared
vacant, and I appeared before you again On
that occasion, gentlemen, I had to undergo
another contested election, which enabled you tc
show, in a unmistakable manner, your approval oi
the step I had taken.
From that time I sat in the Assembly as youi
representative, until, in December last, a “point’
was taken under the 18th section of the Constitu-
tion Act, which is in the following terms:—“Anj
person holding any office of profit under the
Crown, or having a pension from the Crown dur-
ing pleasure or for term of years, shall be in-
capable of being elected, or of sitting or voting as
a member of the Legislative Assembly, unless he
be one of the following official members of the
Government, that is to say—the Colonial Secre-
tary, Colonial Treasurer, Auditor-General, Attor-
ney-General, and Solicitor-General, or one of such
additional officers, not being more than five, as the
Governor, wit'j the advice of the Executive Coun-
cil, may from time to time, by a notice in the
Government Gazette, declare capable of being
elected a member of the said Assembly.”
The P'Gnt taken and referred to the Committee
of Elections and Qualifications was, that the
Minister for Public Instruction had not be declared
by the Governor, with the advice of the Executive
Council, by a notice in the Government Gazette,
to be an officer capable of being elected a member
of the said Assembly, nd therefore, I, as the holder
of that office, was at the time of the election last
alluded to incapable of being elected.
By the Cist section of the Electoral Act, under
which they exercise their powers, the Committee
of Elections and Qualifications are called upon to
be guided in their deliberations upon any case
submitted to them “by the real justice and good
conscience of the case without any regard to legal
forms and solemnities.”
I appeared before the Committee, and submitted
documents showing (1) my election for East Syd-
ney on 30th November, 1882 : (2) my appointment
to the office of Minister for Public Instruction on
the sth January, 1883 ; (3) the issue of a writ for a
fresh election on my acceptance of that office •
(4) my re-election on 11th January, 1883; and (5)
that the exitence of a Minister for Public In-
struction is recognised by an Act of Parliament
namely, the Public Instruction Act of 1880.
Notwithstanding these facts, the Committee, for
whom I may be permitted to express the utmost
respect, felt it to be their duty to report to the
Hous© that at th© time of my ©lection I “ was in-
capable of being elected, or of sitting or voting as
a member of the Legislative Assembly.”
Another “point” came into prominence. The
18th section of the Constitution Act speaks of
‘five” additional officers, and the Minister of
Public Instruction was apparently the sixth.
To set at rest these and other technical points
which were raised under the antiquated piovi-
sions alluded to, the Government introduced a
measure to validate the seats and acts of the
members and Ministers against whom these
points were taken, and the Bill included a special
provision, validating the elections of Mr. button
and myself, upon which the Committee had al-
ready reported their decision.
From the first I entertained no doubt as to the
propriety and justice of that course. In the omis-
sion of the Gazette notice, a mere clerical error
was committed. In the fact that I was a Minister
in excess of the number allowed by the Constitu-
tion Act to be present in the Assembly, there was
no reasonable obstacle, but one of mere words - for
Parliament, in providing for a Minister for Public
Instruction, and entrusting him with the expendi-
ture of enormous sums of money, must have in-
tended him to be eligible for a seat in the
Assembly, where his actions as a responsible
Minister would be under the control of the
representatives of the people. A very slight
knowledge of the policy of the clause, and of the
time in which it was passed, is sufficient to show
that the intention was not to exclude any respon-
sible Minister from the Assembly, if elected by
the people, but to keep down the number of
officials who might be elected, and occupy the
anomalous position of being, at one and the same
moment, members of the Civil Service and mem-
bers of Parliament. As a matter of fact, the
Governor, shortly after the passing of the Act,
declared the late Captain Moriarty, under the
clause in question, capable of being elected a
member of the Assembly, although at the time he
held the office of Postmaster. It was to restrict
the number of such officers in Parliament, and
not tb exclude responsible Ministers, that the
limitation was imposed.
But, in spite of all these facts—of your deliberate
choice of me as your representative after my
acceptance of office—the most strenuous opposi-
tion was offered to the proposals of the Govern-
ment that Parliament should remedy the merely
verbal difficulties, which had arisen, by verbal
methods, without, setting aside and treating as no
better than a meaningless farce, your honest and
deliberate verdict, expressed in the ballot boxes
of East Sydney but a few months before.
From the first I held that it was within the
power of Parliament, and was its duty to perform
an act of justice to you and to myself by prevent-
ing the necessity for a fresh election upon points
so contemptible.
But, as you must have observed, the position of
affairs was studiously made as difficult for the
Government as possible. G ur attempt to remedy
the neglect of our predecessors was treated by
them as if the blunder was our own; and in the
end a turn was given to the position of affairs, full
of probable humiliation to me as your representa-
tive, and of embarrassment, perhaps, to my col-
leagues.
1 hope that, under these circumstances, you will
forgive me for determining that I would not sit in
the Assembly again without a renewed expression
of your confidence.
Such has been your unexampled kindness and
support, that I ought, perhaps, to be glad to ap-
pear before you at any time. But I must confe~-
to a feeling of regret that, on the present occasio
I appear before you under circumstances whi<
may seem to involve not so much definite politic
issues as a vindication of that spirit of fair p'ay 1
which the electors of East Sydney are alreadv
think, sufficiently distinguished.
Your faithful servant,
q. REID
Wentworth-Court, 20th February, 1884.'
ST. PATRICK’S DAY!
i
tration
UNDER THE AUSPICES OF
THE IRISH NATIONAL LEAGUE ,
WILL BE HELD IN
Smith’s Gardens,
BOTANY,
On St Patrick’s Day .
THE PROCEEDS TO BE DEVOTED TO
A FUND
FOR
THE PAYMENT
OF AN
IRISH MEMBER
IN THE
IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT.
The following PROGRAMME of SPORTS will bo
competed for:—
i.
GRAND NATIONAL CHAMPION RACE.
Handicap.
First Prize ..
Second ditto
Third ditto
£lO
£3
£1
To be run off in points; distance, 300
yards, 100 yards. Entrance, ss.
yards, 200
ii.
WRESTLING.
Collar and Elbow, Irish Style.
First Prize £5
Second ditto £;j
Third ditto £1
Entrance, 2s.
hi.
CUTTING OFF COCK’S HEAD.
Prize £],
Entrance, Is.
IV.
BOYS’ RACE—IOO Yards’ Handicap for Boy
UNDER 14 YEARS.
First Prize £l.
Second ditto jog.
Entrance, Is.
v.
THREE STANDING JUMPS.
Prize £2.
VI.
THROWING 21tb. WEIGHTS.
First Prize ;)os.
Second ditto jus.
Entrance, Is.
VII.
VAULTING WITH POLE.
First Prize £3
Second ditto IDs.
VIII.
WRESTLING, CUMBERLAND STYLE.
First Prize £5
Second ditto £•{
Third ditto ’ £i
Entrance, 2s.
IX.
IRISH JIG.
First Prize £3
Second ditto £1
Entrance, Is.
IRISH REEL.
First Prize £3
Socond.ditto £1
Entrance, Is.
x.
OLD BUFFER’S RACE.— Open to none under
MU L
40 YEARS.
First Prize £2.
Second ditto £l.’
Entrance Is.
XI.
TOSSING THE CABER.
First Prize £1 lOs.
Second ditto 103.
Entrance Is.
XII.
EGG RACE.— 2I Yards.
First Prize £].
Second ditto lue.
Mil.
RUNNING HOP, STEP, AND JUMP.
First Prize £2.
Entrance Is.
xiv.
MEMBERS’ RACE.—Open to members of the
Lea« ue only, who are not in arrears.
First Prize £2
Second ditto .. : ... £1
Entrance, Is.
Final Event.
TUG OF WAR.—Twelve of Ireland versus All-
Comers.
Prize £■]
Entrance, Is.
Competitors for the Grand National Champion
Kace must state their performances. Any com-
petitor griving a false name orljaddress, in order to
mislead the handicappers, shall be disqualified.
Acceptances to close March 12th. Handican to
be declared March 15th. The sum of 5s to ac-
company entry. Entries for ail other events to be
taken at the post. The decision of the Judge and
Stewards to be final in all matters
Entries will be received at the “Miners’ Arms"
Hotel, Gcorge-street, South; or at Messrs Han-
mgan and Mitchell's, 30 «oyal Aacade.
The celebrated Irish Piper (Mr. COGHLAM) has
been engaged.
, Dawing will be continued in the Pavilion from
Vi to 3 o clock.
Mr. J. W. WALSHE, Representative of the Irish
National League, will deliver an address at 3.30 p.m.
A GRAND CONCERT of Irish National Music
will be given at the Gaiety Theatre, Castle-
reagh-street, in toe EVENING.
Doors open at 7 o'clock.
Admission to Gardens, Botany, 2g. Cd. No second
charge.
God Save Ireland!
R. HANNIGAN, ) „ Q
D. R. MITCHELL,) Hon * Secretaries.
30 ROYAL ARCADE.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
IWe shall he glad to have this index totted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Gundagai J.C February 28,,29.
Tumut March 5, 6.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Orange J.C March 13.14.
Wollongong March 17.
Gundaroo March 17
Wellington Annual March 1«, 18.
Albury March. 17,18.
Canterbury Park R.C March £2.
Bourke J.C May 22, 23.
Condobolin March 20. £7.
Corowa R.C March 27.
Wahgunyah R.C March 29.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn April "•
Balonne (Q.) Races ■ • ■ AprilB, 9.
A.J.C. Autumn April 12,14, 16,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23, 24, 25.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May 15,1*.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
Glebe R.C. Trial Fours Marc , b
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta. March 2-.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race, Victoria v.
MWiN.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHI/E TICS.
Robinson v. Campbell, Bathurst, 150yds....March 1.
Gulgong Sheffield Handicap March 17.
Burke v. Macaulay, at Goulburn March 17.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap - April 14.
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18,19.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MUMS.
Lady Emma won the Dunedin Cup, N.Z.,
Jules second, and Sou’wester ran into a place.
On Thursday last, an eleven from Maitland
were badly defeated by a combined junior team.
The yokels made 26, and the locals lost live wickets
for 121.
On Feb, 20, the Carlingfords and Incogniti
C.C.’B played a match on the Association Ground.
The former made 95, and the Incog, lost seven
wickets for 157.
The cricket match in Brisbane, between the
Australian Eleven and the Bananaland Twenty-
two, resulted in a win for the Eleven by seven
wickets and three runs.
Mile. Armaindo, the female bicyclist, re-
cently -‘put up ” fairly with one hand a dumb-bell
weighing 901 b. She is sft. in height, and
weighs but 9st. 91b What a prospect for the man
who makes her madame!
I*.Cricket again. A cricket team from the
Evening News office were, on Saturday last,
detented by a Daily Telegraph eleven. A match
is on the tapis between the victors and the stall
of the Cumberland Eergy.
lvo Bligh didn’t have any use for the
much-talked of urn at the finish of bis lirsttrip
here, but he has had better luck this time- He
will, no doubt, take back some Australian hard-
urn-ed cash. Better than ashes, eh, lvo ?
Delaney, the crack Yankee amateur run-
ner, states he is going to England in April to meet
George, Snook, or any of the English runners,
lrom four miles to twenty. Frank f. Murray, tne
amateur champion walker, will accompany him.
The English Hermit is cousin to our
lolantho and Kingsdale. The dam of Tolarithe and
Kingsdnle is Kosedale, by Tynedale, out of thrift
(Hermit’s dam). Hermit, in 1883, headed the list of
winning sires for the third successive year, with
the large total of £30,801.
r [ln the Exposition Building at Chicago,
December 15, W. M. Wbodside, the Irish ebampi in,
made the fastest 25-uriletime on record, lh. 26min.,
beating the best previous record seven seconds,
that is, if llie track was the full distance, the laps
properly counted, and the judges kept.
Sullivan, at Davenport, lowa, knocked
Michael Sheehan, a stonor, out in lmin. 30sec.
An American paper says “It looks as if Sulli-
van can knock pugilists out faster than a race-
horse can run a mile. Thechampion’slast achieve-
ment beat Ten Broeck’s time, lmin. 39 : >4sec., which
is the fastest on record by 9%sec.
Carroll, the new professional bowler, made
his first appearance in the Cup matches on Satur-
day last, playiDg with the Alberts v l niversity,
and made the respectable average of four wickets
for 43 runs. It is said Garrett did not think Carroll
good enough for a place in the late Fifteen, but on
Saturday he took Tommy second ball.
Probably the most gigantic smoking con-
cert on record was held at St. James s Hall, Lon-
don, when something like 2000 guests assembled,
the occasion being the presentation of the London
drapery firms’ Associated Cricket Challenge Cup
to the winners. The winning eleven represented
Messrs. Spencer, Turner, and Boldero, who, hav-
ing been the champions for two successive sea-
sons, have now won the trophy outright.
The Australian, Sao, and lone started on
Saturday last for the Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s
third-class race for a £lO prize, over a course from
the Nelson buoy down to Manly, back on the in-
side of Shark Island, round Fort Denison, down
round lightship and Shark Island, and up to finish
off Fort Macquarie. The old Beaky scored another
win, and the Sao finished second; but, by time
allowance, the lone counted second place.
Perkins, the pretty English sculler, who
paid Australia a visit with such poor success,
recently won a Christmas handicap, and was
matched to row Charles Wilkie over the Thames
Championship Course lor £25 a side, on January
89. in England money does not appear to be quite
so plentiful amongst backers of aquatic men as it
does in Australia. During the whole of last season,
there was only one match in England for over £5O
a side.
Johnson s Bay has been very lively during
the past week—what with abattoir scents and
fours practising for the scratch race on Saturday
next, for which no less than six crews have been
raked up. By the way, the Glebe club has been
the first to break through the absurd old rule that
no boats are to go out of the shed on Sunday after-
noon. At least, we suppose such is the case, as
some sucking Hanlans were out last Sunday
afternoon.
The Summer meeting of the Port Jaokson
Swimming Club eventuated at Kobinson’s Baths
on Saturday last, when the various evtnts went
off swimmingly, many ladies being present
amongst the spectators. J. D. Webster, one of our
chosen for the Intercolonial eight-oar race, won
the 200 yards breast swim, the All-Comers’ 100
yards, and the race of the day, the 300 yards
P J S C. Handicap ; and W. F. Corbett carried off
the 500 yards Summer Handicap, for which Web-
ster did not start. The minor events were well
tilled and contested.
Caledonian sports were held at Riversdale,
N.Z., 20tli January, at which Donald Dinnie was
present. He won every event on the programme—
viz., throwing the light hammer, Cumberland
wrestling, putting the light stone, throwing the
heavy hammer, putting the heavy stone, Scotch
wrestling, and throwing the 561 b. weight. In the
evening, Dinnie gave an entertainment where he
met his match at a novel feat called “pulling the
8" ingletrees.” A man named Currie defied all his
efforts to pull him off the floor, a id was declared
the winner. By the way, Brett, our amateur
sculler, is no pick-up at this game.
Professor The. Bauer, while en route for
San Francisco, gave his name as John L. Sullivan,
and at every station large crowds congregated to
catch a glimpre of the champion. Tho news was
flashed to San Francisco, and the publication
caused an immense furore among the sporting
fraternity and fighting editors, dozens of whom
went up the road by the afternoon train to meet
the great slogger. Dozens of others went to Oak-
land, and an impecunious crowd of several hun-
dreds waited at the ferry landing to greet Sullivan
on hiR arrival. The professor narrowly escaped
mobbing when the crowd dropped to thesell.
More English fair play. The Lancashire
Football Association has been called upon to con-
sider two cases of mobbing referees. Mr. Ormerod
was hooted at Bolton, and assaulted on leaving the
grounds, and the committee considered it strange
that the Bolton Club did not afford him protection
to the railway station. Mr. Duxbury was assaulted
on the grounds at Padiham, but was afterwards
protected until safely cut of town. The com-
mittee recommended that in all future matches,
when feeling ran high, the club on whose ground
the match was played should make special arrange-
ments for the protection of the visiting team,
umpire and the referee.
We were down at a place called New
Britain once, and got the material for this par.—
not that we went on purpose for that, but we’ve
been further for less. The “niggers” were on
board in shoals. We should have said that we at
that time roamed the ocean’s foam in the Heart's
Content, and the carpenter—or "Chips,” as we
were in the habit of unostentatiously calling him
—was doing something, it doesn’t matter much
what now—sounds awkward, that last—with a
Heavenly Grace 1 it rings in our ears as we write—
that terrible, awful yell-shriek of agony, as the
darkey left for the shore, followed by the whole
tribe. But they never got near him, and we
heard afterwards that he circled the island, now
on terra firma, now in the sea, and then his inenas
and relations, who had egged him on to the per-
formance of such eccentric tricks, ate him that
cauldron of boiling hot lead. And so there it
stood, on the main-hatchway, to cool a little,
sparkling and shining in the sunlight with a pris-
matic sort of shimmering wickedness! Presently
it was surrounded by an inquisitive crowd of
evil-smelling, frizzy ochred-haired savages, who,
after a short confab., seeing no one about, all
collected round one to hide him from view. Then,
that doomed injun deliberately lifted up a ladleful
of the pretty, silvery-looking stuff, and poured
it carefully into his extended breech-clout.
watched him land, and—talk about Malone, or
Combadcllo Billy, or Aplitt, or—anybody—bah !
New Britain wasn’t wide enough or long enough
for him ; he could stretch, and no mistake, for we
nic’ht There’s a very pretty moral embedded in
the above little story, which any one is at perfect
liberty to pick out. We haven’t time just now.
Mr. Horatio Ross, the veteran English
deer-stalker, respecting whom we had something
to say last week, has celebrated his golden wed-
ding. Mr. ltoss has a record probably without
parallel in sporting annals. On the 12th August
last he completed his 70th year on the moor, his
experience of grouse-shooting dating as tar back
as 1814, As a deer-stalker and champion rifle-shot
he has stood unrivalled in his day; and even now,
in his 83rd year, his hand has not altogether lost
its cunning. In August, 1882, he wrote to a friend;
“I was out at 3 a.m., the other day; fired 83 shots
and brought down 83 birds.” Mr. Ross sat in I ar-
liament for three years (1831-34) as the representa-
tive of the Aberdeen Burghs. Mr. Ross s sons have
followed in his footsteps. The eldest one, Edward,
was the first to win the Queen’s Prize at Wimble-
don; and the second, Hercules, who is in the
Indian Civil Service, was for several years the
champion shot of India.
As much slavery goes on out West as ever
was seen in America. It is a well-known fact
every trooper in the black police has a gin. When,
and where do they get them? W« have seen a
letter from a manager of a station, who, when
leaving, gave a young gin to a sub. of black
police, and to another of Mr. Oscar de Satge s edu-
cated Christian gentlemen,” an eight-year-old boy
to keep for him. Of course we are horrified when
we hear of the blacks committing murder, but we
only get the white side of the question. Were the
blacks able to put in their spoke, we have an idea,
the verdict would very often be “serve them
right.” By the wav, last year an Act was passed
by the Queensland Legislature prohibiting officers,
in the native police force from marrying. The
only reason the Queenslanders can give for the
measure is that the Government don’t wish tO'
leave it open for people in after years to taunt the
children with the manner in which their fathers
earned their bread.
Muldoon, late champion wrestler of the
States, is champion no longer. In ’Frisco, Muldoon
i efused to pay nis landlady for his board. Where-
upon the piucky little woman insisted, and seized
a satchel belonging to the gladiator. To use the
landlady’s own words, “Muldoon tried to get
the satchel away from me, but he couldn’t,
so he caught hold of me by the neck, and, with a
sudden twist, pinching my throat until I was black
in the face, he threw me heavily on the floor. Of
course I could do nothing then, but as soon as I
recovered my breath I got a hold on his collar, and
I don’t know how I did it, but I threw him square
on his back, and I’ll tell you it hurt him, too.
Hanlan was in the room at the time, but I guess he
got ashamed of his friend, because he went away.
My China boy blew a whistle then, and three
policemen came up, and after a consultation Mul-
doon paid me.” The lady's neck was considerably
swollen from the ill-treatment she had received,
while Muldoon could not take his part in the
statues act that night with Hanlan.
A Philadelphia (U.S.) paper says:—“The
‘ White Star of Texas ’ is now in training to enter
the prize ring. He will fight ‘ Gopher Bill,’ in this
city, next Monday night, for $lOOO, and after that
intends to knock out Sullivan for $lO,OOO stakes.
At present the ‘Star’ is undergoing the most re-
markable course of training on record. This week
lie has been walked around Franklin Square with
a dumb-bell fastened to each leg. He has had ice-
water baths in a tub. and has had his legs beaten
black and blue with billiard cues. To-day he was
hitched to a swill cart and trotted three miles.
After that a beer-barrel was tied to one leg and a
dumb-bell to the other, and he walked a mile.
Then he was again beaten with billiard cues, and
sand-papered from head to foot. His diet is bana-
nas. For drink he is given a mixture of brown
stout, mustard, gin, vinegar, molasses, soda-water,
and pepper-sauce. His name is Harry Snagg. He
He is a monomaniac on the su^Vnow thift P ids
fessional bruiser, and does £?, ow tUat 8
trainers are not acting in good faith.
On Saturday last, at Double Bay, the local
boat-ownersihad a race all to themselves, for
sweeD. owners up: course, from UouDie oay
round yacht buoy at Manly, round Peri 8 buoy,
round Clarke Island, and back point.
The entries and handicaps
J. Newton, 3min : Bronte., Mr. W. Mason, ~4fb,
‘scratch • Ethel. 23ft, 3min.: Mr. W. btairpra,
Tempest, half-deck, 22ft., C. Gale, smin.; Curlew
22ft, Mr. Pickering, 7min ; Wingadee, «oft., Mr.
Trphppk r»min • half-deck; lanthe, 19ft., JMr.
Newton ilmin , half-deck; Iris, 19ft.. Mr.Pedley,
llmin.. naif-deck: Isis. 19ft.. Mr. Wise,l6min., half-
deck- Bee 17ft., Mr. Stannard, 20min. After a por-
tion of the course had been negotiated, it cameonto
blow great guns, which completely demoralised
most of the boat-, and the race finished
of the Curlew,;Bronte second, and Wmgadee
third. The propped Double Bay Saihng Club pro-
mises well, donations to the extent or £lOO having
already been promised. Should this club turn out
a success, it will no doubt be a great knock to the
Sydney Amateur Sailing Club, which is not at
present in the most flourishing condition.
Just before Hanlan left for the Pacific
slope, he said: “ I suppose that while lam away in
Australia, 13,000 miles from home, I will row any
oarfeman that has an idea, backed up with money,
that he is a better sculler than I am, and I will
stay in the antipodes as long as there ls any busi-
ness or money for me, but probably will not re-
main any longer than a year. I am not going to
be defeated if lam capable of winning; and I think,
without being considered egotistical when I express
! mv thoughts, that for a year or two longer I am
! capable of leading the profession. I base my
assumption on the fact that my ideas ot propelling
a boat, as far as the use of my strength and skill is
concerned, are superior to those or any oarsman
in the profession; and unless I should chance to
meet with a man who, either naturally or from a
description of my movements while in a racing
shell, ‘ catches on,’ as the saying is, I have no fear
of the result of any of my contests. Of course,
the climate of the country may he a bit detri-
mental to me at the outset of my trip, but I trust
that all disadvantages of that description will be
of a temporary character.” Before the Canadian
left ’Frisco, he wai called on to make a terrible
sacrifice on the altar of Mammon. He was com-
pelled to shave off his moustache in order to appear
at the California Theatre %vith Muldoon in their
statuary, for which he got £lOO.
A curious tale of toadyism is going round
the home papers; perhaps it isn’t true. Lord Aling-
ton, who is a noble “sport,” had “requested His
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales to do him the
honour of shooting his pheasants,” but H.R.H.
being unable to come, it was absolutely necessary
that the pheasants should enjoy the honour of
being shot by someone else, because they were
thick enough to eat one another. For this very
reason, a party of noble friends anticipated sub-
lime sport riddling them with shot. The beating
commenced with only fair result as to numbers,
and everyone looked forward to the “hot corner,”
where it was calculated several hundreds of phea-
sants were impatiently waiting the honour of being
shot after lunch. Instead or a hasty meal, how-
ever, and “at it ” again, the guests were surpi’lsed
to find it prolonged in every possible way. Hours
were wasted, and when at length the shooters
again went to work, there was further surprise at
the pheasants being extremely scarce, while the
keeper placed, in the best places, men known to be
the very worst shots. The most annoyed person
of the lot appeared to be Lord Alington himself,
who profusely apologised to his friends, and,
within their hearing, “sacked ” the keepers on the
spot. It has since turned out, that after the shoot-
ing commenced, his lordship received a telegram
from the Prince that he could come, after all. So
he resolved to save the birds for the honour of
being shot by the Prince, the "sacking” of the
keepers was only make-believe, and the whole
body of guests were befooled because Lord Aling-
ton preferred toadying to courtesy.
Sullivan’s latest boast is that he can knock
a bull out with one blow of his bare fist. If Sulli-
van dropped on to the right spot he might drop
the bull, but should he miss first shot, we fancy he
would find out the bovine was not very well up in
the Queensberry rules. A fight something on that
line came off at Manchester (Eng.), years ago, when
two men wagered £lO each that one could remain
in an enclosure with a bull longer than the other,
both to thump the bull at the same time, and thus
continue the fight until one had to jump the fence.
If the bull rushed at one, the other was to assist
him. James Mermont was one of the men. The
pen in which the fight took place was about five
feet high and about thirty feet square. We stood
up on benches and looked on. As the two men
jumped into the space, the bull retreated to one of
the coimers. He was soon provoked to come out,
however, and he stood there looking rather
curiously at the two men sneaking up to him, one
on each 'side. As they got near, they rushed upon
him, and both struck him in the ribs. He raised
up a hind leg and kicked and then made a rush at
one of the men, who ran for the corner. Tbe bull
made three or four wild butts at him. when Mer-
mont struck him on the side of the neck. Then he
turned and went for him. He couldn’t hit him or
dodge him, and diopped down in the corner, but
the bull lowered hii head and gave him several
awful thrusts. One of the horns vent through
his face, and then the other fellow jumped the
fence. The bull kept butting poor Mermont, and
no one had a gun or anything to kill him with. At
last the butcher lassoed him. When they went to
take Mermont out, he was dead. His widow got
the money.
In the States, one evening last summer,
while a number of Yankee oarsmen were at a
town near an Eastern rowing- course, with the in-
tention of taking part in a regatta on the follow-
ing day, Fred. Piaisted suggested that the party
attend a church sociable, then in progress. The
party contrived to reach the church in advance of
Wallace Ross, upon whom they had determined to
p'ay a practical joke. Reaching the church,
through their spokesman, Planted, the minister
was informed that Wallace Ross, the great oars-
man would attend the social, and that be had pre-
pared a speech, which he was ready to deliver.
When Ross reached the church, Piaisted took him
in charge, and immediately introduced him to the
minister, who, in turn, escorted him to a con-
spicuous place in front of the pulpit. Without
stowing any embarrassment the oarsman accom-
panied lhe preacher to the pulpit, believing he
was about to be invited to partake of refresh-
ments. adorning a table in that portion of the
church, but his prospects of a free lunch were
rudely disturbed by hearing the parson exclaim :
—“ Gentlemen and ladies, this is Mr. Wallace Ross,
the great oarsman, who has kindly consented to
attend this social and deliver a speech. He will
give you a description of his travels, and you
will tio doubt be highly entertained by what he
may have to say.” Ross is no exception to the
gener >1 rule of the better the oarsman the worse
the speaker, but he saw he had to say something, so
blurted out“ Wei', friends, you see I have come
here to take part in a regatta. Those who want
to get a good view of the affair can do so for 50
cents, and those who don’t want to pay 50 cents
can get a seat for nothing on the bank. You had
better all turn out. I never made a speech before,
and hardly thought until to-night I could make
one.”
A rather lively ranine controversy re-
cently eventuated at Wilkinsburg, U.S., between a
Lawrenceville dog named Nell, and an imported
canine of Jim Mace’s named Jim. It was for £5O
a side. After the tasting process had been gone
through with the dogs were let loose, and with a
rush they met in the centre of the pit. Both dogs
gained neck holds, and from the first clinch it was
apparent that the dogs were both game enough to
suit even the most ardent admirer of a rattling
canine argument They both wrestled well, and
for twelve minutes they struggled all over the pit.
At the end of that time the referee called break,
and the dogs were seized by their respective
handlers. After giving them a sponging and a
dose of stimulants, at the call of time both were
released and they sprang at each other. They had
scarcely met until Jim was thrown upon his back,
and Nell was seen to have a tight hold upon his
his right fore leg Half turning upon his side, the
dog managed to gain a hold upon the breast of his
antagonist. As soon as this was perceived by Nell’s
backers, they began to fear that she would be
worsted in the fight, but, with a dexterous twist of
her body, she succeeded in relieving herself, and at
the same time breaking the breast-hold of the im-
?orted fighter, although the break on the part of
im was scarcely noticed until he had gripped Nell’s
left fore leg. A vigorous chewing match then en-
sued, continuing for a short time until both dogs
rose in the air on their hind feet, and falling upon
their sides caused a break, and time was called for
the second time by the referee. The fight had
then been in progress for 28 minutes, and when
time was again called Jim made a dash into Nell's
corner, but Nell crouched low, and, seizing Jim by
the throat, threw him on his back. For a short
time he could not b*-eak the hold, and he was get-
ting the worst of the battle. By a dexterous turn
he succeeded in grasping the right fore leg of Nell,
and from his actions and work it seemed as though
he were frenzied. For 15 minutes they struggled
around the ring, until at last both holds were
broken, and a grab was made for them by the
handlers. As the handler of Jim clutched at him,
the dog turned and sunk his teeth into his right
hand. In vain he tried to break the hold of the
dog In his efforts he was assisted by several men,
but no break could be made; the teeth were there
to stay. At this point a knife was given the
handler, with the aavice that he cut the throat of
the dog. The advice was no sooner given than it
was acted upon. The knife was plunged into the
throat of the dog, but he held his hold, although
in his death-struggles. An iron poker was secured
and thrust into the dog’s mouth, which was forced
open and the man released. After the fight, a
well-known sportiDg man offered £3O for the suc-
cessful dog,


NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
iire ITottt Open.
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
T7T. 'W- CZITEIS’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS kid glove department,
Under the management of the celebrated Mr. A 1. 81311T0 E. CiEISitIAROO, from Paris, decorated
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to the hand, just arr *Y® < ? n l F lsl
the steamer Potosi, formerly in charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of the Bon Maicbe,
Paris, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CATER'S, 193 and 190 t* T T-*™EKT.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. The Paris Kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and style- ladies and gentlemen wifi find it to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEI ARTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the oounter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt Style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitts
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. ALBER.ro E
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGII STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
jy PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
Giticura
s'So
m
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
a
7.^
Svrolula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patch?s in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Encemia, Pyiemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; hflve had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R, Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina’
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beaut ifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
Sullivan’s manager, from all accounts,
must have lively times trying to keep his charge
in order. The bruiser will imbibe champagne until
he loses all control of himself, and then he imagines
every one his enemy. In one of these drunken
spells he picked up a loaded double-barrelled {pin,
and pointed it at Gillespie, the Boston pugilist.
Sullivan did not know the weapon was loaded, of
course, and when he pulled the trigger he sent a
load of buckshot into the manager’s desk. Several
of the shot went through Gillespie’s coat. By the
way, the Yankee “Professors” are down on Sul i-
van. They say he has done more to debase the
noble art of sparring than any other man in the
JOHN L. SULLIVAN.
country. What was formerly science is now slog-
ging. “ All roads lead to Rome,” says the old saw,
and though Sullivan’s style may not be theirs, it
has been good enough to place him top of the tree.
took out a party of brother cricketers—some be-
longing to the Harrow Wanderers-who were
going to India on a shooting expedition. They
intended a short stay in Ceylon, hoping to hunt
elephants, to obtain which privilege each person
has to pay £l5 for a Government license—The
English horse Parramatta (foaled 1872), by Victori-
o us out of Adelaide, fell down dead recently. This
h. orse was a rare old slave on the Turf, for he took
part in no fewer than 77 races, and won 26 ofthem...
In England, W. G. George and G. Cat.in are
matched to run ten miles, at Stamford Bridge,
when George will endeavour to lower the amateur
record for that distance. Catlin Is to receive 3min.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A movement is on foot with the object of
raising a memorial to Mr. E. J. Raper, the late
captain of the University Football Club Walter
Hanoah, the crack junior wicket-keeper, and cap-
tain of the Our Boys Club, has met with an acci-
dent to one of his hands which will compel his
retirement from the cricket field.... Great W estern
Downs Jockey Club annual meeting on 14th and
15th May. This is the club’s 19th annual; and E.
D. Harris has been hon. sec. for fifteen years
On 18th Feb., at Gesford, J. M’Grath beat F. Bay-
less in an outrigger race for £ll and the champion-
ship of Brisbane Water....ln N.Z. rumours are
current that Welcome Jack and Clarence are com-
ing to Australia, and that Tasman goes to Tas-
mania. ...Thehurdle and steeplechase horse, New
Year, was very nearly leaving New Zealand a few
weeks ago. His passage was taken in one of the
steamers for Sydney, but he was sold to a Maori-
land sportsman at the eleventh hour—Mr. R.
Hyndes, Mayor of West Maitland, has presented
the Northern Jockey Club with a 25-guinea brace-
let to bo run for at the ensuimr race meeting. The
president of the club has promised a 10-guinea
bracelet as second prize, the vice-president one
value 5 guineas as third prize; and the club has
supplemented the first prize with 40 sovereigns.
The race is to be ridden by gentleman amateurs,
and the horses are to be nominated by ladies. In
New Zealand, the Tasmanian cricketers defeated a
South Canterbury eleven— At Adelong, on Satur-
day last, the local cricketers defeated the Gunda-
gai ditto in one innings, for the Gregory Cup —
At Moore Park, on Saturday, a match between the
Britannia and Mercantile C.C. resulted in an easy
win for the former by 96 runs. Scores : Britannia,
115; Mercantile, 19. ..At Bathurst, on Saturdav
last, J. Robinson defeated R. Ashworth in a 150
yards’ spin, for a century Woods defeated
Stuart at Grafton, on Saturday last, in a race for
£lOO a side, 150 yards At the Ge> long (Vic.)
bicycle meeting, W. K. Gilmore carried off the
Grand Handicap.
• • •
In a competition, at home, as to who is the
best “all-round” sportsman in Ireland, Mr. Linde,
the Curragh trainer, received most votes; Mr.
Geoffrey Hone, now an invalid at the Cape, was
second; and L»rd Spencer third. Nobody ever
thought of naming Lord Cloncurry, who as a rider,
a game-shot and rifleman, and an oarsman, has been
generally considered of the first water.... The
Rosetta, In which Ivo Bligh came to the colonies,
HUMANITY.
SAGACIOUS PARENT : “It would be cruel, my son, to keep the poor animal in confine-
ment. Release it, and, when you grow up, a billet of Rabbit Inspection will await
you.”
All things change— even rabbits. The last
fact about them is of much interest, especially to
biologists. It might, of course, have been fore-
seen that they were not likely to remain the same
under novel conditions-that they would drop
seme habits, and adopt others more useful to them
in their new country and strange environments.
From being essentially “burrowing” animals in
England, they are turning their attention “to
swimming creeks and climbing fences in Austra-
lia.” The branch of the family evincing a pen-
chant for the water is becoming web-footed and
duck-billed like the platypus, while that practising
on fences and trees is acquiring a prehensile tail
like the opposum and spider-monkey. H6re then,
under our very eyes, we have what will ultimately
become distinct species starting from a common
stock. Whether the evolution will continue till
the one becomes a fish, and the other a bird, is a
question on which we would sooner not commit
ourselves to a positive opinion, as we deal with
facts only, and leave speculation and hypothesis to
our contemporaries.
30 sec. start.... The action-at-law commenced by
the Countess of Stamford against .Lord Alington
and Sir Frederick J ohnstone has been withdrawn.
Geheimniss will continue to run in his lordship s
name, and under his management.... .. George
Atkinson, of San Francisco, was a hero in his own
way. He staked his life in a bet on a race, and
when his horse lost, he coolly drew a revolver,
blew his own brains out, and thus paid
his last “debt of honour.” It is smd
that the Emperor of Russia intends to com-
mence racing on a rather extensive scale next
season, and that he will also send some horses to
compete in England. The director of the Imperial
studs, General Ilavaisky, has been in England and
France recently, and purchased in the latter coun-
try a dozen thorough-breds, which have been sent
to Russia.... Hutchens, the English runner, re-
cently covered 300 yards In 30sec., the best on
record. J. Nuttall, in 1863, covered the distance in
3l|sec.,' the then best on record—For the Eclipse
Stakes of £lO,OOO, to be run at Sandown, England,
in 1886, there are 98 foals, 120 yearlings, 42 two-
year-olds, 7 three-year olds, and 2 four-ycar-old
nominations. There are no Australian horses, and
the only foreigners are 45 French, and 8 American
horses It is rumoured that the well-known
English amateur bicyclists, Sutton, Liles, and Pal-
mer, and the professionals, F. Wood, Howell, and
Lees, will visit, the States in the summer..
Since 1873, Matthew Dawson, who trains tor Lord
Falmouth, has won for the Cornish nobleman ho
less than £240,000....“ Plunger ” Walton denies
that Girofle has been seized in England for money
he owes the bookmakers ... It is reported that Dan
O’Leary has placed himself under the management
of Muldoon, the ex-policeman of New York, who
is known on the Pacific Slope as a wrestler... Says
a Yankee paper: “After the sweeping challenge
issued by Charley Johnston, of Brooklyn, Pender-
gast’s backei, Sullivan will have to fight Pender-
g-ast or give up the championship. It is a well-
known fact that a champion must accept all bona
fide challenges, and contend for the championship
title or forfeit all claim to it. He cannot hold the
title without he agrees to meet all challengers
in a match, according to the same conditions by
which he won the title from Paddy Ryan. ’....
English exchanges state that Blower Brown, the
noted six-day pedestrian, is dying... ..The veteran
sportsman, Richard Ten Broeck, did not score a
single victory on the turf, in England, last season.
At Davenport, lowa. Sullivan, in a speech,
offered to bet a cool §lOOO that he would knock
Paddy Ryan out ®f time in two rounds when they
met.... Pierre Loriilard has offered Hughes, the
jockey, s6ooojper annum to pin his ’B4 fortunes on
the cherry jacket, and the Young Mortemers, and
it is 2to 1 that Rancocas is his destination. Pierre
Loriilard only won three races in England last
year, making $2160. It must have made a big haul
on his millions to liquidate the expenses of his
racing contingent in England.
“ Old Fishy One-eye,” was for many years
the sobriquet by which onG of the old colonial
captains was known. He, it seems, invariably
took the contract to “ find ” the vessel on each of
her voyages from M to Calcutta, and being
very “nearly ” disposed, he used sometimes to cut
things exceedingly fine. On one occasion having
laid in a large stock of dried fish, herrings or
mackerel-wo forget which-he had given orders
to the steward to split them, and serve out half a
fish daily to each of the crew, amongst whom were
a good many Lascars. The first thing the old man
saw, as he caine up on deck, shortly afterwards,
was one of the darkiee intently and curiously re-
garding his whack, as he turned it over and over,
manifestly puzzled. “Well, Sam, what’s the
matter now ?” enquired the skipper. “ Fishy one
eye, Massa, Fishy one eye!” was the perplexed
answer—as <he sailor held up the “boko” for in-
spection. For once in his life the old fellow was
taken off his guard, and laughing heartily, he
roared out to the steward, “ Give the beggars
t’other half, qn’ let’m bust.”
This item will interest those about to marry.
The Canadian Methodists have decided to strike the
word “obey” from the marriage service altogether.
They consider it an obsolete form, which has now
no meaning. How would it do to substitute “ flat-
iron” ?
Woman is a great institution. That is, she
is great when taken in her whole generic entirety.
In detail, she is not always much. As a baby, for
instance, she could be very well done without. She
is too soft and slobbery for anything, and the way
she squalls and kicks, and her general incom-
petence to take a correct view of her proper
duty in life, predispose all, except the most
sensible men, against her. The most sensible men
idealise the squalling, kicking combination of
putty and straps, and see, not what she is, but
what she will be. She is very nice when she gets
into her teens. She is at her best about this time.
The men who were hot sensible, and held their
noses up when she was a baby, no w come sneaking-
round by her garden gate, and get the elbows of
their dress coats smeared with paint, leaning over
to touch her Ungers. She doesn’t squall now, or
kick. She just keeps her soulful eye on the
parlour window where her pa is, and whispers
“Yes.” Then she is married, and then she kicks
and squalls as before, but he doesn’t tell anybody.
Not unless he has no sense at all. If he has no
sense at all, he tells people, and they laugh like
anything. On the other hand, the sensible man
idealises her again. At this stage he again sees,
not what she is, but what she will be after a while,
lie says “she’ll be dead then !” A sensible man
always idealises a women, And it doesn’t do her
any harm, and makes him happy. And he recog-
nises that in her entirety, she is a great institution
i hat cannot be done without.
The actress celebrated above all others
to-day for extraordinary posturing is Miss J eifreys
Lewis. Even Sara Barnum has to sit behind, and
utterly fails to hold the stearine illuminator to the
Lewis performances with any success The gentle-
men who act with this avalanche-like young
woman have a high time, but must be very active.
Even at the moment they know she is going to
posture, they don’t know exactly which posture is
coming, or where it will come. Recently, she
launched herself at Mr. Grismer. When the gentle
avalanche of emotion and toilet on the other side
of the room threatened to drop down somewhere
an expression of wild alarm settled on his eye. He
didn’t dare to dodge it, and he didn’t dare to drop
it. It was never unite certain whether Miss Lewis
was heading for the sofa, the floor, orMr. Grismer s
arms. He tried to keep steady, and as she lluttered
forward he braced himself to catch the ball of
floating loveliness. He looked like a high-class
masher in the throes of lawn-tennis. On she
came, and when Bft. Gin. distant, her arms went
with all the abandon of perfect faith above her
head, and with one wild plunge she planted her
head exactly between his —waistcoat pockets!
Once settled, she looked as natural as if she had
grown there. Then the look of anxiety faded
from his face. It wasn’t so bad after the first
shock. This came about three times every even-
ing, and Grismer began to shrink less as he got
used to it. Only once did he permit himself to
look astonished. When Jeffieys-Lewis arose and
twirled, till her draperies swirled around her in
white continuous folds, and she appeared to be
about to plunge out somewhere toward i.he upper
side entrance, but landed with mathematical ex-
actness in his arms, a slight spasm of astonishment
convulsed his face. He had expected her to vault
over his head.


SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Carthona C.C. Excursion March ].
Petersham Owl Hoot March 4.
Drapers’ Annual Picnic March 6.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic March 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) March 14.
St. Patrick’s Day Banquet... March 17.
Mr. T. J). McKay, the energetic passenger
ageut of the “ Burlington Route ” for overland
travellers to England via America, leaves to-day
by the mail steamer for ’Frisco. Mr. McKay has
S[ read himself effectively while in Australia, and
leaves the most favourable impressions behind
him. The Burlington line is pretty sure to benefit
materially by bis exertions to make known the
superlative excellence of its appointments and
the attractions of the scenery it traverses.
SKIN BEAUTIFIER.
To keep the pores open, the oil glands and tubes
active, and thus furnish an outlet lor impurities
in the perspiration and blood which cause Humili-
ating blotches, blackheads, and minor skin blem-
ishes; to cleanse whiten, and beautify the skin, re-
move tan, freckles, sunburn, and oily matter; to
keep the hands soft, white, and free from chans
and roughness, prevent contagious skin and scalp-
diseases, and to provide an exquisite skin beauti-
fler and toilet bath and nursery sanative, redolent
with delicious flower odours and Ctjticura healing
balsams, use the Cuticttra Soap. Indorsed by
physicians and chemists as absolutely pure and
highly medicinal. Sales 1881 and 1882, 1,000,000
cakes.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ,r Aritold’c *
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
9 nd
Library furniture, centre and sidb
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest tashion ; well worthy off
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.„
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,,
Newton, and Lamb.
T7IURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
X? THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ARfiLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sing To
rooms. Ghvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-PO UMD BEDRO.OM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 355; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
OOK. PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
<SwOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
UCASIONstIATABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/"'I HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
O' HAIR B EDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive; ■
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and W ASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
v DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINTNG TABLES, with \ patent extending
screw, from 5 feet lobg and up to 30 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
S
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingentaiis in its
construction; works automatically. Trie above
cut represents only two of the nume*p*««3|positionB
that can be obtained, instantly, and without little
effort. It fits perfectly every part or tee body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches i
when folded. Price 30s. "" *
and LAM 13 (only).
in thickness
BRADLEY, NEWTON
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
tj TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
i new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-sfreet.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
W
GARDEN SEATS, SOs; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B r ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lo* eat prices,
SOCIAL
Last Thursday, the Ivanhoe Cricket Club
held their third annual concert, and had a very
irood audience. But an ordinary voice is lost in so
large a hall, and we know that only one or two of
the items were clearly heard at the back. Mr. J.
C Nield made a humorous and efficient chairman,
and offered a few opening remarks which tended to
divert attention from the tact that tho Ivanhoe
vouths were not strictly punctual in stepping up.
We beliove their backwardness was chiefly be-
cause, as cricketers, they didn’t like the idea of
being “bold.” Two character sketches by Mr. E.
Palmer came lirst, followed by a duet, Mother,
can this the glory be,” by Mrs. Furness and Mus
Bavtteld, given with nice precision. Mr. H Pier s
“ Let me like a soldier fall ” was warmly encored,
and after vainly attempting to satisfy his listeners
with several courtly bows, he had to repeat
Master G. Vincent (aged 10) played a cornet solo of
a simple character. Mr. H. Irving s comic song
was encored, and he gave another, the plain-
tive appeal of which seemed to be Boys,
keep away from the girls, now do ! which
however, no one is likely to pay the least
attention to. Mr. Twine executed a bone solo
which was clever; and Mr. Le clerc s voice, in
“Jack's come home to-day,” was the only one
that really tilled the building. V. hile Mr. B.
Palmer was reeling out his recitation, The Death
Bridge of the Tay,” he was interrupted in the
most telling part by an individual with creaky
boots and singularly crude manners, walking
across the platform. No sooner had this irritation
passed away than in a moment of perfect hush, a
dude let his stick fall. It’s strange that young
men who seem to spend their whole life-energies
caressing the waist of a walking-stick, can t clasp
it tirmly at a critical moment, several other
pieces of music made up a total of twenty, and
Miss O’Donnell made the cream of accompanists.
The Eastern Suburbs’ Band also assisted.
* * *
Quite a romantic evening was spent on the
English ship Persian, last week, by a party of
ladies and gentlemen, who were invited by cap-
tain Corranee to make themselves at home. The
main deck was cleared, and prepared for the
flitting feet of the fair guests to trip upon ; and.
good music being engaged, dancing and other
diversions were maintained till midnight, the skip-
Der and Mr. J. C. Alexander doing ever thing 10
render the thing unceremonious and pleasant. The
saloon-served as a refreshment-room, where the
health of tho hosts was made the principal toast-
no dry toast, either. Ladies who have enjoyed
harbour dances do not require it explainer that
naval architecture, as a rule, affords great advan-
tages in the way of cosy cooks, for resting pur
poses, &c.; and on the Persian, which was hung
with Chinese lanterns, the scene of glimmering
lights reflected in the lapping waves, the tracened
outline of the spars against the starlit sky, and
the strains of music merging with tho hum from
the big city borne over the wafers-all made a
picturesque novelty for ordinary people from
the land. It is true the vessel bad a slight list,
which caused couples occasionally to drift to
loo’ard a bit; but the only result was that gentle-
men seemed to find it nee ful to take a firmer
grasp of—whatever they happened to be grasping.
Even this would have been unnot'ced, had not
some ladies afterwards mentioned the fact. Tho
fun afloat ended soon after midnight.
• •
—Some 300 friends and employes gave Mr.
“ed. Kellerman (M'Murtrie, Kellerman, and Co.,
Rodfern) a farewell picnic on Saturday. Ihe
Garnet steamer took them all dawn to I earl Bay,
where Callaghan laid out a capital lunch ; and
after the company had tilled high the bowl with
Samian wine, Mr. Kellerman s health was proposed
by the ttrm’o manager, Mr. Wolff, and the guest
made a little speech in reply, from which, we
gathered that his main object in life is to make bis
numerous employes as happy as the day is long. A
band was provided, and, while some danced, others
chose more gentle means of pleasure, tor which
Pearl Bay is happily suited. Mr. Kellerman left
by the French mail-boat on Tuesday, when there
was another good gathering of friends to see him
off to Europe.
The sixth annual picnic of the Grocers of
Sydney was held on the 30th February, at Botany,
over 400 people being present. ’Buses left the city
at 10 o’cloca, and on arrival at the Sir Joseph
Banks, immense quantities of oysters were de-
molished. The sports committee soon got to work,
and there were two or three prizes given for every
race. Owing to the severe drought from which
the colony has Deen suffering, the thirst of a num-
ber of younff mcu was so intense that their visits
to the bar resulted in sundry demonstrations or a
Gneco-Roman tendency. Indeed, several couples
got so excited as to imagine they had a right to
behave just like Members of Parliament. Their
mistake, however, was pointed out to them.
Frank Smith, tabled a tirst-elass luncheon.
It looked so nice 'twas a pity to touch it. But the
Quality of mercy was not strained by the peckish
grocers : the carvers fell upon tho chick, and the
papa fowls, and the turkeys, and smote them
hip and thigh, and they hacked them up
like Hicks Pasha’s army in tho Soudan. Only
they went more soudanly. The speeches were
short: Mr. E. Kichards, in the chair, did the loyal
business; and Mr. Hon. Secretary Pedrana
proposed “Tho Employers,” paying a graceful
compliment to them for their general support of
the picnic movement. Dancing was next resumed,
and the Young Australian Band played fine music,
as usual—the kettledrum man being especially
conscientious in bis work. There were attractive
girls, of course, upon the scene; one was a pretty
blonde in pale blue, looking the pink of freshness.
A Melbourne demoiselle was cheery in black i
velvet bodice and grey llama skirt; and a blonde 1
nice in ruby velvet and cream lace. White dis- I
tinguished two good dancers. A Petersham young
lady was not only handsome in black broche, but,
having recently become an heiress, was exceed-
ingly admired for her “ figure.”
* * j!=
A grand concert in aid of St. John’s, Bal-
main? was successfully carried out on Wednesday,
30th ultimo, at the local School of Arts. The
choirs of the various Balmain churches united
their forces, and, assisted by Messrs. Wood, Usher,
Kelly, Bowen, and Rodd, gave a nice selection of
vocal music, including popular secular songs and
solos, and choruses from several oratorios, opening
with “The Heavens are Telling,” in which Mr.
Wood took the solo part. Though in this and in
the “ Hallolujah Chorus ” (Messiah) the chorus
seemed to miss some accustomed leading
voice, or were new to the vigorous conductor,
Mr. L. S. Deane, they sang with more conlidence
and accuracy later on. The last number,
Auber's “Market Chorus” (Masaniello), was
splendidly given, and a great deal of spirit
was shown in Rossini’s “ Carnovalo.” Most of
the concert was good, hut perhaps the gem
of the evening was the duett ‘ Excelsior” (Balfe),
by Miss and Mr. L. S. Deane. The only instru-
mental piece on the programme was Rubenstein’s
“ Valse Caprice,” which was given by Mr. Toms:
as an encore he delighted his audience with
Ketten’s “ Marguerite au Rouet.” Miss Deane's
management was capital, and she must have been
pleased to see h«r programme so well carried out,
and the audience so pleased. Mr. Archdall in the
chair thanked those behind the curtain for their
assistance, and was glad to see so many in front of
it. Mr. Thomas Deane made an efficient accom-
panyist on organ and piano.
* • •
Tho ball advertised to take place at Parra-
matta on the 30th February did notoc ur. The
fact is, it was announced to tie in connection with
the closing of the exhibition, whereas, it was
merely a nrivato speculation. The Exhibition
committee repudiated any knowledge of it, and
the affair completely broke down. There is, how-
ever, to ke an Exhibition ball, and the committee
are vigorously working it up in a first-class
manner. It will be fashionable; and last week
Dr. C. E. Rowling, the hon. secretary, received
a note from Government House signifying that
the patronage of His Excellency and Lady Loftus
was given.
* * 4c
We have thought lately that the Christ-
mas card craze is already overdone. The cards are
so cheap and plentiful that thousands of persons
buy a few shillings’ worth, displaying little care or
taste in the selection, 6end them duly posted in all
directions, and then conceive they have done a
gracious act. Be this as it may, with us Christ-
mas has not yet become the plague it has in
America. “ Christmas week,” says one of the best
papers in the country, “is now anticiDated as a
dreadful annoyance, when the pockets bleed, and
pride is mortified. To give presents has become a.
duty, exacted by the most rigid canons of social
life, and the rule is the more inexorable if the
giver is but ill able to conform to it. In the olden
time, gifts were confined to the family circle, and
were appreciated for the kindly sentiment that
prompted them. Now, the stranger presumes to
put you under the obligation of a Christmas gift,
and subjects you to the inexorable familiarity of a
present. Not only have receivers to submit to
this, but they are expected to give back. Every
one must give, or he is guilty, forsooth ! of dis
courtesy. But in all this universal giving, one
class of persons is altogether forgotten. The
Poor. Fashionable society has stolen this festival
of Christ, and turned it over to the shopkeeper,
aDd in thus doing has robbed it of all the senti-
ment it ever possessed.”
** * *
“ Ma,” said a girl, “ the papers are making
quite a fuss over Mr. Tennyson.” “ Yes,” ob-
served Ma; “ he’s been raised to the dear, delight-
ful peerage.” “ But what has he been doing ? ”
queried Agonisa. “What's he been a-doing?”
replied Mrs. Merino; “why, he’s the sole survivor
of the noble six hundred who charged the Light
Brigade at Balaclava.” The Hon. Ivo is known
among his intimes iu England as "Nelly.” The
second subscription dance was held at Noumea on
the 36th January, and 33 dances were done, the
Governor, Mayor, and leading men being present.
On the 7th February, there was a bell at Govern-
ment House; electric light was tried, but unsuc-
cessfully Root's cantata, "The Haymakers,”
was given in Maitland School of Arts on the 31st
February. Dr. Ellis sang at the concert— A few
days ago, Captain Budd died, who has been run-
ning Hunter River boats for a quarter of a cen-
tury. Flags at half-mast On Friday evening
last, the Hon. F. A. Wright, thrice elected Mayor
of Redfern, gave his friends and brother council-
lors a “spreau” in their Town Hall. A number
of speeches were given —Miss Alice Rees rapidly
recovering from the typhoid Professor Sample,
horse-tamer, netted the splendid sum of £540 lor
Melbourne charities by one performance. A first-
class sample of charity. ...The Royal Arcade
rooms having become too small, Mr. Alfred Read
opened his now academy for dancing in Pitt-
street, on the 30th Feb. The Assembly com-
menced with the Polonaise march, 50 couples tak-
ing part, led off by Mr. and Mrs. A. Read. The
large number present, the ladies’dresses, and old
pupils’ faces, a full string band, and good floor,
made tho affair enjoyed by all. Mr. Read has
fitted his establishment with all the requirements
of his profession A bright and pretty little
Hebrew lady will be taken from the parental roof
in Wynyard Square in a few weeks. Her new
name will be announced in due time—The Artil-
lery Band played in the Gardens on Wednesday,
and the Vernon Band on Thursday, last week, and
on both occasions a fair number of listeneis
gathered. Dresses were not particularly fashion-
able, though A few persons admired the
animals at the Zoo., and the marked improve-
ments, and the music of a band, on Saturday
afternoon; but the weather was too threatening
for many. ...On Saturday night, residents of
Bourke gave Mr. Duncan M’Alister. retir-
ing from the management of the A.J.C. Bank,
the magnificent present ot 500 guineas
R.C. bazaar at Cootamuudr* clean d £3OO A
Presbyterian Church bazaar is going on Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday, this week, in Redfern
Town Hall ... A very handsome jewel was Masoni-
cally presented to Bro. W. Wiley, of Waverley,
lately, by the Empress of InJia Lodge, E.C—A
fine “ Home ” has just been opened in Bourke-
street, Surry Bills, for women. It isn’t necessary
to be very bad to obtain admission; one who is
friendless and destitute is sure of a shelter, if
there is possible room. There are twelve rooms
provided, and twenty-six separate beds. To help
support the Home, washing, ironing, needlework,
&e , are taken in; and the inmates may be hired as
domestics. The Home is open all night.. Mr.
Alderman T. J. Murray was banqueted in the new
Oddfellows’ Hall, Waverley, last week; 40 gentle-
men present; Mr. D. J. Cooper, chairman; Boyer,
of Bondi, caterer ; and nearly everyone was an
orator... A few ladies were present at the Swim-
ming Matches, Woolloomooloo, on Saturday—the
competitors, of course, being suitably though not
heavily clad. There was very limited accommo-
dation for spectators .. We are glad to know that
the Normanby B. and T. Club took a run out to
Keilor the other day, and 37 members had a fine
social evening before returning to Melbourne. But
when we read that the procession included three I
ladies on double tricycles, we grow tired wondering
how the deuce those throe ladies were divided—
A French club is being started in Melbourne An
interesting banquet took place at Tumut, Mr. R.
M’Kay entertaining a dozen old miners who helped
open the goldfield there some 30 years ago —At
O’Connell, some humorous gentleman strewed
cayenne pepper on the floor during a concert. The
committee proposed to use the back of his head to
wipe it off again. Only he left—Just lately, the
bachelox-sof Wee Waagavcabrilliant ball; decora-
tions and music all nice, and plenty girls. About
90 present, Mr. Molloy being Master of Ceremonies.
As to belle, there was a young lady from Narra-
bri in strawberry and blue, and a young lady in
white and blue from Wee Waa, and it was quite a
see-saw which to choose. Supper was held after
midnight, and then dancing was kept up till the
roses left the ladies’ cheeks to bloom in the morn-
ing sky Dunedin ladies are commencing to tri-
cycle. If Rome was built on seven hills, Dunedin
is constructed on at least seven hundred. And we
may say that, at any time of the year, when it’s
not raining on some of the hills, it’s sure
to be raining on all the others. So Dune-
din ladies have started on a hardy career—
Dr. Knaggs has commenced ambulance lectures in
Newcastle Melbourne ladies are now wearing
ostrieh feathers grown in the colony, by Mr. Offi-
cer, of Murray Downs Station—This week, Sir
W. J. Clarke is being installed with great cere-
mony as B.W.D.G.M. of the Victorian Freemasons
(E.C.) There is to be a grand banquet and ball in
the Melbourne Town Hall ...Mr. Tuttle had a
narrow escape last week, through a boat capsiz-
ing. Death “takes” more people than Tuttle
does; and he nearly took that eminent photo-
grapher, himself, on Saturday. After clinging to
the inverted boat for over half an hour, Mr. Tuttle
aid a long swim to shore and saved his companions
—but one Mr. M’Pherson, of Queensland, gave
his friends a breezy harbour trip in the Mascotte
on Saturday. At Figtree Point the ladies and
gentlemen landed and had luncheon, over which a
few speeches were made.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Deab Belle,—Of course you have heard that
caps are again to be worn by young married and
also unmarried ladies! They are certainly becom-
ing to some, though they give one a matronly
appearance. For concert wear they are made
nearly as large as bonnets, the material being
either tulle or soft broche. J have seen one made
of the former, edged with line white lace, which
was so large that the lace just tipped the ears and
forehead. I must confess I do not like them.
The Princess of Wales is very firm in her decision
not to wear crinolines, and the wonder is t"at her
influence is not strong enough to cause them to be
abolished, altogether. I remember when, some
years ago. this same lady was afflicted with a
slight lameness, fashionables were not slow to
imitate her in that; in fact the “Alexandra
limp ” was practised as diligently by the elite at
home, as the new waltz is by the same class here.
Why, oh! why, are we sojinconsistent ?
Miss Eva Thompson has advertised her first con-
cert for to-morrow, and, if rumour has not ex-
aggerated, weshould have a musical treat. I hear
she is a Sydney lady, but went home to com-
plete her musical studies under the best
available masters. It needs no small amount of
talent to outshine some of our well-known lady
pianists here, and we are all so curious to hear
this stranger. I wonder when we shall have
another Ketten here I 1 hear that even at home
he was thought only second to Hubenstein as a
performer-so no wonder he turned our heads.
Feather trimming is again used for dresses, and,
being very expens've, it is not likely to become
vulgarised. I saw one yesterday which had come
straight from Paris, and was made with terracotta
ottoman silk, with the feather trimming exactly
to match. It looked rich and stylish, and alto-
gether was a love of a dress. It was part of cousin
Fan's trousseau, and T have been miserable ever
since, because I can't afford to get one like it. Fan
is going to have two little pages instead of brides-
maids when she is married, which I think a pretty
idea. They are to carry htr train, and wear claret
velvet and white silk stockings.
Now for a few Block dresses—and, oh ! I forgot
to tell you last week that it is now the thing to
earry a tiny basket of flowers when out promen-
ading. It gives such a pretty light effect to one s
appearance, and is a good chance for displaying
one’s floral taste; although I must say that jutt
now it is no easy task to find in our garders
sufficient for breast-knots, let alone the baskets.
And another sign of the present scarcity ot
flowers, is the fact that the basket which
is left at the Red fern Railway Station for
the purpose of receiving gifts of flowers for
the Infirmary is rarely anything but empty. I
told you some weeks ago that short tight cloth
jackets were being worn, and the favourite colour
seems to be bottle green. One I noticed was of
that colour, with silver buttons, and worn over a
biscuit-coloured nun's-oloth skirt. A lovely cos-
tume, which I liked exceedingly, was a dull blue
cashmere made with pleats from the waist, and
caught at the edge of the skirt with a rich shell
ruching. The hat was a fine leghorn Dent into a
graceful shape, and covered with feathers the
same hue as the dress. An electric-blue broche,
made also with very broad pleats from the waist
to the hem of the skirt, was trimmed in quite a
new style. The pleats, three of which formed the
front of the skirt, were each trimmed the whole
length with diamonds cut in velvet, placed one
above the other in the centre of the pleat, and
graduating in size from the waist downward. A
parasol, carried by a young lady wearing « white
lawn dress with lace flounces, struck me as
being very tasteful. It was of black satin,
but on one side was painted a beautiful spray
of flowers, which stood out on the black
ground with splendid effect. I also saw one
adorned with birds of gay plumage ; but these
were worked in silks, and l cannot say I liked
them so well as the painted flowers. Brown st raw
hats, with large bunches of buttercups for trim-
ming, are prettv. Such a pretty picture was a
young girl in the favourite and graceful sailor
dress. The skirt was made full and of the deepest
blue serge, blouse jacket, and crimson sailor’s
knot under the wide collar. A jaunty little blue
sailor’s hat completed the costume, under which
flowed long yellow locks. A similar costume was
a mixture of blue serge and white flannel, with
striped blue and white jersey up to the neck.
This was also very nice.
I am so sorry, dear, that I cannot tell you about
Signora Majeroni’s dresses in “ Fedora ’’this week;
but as we all went to the Blue Mountains for a few
days, we did not find time for the theatres. How
ever, I will not forget to tell you next week, for I
know you are dying to know what they are like;
but I don’t believe they can be handsomer than
were those she wore in “Jealousy.” However,
nous verrons.
Very pretty hoods are made now for evening
wear—some of black Spanish lace; others, of tulle
and lace. They are made on wire, and some are
very becoming, indeed. So I hope, when next
you come to Sydney, you will not wear those vile
old hats we used to quarrel so much about. Why
B hould you wear an unbecoming hat simply be-
cause it is evening ? It is a woman’s duty to look
well always ; so, mind you make j ourself a pretty
hood. I think the black lace ones will suit vou
best, but you can trim it with any coloured ribbon
bows you like.
And now, dear, believe me to be
Your affectionate _
MAB.


Biz.
RYS
Steam
Vs
Messrs. Fanter and Parry’s Works.
Certainly one of the firms in this city which has
exhibited thorough equalness to the demands of
an increasing population is that of Messrs. Pan ter
and Parry, 700 George-street, Sydney, and at
Waterloo, seed merchants, and manufacturers of
the patent self-raising flour, baking powders, soap
powders, extract of soap, &c. &c. Long before
this the firm’s name has been thoroughly estab-
lished all over the colony as importers and pro-
ducers of every kind of farm and garden seeds,
and likewise as the patentees and manu-
facturers of the celebrated self-raising flour,
and baking and washing powders, etc., which
bear their name. For a considerable period Messrs.
Panter and Parry(the Arm consists now of Mr Parry
only) were able to carry on their manufactures in
the George-street premises; but, latterly, a more
extensive factory has been required. To this end
elaborate works have been erected at Waterloo,
anc j here every branch of operative manufacture
is at Present in vigorous force. The edifice has
three floors, a width of about 51 feet and a depth
of 88 l’eet; it is well lighted and ventilated, and
replete with every requisite arrangement for the
working of machinery, and for the wrapping,
packing, and despatching of goods. For the label-
ling, a very neat and attractive design has been
secured—quite a new thing in its line, as far as the
colonies are concerned, Messrs. Panter and Parry
are certainly among the largest manufacturers of
the patent self-raising flour and of baking and
washing powders, &c., their trade connections
extending to nearly every business house in this
colony and Queensland; while hardly a steamer or
sailing vessel leaves the port without a supply,
directly or indirectly from the establishment. The
inherent value of Messrs. Panter and Parry’s
patent in their self-raising flour, and likewise
their baking powders, has won them the highest
awards in various Exhibitions. With regard to the
Arm’s business as soedsmen, their house is one of
the best known and most important in Sydney,
business being done wholesale and retail with
every district in the colonies.
Hi/.
belonging l to Mr. Richards. Vast strides have been
made in the improvement of this district within
the past twelve months. Business and popula-
tion have increased, a Public School built, and a
great number of new buildings have been erected,
ana numerous residences and stores are rising on
every side. To show the bona fldes of the fore-
going inadequate description of the many advan-
tages possessed by this property, intending pur-
chasers are particularly urged to personally
inspect the land, and to buyers of live lots and
upwards the return railway fare will be re-funded.
In conclusion, it would be urged that this is not
a speculation, but will prove to investors a provi-
sion lor the present and future-a home now, and
a valuable legacy worth leaving to the wife or
children. Until recently, none but the alHuent
were able to become freeholders of their native
land, such luxury being alone for the wealthy
classes, but under the present Administration, in
tins glorious land of N.S.W., deservedly known as
the Garden of the World, there is no excuse f _>r
the poorest man paying extravagant rentals, for
he is enabled to become the owner of the land he
cultivates and the homestead that shelters him.
6d. a week tor 90 weeks secures a piece of land that
will enable you to become the owner of a valuable
site for business purposes or villa residence, for
garden produce, or poultry raising, and will within
the next few years become valuable beyond the
Biz.
most sanguine anticipations. This is an invest-
ment without risk. The first step towards pros-
perity and wealth. This property is particularly
recommended to young married couples, either
for farming purposes, a site for a homestead, or
an investment for their children. For further
particulars, apply to Boyd and King, Auctioneers
and Land Agents, 96 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RAILWAY TIM hi TABLE.
Sat. only.
1.42 1125
2.30 12.12
2.40 12.15
3.15 12 55
Sat.
only.
7.17
7 50
8.15
8 53
* Wednesday only.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quiok complete cure,
all annoying Kidney. Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses. Moss & Co.. Genera. Agents.
HORDERN'S
ON THE
IBric3s±lelcL Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
La fW«£?i di: t 5 in c i> untr y can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of
MU r B, 11 y° u "Ke the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
j**^w
>
i
WZSSsI
m
1
(ill 1
AA A A A'A ‘A A'A
M
usa
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Fmon. ESr" Examine carefully the engraving of our
“ LACE CURTAINS.*'
Price : 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
LACE CURTAINS
[ lace curtains]
o
*
7cKm S/- oc pom t .
BALANCf 2/g f>£K MVHJM
T°‘
<y? Pfl£ -i
*
Oft'- ,n! rr
v I 111 Is
t P
.V- I
CLIYEBESTATE
fiIVtRSTONf
r H £
arnmira m
4VE/VVE
Hit ij_l
HWv
LiiHnh
Jfff
itthliLti
OE L A CV A K £
jjzi-HH ftiL
ROAD
'tt i_i ij , i*-< fii! yy yq w T^.Ty^my’spyQ'ijy' ]
\ tra^TTCOT" L u
Jj Lrlnr;ir;h-H ri-rl* r itirf Tttrrrrrri rbHtifttH Him V
MARS D E X
racHFuqsiararT*
v! 'M kc it| fi> «• M
ROAD
• pinrij irami pmn
c»i r
rnff:
TDITLI U LWt t P"
jylMhjifjV
rcnjt
HfC
tm rrttr
•jfji
Mb
M ; g M
cLri
rti h i«
h 1 I*l Ul I*l
4 WSTEPHEN
IfCCnied \urvtyOr
f'TYtl/AN CHAMdtRS
Caitlcreagh .$/
• r
>M *
iilf:L
L V Trox
imimri
3M
‘-■t'-j-j 1 1 j 1 1
VJV'..
”, *
cR e r
LAST
ROAD
i f «
Jir,
•4 S
♦ NSt
R irc/rs toxc
, v AUCTIONEERS
I a ■ i PBT T^STREtT
Where Shall the Sydney People Reju-
venate.
One of the features of business and social life in
Sydney, which immediately strikes a visitor, is the
evident effect of the atmosphere on the physica
and mental energy of the people. There is no
denying the fact that a disinclination for continu-
ous vigorous action chills the most robust resolu-
tion, and hence here more than in any other
community there is a desire to put off to to-
morrow work which should be accomplished
to - day. This is evidenced in individual no
less than in concerted action, and the ex-
planation is not difficult to find. Scientific fad
fathoms it. In the atmosphere that envelopes
the whole of our metropolis there is almost an
entire absence of nitrogen-one of the bases oi
vital energy And the physical energies are yet
more handicapped oy the enormous evaporation
going along on all sides of us. The ocean, the
harbour, Botany Bay, and the Parramatta River,
cause an evaporation unequalled probably in any
other part of the world. But while in the
metropolis we have the advantage, at our very
doors are the means of complete rejuvenation of
our physical and mental energies. What the
atmosphere of the metropolis lacks, the atmos-
phere of the adjacent mountainous country
abounds in. The more this part becomes known,
the greater will be the weekly exodus per train ot
business and professional men, and it will not be
long before we will have special cheap trains for
the juvenile population for this very purpose of
hygenic benefit. This being the case, the Govern-
ment will do well to look after the land remain-
ing unpurchased, for no doubt the demand for the
country will be national in its character. As to
present demands on the part of business men and
others for homesteads on the mountains, there are
splendid tracts in private hands available
for purchase, and certainly just now is the
time to effect a purchase. It would seem
invidious to particularise any spot as supe-
rior to another, but from the top of the
Zigzag to Mount Victoria the journey is only of
a few hours’ duration, yet some people object to
the longer distance, and others think the moun-
tain air is not obtained in a lower situation. This,
however, is a mistake, as the middle distance, say
the neighbourhood of Linden, enjoys the great
benefit of having both height and shelter, as by
going farther, the mountain air becomes rather
bleak and exposed to the winter frosts. Conse-
quently, the locality of Linden is sought after by
those of a delicate constitution. In point of fact,
the country from Springwood to the Weather-
board is admirable for people who wish a complete
change of air and health conditions generally.
From Linden Heights, the most magnificent sight
probably in Australia, is obtainable on the one
side—a kingdom of mountains—on the other side
the whole county of Cumberland, with its innu-
merable villages, rivers, and water-courses. The
attractions just now about Linden are, that per-
sons desirous about mountain homes can obtain
blocks of from five to twenty and fifty acres on
the most reasonable terms. This will allow of any
Person desiring to obtain the needful recuperation
to secure a residence within two and a half hours’
run of business, yet completely outside the in-
fluence of the coast atmosphere.
The Exchange Hotel, George and King
Streets.
Very few properties in Sydney have exhibited
the advance in value and appearance that can be
recorded of the Exchange Hotel, corner of George
and King streets, now the property of Mr- J. D.
Young. For a long time the premises, which
occupy one of the very best sites in Sydney, were
used as clothing warehouses, but their advantages
for the purpose of a lirst-class hotel soon became
known, and, with several changes of proprietary,
the Exchange has come into the hands of Mr.
J. D. young. And no better business man
could have been found. Mr. Young was one
of the only two men in the catering line who scored
a big thing at the International Exhibition; and
for some years he managed with every success the
well-known Three Crowns Hotel, Church Hill.
The Exchange, which Mr. Young has now taken
for a number of years, is destined to become the
biggest trade house in Sydney. It will not sur-
prise many to learn that in the space of one month,
under Mr. Young’s management, the business of
the hotel has risen one-third. The explanation
is that a thorough reform has been effected.
Ihe best liquors retailed in Sydney are pro-
curable at the private and public bars; a first-
class shilling luncheon, to which particular atten-
tion is paid, is regularly served, and the attend-
ance is running up to between 300 and 400 per day.
ihe spacious billiard-room overhead is being com-
pletely renovated and re-lighted, and four addi-
tional new tables are being supplied—making this
saloon, with its appointments, one of the best in
Sydney. Mr. Young personally superintends the
whole business, and is answerable for each depart-
ment. Both on account of hi# public services and
ms outspoken manliness, and by reason of his
Personal popularity, Mr. Young commands great
success, which his spirited enterprise, tact, and
food judgment will be sure to increase and render
Permanent.
The Clive Estate.
A Golden Opportunity for securing a BuildiDg
Garden, or Orchard Site, immediately opposite
and overlooking the Railway Station, lor 4
shillings. Payable, ss. deposit; balance, 2s. 6d
a month. Allotments, 25ft. x 125 ft.
The Clive Estate is situated in the busy and
prosperous township of Riverstone, being onlj
20 odd miles from Sydney. This locality is favour-
ably known as a health-giving and invigorating
district, its salubrious atmosphere being univer-
sally recognised, rendering the settlement the
most desirable in the colony; possessing the ad
vantages of direct city communication, a thriving
and increasing trade, with the luxury of retire-
ment of country life. The railway accommodation
is excellent, there being, as accompanying time-
table shows, four passenger trains a day, with
extra accommodation on Wednesday and Satur-
day, besides numerous goods-trains daily, and
additional trains will be run as occasion requires
Tbfe estate is, without exception, the finest in the
rnewet. The land holds an elevated position, and
is beautifully watered by an extensive creek
(guarded by high banks covered with nutrious
verdure) containing an inexhaustible quantity ot
water, and in the driest season the supply of the
lympid element is prolific, as clear as the crvstal
spring of an enchanted glen, and shedding a balmy
influence on the district. There is neither rock
nor gully to be found throughout the entire pro-
perty; and the remarkable growth and production
of this and the surrounding farms, vineyards, and
orangeries satisfactorily prove thounm'istakeable
fertility of the soil. This estate is no waste bush
land, but a cultivated farm with productive loam
soil, in which nutritious pasturage, and, in fact,
all vegetation, abounds in luxuriant profusion.
Two residences erected are at present occupied,
and can be either leased by the purchaser of the
lots to the present tenants or reserved for occu-
pation, as desired—in which event the rent will «-o
to the purchaser. The railway station is within a
few yards, and the road leading therefrom into the
property is well metalled, and a substantial bridge
crosses the creek from which a Government road
leads through a public reserve directly into the
main road of the estate, 100 feet wide, and laid
out on the latest scientific principles for the
enhancement of the property, rendering it a
model township, which must rapidly rise in archi-
tectural beauty and intrinsic value. The sur-
roundings of the property materially assist the
favourable aspect, being bounded on the West by
the property of Mr. W. Stevenson; on the East
by the township, hotel stores, and railway
station; on the North by extensive Crown reserves
with old-established vineyards adjoining; and on
the South by pasture land, with works in the rear


Use Hop Bitters once and you will use no
other medicine. Test it. Be sure and read.
Ayer’s Ague Cure is intended to act as an
antidote to malarial fevers, and all diseases gener-
ated by marsh, swamp, or slough. Science has
brought this remedy nigh to perfection. No
nuinine, no arsenic, nor injurious drug enters into
its composition. Chemistry and the healing art,
have combined to make it the curative triumph
of the ag© we live in.
HAMBURG
E
MIL
FRESE’S
TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calas, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c„ caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family RTemedy where a simple purgative only Is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Bpanisb, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING apacket. Whole-
sale Dejiot for New South WaIes— ELLIOTT
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger, can Attend its Usi.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 31, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing cnildren require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass.. May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases ©f morbid
urine, 4 it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable oompound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing xirink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a.g'ic Oil,
the best general family remedy,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, ouring pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, B>heumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Baok.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious siokness.
Bold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the beat-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stook
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australia®
climate
And because all who use them say they abb th<
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium}
WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Sc GO.,
MU
In his paper on the London Times (which
appeared in a reoent issue of the Sydney Granny)
Archibald Forbes contrives to say a great Jot
about that sickening luscious theme, himself,
though he never had the slightest connection with
that journal. As Mr. Dick couldn’t keep Charles
the First’s head out of his memorial, so the gush-
ing Archibald can’t refrain from poking his i into
every other par. of his copy. He greatly resem-
bles our own Julian in that respect. Neither of
them realises that such egotism is a literary eye-
sore.
Thus a Yankee exchange on our own
“ Professor ”: —“ Professor Wm. Miller has chal-
lenged any man in Australia to wrestle him a
match made up of a mixture of all styles, for £ 100
or more a side, and offered to bet £lOO that he
could throw any one four times in an hour,
Grveco-Roman style. Miller should strike the
Pacific Coast, for he would find plenty of work it
he wants to hippodrome. Indeed, Miller, some
years ago, filled the same role Muldoonis now Play-
ing, engaging in alleged wrestling matches on the
Slope, and he worked the pockets of the San
Francisco bloods with a vengeance. Under
' hese circumstances, he would hardly make a hit
in ’Frisco now.
It would seem that after all the money
wasted on cables we are not to have Hanlan out
her© after all. From all accounts the champion
must be a great “ skite.” He harangued a crowd
at ’Frisco with “I am the greatest sculler the
world ever saw, and the reason is I know more
about a shell than the man that builds itand so
on, for a good half-hour. An American paper
says:—“What danger light does Hanlan see in
Australia that he has given up the trip after all
the cabl« challenges and the gasconade he made
about rowing Layeock, Trickett, &c. ? It is my
opinion that Hanlan has seen William Beach s
ghost in the far distance, and knowing he can
make plenty of money in this country, has decided
to stay here. I see that he even refuses to row
Austin Stevenson on the Facifio Slope, but wants
the Pacific Coast Champion to row at Chelsea,
Mass., in the spring. Hanlan is an aquatic weather-
cock. H'j has no mind of his own, and I don’t
believe he is aware who he is going to row until
he meets them in his shell.”
This, ladies, is of deep domestic import-
ance. Don’t you hire a sewing-machine on the
time-payment system from one company, and
then, after a while, back out of the purchase be-
cause you think another company will let you
have one cheaper. You’ll get into trouble. Tom
Leonard made that mistake. He get a machine
from the Singer Co., and signed an agreement.
Soon, the Wertheim man came along and promised
to fairly swamp Tom with good fortune by letting
him have an ever so much better machine at quite
an insignificant price. And Tom listened to the
tempter’s voice, and wanted to send his old
machine back. But he forgot the agreement.
And when Judge Dowling told Tom that he’d have
to pay £13125. 6d. for value of machine and arrears
due on hire of same, and further moneys, more-
over, for the hire of three witnesses for two days,
and so on, His Honor said the Singer Co. had a
perfect right to protect itself from back-sliders by
such an agreement And His Honor hoped, for
the sake of ladies who might be beguiled by the
insidious promises of the Wertheim man, that the
press would make some pars about this matter.
This is one of them.
There is a good deal of difference between
Mr. Langridge, the Victorian Commissioner of
Customs, and Timou the Misanthrope. When
Timon lost the means of dispensing gifts, and the
crowd that u«ed to worship him fell away, his
dudgeon rose. He provided a tree for them and
asked them to come and hang themselves. But
Mr. Langridge has more philosophy, and what’s
the use of philosophy unless to help you to laugh
while you live. When Mr. Langridge was Minister
of Publio Works, and could give away, he was, he
says, smothered with embraces wherever he went.
He actually came to believe he was the most love-
able man in the Southern Hemisphere. But now
that he is Commissioner of Customs, ana has no-
thing to give away, he avers that no one minds him.
And this ingratitude doesn’t make him hitter, as it
made Timon. Ah, but then, Timon gave away
what was his own, and Mr. Langndge gave away
what was not his own. That s a difference, and
that may be why Mr. Langndge is credited with
more philosophy than Timon.
Many people have been heard, to express
surprise that a vessel of the size of the old Aphro-
dite—for a number of years trading to the colonies
—should be only barque-rigged, it being the opi-
nion of so many competent judges that she would
sail better as a full-rigged ship. Well, the story s
worth telliagr shortly. So here it is. It was on the
Aphrodite’s first trip— full-rigged—when one even-
ing, just before dusk, a heavy squall came on, and
the royals were clewed up. A couple of O.S. went
up to the main, and for’ard, but to the mizzen a
poor little apprentice, on his first voyage, was
sent. A fair-haired, blue-eyed, slim, and delicate
child he was, fresh from the loving care of a tender
mother, and very reluctantly did he—in obedience
to many gruff, and to his ears strange, threats—
mount the mizzen rigging. The squall cleared
awav. The fore and main royals were safely
stowed away, but at the mizzen the loe-yard-arm
the sail still flapped and slatted. It was now dark,
and hoarse throats and curses found their way aloft
from the officer of the watch, whilst an ordinary
seaman sprang up the rigging—but when he
reached the yard the sail was stowed, and no one
there; nor ever did human eyes again behold the
poor apprentice—but after that, when the Aphro-
dite’s mizzen royal was clewed up, there was no
necessity to lay aloft, for the sail was immediately
furled by invisible hands. A panic spread through
the ship. She was haunted, and men steered clear
of her, as her ill-fame spread far and wide through
the mercantile marine of many nations. The
owners, in despair, changed her name and rig, and
sent her “foreign” for a few years, till she had
“lived it down,” and, save to few now, the above
legend of the stout old ship, which has so often
prosaically rubbed her fenders against Circular
Quay—is but a dim memory of the far past.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Etory of the “Star.”
Of what avail the time and place ?
Small matter to us, now, are these:
Suffice the moon shone on her face,
A nd on her gorgeous draperies;
And, as those moonbeams tiitered through
The blinds, they caught her eyes of blue,
And danced amongst the jewels rare
That shone upon her fingers fnir.
Oh, her's is a familiar face,
But that sad “ pressure on our space
(Though we’d be truly glad)
Unfortunately militates
(Elsewhere you’ll find our usual rates)
Against a gratis “ad.”
We see her now: she slowly rocks
Her chair, (the light is very dim,)
Yet we can mark the golden clocks
That gleam upon her ankles trim—
Not beautiful exactly, nay.
But yet of prettiness a spice;
“No chicken,” either, wo should say,
But still, withal, “ extremely nice.
“ They say we who play many parts,”
She murmured, “arebereft of hearts;
Have blunted feelings, souls of steel,
Can for no fellow-creature feel—
’Tis often so;
But other folks, I beg to state,
Are oft far from immaculate
Here below.
“’Twas in New York, and, lo, the ground
The demon Frost had iron-bound,
And in grim Poverty’s sad haunt
’Twas said did stalk Starvation gaunt;
Yet we were playing Shakspeare there,
And ‘ biz.’ was really very fair—
My version of Ophelia’s cares
Will always draw ‘a good down-stairs.
“ Amongst the supers, was a man
Of aspect weary, worn, and wan,
Bald, thin, and prematurely old,
And starved with hunger and with cold;
’Two dollars fifty, I’ll engage,
Was just about his weekly wage.
I noticed him—I know not why,
There were so many others by;
When, lo, one evening from his place
(Third grooves O.P.) I missed his face.
Days passed, ray season’s end was near,
Yet the old man did not appear;
And soon I learned, with true distress,
He’d borne away his theatre dress—
By night a sorrowful array,
A wretched mockery by day!
“ The play was done, gone were the rout,
When, lo, I sought the old man out.
(I had a coup<5 then, and pair,
Fine trotters, too, those chesnuts were,
As gay a turn-out as you’d see—
Oh, never mind who gave it me).
Well, to a grisly tenement
Alone that freezing night I went,
Up six long flights, all wrapped in gloom,
And then I stood without his room.
I knocked, then gently pushed the door,
That old man lay stretched on the floor;
And, with her head upon his breast,
A sleeping child lay there at rest—
And I could see, as I looked down,
She wrapped was in the stolen gown.
“ I lightly raised that little head,
Then rent the dim air with my cries;
I saw that the old man was dead—
I saw it by his glassy eyes 1
Frozen—starved —he’d passed away.
Well may you call it harrowing:
And yet, you know, the papers say
In ‘ York ’ that’s quite a common thing.
“ 1 The girl Her portrait’s in my desk:
She does ‘ high-kicking ’ in burlesque.’
Eyes.
[A RHAPSODY.]
Talk not to me of eyes of blue,
Such eyes hath Graham Berry;
Give me the eyes that look askew,
And squint with humour merry.
Brown eyes ’—they rarely own good sight,
As common as brown sherry;
Give me the eyes like malachite,
Or, better, green gooseberry.
Black eyes?—Ahem! they’ro vulgar, low,
Sugges ive of a scrimmage:
I love the eyes that never glqw—
Byes green as uncooked spinach.
Eyes hazel?-Yes, they’re very well,
With long dark lashes shaded;
But eyes of green all eyes excel—
Dull, heavy, sodden, faded.
Yes ves, give me those sea-green eyes,
So cat-like, when they’re beaming;
Within whose depths so much there lies,
Could you but their meaning.
Maud Masher.
A POEM.-PART II.
(With the author's kindest acknowledgments to
Maud Mailer.)
Yet oft through the smoke of his cigar
Maud’s face appeared like a dream arar,
And his memory turned with sudden shock
To that summer’s day they did the Block.
Oft when his banquets were brilliant and grand,
And graced by the greatest nobs in the land
Bv a foreign Count or an English Earl—
He thought of that pretty, fresh, young girl,
And felt what a drawback it was in his lite
That he couldn’t be married to more than one wife.
She “ landed ” a clerk in a grocery store,
And a dozen of children she boasted, or more;
But her husband (like many with moderate
Contracted a weakness to go “ on the booze.”
And oft when the sun shone jolly hot
On the squalling babe in its squalid cot,
She thought of that summer’s day, when she
Had done the Block in girlish gleo,
And remembering whom it was she met.
Her eyes grew briarht and the lashes wet.
Sometimes her four-roomed cottage turned
To the handsome home for which she yearned:
Old chairs, with legs and backs deformed,
To “Chippendale ” become transformed;
And, for him who sat at his wretched meal,
Out at elbows and down at heel.
She saw at her side a fellow well dressed,
And liked the vision by far the best.
Then she remembered who called hsrwitc,
And murmured merely, “ Such is life.
Alas, for Maud I Alas, for Dude 1
In princely mansion or cottage rude—
Have pity on both! for you must confess
It’s awkward to want what we don t possess;
Yet no regret is to-day more rife
Than that expressed in Such is life!
HIS SORROW.
HERE was a young man in (we’ll say)
The office of the Lands,
Who had, when each one else was gay,
A trouble on his hands.
It was his ears —the Anakim
Had none such: passers-by
Would stop and say “ O look at him—
He is about to fly!”
His friends, too, had their little joke
(Friends still are good at that),
Which was to make out—fire and smoke !
He was a human bat.
And other innuendoes creamed
With gall to one who feels
As that whene’er he walked he seemed
A windmill upon wheels.
And what if this young man did rave,
And foolish called the plan
Ot Nature, seeing that it gave
Such ears to any man ?
Proud reader, wouldn’t you be mad,
And burst your reason’s bands,
If you had got no feet, and had
To walk upon your hands ?
But this young man found out at length
That Nature still was wise,
And had a reason full of strength
For ears of such a size.
For he got drunk—how he did pour
The liquor in amain !
As many good man did before,
And many will again.
His friends—so very muoh he reeled,
With hiccups and with tears—
They clutched him by the heels, and wheeled
Him home upon his ears.
The moral now to you we fling:
There is a use for every thing.
And, seeing this, if you will tire,
Why, fling the moral In the fire.


W. H. PAUNG,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
51
m
m
!B
EASY TERMS SYSTEM ™ INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
Vh Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
w. H. PALINa,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
ii, loin, ui mm m,
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
- - AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
BN6INES’
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoiatiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benehes, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws.
Jouters and Mortieing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
Genera
English and American Agricultural Implements.
B fekes l^D I |rs a Md^wfir« U rh 0 n ff Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Laud Rollers, Horse
waxes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. ’
ge Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. corrugated,
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham's Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking: the above remedy, and
heart, lungrs, brain, and stomach will unite la
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
S reseed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
e and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symDtoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’8
RiiiLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatory,
484 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDI ARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS.
as
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BITTERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELViN and SONS’
Edlnbu ign Pale Aie.
PAPERBANGING S!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERi PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
381 Q EORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &e.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TX aa. d.ertaJser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.8.-Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also,
for over ten GO) years.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
Ef" THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off the Age !
DESTINED TO E.CLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The or y Tobaoco combining 1 Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
0T Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Tilitti Gi., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An-i can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as Boon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
'mitatioas.
■Robert butcher * co.
(Late 'William Long),
W WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
C
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
MPI O N
H A
RACE, 188 L,
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
Capital £3600, in 5000 shares of 10s. each.
, About 150 Prizes—
£l326 for Horf es, and £1275 for Stars, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
First Horse (winner of
Champion Race).. £5OO
Second Horse 250
Third Horse.. .. 125
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £2OO
First star
Second do. ..
Third do.
Fourth do. ...
a 8 of £2O each, £100; 12 stars of £lO each,
B tars of £u each, £126; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £2OO.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
KK« nU i rnerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has reoeived, and herewith
• a Programme similar to that of last year’s
imampion Meeting, all parties are requested to
forward draft, P.O. orders, or cheques; if cheques,
exchange must be added, and in all cases postage
fees; registered letters only received. Applica-
tion, by letter only, addressed “Adamastor,” care
aik ‘ A -Pofoira, Edgcumbe’s Hotel, Dean-street,
AJ^ry. N.S.W. P.S.—Results sent to every shate-
nolder. Sydney agency discontinued.
Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
mSm.
ms
, S_ $=
WIiSUMI
Or
' A- /
«5
m
m
v m
si
A*-
' BASS PALE ALB.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market,
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE I
MERCHANTS. 1
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known ramedy for RHEUMATISM.
,<r. LJRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAG'Ie!
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALPI, & c - and
jaken Internally cures DIARRHOEA., B
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interne ache*
tnd pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere*
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPHLroR,
MELBOURNE AND . DNEY
PAINT
HALL
<t
Co
\
a
T'
s*.
Vs
fA
M
mrim#
BOARS HEAD STOUT.—This favourite braoa
or Stout selected with great care from the
oest of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Gumnesa and Co., Dublin, and therefore
OATTwI‘I Oo!' 1 8oM*.l!S 0 ”" re 4 eV * rT " hOT *-
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
n wm grrvD nn
4 SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner -
J\_ voas and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosDhorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
nourishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, 4s. 6d. Sold evarywnere. Sole Proprietors,
MARSHALL BROTHERS. M.P.S., Pharmacists,
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hydo Park, Sydney.
N.B.—All imitations illegal.


Few people know the enormous trouble
entailed on any railway line over which the Queen
travels. That to Scotland suffers most, the journey
being 500 miles from Windsor to Balmoral, and it
is done right off. A pilot engine travels twelve
miles ahead and traffic is entirely suspended for half
an hour before and a quarter after the Queen
passes. Danger signals are displayed all this time
in case of the almosc impossible fact of another
train travelling. All gates at level crossings are
locked and guarded, and switches are locked. Two
special look-out men extra are carried—one on the
engine, the other in the hind van. A telegraph
operator i« always carried in case of accidents, and a
director of the Company’s line is invariably on the
train.
A HALLELUJAH HARTICLE.
“In spite,” says the Harmy, “of the lies
In the newspapers, we are progressing satis-
factorily. God save the reporters! Amen.” The
reporters for whom the War Cry wishes salvation
seem to think that tho Harmy is having rather a
poor time of it in what the “ soldiers ” call
“ Canny Newcastle;” and Tom Collins, the General
of the Skeleton Army, has, in conjunction with
some of his forces, been prosecuted for conspiracy
to disturb the services of Briggs’s brigade; but up
to this, the prosecution doesn’t seem to have come
to anything. Undoubtedly the Skeletons are very
annoying, and it is certainly not conducive to the
general harmony of the town for General Tom
Collins’s brigade to strike up, with a big drum ac-
companiment, “I’m glad I’m shav'd, I’m glad I'm
shav’d,” just as some convert is relating how bad
he was before he tumbled into the fountain, and
JOHN BULL (reflectively): “Friendly offers are plentiful enough when one can do without them. Same chap that refused
to pay his share of the Fiji score, I fancy.”
how good he Is now. Then they further annoy
the great Briggs by chaunting discordantly:—
“ If you don’t land the Captain in the eye,
You won’t go to Heaven when you die.”
Also —
Ere in the bright stream I was washed
So pure and clean and fair,
I could grow water-creases, spuds,
And turnips in my hair.
Chorus—
“ So join the Skelington Harmy,
The chance is great and rare,
And don’t grow water-oreases, spuds,
And turnips in your hair,” etc.
» •
Under these circumstances, it is not sur-
prising to find that the tone of the War Cry is a
trifie despondent. Major Sutherland seems to want
everything rather more furiously than before.
The subscriptions are dwindling down woefully,
j.amhtnn only yielding for the week Is. 6d.—from
one “Brother Bunn.” So the Major wants £350
“without, or at low, interest;” and he wants to
sell shields and almanacs, and also the eternal
clarionets for the “little soldiers ” to “ chord with
brass band.” The little soldiers aforesaid contri-
bute to the War Cry. Captain Porter, a “little
soldier” aetat 12, writes from Newcastle:—“ Bless
God, we are still pressing on, and the devil don’t
like it. . . They [the sinners] were hit so hard
that the devil made them go outside and cast
stones at the barracks.” It will be seen from this
that you can get a good deal of froth from a very
little Porter. We are pleased to learn that Captain
Albiston is “ again to the front at Bathurst with
his hallelujah cornetl” but grieved to be told that
in the City of the Plains “ the devil came in front
in the shape of a publican, but nobody would
follow him, so he slunk back to his poison
shop.” It is a relief, though, to learn that
“ after we had cast three or four men and
devils out, we went on with the meeting.”
It seems that an “ All over the Shop ” meeting—
whatever that is—was successful at Newtown,
from which place the eloquent and elegant Rey-
nolds ha» retired, and now prints bis life in the
War Cry. Well, although, of course, we believe
the noble Cap. to be a godly man, yet we find some
difficulty in satisfactorily digesting his autobi-
ography. It isn’t exciting enough, in the first
place, for though we get an instalment of two
columns, he does not seem to have been “ lum-
bered” once. He did not get tempted by the
wicked workman over a pint of purge,
either, and yield “in a weak moment” like the
others. Nor was he “ taken by the hand by a truly
good and charitable gentleman who (sic) I will
call Mr. 8.,” but, the demon still pursuing him
| takes once more to the “cursed drink” and
resumes his “hevilways,” only to be rescued by
i the Army on the promise of four meals a day and
a bread and onion supper. But Captain Reynolds,
though a bit obseure at times, is not without
pathos. He says, on a domestic bereavement
eventuating: “On leaving my work that day, I
went to my grandmother's, and there found uncles
and aunts all weeping with mother. It made me
sorrowful, and I wept bitterly.” There is a
bit of a crib here from the Gospel accord-
ing to St. Luke, but we can cheerfully pardon
this, and would have done so even had he
introduced the historical rooster. The next
sentence, however, is not quite so clear. He says:
“ My mother was now left to fight the world with
three children ;” rather novel weapons.it must be
admitted, to use in the Battle of Life. “ One day,”
continues the autobiographer, “I happened to
meet with one of my own companions. I had
some conversation with him, and the next day he
was brought to his home, a corpse.” This is one
of the most startling instances of the fatal effect
of eating onions that has been brought under our
notice for some time I The Captain then finds a
salve for his sorrow in a ticket for suffering Aus-
tralia, whose golden shores he now illumines with
his august presence.
* * *
It is difficult to prophesy what will be the
ultimate fate of the Harmy in New South Wales.
Its future, however, largely depends, we should
say, upon the condition of the duff and sausage
market.
Skits
[BY HECTO A. STUART.]
As ponderous roots are sometimes found
To flourish best in barren gi’ound ;
So learning, which is called profound,
Is often lodged in heads unsound.
'The tongue, that heavenly thoughts may utter,
Is often fond of earthly butter.
Whnt outwardly seems like honesty
Is olten only policy.
A fop’s the offspring of a tailor,
Who merits for his work-a jailer.
The greatest man, devoid of clothes,
No difference from the humblest shows.
Destroy a man’s conceit, and he
Has nothing left for rivalry.
A man may be a very ass,
And yet to high distinction pass ;
Since dulness oft a yeast supplies
That makes him o’er his fellows rise.
Hope is a sort of airy leaven
That lifts in Hell the dough of Heaven.
If reason flourished in our schools,
The world would lose its noblest fools.
A man with learning overcrammed
Is often but a tinker damned.
All things are fated; every man
Pursues in life a destined plan.
I f otherwise it were but, ho!
We nothing of this subject know.
A dead man is of little use;
A living one, oft worse refuse.
A noisy woman’s apt to trouble.
As water’s dangerous on the bubble.
If every man’s heart was exposed
What awful thoughts would be disclosed.
A man of fixed opinion’s but
A wheel that keeps along one rut;
Augustus, as a beau weuld pass,
And so consults his looking-glass;
But finds, whenever he looks there,
A smirking fool return his stare,
A man who would a woman wed
Must first obtain his daily bread;
Or else with her, alasl and but her,
He’ll land his crust within the gutter.
A man whose knowledge’s got from books,
Has quenched his thirst at shallow brooks.
A man who’s scared a gun to carry
Is sometimes brave enough to marry.


He had let them a contract of well-sinking,
and every week one of them would be into the
head-station for fuse, always more fuse. He
couldn’t make it out, so determined to pay them a
visit. Riding up to the camp he found his men at
dinner. *' Down 20 feet and very hard,” they said,
adding also that a shot was justin, and if he would
sit down and have a drink of tea, it might go off
before he left. An hour passed away; then,
squatter (loq.): “Your charge must have missed
lire, lads.” “Oh, no,” was the confident reply,
“20feet of fuse takes agood bit reaching down.”
It has been the practice, not only of the
papers, but of the public, to continually carp at
the doings and proceedings of our aldermanic
body, which usurps in this city the functions ot
the “gentlemen of the vestry” in England, by
paving us, lighting us, draining us, and otherwise
occupying themselves with our general welfare.
Exception here has been taken to the metaphors
of M’Elhone (when in the Council), to the gabble
of Green, to the tediousness of Taylor, to the
monotony of Meeks, and to the H.’s of Hardie.
Persons have stigmatised the Municipal policy of
Carter curious ; that of Burdekin (for obvious
reasons), bunkum; and, on the whole, the Muni-
cipal Council is the best chaffed body in the country,
we have attended many Municipal Council meet-
ings, and have always derived much amusement
from the visits. To listen to Alderman Green say
“ Which if ’e hargoos as I hargoo, why, then, &c.,
is delicious; and when Dan rises to adv cate the
supply of another water-cart in his ward, and so
covers that water-cart with Grattanic flowers of
oratory that you forget all about it, the effect is
unique. And there is nearly always a row; a good
deal of the acrimony exhibited by the aldermen
being less atrributable to the natural dispositions
of the worthy gentlemen than to the contents ot
the cupboard in the Mayor’s parlour. Aldermen
make furious attacks upon one another for no
reason the spectators can fathom, and then come
the inevitable— “Come outside and say that 1” ‘ Go
home and scrub yourjtongue;” “ I always thought
you were a liar, but now I know you’re a
liar 1” And so on. In connexion with these quar-
rels (though this is slightly deviating from the
subject) an amusing incident occurred in the
Council some years ago. A tall, muscular gentle-
man (still there) had been elected for a certain
ward, and the next day took his seat accordingly.
At that time a very bellicose party (since resigned)
was the roaring lion of the den, and there wasu t a
Daniel to be found that would beard him—and to
look at him, you would think not a barber could
be lighted upon who would shave him. W«dl, it
so happened that the unshaven alderman “got on”
to the new comer as was his wont. The gigantic
one said nothing, until, trooping out after the
business was over, he stood by the side of the
black-muzzled city father, at the head of the Town
Hall steps. Then, clutching him by the arm, he
said “ If ever you mention my name disrespect-
fully here again, I’ll pitch you down there and
break your (alabaster) neck.” Ever after this the
muscular party was alluded to by the civic bully
as “the worthy alderman on my left.” All this, of
course, is bad enough ; but let us see now how the
meetings of our city fathers (rowdy as they are)
will compare with those of the London vestrymen.
Vestrymen,like our aldermen,are tailors,publicans,
gardeners, pork-butchers, and the like; and, if we
are to believe what a great writer says about
them, they certainly compare unfavourably even
with our crowd. Listen to this: —“I attended a
vestry meeting and found them in Parish Parlia-
ment assembled. The Speaker was in the chair—a
black leather porter's one with the Royal arms on
the back of it—and the gentlemen of the vestry,
about 40 in number, were seated on either side of
black mahogany tables of the public-house pat-
tern. . . . They are all hail fellows well met,
here. I observe that they pride themselves upon
their powers of repartee, or, as it is called here,
‘chaff.’ They slate one another through their
pursuits. Thus one, who is a poulterer (as with
Kippax), is hailed as ‘ Turkey Cock,’ who retorts
by calling his assailant (it might be Dan) ‘ Old
Pork a- d Peas-pudden.’ A gentleman in the
building line (how would this do for Withers ?) is
addressed as “Chimbley Pots;’ and the Chairman
is known to the company generally as 4 Old
Wooden ’Ead.’ Says one, 4 Chimbley Pots, where
’ave you bin to-day ?’ To which Chimbley Pots re-
plies, 4 On the stink;’ which, on being interpreted,
I find that, as a member of the Sanitary Committee,
he has been inspecting nuisances. On commencing
an address, most of the orators began with, 4 ’av-
ing. ’Aving been indoost to take this step, wo was
hobliged to go a step furder.’ ‘Then,’ says an-
other, 4 you have gone furder than the jor allows.’
Upon which a gentleman interposes and says such
hobservations is disrespectful to the ’ousc.”
Granting then, that our aldermen are superior in
education, manners, and attainments to the Lon-
don vestrymen, the question now arises how are
they to be made more enlightened still. It is diffi-
cult to make an appropriate suggestion, for you
can’t compel Alderman Green to go to a night
school, nor (at least we shouldn’t like to) spank
M'Elhone—we number him amongst the prophets,
for he will soon be back again; nor can we well
present a school primer to Parker. Wo shall have
to conclude this, therefore, in the style of the
Herald leaders: leave our readers in precisely
the same position as when we started.
BLEND
Jmarkl
TRADE
■a*** 1 t
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELI & CO., Sole
Agents.
i ilii
nnR.BURGIS.
I/Ul TAILOR. .
*> ft) ft I *l ™
= W i
* o /if! s
W VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
ÜBL I C
NOTICE
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severa.
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY,
sumers will find this brand
Australian con
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO.. Distillers. Belfast.
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY: 7& 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street Easts
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Greiafell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
lARS HALL'S FLU ID
£xTRACTofDANDELION
|/?£yPor U,ver Complaints. I
Kly* MARSHALL BROTHERS?]
Chemises, market street.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILD NGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
lib'Hwi
mm i
liOKlf£
omi
GIILAKDYfffIS
aND
. guar*!^
It is of the utmost importance that contents; ct
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
meo£, sonTTnd chapman
AGENTS.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of tho
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; mv
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from _ personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
ray general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a liundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z.P. Wilds."
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly comiag to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions qf the Skin, Rheu-
matism,, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & C 0„
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
mr THE PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t-u.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, tirrrefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ v hiskey Doctors.’
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ST* 308 GEORGE STREET.
oi &9eolcKvnps
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
lar* MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTcn OEFOHE MOUSTACHE aad WHISEE23. «Fonz afted
Copyrighted .
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and j
> t oiU do it on either bald head or
bare fare. Forces heavy Mous>
tacheinfromStoltoeeJcsandnever i
Jails, 20,000 young men already
tcear full beards, having used 1 to
Copyrighted.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied , certain in effect, Packets 1«. 6 d.
each, 3 for 3 s. Od.,poet paid, sent under cover-, free froyn observation•
Fraak Douglas Side Agent, 2tac730, g.F.O., Sydney t N,S. W*
"^T'ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walhct
Wood,
&o. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE ft GO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
H COLOSSAL TIME!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Moat EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SViRIHERFIELB & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 61 & B 3
LEADENH ALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeehes Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
LLUIDDU,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
& Warranted first quality
v Cha rges str i c tly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists | o 6marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraeted Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acta as a brain and
nerve tome, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In ease of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is or great service, as it acts not only ae
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonifc
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen 14 pints ...21/-
»• »t i» 0 •« 1 „ 24/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
dF
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
tST N.R. Patterns and Prieou sent.
Zfl
J MB RE HAS
RE-JCOVEBI&
OTUDY ECONOMY
O and
Have y our Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
anW


Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
'vales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land,
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
P p on. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in thei Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Ad vt.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making- you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive.or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from ariy other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTfeRS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 631, G eorge-street, Sydney,
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made tho name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graoeful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK
NESS, &c.
PRICE.. .: ~ .. 28. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, ko
„ 43 ERSKINE STREET.
h T w. tr amn,. nr.* n7l nhnrolo+n
Printed and Pu
paper Co.
1 Published by The
(Limited), 34 Pitt-st.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Love.
Prologue.
This is a love story. Love stories are always true
and are as instructive as true. They tell lovely
woman how the thing 1 was done, and how she
should do it. A woman who reads love-stories
won’t go wrong. Not far. She’ll lie back and
muse on how the story put it, and she’ll put It just
'that way. Sometimes she can’t geta story to meet
her case, and then she’s puzzled. But that’s be-
■cause she hasn’t read enough. There is only one
•circumstance in which she ft to be pardoned when
•the puzzle comes on. It ft to give instruction on
this point that we write. Love in cold countries
•doesn’t work the same as in hot. Old men have
one way, and young men another way of coming
about it. She has all these things laid out in books
already, and has the crucial passages underlined,
and the margin marked with “how sweet,” “ever
so nice,” or “ most beautiful.” But hitherto she
has been without instruction as to how to act
when her lover is very little. That is why we tell
this tale.
CHAPTER I.
Angela is 33, John is 29. Angela ft tall, John
’isn’t. It is a hot country. It ft evening. They are
tin the summer-house. The birds are sleeping, the
heads of the flowers are hanging down, the breeze
«s hushed ; John holds her hands, and, looking
high up into her moist eyes, says, “ Hangela,
Hangela 1” She looks down on the top of his head,
where baldness is beginning to show itself, and
says, “ Jo-o-hn!’
Sleep, little birds ; hang, little flowers; hush,
geatle breeze! They’re at it.
John says: “Hangela, when is it to be? When,
oh, when ?”
Angela says: '“When you’re six inches taller!”
CHAPTER 11.
Look at John walking away from thesummor-
•>ouse! His hat is on the back of his head, and his
stride is three yards long. His rate is ten miles an
hour. He is swearing.
Sleep, little birds ; hang, little flowers : hush,
gentle breeze! There’s more of it.
CHAPTER 111.
. Twelve years pass. John and Angela are in a
'brilliant ballroom. Angela has had only one offer
since. That was from the grocer, and she said
No! John ft now Premier of a rising colony,
and there isn’t a hair on the top of his head. They
met accidentally on the way to the garden. They
look at each other. They pause a minute. Angela
say Ahi ’ John says “Ha!” And they pass and
never meet again.
Oh, the meaning of that “ Ah!”
Oh, the meaning of that “ Ha!”
Sleep, little birds: hang, little flowers: hush,
gentle breeze! It’s all U.P.
Epilogue.
We would have made this story longer if we
wrote for money. But we don’t write for money,
We write to instruct. We want lovely women not
to look down on a man because he’s small. Angela
•did that, and therefore “Ah!” It was very wrong,
There is great fun in a little man, and when he loves
he’s lost, and when he’s slighted he’s as mad as if he
wore 30 feet high. Lovely women will remember
that in future. If she doesn’t, she may, after the
lapse of twelve years, hear a sardonic “ Ha 1 ”
while tho little birds sieep, and the little flowers
bang their heads, and th** gentle breeze ft hushed !
A Parisian paper suggests that Missionar
Shaw should have roceived*nis indemnity rri Bible
and prayer-books.
But what do*nissiona rl es care
For bibies or for books of pi oyer ?
For “Glory ’’ they h tueir pass—
All they want here is soil’d hypgf
Shaw to the winds would Xi^es-^ash
W hat he went for»was the,
Night sentinels at the Roy.al»Castle, Berlin
declare they have recentlyrse'en - the* traditions
spirit of the “ White Lady 7 ’ svaiking in»the cor
ndors of the castle, the legend is that thi
spook ” always turns up in time to announce the
approaching death of the head of the Hohenzol
lern family, which seems to us to be going to
great deal of trouble for very little good. If the
‘White Lady” would only let us know who’ll win
the Champion Cup, or what’s the best thing to take
to cure indigestion, her information would be far
more interesting.
There is a scribe on Toby, a “ comic” papei
in Leeds, who writes under the signature of “ Bar-
tholomew Binns,” and yet, so far as we can gather
Mr. B. has not as yet “ instituted proceedings ’
against him. In reference to Mr. 8., we may state
casually that the Minister in attendance on
O’ Donnell, when being strung up, remarked that
Bennis smelt of drink—
Why, surely let th’ official dread
Exhale a scent of mountain dew !
Cannot one hangman then “ load up”
When such a lot of nobles do ?
Lord Russell, commanding the troops at
Halifax, N.S., has given orders that no officer or
soldier shall shave. And, curious enough to
relate just about the same time, when the barber
joined journalism, the same order was given by
the Gunnedah General to the Gunnedah forces.
As, however, the force’s beard came out red, he
shortly after disbanded himself, and now zealously
keeps guard over the public-house. The land-
lord gives the order to the “guard to turn out ” in
vain. The force is greatly interested in all that
pertains to his arms—especially the stock and
barrel.
Where is the Bully-Powley Opera troupe,
But w here are the snows of Autumn ?—as
M. 1 rancois Villon pathetically asked just before
he expected to be hanged. Melted, thawed, faded,
«ed. «e onlyask, because if the members of this
bruliant crowd happen to be living in contiguous
culverts, we see a chance for them to gain more
mme than they lost, here, or die a glorious death.
The chance is on a South Sea island, where there
was a shipwreck a short time ago. All of the crew
were eaten by the natives, except an Italian, who
~o n account of his sobs —was “so novel a spectacle
that he was kept to amuse the chief of the canni-
bals. Now, if an ordinary Italian crying could
produce such an effect, what effect would the
Bully-Powley singing produce ? Probably a club.
Tberes’s trouble in the house of the Daniels
at Boston. Mrs. Daniels is under 40, and her lord
and master is a trifle above 70, and from this
,iuvenue swain she 6eeks a divorce. Her i rounds
“ r e of a peculiar and interesting character. The
old un insists on religious morning and even-
ing services being held at home, compels her to
read passages of scripture to him ad nauseam, and
repeats his prayers morning, noon, and night, four
times over. As a natural sequence to these beau-
tiful religious attribute?, old Daniels kept a num-
ber of pretty servant girls, whom Mrs. Daniels
asserts bhe has frequently caught him kissing and
hugging. Queer, isn’t it, when a man starts scrip-
ture reading and prayer, this kissing and hugging
mania is bound to seize upon him ? It was ever
thus, from the days of David and Solomon.
The South Metropolitan (London) Volun-
teer Brigade which is composed, all told, of a
superintendant, an annuitant, and three collectors,
is, apparently, an ingenious organisation for fleec-
ing the public. A Mrs. Cucksey, the annuitant,
owns the plant, for the use of which the brigade
allows her £1 per week. Said plant consists of an
escape, that has been anchored in one spot for
years, and which would probably fall to pieces if
moved, an exaggerated squirt kept in a household
pad, and two horses. In October, last year, the
entire brigade was locked up, charged with being
drunk while in charge of the horses. The super-
intendent (one Seals), who is also chief engineer,
draws 30s. a week; and the three collectors take 23
per cent, on subscriptions. Were the brigade to
emigrate to, say, New South Wales, a great future
un the C.M.G. line) would assuredly open upon the
possessors of so much enterprising faith in the
credulity of mankind.
Nathalla (Vic.) is fast emerging from the
obsourity in which it was hitherto enveloped, and
is now about to take its place amongst tne great
cities of the world. True, its inhabitants are not
pypu numbered by hundreds, but the strength of
the snake-antidote retailed by the local publicans
has been quite sufficient to bring the township
into notoriety. The abnormal number of inquests
in the place—in which the verdicts clearly indi-
cated that D.T. was the cause of trouble—attracted
the notice of tha Yarrawonga medico, who packed
up his traps instanter and made a bee-line for the
Eldorado. This event made the citizens ambitious.
They had already the nucleus of a local aris-
tocracy in the bank officials and auctioneer.
Then they fairly howled for a newspaper, so
that they could nave the price of wheat
quoted once a week with unerring regularity. A
Numurkah man sent a thrill of Joy through the
community by sending down a case of job type
This costume, which is trimmed with stripes of lace,
is of lake-coloured corded silk. The tunic has three
rows of the lace taken over the hips, and the same
trimmings adorn both collar and sleeves. Sleeves to
the elbow are finished off with a rich ribbon bow of a
corresponding colour to the dress. The bonnet, a fine
chip straw, is trimmed solely with large bunches of
held daisies, and tied under the chin with narrow rib-
bon strings.
and an editor, whereupon the town broke out
with an eruption of bunting, the auctioneer
hoisted his sale flag amid tremendous cheering
from the happy crowd, and things were gav.
Then you’d have thought that Nathalia would
have been contented. But, no fn imita-
tion of the daughter of the horse leech, th**y
still wanted something more. Their cup of happi-
ness was not yet full. They wanted religion badly,
but the wary bush missionary had hitherto drawn
the line at Numurkah. The harvest was truly
plenteous, but the labourers for the Lord did not
seem to ache for that section of the field. The
shekels were scarce, and the climate trying
Hence the scarcity in the mission field. However
the level-headed Bishop Moorhouse was equal to
Our fashions this week show a becoming hood for
evening wear. The “Charlotte Corday ” is of cream-
coloured Spanish tulle, lined with pink sarsenet. Long
lappets of the tulle are attached to the hood, and tied
loosely under the chin. A bow of ribbon is placed just
inside the brim of the hood of either cream or pink.
the emergency, and pounced on a new chum
parson the Rev. £>. Blank—to whom in a
feeble burst of generosity, he handed over the
contract of supplying salvation to the honest
buyers, in consideration of the magnificent stipend
of *4O a year and the proceeds of the contribution
L«^o*4 We have alwft y s held the Bishop in high
estimation on account of his liberal views, but now,
after showing how reckless he is in the distribu-
qV?m ~ we simply bow in silent admiration.
t ttu ? k *4O per annum, and the
thrown in, will suddenly enable the Bov. !
+ S ma^ s * a u ColoBBal fortune, after he has
satisfied the butcher and- baker, and kept the
grocer at bay. And now that wc come to think,
there is some slight difference between £4O a year
and “ perks. ” and £2OOO per annum solid. There
is, also, we opine, some difference between the
Rev. D. Blank and Bishop Moorhouse.
“Advance Australia” is the cry to-day from
one end of our glorious continent to the other. For
example, here’s an ad from a Perth paper which
shows the rapid strides that cheerful city is making
in the march of civilization. “J.S. begs to notify
that he has imported a first-class hansom cab, anti
that it is at all times available for hire. Should
the patronage accorded to the above warrant a
second one being provided, arrangements to supply
it will at once be made ” Perth contains something
like 8000 inhabitants, and we can therefore catch
but a faint idea of the celestial joy of the man who
rents that solitary cab for an hour, and then lies
back to receive the mingled compliments and en-
vious curses of 7999 of his fellow-citizens. Perth,
however, is completely laid over by the rising town
of Bundaberg, (Q.), if we can safely judge by the
following edirorial puff in the Bundaberg Maio.
Our attention has been drawn to an excellent
piece of local workmanship in the shape of a hearse
built by Mr. T. Child to the order of Mr. Buckley”
Some of those days that editor’s body will be
drawn (along with his attention) to the same gor-
geous vehicle, but we’ve quoted enough now to
show what a brilliant career Australia is bound to
run-on wheels.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*


ww»e
m
raw j ‘^SYDHEY •
»e%YOPPO3IT€POST Office.
ov 29s ©cOP6£ BTreei
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality hare no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
' CLOTHING.
! now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
G ENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to he found in any house in the city.
ARb CLOTHING
®?. BEST VALUE
** SYDNEY^
* - > ■ * -
L rr^;j jI GHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Si> ECfir ,?ED OVERCOATS, 42g., 505., 555.
AL COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
±<jS., 505., oos.
STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d„ 355.,
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
•I WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, lfis. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
all new summer shapes.
hWS-o'-WAR SUITS, guernsey
and
Wn=? MACINTOSH CLOTH IN G.-AH
to our Special order.
’ CRICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
{>j||;,Bj g^ A NNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d, 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d„ 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. od. (
18s. 6d., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
FEAPES and SHAW, G-eorge-streec.
CERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Gtlfyp.g '
Oi?S t ''iDr« C l LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
per dozen.
riy.Lß SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
JjJ-UdtflTl Qnrl fiillr •nrifß Ponfo fA mafnVi
REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 305., 405., 425. the half-dozen,
e taho# COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army.and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
A "Pg jn on? folding scarf in position.
foy ? Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
8,10, 13,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
TION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
ERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen
PjEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
Wolff Sz Son’
“ad fromall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colouies.
° Hi na & GLASS at wholesale prices.
6r OKEN SEKVICES MATCHED, aud made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
ijVery description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Eoyal Arcade, Sydney.
o oo\
1
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
3-t into IST.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
ee i) f^ COs S^anc l T'lItST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
" on< l Ueror > Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
«-*.TTEjS,-CONQUEROR Mid EARfcY BIRD hold a high position,
iiSt" *<«YYkr trnporter * of Pines Oisrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
CONQUEROR ” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
tar - TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, IFJIMSO, for
COLONIAL-MADE FiRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- GUns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—SOle Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angel® Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of VertuL,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &o<,
Tricycles, Ereneli and German
Model Dolls, Count liarnteii’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solzlo Bazaar
352 George Street
MR. wm. RUSSELL,
-
Surgical and Mechanical Dentist,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Malformations and accidental deformities of the
jaws, teeth, or palate, treated. King-st. entrance.
A!1 work guaranteed,
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food Sc ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£B5 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Baia-tip capital.
Rfeseryh Fund £IBB,oOO
Directors i
The Hon. Sir JfflA Bat, EALMvCU Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, MiXmv<
George S. Ca:
Hon.
C. Rolieston,
Auditors: _ „ , _
Jas. Seroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Es<q
rge S. Caird, Esq. _ _
l. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
olieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralswaalxwe.
Gosford, Nyng-an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H, Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers;
The National Provincial Bank of England
"This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. „
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other Produce shipped to England for sale.
mm
w
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 CfEORRB STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a mag-mfleent stock of Diamond, Roman,
arid Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the - Address—
8U GEORGE STREET.
Ur. tin Ur.
W
Temporary premises :
110 SCintgtStreef, Sydney.
“ GUNBLER, THE
CATERER”
Has decide die) Oft&ti iti Sytf.*
ney, but premises such as b&
desires are not now available
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
“ G.tf&SjjEft THE
CATERER’S"’
Name is a household word,
a fid his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who rimy r&sf assured that
the cate add attention which
has made “Gtinslef th«
Caterer,” a household word!
in the neighbouring- Colony
■Will be devoted to any aha!
hvfery undertaking he may
dfitdt into'.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-;,
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies*
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
Style and at such modetate
{(rices as has never been at-
fethpthd in this city.
“&GNS;tER THE
CATERER”
every branch of WiS hmstoesSy
and consequently cat? £«**s->■
rantGc to every custom?)?
thorough satisfaction, or at
anV rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public,- it>t th#
Christmas and New: Yea#
Holidays, a few specialities
and is confident they will
tneet with universal approval
GUNSEEH THE
CATERER”
Also manufacture*! every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
Make a special ,eifort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
GUNSLEK
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marqtna of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
GUNSLER
Is the leading- Australian
Caterer.
GUNSLER
Has the most complete staff
ot thoroughly trained hands.
GtJNSLEU
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
'
A Hr,,
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capita i,, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:-SEVISN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Saving’s Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4: Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
SRIAi-N,”"""
N KBV
sSnft
TREATMEN
D
R. E. C. WEST’S NER VE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
' " ’ ontal depression, softening of the
wakefulness, mental . .
brain resulting in insanity and leading - to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia,


(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
M Ml JEWELLERY. IE GOLD WATCHES, k
LATEST FASHIONS,’
WATCHES, E'EESOIM 30s. 38-A.CSS-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
o?*—
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
G-TZ^JETID
-A.
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
IB OPENING up, every aed »yr,i: is
SUITS, TROUSERS and VESTS, SAC, EROCK, and PA-GET COATS, article »
WHITE and RBGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and MUbIRRX. *vvxj
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. _ in 8 %
wr Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the c j, o os®
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in S J^!, E g C RIP IIO '
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING QF EVER*
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haym^
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Stree^
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent aceommodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, st MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION BED
The LION BED
The LION BED
TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
“TTNPBECEDENTED success follows the intro-
U duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
org&nise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
wrfb a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heteisok & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLL
OE ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL BICMEDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieek & Co., Reims.
SEARL & SONS,
nurserymen, seedsmen, bouquetists
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEOBG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY PETERSHAM.
fSf" Pelargoniums now in full .oom, nspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
6? GEORGE STREET WEfST.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydne y Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
■? fr
A
I
HOT WATER BATHS
c ?- Vi
zz ; S&w ■ • '•
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
EIGGIFS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
.Hi
Ingham’s
£UPHOf\BIA,
I ifcgb "'Queensland Cure
Smcwm
A Coughs, i ! ri
NO * ALL CHESrAFFECTOISj
mm
S»REPAf?eC ONUY BY
INGHAM
m
m
9-Q
4Ssi
$0
-6
*e
r-
-A
O
-o
2
o
o
3C?
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great i< eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OB’ PITT AND PARK STREETS,
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WA®
Importer of every descrip
Literature, Law, M erca !}
Fancy Station
Enffliwit Papers and Ma»»* lliel
•very M» u * gT „ $
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GBORP®^/
WRIGHT, HEATO^
(LIMITED)*
GENERAL CAB
Forwarding. Shipping,
o/7(/ Commission *9 e
HEAD OFFIC® s j
241 Pitt Street, W
CARRIERS TO THE GOVE®#
SOUTH WADES-
BRANCH OP
yiC® 5 '
P
Southern District
Goulburn
Yass
Bovroing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Juneo
Wagtfft : P oo>
HangW*
Cul c » ir °
Cowatolljj
Naraode^
Capertoe
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
•Nevertire
gsfinoa
„ fl rtti* aoo 2
w m°Q
Nohthebn
DU®
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
ill*
war*
Tani^ 0
Urall®
QUEENSLAND
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
ngtSOQ
& 9 d«o
it sal
Northern
Townsville
Charters Towers
Rave
Agents in Victoria and So 11 *
WK. M CULLOCH
to CO-’
Agencies in all P arW
0
JES. ROWIjAWDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, * g
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigo l ***
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. ~
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
