

UlTrexsa,! 3?x ©‘TT'icLexs. TTxxi-^exsal
FOR
I I
W
I-
Hr
The Prettiest fftanfies and the Host Charming Costumes in the Australian Colonies.
tlj 1
ln g Novel and fashionable in Millinery, Laces, Ribbons, Prillings, Gloves, Lace Collars, Ties, Prints and Sateens;
and a multitude of pretty little accessories to ladies’ fashionable attire.
CHARACTER
op oua
of' Bedsteads
, Is
U lINMISTAKEABLE,
" lat «l to meet the wants of every
of buyers.
°nly the
Best Makes.
fflWB pMB Q
WB
the engraving is a part representation
OF ONE OF THE
Many Mtiois tf Btisttais
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
* A K.y.
We Sell at the Very Lowest Prices.
♦ t :
i
!-* the fo®t end of the newest registered design in Black and Brass Bedsteads, 6ft. 6in. x 3ft., 39/6-; 6ft. Gin. x 3ft. Gin., 42/-
SlZe d Double Bed, or 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in., 51/6. 45/6. Bowcliffe’s Spring Mattress 45/6.
Q Ur Bedding is all Our Own Manufacture, and we can guarantee its absolute purity and cleanness.
HORDERN AND SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket,
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS,
SYDNEY.
m~ UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. 83T* GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
CST- LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
• '
-•
//A
■ • vt
M
m
M
>■
■v
yAwy/77.
'77a7W7W7v7777&
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Recent-street, Redfern,
Sol® Agents fep
The Oils HjfeirauSie Elevators.
HLLAI3 A. MARSHALL ansi GO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViM ©E&B, Brass & Nickel-plated STOP FLOUTS,
IHydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
tSF* Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON IlOiliikS, 8 & 9 BNacquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application. '
ROYALHOTBL
BOUTRKE,
Is the largest ,and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western Tfistrict. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMS HUQGIMS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
f
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
' ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
YANKEE DOODLE
sbmaooamg.
2iai.
l/'E
w
s%a&Sk °'*s6h & ao* s 4s
'KSVD n c
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
;so^-%£9i)rt
9
glfc3»E&
•.
€ohq UE iKk „
TOBACCO 4/^
"".i
VOX jPOPIJLI !r! This mighty power bap built the DTXSON’S great Tobacco Factory. How ? Tbe
voice of the people declaring tbe YANKEE DOODLE and CONQUEROR Tobaccos their own'
demanded the supply—Hixson and Sons responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
the Southern Hemisphere, and consuming the bulk of all the Imported American Leaf Tobacco.
MEMO, to you from
in Pitt-st
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us J eI1 t
whenever yon want something nice and tasty, 1
from what you can get in the country stores.
E3F” Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & I'M
? u j BAMJARF. MEMP
397 SEORQE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET', SYDNEY,
iHDiI
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chand .
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery,
Implements.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Yertical Fixed.
Co-s\\,T\\.wsa.V,
Tfc ocqas la.’o.A. TLAIX..
B«VI*ERS.
Vertical and B.orix.ontal,
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse ‘l° rS ’Tb reS
~ " ~ rs, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Cr usher® and isheue
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing,
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Ha aHE.er 8 *
stf 6
Massey’s unequall
W8055-WOEKINB MACHINERY..
pret
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Mac bines- po w® l'* 1 '*
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and suea'in-n
0a^ 8 '
English and American Agricultural InapHen* .e« t8 *
Boee<
4
-fIVTb 5 ®
Bakes, Beapers and Mowers.
Railway Contractors’ Material and plane** _
Coach Builders’ Sundries—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Fur»
Musury’s celebrated Coach Colours. f3aiva nizoa '
Large Stoeks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron *,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. ao d
Woolpackß, Sheep Shears, Oils, Eaddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Waflbio
Machinery. 4
, ijooW' i
Guilders’ Ironmongery. el
Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements l*i c
Locks, Hinges,
uters
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application *° _
BRISCOE, DRYSDARE
397 George Street, Sydney-
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 19 s r
0t
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES-
CATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing
Gb L '
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. EA&q
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICE* 5 -
the' 11
at fi-
de* 1
mm
Our Introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is af
aow both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
T 77". -W. CATSf’fjf/
3.9 3 and 195' PITT S
&
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe
Trousers from 31s. to 40s.
—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was-HEAD CiITTEE
W. Sheaesbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Coe 1 ’
co’
tt*
t.
K
, CO'


THE
BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 77.—New Series.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 1, 1884.
Frio#-6d.
The Duke and the Printer.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1884.
The printing press is the grandest averager
of the age. By the mighty alchemy of the
criticism which follows publication, false
pretensions to superiority of intellect, and
the spurious deferences which high rank
tains from its ordinary surrounding of syoo-
phantic adulators, are resolved into their
elements. A Monarch may patronise or may
disgrace a Shakespeare ; a Duke may blast
a Henry George, socially, by a frown or a
sneer. But when the Monarch condescends,
or the Duke ventures, to waive the liotitious
and accidental advantages of rank, and
enter into competition with Shakespeare
or with George in fair rivalry in the Re-
public ot Letters, it is quickly seen whioh is
the abler, and perhaps which is the nobler,
man. All our readers are now in some de-
gree acquainted with Henry George, the
popularizer of the economic theory that, by
nationalisation of land, the frightful ills of
the existing Social system may be entirely
remedied. And some, at least, of our readers
will be aware of the existence of the Duke
of Argyll. Although this is true, probably*
of readers of The Bulletin merely be-
cause they are for the most part Britons,
it is quite likely that millions in differ-
ent countries of Europe and America, who
have heard the name of Henry George re-
verberating through the world, had never
known of the existence of Archibald,
Duke of Argyll, until that hapless (in a lite-
rary sense) nobleman ventured to take up
the argumentative cudgels on behalf of the
privileged and propertied owners against
this plebeian prophet whose voice was cry-
ing woe upon the monopolisers of God's
gifts, in a tone which, like the sound of the
last trump, penetrated to all the ends of the
earth. Nevertheless, the Duke of Argyll is a
remarkable man—for a Lord. Among his
order he is distinctly the man of most philo-
sophic ability. Hi? contemplative mind has
impelled him to put his reflections upon re-
cord ; and he has published at least one book
whioh would have been read by a few people
interested in like subjects, even if he had not
been a Duke. “ The Roign of Law,” by the
Duke of Argyll, we have not even read. But
among its readers was a certain printer of
San Francisco—a man interested in kindred
speculations ouo Henry George. This
man in turn wrote a book (“ Progress and
Poverty ”), and among the persons whom he
honoured by a presentation copy was the
author of “ The Reign of Law,” tho Duke of
Argyll, The presentation was not, we be-
lieve, acknowledged at the time by any ex-
pression of thanks or otherwise, But when
George’s book had found its way |into the
hands and the principles it taught had
penetrated to the very soul of multitudes of
people, the Duke, as one possessing much
land, was stirred. He, alarmed, read the
book, found in it sentiments and proposi-
tions which, if generally accepted and
carried into practice, would so operate that
there would not, in the future, be many
m ° r e Dukes of Argyll possessing a great
slice of Scotland, and controlling the for-
tunes of thousands of other men. And the
Duke—his preconceptions, his traditional
belief in his order, and his pride revolting at
every sentence he read—took up his pen,
knd set himself magnificently to crush the
presumptious plebeian with the full weight
°f a literary distinction which His Grace had
Probably been accustomed to hear rated at
aQ equal value with his rank.
* * *
The Duke’s article is not a feeble or tri-
‘US performance. On the contrary, it is I
ably constructed, and must have appeared
very powerful to any one who had not read
and comprehended the works cf which it
treats. The attack on George is dexterously
arranged and vigorously conducted. The
Duke shows himself no contemptible dis-
putant. Butin Henry George’s hands he
is as a Philistine warrior in the grasp of
Samson. The rejoinder of Henry George is
positively annihilating. It has evoked
throughout the world Homeric peals of
laughter at the expense of the over-
matched aristocrat whose vanity had in-
duced him to enter the lists against
an intellectual giant of the age. And
the two articles furnish, apart from
their argumentative value, a singular en-
lightenment. That is. that it is the noble
who is vulgar and the plebeian who is
MR. JOHN WOODS, M.L.A., OF VICTORIA.
polished. The Duke splashes about epithet
and abusive phrases. The printer scorns
such resource, Jand retaliates only with the
most penetrating, polished, and subtle satire.
His Grace entitles his paper “ The Prophet
of San Francisco,” a title which is a fneer.
And throughout his pages we find scattered
broadcast such broad allegations as that
Mr. George's system is on a par with that
of a demented gentleman who has written
treatises to prove the world is flat; that his
theory is, in the words of Voetaire, an
“impertinence abominable;" that he deals
in “fustian;” that “ there is no mere practice
of corruption which has ever been alleged
against the worst administrative body in
any country that can be compared in cor-
ruption with the desolating dishonour of
bis teaching;” that he enunciates “immora 1
doctrines;” that he inculcates robbery; that
he is aotuated by envy and violence; that
“ he has steeled his moral sense against the
iniquity of even the most dishonourable
conclusions;” that he advocates colossal
villainy; that the world has never seen such
a Preacher of Unrighteousness as he; that
his logic is “childish,” and his conclusions
are “profligate;” that he touches the lowest
depth ever reached by any political philo-
sophy; that his works are full of “ this kind
of stuff;” that his reasoning is of “ incredi-
ble absurdity;” thathis processes in matters
of reasoning are not more absurd than his
assumptions in matters of fact; that he
talks “arrant nonsense,” and must have in
his composition “a very large percentage of
the fanatic and the goose;” that he is not in
the least shocked by consequences whioh
abolish the decalogue, and deny the primary
obligations both of public and of private
honour.
* * *
These are specimens of the aristocratlo
method of argument. Evidently His Grace
is very angry. People who have been ac-
customed tc hear that all the graces and
elegancies pertain to the nobility as part of
their birthright, will llnd it difficult to credit
us when we assert that jealous scrutiny has
detected in Mr. George’s rejoinder to the
Duke not one single answering vulgarism.
If the Duke shows that he is furious,
Mr George demonstrates that he is calm.
Perusing his reply, one would judge, in-
deed, that he is rather enjoying him-
self. He disdains personalities, and buf-
fets his antagonist with demonstrations
of prinoipleß. The bitterest thing he per*
mils himself is the withdrawal of a com*
pliment. When he sent the Duke the pre-
sentation copy of “ Progress and Poverty,”
he knew His Grace only as the author of
‘‘The Reign of Law.” He had then never
visited Sootland, nor learned the character
His Grace there bore as a landlord. He
intended to pay a tribute to the man of
letters, not to irritate the land-owner. He
had not thought that “ a trumpery title and
a patch of ground could fetter a mind which
had oommuned with Nature.” He admits
his mistake, and publicly apologises. Here,
however, George discards personal re-
joinders. He joins issue with the Duke on
his own ground, and accepts what His
Grace has termed “ the Reduction to Ini-
quity.” Quoting a reflection by the Duke,
“ that the moral faculties do not as cer-
tainly revolt against iniquity as the reason-
ing faculties do against absurdity,” Georgs
proceeds straight to business. He denies the
aocuracy of the maxim. He maintains on
the contrary, that “ wherever moral percep-
tions have differed, or do differ, the disturb*
ance may be traced to onuses which, origi*
nating in selfishness, and perpetuated by
intelleotul perversions, have distorted or
dulled the moral faculties.” Thus admit-
ting, even more fully than the Duke himself,
the competence of the tribunal to which the
latter invites him to submit his case, and
accepting ‘‘The Reduction to Iniquity,”
Georqe states the indictment without
flinching. The Duke, he says, " charges me
with advocating violation of the moral law
in proposing robbery. I agree that robbery
is a violation of the moral law, and is there-
fore, without further inquiry, to be con-
demned.” Next he states, in terms which
do not admit of cavil, a definition of what
constitutes “robbery.” It is, he says, “the
taking or withholding from another of that
which rightfully belongs to him.”
* * *
We make no apology for having omitted
up to this point to epitomize the conten-
tions of the Duke of Argyll’s paper. As a
matter of fact, the Duke himself admits t
with perfect accuracy, that he has not
attempted to argue.* He merely runs
over the results whioh to him appear to
' follow from George’s proposals, and com.
ments according to his lights. And as
George leaves no point unanswered, it
becomes most convenient to deal at the
same time with allegation and rejoinder.
At the conclusion of the preceding para-
graph we have given the basis of disputation.
Apparently Mr. George had quietly stepped
into the dock and jdaced himself upon his
trial as an instigator of Tobbery. But in his
very next sentenoe he steps out again, and
ere long he has, without apparent effort,
edged the Duke into the vaoant place. The
whole dispute turns upon the expression
“that which rightfully belongs to him.”
George, at this stage, suddenly propounds a
distinction. He oonverts the trial from a
criminal accusation against himself into a
question of title. He thus discriminates —
“That whioh rightfully belongs to him, be it
observed, not that whioh legally belongs to him
As to what extent human law may create rlarhts is
beside this discussion, for what I propose is to
ohange, not to violate, human law. Such change
the Duke declares would be unrighteous. He thus
appeals to that moral law which is before and
above all human laws, and by which all human
laws are to be judged. Let me Insist upon this
point. Landholders must elect to try their case
either by human law or by moral law. If they
say that land is rightfully property because made
so by human law, they cannot charge those who
would change that law with advocating robbery.
But if they charge that such change in human
law would be robbery, then they must show that
land is rightfully property irrespective of human
law.”
Land, he proceeds to argue, is not of that
species of things to which the presumption
*“ In thlo paper it baa not been my aim to
argue.'*


TIE POPULAR BRAID
BRIAN BORU
"J^TOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of geld medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
■when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M, CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
B Best Cure for the above la Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
V PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PIB IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Sii£lt Botllt Itjirimit,
MARKET STREET.
WHHN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
O. W. ROBERTS' NEW BAR,
GEORGS STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OV WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WHO 5, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of auoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other f establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
OOLONIA.Ii WINE DEPARTMENT,
18 now open In
MARKET STREET.
edL
RED or W HITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
CJ uality Superlative.
NONE but WIN E the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is u >ld in this department.
Tra most W holesomh or all BuvuaAais.
a W. KOI ERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYET ELISH WHIBKI
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely Wh tte Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
POET Mi tCQUARIE RED WINE,
li i. 6d. per bottle.
MURBI TMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNBSSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY#
6s . 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
lHarkrt Street, Sydney.
of rightful property attaches. That only
attaches to such things as originate in human
exertion, and the right of property which
attaohes to them springs from the manifest
natural right of every individual to himself
and to the benefit of his own exertions.
This is the moral basis of rightful property,
totally irrespective of human law. If there
Were but two men in the world, how could
one of them olaim the world as his ngLtful
property ? Or, if they agreed to divide the
world between them, what moral right could
their compact give them against the next
man who came into the world ? But the fish
whioh either of them took out of the sea,
the beast he oaptured, the fruit he
or the hut he ereoted would be his rightful
property, whioh the other could not take
from him witboutviolation of the moral law.
But Mr. George declines to fight with
shadows. As a matter of fact, no one—not
even the Duke of Argyll—has seriously as-
serted that property in land rests upon any
other derivation than human enactment.
And human enactment may be changed
without violation of moral law. The Duke
ventures, Indeed, to hint indirectly at the
♦‘right” of appropriation —which is simply
the right of conquest, the right of the
strongest. George deals with this hypo-
thetioally: If exclusive ownership has been
attainable by appropriation, it is still so
attainable; ergo , if the masses of Scotland,
who have the power, choose to seize the
estates the Duke now holds, he cannot, if
such be the basis of his claim, consistently
complain—which is rather a heavy argu-
mentative back-fall for the noble Duke.
But scorning an illicit advantage, Mr.
George declines the victory. He expressly
denies that appropriation can confer right
to exclusive ownership of the soil. The his-
torical inquiry, moreover, he regards as ines-
sential. Precedent cannot over-ride moral
law. The investigation, however, may be
interesting, and he does not deeline it. For
example, he says, the Duke says a good deal
about his own estates, “but has nowhere
told us how they came to be his estates.”
Here Mr. George gets in one of those neat
thrusts which we have spoken of. The in-
quiry, he admits, with rather satirical can-
dour, is a delicate one, and on that account
he will not press it; and he continues—
" But while a man ought not to be taunted with
the sins of his ancestors, neither ought he to profit
by them. And the general fact is, that the ex-
clusive ownership of land has everywhere had its
beginnings in foroe and fraud, in selfish greed and
unsorupulous cunning. It originated, as all evil
institutions originate, in the bad passions of men,
not in their perceptions of what is right or their
experience of what is wise. ‘Human laws,’ the
Duke tells us, are evolved out of human instincts,
and, in direct proportion as the accepted ideas on
whioh thej rest are really universal, In that same
proportion have they a olaim to be regarded as
really natural, andt as tho legitimate expression of
fundamental truths.’ If he would thus found on
the widespread' existence of exclusive property
In land 1 an argument for its righteousness, what,
may I ask him, will he say to the much stronger
argument that might thus be made for the righte-
ousness of polygamy or chattel slavery ? But it
is a faot, of whioh I need hardly more than remind
him, though less well-informed people may be
Ignorant of ft, that the treatment of land as In-
dividual property Is comparatively reoent, and by
at least nine hundred and ninety-nine out of every
thousand of those who have lived on this world
has never been dreamed of. It is only within the
last two centuries that it has, by the abolition of
feudal tenures and the suppression of tribal
customs, fully obtained among our own people.”
• • •
Dismissing this aspect of the subject, Mr.
Gxorge invites his antagonist to meet him
on higher ground, and proceeds to desper-
ately wound the Duoal eagle with a shaft
feathered from his own wing. In “The Reign
of Law” the Duke explained with what nice
adaptation the feathers on a bird’s wing are
designed to give it powers of flight. (Judged
by this passage, His Grace’s book would
to- owe a good deal to Paley’s “Natural
Theology”). Well, if this be your line of
reasoning, says George, with what intent
have human creatures been given capabili-
ties of body and mind whioh, under condi-
tions such as exist in such countries as
Great Britain, only a few of them can use
and enjoy ?
“ The Duke sees intent In Nature. So do I. That
whioh conforms to this Intent is natural, wise, and
righteous. That which contravenes it is unnatural,
foolish, and iniquitous. In this we agree. Let us
then bring to this test the Institution whioh I
arraign and he defends. Place, stripped of clothes,
a landowner’s baby among a dozen workhouse
babies, and who that you can call in can tell the
one from the others? Is the human law which de-
clares the one born to the possession of a hundred
thousand acres of land, while the others have no
right to a single square inch, conformable to the
intent of Nature or not? Is it judged by this
appeal, natural or unnatural, wise or foolish,
righteous or Iniquitous? Put the bodies of a duke
and a peasant on a dissecting table, and bring, if
you can, the surgeon who, by laying bare the
brain, or examining the viscera, can tell which Is
duke and which is peasant. Are not both land
animals of the same kind, with like organs and like
needs? Is it not evidently tho intent of Nature
that both shall live on land and use land, in the
same way, and to the same degree ? Is there not,
therefore, a violation of the intent of Nature in
human laws which give to one more land than he
can possibly use, and deny any land to the other?
Let me ask the Duke to consider, from the point
of view of an observer of Nature, a landless man
—a being fitted in all his parts and powers for the
Use of land, compelled by all his needs to the use
9f land, and yet denied all right to laud. Is he
not as uao d oral as a bird without air, a flsh with-
out water ? A nd can anything more clearly violate
the intent m' Nature than the human laws which
produces ,cj momalies?
• • •
Then, jn’c ceding to the argument of long
possession . < nferringindefeasabie and right-
ful title to monopoly of land, the repeti-
tion of a w ong may dull the moral sense
(another subtle thrustat the “ Reduction to
Iniquity” jn oposed by Argyll) but will not
make it ri; hi. A robbery is no less a robbery
the thousand-millionth time it is committed
than it was the first time; and monopoly
of lan I is a robbery perpetually repeated.
It involves a continuous confiscation of.
labour and the results of labour.
“ The Duke of Argyll has, we say, a large income
drawnf „• >m land. But is this income really drawn
from lan 1 ? Were there no men on his land, what
Income could the Duke get from it, save such as
his own hands produced? Precisely as if drawn
from sla v cs, this income represents an appropri-
ation ol the earnings of labour. The effect of
permitting the Duke to treat this land as his pro-
perty is to make so many other Scotsmen, in
whole O'- in part, his serfs—to compel them to
labour or nim without pay, or to enable him to
take frem them their earnings without return.
Surely,l f the Duke will look at the matter in this
way, ho must see that the iniquity is not in
abolishing an institution which permits one man
to plunder others, but in continuing it. He must
see that any claim of landholders to compensation
is not a claim to payment for what they have
previously taken, but to payment for what they
might yet sake, precisely as would be the claim of
the slavefii Ider—the true character of which ap-
pears in the fact that he would demand more
compensation for a strong slave, out of whom he
might get much work, than for a decrepit one,
out of whom he had already forced nearly all the
labour he could yield.”
Up to this point, the philosopher has almost
played with the titled dilletante ; now he
become* terrible. With a power of delinea-
tion which has in it something awful, he
holds up to the Duke of Argyll, as in a
mirror, his own country, and illuminates it
by the light of that “Reduction to Iniquity”
which the unhappy wretch had himself pro-
vided. “ Test the institution whioh you call
saored,” he ories; “ test this holy institution
of private property in land by its fruits ” in
Scotland.
“ What, there, are its results ? That wild beasts
have supplanted human beings; that glens which
’once sent forth their thousand fighting men are
now tenanted by a couple of gamekeepers; that
there is destitution and degradation that would
shame savages; that little girls are stunted and
starved for want of proper nourishment; that wo-
men are compelled to do the work of animals; that
young girls who ought to be fitting themselves for
wifehood and motherhood are held to monotonous
toil in factories, while others, whose fate is sadder
stiil, prowl the streets; that while a few Scotsmen
have castles and palaces, more than a third of Scot-
tish families live in one room each, and more than
two thirds in not more than two rooms each; that
thousands of acres are kept as playgrounds for
strangers, while the masses have not enough of
their native soil to grow a flower, are shut out
even from moor and mountain, dare not take a
trout from a loch or a salmon from a stream I
; . . . With the same thoughtful attention he
has given to ‘the way of an eagle in the air,’let
the Duke consider a sight he must have seen many
a time—a Scottish woman toiling uphill with a
load of manure on her back. Then let him apply
‘the reduction to iniquity.’ .... Orlethimgo
to Edinburgh, the ‘modern Athens,’ of whioh Scots-
men speak with pride, and in buildings from whose
roofs a bowman might strike the spires of twenty
churches he will find human beings living as he
would not keep his meanest dog. Let him toil up the
stairs of one of those monstrous buildings, let him
enter one of those ‘ dark houses,’ let him close the
door, and in the blackness, think what life must
be in such a place. Then let him try the reduction
to iniquity. And if he -go to that good charity
(but alas! how futile is Charity without Justice!)
where little children are kept while their mothers
are at work, and children are fed who would other-
wise go hungry, he may see infants whose limbs
are shrunken from want of nourishment. Per.
haps they may tell him, as they told me, of that
little girl, barefooted, ragged, and hungry, who,
when they gave her bread, raised her eyes and
clasped her hands, and thanked our Father in Hea-
ven for his bounty to her. They who told me that
never d reamed, I think, of its terrible meaning. But
I ask the Duke of Argyll, did that little child,
thankful for that poor dole, get what our Father
provided for her? is He so niggard ? If not, what
is it, who is it, that stand's between such children
and our Father’s bounty ? If it bo an institution,
is it nor our duty to God and to our neighbour to
rest no! till we destroy it? If it be a man, were it
not better for him that a millstone were hanged
about h't neck and he were oast into the depths of
thesea?”
* * *
It is useless here interposing words of our
own, when the Master himself speaks to
such purpose. We continue, therefore, to
quote; -
As illustrating the usefulness of landlords,
the Duke says:—
‘My own experience now extends over the best
part of forty years. During that time I have
built over fl fty homesteads, complete for man and
beast, i have drained and reclaimed many
hundreds! and inclosed some thousands of acres
In this sense I have added house to house, and
field to field, not—as pulpit orators have assumed
in similar oases—that I might dwell alone in the
land, but mat the cultivating class may live more
comfortably and with better appliances for in-
creasing the produoe of the soil.’
And ag£iu he says that during the last four
years be has spent on one property £40,000
in thei morovement of the soil-
“ What I would like to ask the Duke is,
(George continues) how he built the fifty
homeste.ii a and reclaimed the thousands of
acres. Not with his own hands, of course,
but with his money. Where, then, did he
get that money ? Was it not taken as rent from
the cultivators of the soil ? And might not they,
had it been left to them, have devoted it to the
building of homesteads and the improvement of
the soil as well as he ? Suppose the Duke spends
on such improvements all he draws in rent, minus
what it costs him to live, is not the cost of his
living so much waste as far as the improvement of
the land is concerned ? Would thero not be a con-
siderably greater fund to devote to this purpose
if the Duke got no rent, and had to work for a
living? ’
* * *
We need add nothing to these extracts. Their
overwhelming force, and the lurid light they
throw upon the shameful scene, transoends
anything our weak art can produoe. A
little further on, Mr. George utters the
apothegm that “the plea of the landlords
that they, as landlords, assist in production,
is very much like the plea of the slave-
holders that they gave a living to the slave.”
One curious circumstance connected with
the two articles upon which we have drawn
for this digest should be stated, as illustrat-
ing the difficulty with whioh any Social
reformation has to struggle. A very large
proportion of the Scotch newspapers noticed,
we are assured by a correspondent at home*
the Duke’s essay. Most journals gave lengthy
extracts; many reprinted the entire paper.
But not one leading journal in Scotland so
much as mentioned Mr. George’s crushing
rejoinder. It is a mistake to believe that
the power of the Press is essentially and in-
variably in favour of progress. In the
coming struggle between the plundered
many and the plundering few, the great
journals will be ranged, without exception,
against the poor. For great journals have
become great properties. Their proprietors
have made, or seek to make, their way
among the magnates of the earth. If a
prosperous paper support the cause of the
oppressed in the future, the fact will be due
to some ecoentricity on the part of its con-
ductors—some devotion to principle, without
reference to the personal results. But, as a
rule, people will have to look to “rags” for
advocacy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Trifle.
In commenting upon the proposal of the Anglican
Bishops, that the general religious teaching pro-
vided for by the 7th clause of the Public Instruc-
tion Act be extended and amplified so as to become
practically a sedulous inculcation of dogmatic
theology, the S. M. Herald, besides objecting
that Roman Catholic teachers would refuse to
be made the instruments of what would, were the
Anglican Bishops satisfied, be Protestant propa.
gandism, argues that nobody couid complain of
the Churches going so far as to have the general
religious teaching as embodied in the Scripture
lessons fully taught. This is merely an assertion.
Everyone who dissents from the dootrines em _
bodied in the Scripture lessons could com-
plain, with justice, of their, children being
indoctrinated with teachings which they be-
lieve to be not merely untrue, but in-
jurious to the reasoning faculties of the young.
But probably no one, except extremists, will object.
The number of parents who consider that cram-
ming with such legends as Jonah and the Whale,
and so forth, is detrimental to the cultivation of
the power of discernment and ratiocination, is un-
doubtedly very great. But the more sensible and
philosophic among those parents will probably be
satisfied that, while it is very difficult to twist a
child’s mind to really believe absurdities, it is hap-
pily extremely easy, with all the influence of
natural sense and plain probabilities working
against such teachings, to neutralize their effects
and make them instrumental in conveying to the
young just ideas of what is and what is not absurd.
Ten minutes’ table-talk in the home circle, or mere
contact with every-day conversation, will amply
suifioe to undo all the mischief attempted to bo
wrought by the recital of legendary romances, by
teachers who for the most part will be at little
pains to disguise their own scepticism regarding
what they are obliged to teach. The world will
continue to revolve around the sun despite the
ex-cathedra declarations of the priestly caste and
jts lay helots.
+
The "Boozer’s” Paradise.
The Swiss nation drink more alcohol per head than
any other European people. In 1881-1883 the im-
portation of wine (although the country is wine-
pro-!ucing) reaohed the large figure of 803,969 quin-
tals, a quintal being one hundred gallons. In
thirty years the importation has quadrupled,
although during the same period there has been
little or no increase in the population. In addition
to the wine, there is imported every year ten mil-
lions of litres of pure alcohol, for the purpose of
being manufactured into what is termed eau-de-
vie. Brandy of “ best quality ” is purchasable at
6d. per litre, and it is sold everywhere, and in almost
every class of shop. In England, one has to pay
an average of sixpence for the sixteenth of a pint
of alcohol; a full half-pint can be bought in Swit-
zerland for one penny. In a corresponding ratio
with the increase of drinking, mental diseases and
indigency have increased, until the mad-houses are
full to overflowing; and the poverty “amongst
the lower classes ” is frightful. We suppose that
among the “lower classes” the members of the
Council, or Lower Chamber (corresponding to our
Legislative Assembly), are not included. This
estimable body have had before them for years
and years the horrors of the drink system; but
they rather appear to favour it—one reason being
that the grog traffic annually yields 150,000,000
francs revenue to the State! So that the worthy
Councillors not only disregard the cry for reform,
but have actually sent to the Upper House &
“ Message ” in the nature of a Blue Book contain-.
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page.


The Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. 'l’kaill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
log a chapter devoted to the “Advantages of the
Drink TralUc.” Here is a bit of it:—
“It is doubtless possible to discuss and talk
without drinking, or confining oneself to tea or
coffee; but everyone kDows by experience that
after a hard day's work, when one feels over-
whelmed by professional cares, it is impossib e to
bring a cheerful temper into the society where
we amuse or mutually encourage eich other un-
less one indulges in a glass of generous wine, or
refreshing beBr, which effaces the traces of daily
labour, and opens the heart to other impressions.
Can anyone deny the nec ssity of these re unions
for the development of our public life in general?
Can any one deny that in many localities and for
many people the relations of sociability are inti-
mately associated with the life of the public-
house? Can any one deny that the numerous
societies, formed either for recreation and amuse-
ment, or for the nurposo of discussing measures
which concern subjects of general interest - that
the extension of popular rights and the develop-
ment of the Press-are not each and all so many
reasons tor increasing the frequenting of houses
of public resort? It we deplore the excess of
drinking, which is often the consequence; if we
blame those who spend uselessly their time and
money in gossiping, in talking public-house
politics, and in card-playing, we cannot disguise
from ourselves, on the other hand, the stimulating
influences of these reunions on the intellectual
activity of many, nor the good fruits th .y often
briog to tbe pufllic interest*. As much as we
sympathise with those whom the craving for driak
has thrown into the arms of madness or has led to
suicidb or crime, we must not forget that ia the
public-house is to bs foun i a social life tnat is an
eflioacious remedy against hypochondria and
misanthropy, as well as against egotism, vanity,
narrowness of ideas, and extravagance of imagi-
nation.”
The foregoing is a chunk of the collective wisdom
0 f Swi'zerland. We can imagine a man writing
' TVal - si\ol» C a plain Jams ka.» gof fk« yrl 1 ailflre t® r a
pcictnir u»Ki U J Iruf no mattir-r-r
Hak 1 <» tkaniL to croquet Jones R-reverxy*
fS. Wmy «■ , »»»“ r * romp lit */«<*</ward
lr«*.i' he ho-d rttottly tavufvß /us ms/io u< °/ enemy i raft I
So he ura.s assists d into /fie. house
and Kwusti himstlf *y looking oat of /He u/tnUou'
u,A tn Oho rrvr 'h* ta.t*r ■ ~Zi~^
r This .
The Pleasures of Croquet.
such a 11 Blue Book ” while under the influence of
“James Hennessy & Co., Cognac,” and we aro
quite aware that many “ hypochondt iacs and my-
siathropists ” do regard soda and alleged brandy
as a panacea for all evils; but we have never known
an “egotist” who beoame more modest as the
bowl went round, that modesty alone excepted
which induces a man, towards the end of a long
Right, to find repose beneath the table, after the
manner of our festive ancestors, —nor did we
ever know a man's “ vanity ” to decrease in
direct ratio to the number of times he looked
upon the wine when it was red. We have known
Ifrog to act as a palliative lor “ narrowness of
ideas,” but,on the other hand, we are prepared to
aver that alcoholic stimulants can only be relied
on to check “extravagance of imagination”
through the medium of the lock-up and police-
court. As to the ” development of the Press ’*
being a reason for frequenting public-houses, we
firmly refuse to express any opinion whatever.
We can only say that the Swiss Federal Council
are the greatest humourists (and probably the
greatest “boozers ") who ever lived. No wonder
they expelled the Salvation Army. Thoir“Mes-
•a&e”—think of Buchanan, Taylor, M’Elhone,
kfid all the rest of them sending up such a Blue-
®ook to Dalley and Sir John Hay !-almost in-
PireB one to sing, with Giraldus Cambrensis:—
“If I must die, let me die drinking at an inn,
Hold the wine-cup to my lips sparkling from the
bin;
Then while angels flutter down to take me from
my sin—
-0 Lord, have m?rey on this sot; the cherub 3 will
begin.”
Mrs Maguire's Tobacoo-Pouch.
At Liverpool, “ a very stylish lady, named Ma-
guire,” on lauding from an American steamer,
was asked the usual question whether she had in
her possession contraband goods. Her reply in
the negative did not satisfy the Customs offleor,
who suspiciously eyed her peculiar walk and ap-
poarance, and insisted upon her accompanying
him to the p jlice station. There she was searched,
and it was found that her “improver ” was so ar-
ranged as to hold six pounds of smuggled tobacco.
The account does not state whether Mrs. Ma-
guire's best Virginii aromatic was “ cut-up,” and
therefore soft, or inthe form of plug, which would
have been rather hard to sit on. It will cause the
sex considerable inconvenience at present if the
mere fact of a lady being “ of peculiar walk and
appearance” be held to justify a rude Customs
man in marching her off to the police station, and
search’ng her tobacco-pouch. Let us, in the in-
terests of gallantry, venture to hope that English
manners are not to be judged by English customs.
This Liverpool story reminds us of one we read
long ago in a French paper. At Paris, an ap-
parently very fat man one day waddled through
the octroi gate. The douanier was quite familiar
with his face, hut that face had surely, when last
he saw it, never been associated with such a mon-
strous figure. 8o the fat man was stopped and
searched. It was found that he had, to evade pay-
ing duty, rigged up and tied round his waist a false
stomach of india-rubber, which contained several
gallons of brandy. Perhaps that’s where Mrs.
Maguire got her idea. By and bye, we shall, no
doubt, have ladies and gentlemen going out for
harbour picnics—the lady carrying the tobacco
d la Mrs. Maguire, and the gentleman escorting
the beer after the fashion of the fat gentleman of
Paris. It is now quite a common complaint that
men are too fond of brandy and tobacco to care
about marrying. Lovely woman has now the
means of holdiDg out an irresistible bait. Let her
always be well trimmed, fore and aft, with cognac
and cavendish. But never let her, in her inno-
cence, try to sit on cigars.
♦
Viva! Humbert.
When the other day, during the prevalence of the
cholera epidemic in Naples, KingHuMBERT of Italy,
quitting the comparative safety of his palace at
Rome, proceeded to the afflicted city, and there
visited the hospitals, cheered the sufferers, and
freely exposed himself to all the perils of infection,
the press resounded with adulation. Wo did not
assist to swell the chorus. Our idea is that King
Humbert was no more entitled to credit than the
man who, finding your purse, hands it to you
instead of puttijg it into his pocket. In other
words, we hold that Humbert was simply dis-
charging an obvious duty. In cholera epidemics
more people are infected by the predisposition
induced by scare than because they are physically
susceptible of the malady. In such circumstances,
what is wanted is a prominent illustration of the
fact that infection does not necessarily and as a
matter of course follow exposure. And who
so fit to furnish the example as the people’s
King ? In modern days the monarchical character
has strangely dwindled and shrunk. The two Em-
perors who have of late years “ led ’ their armies
to war, have “ led ” them in every instance from
the rear. If, by any unforseen shift of front,
either Pious Billy or the late sainted Czar found
themselves within the range of artillery Are, the
heroic calmness and decent deliberation with
which they removed to a place of safety was
trumpeted in every Gazette. But lead a battalion
into rction, as our own Prince Henry flung him-
self at the head of his men-at-arms Into lue breach
at Harfleur, they never did. The most magnificent
pieoe of mountebankery during the Russo-
Turkish war was when the Czar Alexander,
posting himself on an eminence just out of reach
of all but spent cannon-shot, personally honoured
tbe soldiers who were orderod to take the Gra-
vitzka redoubts at Plevca by looking on
while they marched into the hell of fire,
and lead, and iron, and permitted themselves
to be killed, and torn, and mangled, and
left in t rment to be mutilated by the victorious
foe—while their living and heroiciSovereign, on the
failure of tbe assault, majestically led the retreat’
and cantered off with unrumpled plumage to the
nearest sale refuge, where his French oooks and
serving-men had the entrtex and champagne frappi
in proper order for His Majesty's supper. Our
own Prince Leopold—the first of his blood, since
George of Cambridge found Inkermann surfeit
his stomach for combat, to take the field against
an enemy—was carefully posted In the reserve, and
never came under fire at all. undoubtedly, the
exploit of Humbert was heroic for a modern
King. What we object to is that it should be ne-
cessary to make such an admission. If it be not
the kingly duty to lay down his life for his people,
whose is it ? The heroism of a mere ordinary
mortal should be the ordinary deportment of a
monarch. But now the case is reversed; and what
is mere ordinary discharge of duty in a physician
or hospital nurse, is extraordinary heroism in a
modern King. Vim, Humbert! true King! But,
to the devil with the servile scribes and sycophants
who grovel in voluntary abasement, and who are
so unwittingly satirical as to go into raptures of
astonishment whenever a monarch does not fail to
be equal to tbe duties of his station.
An extraordinary development of tbe pretensions
of legal practitioners is reported to have occurred
in Melbourne in connection with an application
by the wife of Mr. Delves Broughton, deputy-
master of the Victorian Mint, to have her husband
released from a lunatic asylum and transferred to
her charge. According to a published statement,
a Mr. Furlonge, a lawyer, opposed Mrs. Delves
Broughton’s application, on the ground that
the costs in a former application had not been paid.
If this report be accurate, it appears that the
lawyer wished the Judge to rule that no person
incarcerated as a lunatic in an asylum should be
entitled to obtain his release, even though he had
recovered his reason, so long as he owed money
to his lawyers. Mr. Justice Williams did not lend
a yielding attention to Mr. Forlonge’s objection,
but the fact that any lawyer should have had the
audacity to approach a Judge with such a propo-
sition discloses an extraordinary conception of the
privileges which the legal caste Imagine their
brethren on the Bench might be not unwilling to
establish for their benefit. Had Mr. Forlonge’s
objection been upheld, presuming that it was
really made, Mr. Delves Broughton would prac-
tically have been sentenced to detention in a
lunatic asylum for life, unless he could pay his
lawyer’s bill. We see no earthly reason why d
lawyer’s bill should stand on any different footing
from a grocer’s bill: and c:nceive the monstrosity
of a grocer appearing before a Judge to oppose the
liberation of a former customer from a lunatic
asylum, not because he was unfit to enjoy liberty,
but because he had paid no attention to “ account
rendered ”1
The position of the telephone in England
is now almost ideal. No royalty is charged on
business done by private companies; and subscri-
bers are able to dictate telegrams through the
telephone, just as those who use the Po3t-offlce
telephones may. Had the State insisted ou its full
monopoly, the development of telephones would
have been strangled.
At the Positivist service in memory of
Auguste Comte, Dr. Congreve commenced his
“prayer” thus:—” We pratso thee, Humanity, as
for alt thy servants, so especially for Auguste
Comto; and we pray that in proof of our gratltudd
wc may become thy more willing and complete
servants.” The service concluded with the bene-
diction as follows:—“The peace of her slowly-
dawning kingdom bo upon you, the blessing of
Humanity abide with you, now and for ever.”
One good point about tha Cabbage Garden
crowd is that they seldom or never hide their light
under a bushel, but, on the contrary, they gener-
ally do their oondemndest to make the world be-
lieve they hold an eighty-candle-burner lamp
whilst at the same time they can barely raise a
wooded match. A short time ago, the Victoria
Amateur Turf Club blazoned forth the fact that
they had magnanimously decided to give no less
than £2OOO to he whacked between the first three
horses In the Caulfield Cup; and thon this worthy
club voted itself one of the most liberal in the
world, climbed up into a high place and stood
ready to receive the homage of the racing public.
The plain fact, however, is that out of this £2OOO
no less than £1025 comes out of the pockets of the
racehorse owners themselves, and the self-compla-
cent club only subscribes a paltry £7s—about aa
freat a sum as was raised for a plate, the other
ay, at the Bathurst Geranium meeting. The nomi-
nations for the Caulfield Cup this year numbered
135; the first deposit brought the club £675, the
second £365, the 73 horses who remained in added
an extra £465 for the third payment, and the 23
final acceptors then planked down £l5 each, and
brought the total up to £1925. Having gazed at
that picture, take a squint at this. The modest
Sydney Turf Club gives £5OO for the Anniversary
Handicap, and allows horses to remain in up to
within half-an-hour of the start without any
further call than the solitary sovereign put up for
the entrance. This year, Mr. Clibborn has secured
125 nominations for this race—by far the largest
yet received for any flutter in the colony-and the
S.T C., without any flourish of trumpets, have
generously supplemented this with £37s—or three
cool centuries more than the V.A.T.C. put up for
their much-lauded prize at Caulfield. When you
talk of Victorian enterprise after this, remember
the story of the aquatic enthusiast who, having
presented a rowing club with a bung-hole, made
the world believe he had given a whole boat.


Personal
Items
itanby of the Newcastle Morning Her-
Inii says that “a man walking four miles per
hour walks nearly six feet per second.” We have
seen Hanby. And we should say at this rate th-.t
there are two of his feet in a minute. This pedal
luxuriance is the result of excessive thinking.
A paragraph has recently been going
around telling how Garfield was ambidextral, and
could wriie a couplo of letters at the same time.
That's nothing; why Kabbl Bon Kamzar (accord-
ing to the Talmud) could, by taking four pens be-
tween the fingers of each hand, write off a word
of four letters at each stroke.
Mr. R. (4. Haliburton, Q.C. of Canada, and
eldest son of the author of “Sam Slick,” visits
“ Borneo, Fiji, New Zealand, and Australia” soon,
Mr. Hapworth finds it difficult to get himself attended to at pastry-cook shops
where females are in attendance, while at the same time he notes that buns and
blandishments are heaped upon men of inferior mould.
He asoribes the cause to his somewhat ancient and unmasher-like appearance,
and resolves to try the effect of a little veneer. Adopting masheriau habit,
he promenades the street, and is gratified to perceive that his altered ap-
pearance is not without Us effect upon the female mind.
Swaggering into the pastry-cook’s shop, where erstwhile he had
been snubbed, he boldly chucks an attendant houri under
the chin, hints at drives to Botany, and calls for a cup of
coffee, 16 bath buns, an “ Othello,” a “ Geneva,” six cream
cakes, a uniat pie, two oyster pates, nine jam rolls, and a
chocolate drop.
“ 1 say, look here, what do you call this horrid stuff which
I found in my coffee? ” said Mr. Hap worth, with great
indignation.
“Please, sir (he-he*he!), I think it is your false mous-
tache,” said the attendant houri. Confusion ! Exit,
Hapworth.
And the worst of it is, a sort of second
cousin to the attendant liouri,
waited upon Mr. Hap worth a few
days after, armed with a bull-dog,
and remonstrated with him, and sat
upon him, and punched his head,
and “ sooled” his dog upon hi ul-, and
otherwise despitefully Lc.ed him,all
along of his trying for to deceive a
poor defenceless female. Nomura
as usual!
IMPATIENCE; OR, THE BUN-BITER’S BETRAYAL.
to complete certain ethnological enquiries on
which he has been long engaged. Mr. Raliburton,
It strikes us, had better make haste, or there 11 be
no aborigines left in Australia.
Once all Dumas’ editors suddenly struck.
Dumas at once engaged a private room at a cate,
tucked ud his sleeves, and wrote out the whole
paper from the first line to the last. It issued from
the press with the following notice: I beg to in-
form the public that my whole staff of editors
have resigned, and there is nothing now to prevent
people from becoming subscribers.
When O’Mara wrote to the Adelong Pro-
gress Committee, as an excuse for n .ot dealing at
length with some matters Important to the dis-
trict that “he was very busy reading up for a de-
bate on a Constitutional question,” three members
dared at one another across the table, and then
Se? and, tearing out a handful .of hair said
simultaneously to the chairman, Well, if this
is“t the coolest bit of the d-dest ,” and then
sat down and glared again.
Mr. Hugh Shortland, whose arrest in con-
nection with the drowning of bis newly-married
wife created go much sensation in England a few
months ago, has sailed for New Zealand, having,
states been offered an appointment in one of
the Government departments by his father, a
colonial'politician. Before he left. Mr Shortland
communicated to a contemporary a letter con-
taining 80reas ms why the Home Office should be
sit in motion with a view of discovering his wife s
murderer, aud giving physiological and other
reasons why she could not havo’met her end by
suicide or accident.
Brisbane people are complaining of the
way in which Harold Cowes and Charles Tom are
lying about the Queen of the Colonies over in
America. Harold and Charles have, it seems, been
telling a newspaper reporter there that Queens-
landers are a religious lot of people. This is a
black calumny, and would, of itself, be sufficient
to stamp them as unscrupulous renegades. But
they add to their unenviable report for unver-
aclty by Conveying the imputation that there is a
good deal of latent poetic power in the native
Queenslander. When Harold and Charles come
back it is intended to duck them in Enoggera
water.
Poor Harry Levin, of Corowa, has solved
the Anal problem. Harry in his time rode high on
the waves of success, and revelled in the spray of
public favour; and, at last, a plunge into the
Murray closes his life, but not the mouths of his
victims. Many, very many, have been defrauded
by him with the hope, and, let us believe, detef-
mination of righting them, but the discovery
camo sooner than he expected, and all is told. Let
his faults bo what they may, Harry always entered
into anything for the advancement of his town
with a zest that deserves some remembrance, and
to many in distress has he sent a helping hand.
Peace to bis ashes I
In 18GG Paul de Cassagnac was insulted by
a young writer, who sought a duel. Cassagnac
agreed. A rendezvous was arranged, and when
Ciiosagnac arrived, behind him there appeared a
servant carrying a huge parcel. The young jour-
nalist was puzzled, and turned pale. When all
was ready for the fight, coats off, swords un-
sheathed, trousers turned up over the ankles,
Cassagnac turned round to his seconds and his
doctor, and inquired carelessly : “Doctor, you
have ordered the mattress for the corpse to be
laid in a convenient place ?” At this the opponent
dropped his sword. It was picked up and offered
to him, but he refused and at once made his apo-
logy. There was no duel.
John Field, charged with drunkenness
before the Southwark Stipendiary, in the course
of conversation with that functionary about gaols,
work-houses, and the treatment of the destitute,
remarked that things would be better and there
would be less beggars about, were the Prince of
Wales to look after the poor instead of horse-
racing—an observation that seems to us to scin-
tillate with point—but which led to the magisterial
admonition, “Don’t disgrace your country by
talking so foolishly.” If Field was still drunk
when arraigned, ’twas a case of in vino veritas.
As for the talking foolishly it was the beak who
did that; and as for disgracing the country, the
blame probably lies pretty equally ’twixt the
vagabond, the beak and the Royal Highness.
On September 2, the Perfect of Police at
Warsaw, issued the following notice : “ By order
of his Excellency the Governor, General Gourko
On the occasion of the visit of his Majesty the
Czar, who will arrive towards the end of August
(old style), the inhabitants of the town will
decorate their houses with flags, hangings, and
(lowers, and will place busts and portraits of their
Majesties on their balconies and in their windows.
In the evening they will illuminate their houses
outside with gas and torches, and burn wax
candles inside their windows. The principal
bands of Warsaw will play during the illumination
in such places as shall be designated by the police.”
This almost reads like a chapter from a description
of a visit of the hon. member for the Macleay to
his constituents,
Perrot, the Victorian pedagogue who got
into it one time about his beard, has now got into
it about the Bible. His own account of it is very
clear. He maintains that a school-girl led him on
to explain why it was Eve was sent adrift out of
Eden. Although he demurred for a while, her
importunity at last prevailed, and he gave an
exposition based, as he alleges, on the Scriptures
solely. Now, Perrot’s right to his beard we have
always granted; and when the public showed a
disposition to question his right, wo exerted our-
selves in his favour. But Perrot’s right to inter-
pret the Bible in State schools we will not support
even by our silence. We deny his right. The man
is evidently greedy. He wants to swagger about
with both a beard and a Bible. He should be con-
tent with his beard.
Hutton, the Queensland hangman, is 84
years of age. But he still enjoys his profession,
and is said to be as enthusiastic over a fresh sub-
ject as ever he was in his palmiest years. He
throws his whole soul into his work. Where he
throws the soul of his subject is a matter of no
importance to him. It is a cheeringr thing, and
one that makes us think better of human nature,
to imagine this good old gentleman working away
contentedly, and even blithely, at his calling, un-
deterred by the infirmities of age, and|undaunted
by the fear of meeting in the next world those
whom he sent so summarily out of this. It is a
lesson for all of us, dear readers. Whenever we
feel inclined to murmur at our lot, or to become
discontented with the sphere of life assigned to us,
let us only remember the example of Hutton, the
venerable hapgman, and peace will be restored to
our bosoms.
Had he not been a peer and a wealthy
man, Lord Houghton would probably have been a
great poet. Not being obliged to use his genius,
e has but half used it, and the author of
•‘Strangers Yet ” is unknown to many even by
name. Yet, forty years ago, there were compe-
tent critics (so Kosmos says) who held Lord Hough-
ton to be Tennyson’s superior; and as gifted in
expressing Nature through poetry as Words-
worth himself. He has not fulfilled his promise of
early years. He has written exquisite occasional
compositions, has sent out several small volumes
of beautiful verse, and every line he has written
has been essentially such as would appeal to
cultured and refined minds. But, being born in
the purple, he has stopped short of greatness, and
become instead one of the pleasantest hosts, most
welcome guests, and agreeable companions in
English society. Such is Lord HoughtoH, the
author of the sweet, sad song of “ Strangers Yet.’
The Melbourne Shakespeare Society is in
hot Water. One Brown wanted to sit on “Juliet”
the other night, and Professor Norris threw out
his legs and wanted to sit on one Brown. One
Brown objected to that. The Professor, as Presi-
dent, intimated that one Brown was a fool, and
that it was an insult to “ Juliet ” to have such an
addle-head galivanting about her. This was in all
probability an earnest and profound truth. But
there seems to have been no use in hitting Brown
with earnest and profound truths. The leg of a
table or the heel of a slipper come nearer to what
he wanted. Brown insisted on his right as a
Briton, and especially as a Victorian, and still
more especially as a Brown, to carry on with
“Juliet” as long as he liked. The President got
him down, however, after a fierce struggle, and
squeezed him for the rest of the night. It is de-
scribed as a scene with “ one Brown. ’ Why not
describe it as a scene with two Browns ?
There have been some magnificent com-
pliments paid to Beach, but they all dwindle into
dim insignificance by the side of the one paid him
by Mr. Lewis Scott, in a lecture that versatile
gentleman delivered the other night, on “ Old and
New London.” Now we quote—“lt was stated,
amid some applause ” (the lecture was delivered
in a hall adjacent to the Kandwick Asylum), “that
London had reaohed the highest pinnacle of historic
grandeur when she gave birth to the champion
sculler of the world.” How is this for a flight of
fancy? Let’s see-yes, it’s in Leichhardt that Lewis
lives. Well, Leichhardt will grip the garland of
gratitude from this generation when she takes
Lewis to her loving bosom and carries him—si lent
at last—around the sun in his little trench. IV hen
this occurs, we will go out there on holidays ana
eat our frugal lunch upon his grave which we win
fresco lovingly with sardine tins and otner
emblems of respect and reverence. We are °
fond of Lewis, alive, but we know that we snau
love him dead.
Memo, for very young ladies and
men who will get married. Some time agotne
English papers were full of the marriage or®
charming young lady, who was heiress to mimon®
in default of a male heir, and a young and dodi
lord. The happy bridegroom was congratulate
on his luck, a splendid establishment was startea,
and all went merry as a marriage bell.
course there appeared upon one of the p incus ay a*
in the ancestral home the sweet device of ™ 0
come, little stranger,” and the little Strang
arrived. And then there came a thunderclap
The new-comer had, indeed, put papa s nose o
of joint, for he was born before mamma came _
age and into her inheritance. And baby be
the next male heir put mamma on one side, ana n
the fortune has to be kept for him until he is
age. The blow, though severe, has been accep
with a smile. The establishment has been P
down, and papa and mamma will have to nv
their own modest income, and draw so muc
the fortune only as Master |Baby requires io
needs and education.
The Rev. J. W. Inglis will go down in sor--
row to the grave, if he cannot obtain B°® tl ,~
] suranoe that religion will yet be taught in


State schools of Victoria. Mr. Ingllsl has proven
to his own satisfaction that the people never
wanted a purely secular system, and that the Go-
vernment that passed the Act had no intention of
administering it as it has been administered. He
had some difficulty, evidently, in making these
two points clear to himself, and he confessed to
grave apprehensions as to his ability to make
them clear to the nation. He went and fetched a
man to help him. The Rev. Inglis had a brotherin
the House when the Act was only a Bill, and this
brother told him that the Government carried the
measure through, giving members to understand
that religion was still to be taught in the schools
That’s what the reverend historian told them
down in Ballarat lately. He says it was the ad-
ministration of Wilberforce Stephens, the first
Minister under the Act, that played the seoular
deuce with the country in general and with the
churGhes in particular. Thus history rehabilitates
an iniquitous Ministry.
A couple of the Maori chiefs wrote from
Naples to England (while on their way back to
N.Z.), to an English teetotal dignitary: “We have
one Christ, one Lord, one Faith, one Baptism.
Queen Victoria and her Maori-English subjects are
one. . . May Queen Victoria, and her people,
and her Ministers, and the nobility, and the bishops
and clergy live long. May God take care of us all.
From Hori Ropiha andTopia Turoa.’’ What a pity
that the Maoris have been left to find political help
among the pious women and the Pharisees I What
a pity that they should have no strong friend in
England-that they should, instead of having been
taken by the hand by a statesman with a big heart
and a square jaw, have been turned over to the
rapacious gospel-grinding hypocrites who have
aided in robbing them of their patrimony 1 What
a pity, we say, that such a man as the great
Ngatimaniopoto chief should be judged by the
standard of the weak Tawhiao—that the mission-
aries should have been allowed to lead about in
England the unsophisticated delegates of the splen-
did Maori race like “converted” dancing-bears—
that nearly all that has appeared in the English
press about Tawhiao during his visit should have
been in the nature of ridicule or of cant, and have
pointed to the idea that the Maoris are, in manhood
and intelligence, not one whit higher than the
wretched drunken Australian blackfellow, whose
dying utterances are jabbered forth in the annual
catalogue of “ happy” Christian aboriginal deaths
so cheerfully printed by the well-meaning, simple-
minded Matthews, of Maloga Mission Station I
A dreadful punishment is in store for a
Wicked, and we might say, irreverent and ungodly
young man at Parkes. This giddy young dog has
been in the habit of going to church, taking an
outside ticket, and—-our feelings overcome us
We had better let the gifted tank-sinker that sup-
plies “ Facts and Scraps ” to the F. and P. Gazette
tell the tale So:—*We (sic) were very much
pained on Sunday night last, at the C.E. side win-
dows to observe a young man successfully dis-
tractiogr the attention ot several young ladies from
so excellent a discourse as the lecture (sic) on our
Lords (sic) Prayer, delivered bv Mr. Logan of the
Water Hole Station. This conduct is most repre-
hensible and should it come under my observation
again, I shall name the offenders ” (sic). We opine
that such an “ excellent discourse ” as “ Our Lord's
Praver,” especially when “delivered by Mr. Logan
of the Water Hole Station,” would be quite suffi-
cient to impress the most hardened sinner with due
solemnity, but this frivolous young man was proof
against even the impassioned oratory of Mr. Logan
of Water Hole 8tation, and “successfully” mashed
“several young ladies.” On a further perusal of
the gleanings of this veracious and conscientious
chronicler, however, we are enabled to account
for the milk in the cocoa-nut. Hear him“ We
are glad to note our C.E. clergyman is returning to
dis wonted health, and hope he will be able to
collect a good congregation at morning service.
The morning is the time when mosr (sic) fervent
aspirations rise in the heart of man to an all wise
an (sic) beneflcient Creator (sic) for all His mer-
cies. Which leads us to infer that there’s lots of
run in attending the ereniny; servioes at the C.E.,
rarKes.
Now we’ve struck it—or, rather, the very
little man with the very Jong name (William Henry
Leighton Bailey, no less,) has done it for us; and
u his notion be correct, completely upsets all the
theories concerning a personal devil ever preached
since Eve shunted the apple-shaking business on
to the base ophidian. The sole cause of woman’s
rrailty is, it appears, the Gundagai School of Arts;
tor, in answer to an over-curious correspondent
who s tens Morality,” W.H.L.B. replies:-” Do not
trouble yourself about ‘ Defender’s* letter, for it is
such men as ‘ Defender ’ who are the causes of the
treat number of illegitimate children being
brought into the world. They first demoralise
girls by lending them such works as ‘Decameron’s
Boccaccio and the ‘ Morals of Mythology* to read.
aad then Prey upon their passions. The reoords
of illegitimate births in the District Registrar’s
nooks speak volumes; and we should think from
eri u n ? e . th ® Proprietor of the Gundagai
f™* 8 has bad about district morality, he ought to
assist us in stamping out the vice that exists in the
oountry-not to enoourage it.” At the first glance
there would appear to be some sort of a dark in-
?? he re that the pious old Elworthy was
either the author of the “Morals of Mythology,”
or a second cousin to Boccaccio himself, but an-
arch r ,£a r- / learl y exculpates the Gundagai patri-
nf°«if ? d ? U blame on the committee
nn «.»i looa u ch ° ol Of Arts for keeping the books
work» e nf B «f el 7f B to the exclusion of the pious
Ligouri, Thomas a Kempis, and Wil-
hfL? enry . Leighton Bailey. Anyway, however,
e * hy f Q d whereforeof illegitimacy is now set
at rest, and for this the little man with the big
CaSh S ll hat, deserves our best thanks*
fair f n^,3 w ( orthy ’ a ° d for the sake of your own
district Btamp out the vice” peculiar to your
p*nf^ r m he I C ] aimant had been released from
tovotnßo i rls °* n on oct °ber 24. he was expected
until *? Bgate ’. or some Place in that vicinity,
! affce r the expiration of his ticket-of-leave in
on th« a 5 8 tlme ’ He intonda ‘0 lecture, it is said”
inoi i B «P 8 and downs of life he has ex-
w!fl nn y hi ? Prison career. Fat Arthur
English* , d 2 ubt - ®P e ° d two year* in learning the
all*bis T.Vn Dgaage ’j Whea in Australia he forgot
will hi rrencn and most of his English. Now he
he h? anc ?,p 0 J Jearnln * English well while
addreaTfA bimsel t f pr exhibition. The draft-
dirpna r v.Presentation to our old Wagga friend
S cnmmor th ? Br istol “fccience-Test” Tich-
borne °w« °P ened thus.—” Sir Roger Tich-
that von ho° ffer yo H °nr hearty congratulations
crushlnw i™ ? survived your long and spirit-
lDiquitous ll Bna S n? me ? t ’ *° u bave outlived the
you to a dnnhm i 1 legal sentence which consigned
for which thP le term of . Penal servitude, a sentence
good t.l“ni? ere was no known precedent.” These
ceden? fnr ?w^ U^ t i e forK °.t that there was no pre-
revived t h Q V* f ants crime. The rumour is
Societv i , fnV b^v, e Church of England Temperance
w hom Weston, the pedestrian, lec-
Ptriences nf ! Dga ,* ed F, he c, aimant to give his ex-
Wme time g P *t a A B JL nen ? e ’i T . hey might at the
the advonr= g * f *f Arthur to lecture to people on
of + K gao i die t aod regular hours in
lelling’ iipij th® drawbacks attendant upon
onoe obese riJ he Apropos of the
question and of the total-abstinence
Published “ R^d. ld , a PP ea f from the recently-
slthough nn + B ° ok: ,? £ Health that physically,
®uch fating+^ ora i ly ’ more harm is done by too
th « cornnro?, than by inordinate drinking. From
must be cn?ii C SP of m any of the clergy, it
system by*which d tu that tb F y are fully aware of a
tcmical ec^T they can degenerate their “ana-
onomy without deteriorating in piety.
time for an Anglican
2®y« of MsSfu he impaired, so laborious are the
Australia c miBsl o. n service in the wilds of
£ beons and st7,^J v S aryi P ,? round of heavy lun-
run. The imnoF p j Ddous teas must tell in the long
« Bathum P wh« d + on * e u tbiB time is Bishop Marsden,
Jt as ever th e P rofa ne lay eye, looks as
Joxologicai «n, a^°. ndu pting a muffin struggle to a
Jure that the mil’ iK 1 wh o, nevertheless, is cock-
four.g qu ‘£e on) v thing to restore his appetite to
L a .u<J. Of eoi ?4» vl ay Power is a trip to Eng-
J"®, and has had a presentation made
ha 1 . U P Praverto 8 fait hful have been
ri 9 tri P abundanFi ly .that he may return from
e Pi«copal l U nctinl y abrengthened to carry on his
notions. This, we believe, is the third
nWnwe i?® R i? ht Reverend has had to seek
odd thing is e tif«r e r n h lDfir i> fr *u m a run borne. The
*be Bathurstonian Anglicans
ai the little game > as a| so to tSe fact
that things diocesan gee every whit as well
latter Doint°^hiv rl B 0 > 1 UKl }^ aS when he ’ 8 not * This
they should consider well. It mav
40 act M the Bernese did with their
bears. Onco upon a time the capital of Switzer-
land depended for its prosperity upon certain
bears which were generally believed to be indis-
mT^hi 6 D to its very exl Bt«nce. The bears, you
may be sure, were comfortably endowed and
diedanHdoni ik r bishops. It chanced that they all
could be d n?ovi& °^® rfeedln ?. before successors
Tho ded ’ *Tu ere was an end of Berne.
The Bernese were at their wits’ end. The misfor-
ln^nnf rem ® d y. The canton looked for
rot! lv, tiOD- ut ’ to their astonishment,
couroe W «??? u oxt day - and things took their
f b P, a P , were not absolutely indis-
pensable to the well-being of Berne. And when it
JFf? d 'Bcovered that Berne could do as well with-
?hoir b koJ! f BB K W the expense of
to boot, the Bernese were satisfied with
h!lrbfv« h ®Tm bearB f( ? r « he future In their armorial
The moral of this Bernese legend should
be patent even to a churchwarden.
Josepk Livesey, of Preston, who in
othor. th^ d a f li r * th * signature of himself and six
9"“ e ™ the first teetotal pledge, from which date
laLm£f. rlod °u ab ?ut fifty years his labours and
Ba<^ fl ces on behalf of his favourite oause were
very great, has died at the great age of 91. The
movement inaugurated by him has certainly con-
h*mdtJfSP ne n on thousands, and can have done
harm to few. But it does not follow that total ab-
fti nonce means life, any more than that indulgence
in alcohol does. Mr. Gladstone, though not yet
nearly so old as the teetotal veteran, has, during
diB oareer., probably sustained twenty times the
intellectual strain which devolved upon Mr.
Livesey. Despite the fact that Mr. Gladstone
drinks wine in moderation, he is capable of per-
formmg feats which, whether regarded physically
9F ln Ji ec t?ally. must be considered most as-
tounding. In 1880, he delivered at Leeds a speech
which contained eight thousand four hundred
words, which occupied one hour and three-quarters
a minute. The speech delivered by
2 n b A ugust, 1884, contained eleven thou-
sand five hundred words, and was delivered in one
hour and thirty-seven minutes—which is one hun-
dred and eighteen words a minute! He spoke to
and was heard by five thousand people, and his
voice was clear as a bell. But, then, Mr. Gladstone,
who entered into manhood with great physical
power, has always been a most temperate eater as
5.iS 8 8, 8, drinker. In “ The Book of
Health —a bulky volume of 500 pages, just issued,
and contributed to by nineteen of the most emi-
nent doctors—the extreme abstainers, who see
death in a glass of claret, will find small comfort.
UNEMPLOYED.
DROWNING MAN: “HI! FLING US THAT HOPE! QUICK. I’M SINKING.”
THE UNEMPLOYED: “OH, I DESSAY, AND THEN YOU’LL WANT ME TO RAUL YOU
IN. NOW, IF YOU WAS TO OFFER ME [?] ME WORK I’M FIT FOR—.”
Alcphol is pronounced to be a food, but an Inoon-
rtnn}?° fc iS°i for healthy people. Young 1 persons
* ne ® d , 1 . t > ® a ,ve as medicine and by medical
e ’ f bu i^ r * ol , der ' p P? pl « “ below Par., the ad-
dition of a little alcohol to the food may be of ad-
vantage; and men otherwise strong may And it
of service when exhausted by overwork or
fatigue. This is our own experience, also. Still
intemperance is exhibited in “ The Book of Health’ 1
in all Its deformity.
Councillor Sheehan, an Italian jintleman
from Cork, has for many years reigned as king of
Nagambie (Vic.); and. as his prefix indicatesf he
has been a prominent member of Ithe local sLire
Council. The peculiar talent required to fulfil the
onerous duties of a representative of the Victorian
ratepayer is largely developed among the Irish-
tocracy of that part of the country—which may bo
readily seen by a glance at the roll of councillors,
or, better still, by a visit to the council chambers,
where a clear and comprehensive map of Ireland
can be traced on the majority of the faces that
appear round the oouncil-table. Bat the pompous
figure of the only Sheehan towers aloft amonest
the Momssys and the Deanes, the O’Kyans and the
O Raffertys of the collective wisdom of Nagambie
and maUes him a thing to be looked up to like a
heavy bob-tailed rooster on a rickety hen-perch.
Not only in the matter of stature is the O'Sheehan
great, but in the way of intellect he is mighty
aod, in that respect, he is somewhat like Artemus
Ward, who used to remark, “ Gentlemen, I have a
great and mighty intellect, but I guess I didn’t
brinar it with me this evening.” TAere is an un-
written code of etiquette usually’observed amoDr
shire councillors which embodies some restrictions,
and these restrictions are hateful to the soul of
this eminent councillor. A country editor draws
a sad picture of this local law-maker—or, rather
a series of pictures which go to show that he is a
man of more than ordinary talents. He wears his
shiny silken beaver” in ostentatious defiance of
the President, and by doing so literally “ broke
up his fellow-councillors; during a spirited de-
bate on the respective merits of “ corduroy ” and
metal” as the best material for road-making, he
slept the sleep of the just; and, besides, he has no
more respect for the president of that august
body than if he were a common member of Parlia-
ment or a C.M.G. At a recent meeting, this
modest councillor and the chairman got trading
off civilities over a section of road-work, when
the latter, after laying down the location in bis
usual clear and concise style, was flatly contra-
dicted by the belligerent councillor. This is tne
kind of gentle dialogue that followed The
Chairman: You are making a misstatement. Cr.
Sheehan (rising from his seat): I am not. The
Chairman: You are. Cr. Sheehan (skirmishing
around to the left of the chair, with clenched fists) :
Do you say, Walker, I tell an untruth? Cr.
Walker: I do. Cr. Sheehan: Then 1 say you are a
liar. Cr, Waiker: Be quiet, or I will make you.
Cr. Sheehan; You called me a liar, and I say you
a J iar » aQ d I will prove it, and!
up I will prove it. Old as I
JJP* A am x m ;? n enough to make you suffer for It.
C F‘ Wa| ber: Be quiet, you are nothing
but a Jiving insult to the Counoil, and have been
clear m?| U T W ® , N eI ?, C Ft d ’ yOU Bit down or
° U n 1 T 1 »? all , tho P° l,c e- Cr. Sheehan: Call
Cr .' J- Morrissey: Call him to order. Cr.
flfeh tL~? allyou , to order - Cr. jSbeehan: I will
P lanB * aad Prove you a liar (exit).” For
ftmn.?l+Vw Bonie n ll1 ’ the Nagambie Counoil takes
tne pastry irom all comers.
It lias become the fashion of late years for
a certain class of persons, whioh even includes
such eminent people as Judges of tho Supreme
Court, to pour oontempt upon journalists and
journalism. Mr. Frederic Harrison (who was
! ec A ur , e la Australia) put it as a question
7^ifi her ln p he hundred million of papers scattered
daily o\er Europe there could be found at a given
moment any single article worth a letter of Vol-
taire or of Madame de Sevignd. Mr. Matthew
Arnold bettered this example by quietly assuring
the Americans that journalism had no place in
literature, and that journalists could lay no claim
to be considered men of letters. Now, in so far as
this serene contempt for the ephemeral produc-
tions of the daily Press is a symptom of revolt
against the excessive presumption of newspaper
proprietors suoh as Mr. A 1 we mean Mr. Janies
Gordon Bennett of the New York Herald, a
gentloman who would judge Shakespeare himself
by his ability in reporting Police Court oases so as
f.° .tu ke .'F 6 * 11 and & lve Pleasure to all,” we regard
it with satisfaction. It-is true that the journalist
does not seek to add anything to the sum of
human knowledge, but to disseminate widely
what is already known. But on these very
grounds Mr. Matthew Arnold, who is a past-master
in the art of borrowing from others and selling as
his own, belongs to the confraternity of jour-
nalists. For Instance, in one of his most famous
hooks, in which he endeavours to show the in-
Iluences exercised by what he calls Hebraism and
Hellenism, he has borrowed the idea of placing
the Greek s desire to know in opposition to the
Hebrew s desire to act rightly, from Heine, in his
Keisebilder ; only what the German poet puts
in a sentence Mr. Arnold has thought lit to beat
out carefully over 500 pages. Not only has Mr.
Arnold borrowed the ideas of his boohs, but he
has also borrowed all the telling phrases he so
Tb® a P° B tle of “sweetness and
light took this mot from Swift, and tho “dis-
sidence-of dissent” is a quotation from Burke
Mr. Harrison merely popularises the thoughts of
C<^te^ and M a de , Lave,oy ?v who Join chorus
with Messrs. Arnold and Harrison, is but the
Elisha on whom the mantle of John Stuart Mill
(who iearnt imperfectly the lessons Wilhelm von
Humboldt taught him) has fallen. All round it is
in the words of Montaigne, a case of “I have
gathered me apMsy of flowers—mine but the string
which binds them together;”
Old Carl Schwenzel, of Ruthorglen (Vio ),
for many years supplied the thirsty diggers of
the Ovens district (Vic) witn the cup that cheers and
—occasionally inebriates. Carl is the personifica-
tion of the good old Vaterlander, robust to a
degrbe, with the constitution of an elephant, and a
Voice like a fog-horn. His love for Vaterland is
equalled by his undying hatred for the land
of Haul, and while he swears by Prinhe Bismarck,
he swears at M. Ferry in rounded periods begotten
of long and arduous practice. On the morning of
the last anniversary of the capitulation of Sedan,
the citizens of the peaceful little village of ttuther-
glen were aroused from their normai listlessness
by the booming of artillery, accompanied by the
sharp rattle of small arms, so they jumped out of
bed and rubbed their eyes, wondering wbat could
be the matter. The commander-in-chief of the
local defence “foorce” was filled with alarm,
when, rushing out fi'om head-quarters in undress
uniform to reconnoitre, he beheld what he graphi-
cally described as a “furriner's Wag” floating
Proudly and defiantly over old Carl Schwenzel’s
whisky-saloon in the main street, and the con-
tinued cannonading led him to the inevitable con-
clusion that the hamlet had been captured by an
invading army. Hastily summoning bis troops, a
hurried consultation was held, and it was decided
to engage the enemy in the rear by a contingent
under Constable O’Guttin, while “Sargint”
M Muzzle proceeded “ bouldly ” to the front.
Both movements were rapidly executed, and the
Victoria Hotel was quickly invested by the local
gendarmerie, who discovered the old warrior, Carl,
grimy as a powder-monkey, covered with perspira-
tion and glory, strongly entrenched behind a for-
tification of Limburger cheese, German sausages,
saur-kraut, Schiedam schnapps, and lager beer,
and howling out “ Die wacht am Rhine ” in what
the sarjint termed “ a loud tone of voice.” He had
arude park of iartillery, consisting of a number
or blacksmiths’ anvils, which he loaded up to
the chin, so to speak, with explosives, and
fired them off with a report like an eighty-ton gun.
A truce was proclaimed and mutual explanations
followed, the popular excitement cooled down,
the l°° al “foorces” were reluctantly withdrawn
after demolishing a portion of the barricade, and
Carl celebrated tne downfall of the last Napoleon
with a grand lager beer carnival. Old Schwenzel’s
Teutonic proclivities were very pronounced, and
his bar fairly bristled with pictures portraying the
prowess of the legions of Kaiser Wilhelm, while
the portraits of the Imperial family, along with
those of Bismarck, Von Moltko, and other vete-
rans of Vaterland, frowned from the walls on the
mulioch-puuchers of Ruthergien. We remember
on one occasion dropping in to seo old Carl, osten-
sibly to sample his lemonade l?—Kt>. B.j; and
throwing opr errlticaleye over his picture-gallery,
sipgled out the portrait of Prince Bismarck,
to n T? e the features. We remarked
miaarnrfl’a 11 -^R 0 ? 81 who was on the same
£&£ euasourseires: “Not a bad portrait of Gam-
thaE: 800 bow faithfully the artist has
of P th« U w d 4 £ e or “ lnal , caBt of countenance
a«^ he henchman.’’ ‘‘That's so," was the re-
tK ma h K do ° f , gloom tmt ed over
tDe face of old Schwenzel. “Yes, I wonder
hero * I M table m u an )i , ke our ancient friend
disgrace his saloon with the likeness
?he N fmm! on l.^ h 0 P° litlo ’>l freedom and
asm Germany,” we carelessly
® ai 9‘a® we !? a zed at the picture of Kaiser Wilhelm,
n aa^hf® 8 ? 0 . 4 ot our friend did not tend to ap-
me.r?„ th risinsr wrath of the old man, who was
tTfiPmnf?f U l . 9y n about the bar ‘ “ And,which of
0 8 of . tb , e Commune does this thins: repre-
Vnn aBk . o< ?‘. a 8 wo pointed to the portrait of
cmemons hl u onora J appearance would re-
commend him a short shrift and a long rope in any
wellresuiated country.” This was the last straw,
Carl rose to the occasion. “Get oud of mein
“oundrels,” he yelled, “or I shoots
hnr P? 1 ? revolver. Ven you gome into mein
w 4 |rink mein lager beer, you vas velcome;
™i«r e K you B hpeaks like dot about mein country-
Wr ~~i I vill shoot you like von dog.” And
Prr^ed f° look up a cannon, we wandered
fPE.ii range, and proceeded to the local cemetery
to seiect a comfortable grave in view of an early
hhm vl T °i ent deatb : Carl dispenses mixed liquors
still. Long may the old Teuton flourish!
• • i
Sir John returns the compliment: he re-
+P an as ,9 ne on whom God has set His seal to
give the world assurance of a (Call to-morrow).
....Henry Earker, the Mackay (Q.) undertaker,
has gone insolvent. This item of news is hard to
thSrnona now ? Q 1 tbat tbey are exporting all
* ( (
C? lliB Br °wne, inventor of chlorodyne,
«!,oA.Y kUBt Q' • • L° uisa Emma, Countess of
Seafleld, died on September 2. Her husband died
in load, and she has since been twice married, her
second husband being Major Godfrey William
Massy, of Castle Rea, and her third husband Lord
Henry Loftus... “Aziinat Batuk,” the once mys-
terious Turk of the Paul Mall Gazette, is now
a critic of Wall-street performances on the New
x ork bra.......1ean Ingelow has a new volume of
poems nearly ready for publication. Miss Ingelow
is now a large, comfortable, round-headed woman,
ot middle age, wit i a face whose expression is
* b ° r °W y P acid and happy.... Who shall have
f a “ o ; ' rwo books of Fanny Fern attained a sale
of ~00,000 copies. Now, you could hardly get one
E, 0 , b H y v They are out of print, and her name
nearly forgotten. If wo could get a Fanny Fern
tor our staff, wo d pay her almost anything she
asked ... I here is only one great nautical novelist
to-day. The modern Marry at is Mr. Clark Russell.
« .-r?, na ‘ author ot “Two Years before the
Mast, Russell has been a practical sailor, has seen
the horrors and hardships in the life, and writes
heart. He is son of the composer of
Cheer boys, cheer.” Notwithstanding tnat any-
thing he now writes is greedily bought and printed,
his earlier efforts were for years rejected by pub-
lishers ... Mary Anderson wrote home that she
quite likes the sun and air of Great Britain. Surely
the Prince of Wales hasn’t-but, there!....Long-
feilow s daughters are staying in Sweden, on a
vls't to the widow of Ole Bull, the violinist....
Marshal Canrobert still lives, but his mind is ever
drowned fathoms deep in the green poison, ab-
sinthe. Mons. Rouher has fallen into idiocy
• Hußrh Conw a y,** author of “Called Back,” calls
himself Conway because he was educated on board
the ship Conway, which is a iloating educational
establishment on the Mersey Princo 'Peek’s
wanderings on the Continent and continued
poverty have gained for him the sobriquet of
the tramping prince.*’
THE KOOKABURRA.
“What ore pauses?” asked the teacher.
1 lungs that grow on cats,” piped the small boy.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
A crayfish gets into hot water only once,
and that’s the end of him. That is whore the cray-
fish seems to have the adventure of the fellow
who eats him.
For general debility and prostration, Hop
Bitters will do wonders. Prove it by trial. See.
Bald-head to pretty shop-girl“ What do
you ask for that ? ” “ Five shillings, sir.” “Aren’t
you a little dear? ” he continued. She blushed to
her temples—then simpering softly: “ Well, sir, all
the young men tell me so.”
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
auality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
“Alfred, I think you had better discon-
tinue your visits to me.” “ But—but, Miss Blank!
You know I have never said anything to you about
—about marriage.” “ Yes, I know you haven’t,,
Alfred.” "Then why do you send me off?’*
“Simply because you haven’t.” Thun they became
engaged.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
I travellers and housekeepers; it destroys ail
1 noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
The candidate dropped in at the house,
affectionately kissed the eleven children, and
marvelling much at the resemblance they bore to
a matronly lady, who blushed the whilo, requested
airily that she should mention to her husband that
Mn do-and-So had called. ** I beg your pardon,
sir, ’ said the lady, ’* I am Miss Jones, and this is
an orphan asylum.”
Not only is Wouee’s Schnapps a staple
article of trade in the United States, but it has a
large sale and enjoys a high reputation in America,
Mexico, China, Australia, and other countries.
I/ike the principle of good, it has some embodi-
ment everywhere.
The Intelligent jury decided that the
burglar who broke into Smith’s residence wasn’t
guilty. When Smith heard the verdict, he turned
to the prisoner and asked; “What’s your address,
aud when will you be at home ? ” “ What do you
want to know tor ?” asked the prisoner, scowling.
“ Nothing, except that since the jury have decided
that you have only paid me a friendly visit, I want
to know where you Jive so that I cau return it. I
am a gentleman, even if I am not a burglar.”
Here are some printers’ jokes, extracted
from a book entitled “Quads”:—
“ Where’s my steal pen ? ” yelled the editor, and
the imp didn’t hesitate an instant in bringing the
shears.
An excited but honest editor screamed up tho
pipe for “ brains.” He was only out of paste.
“ What printers drink is what staggers us,” says
a contemporary. What printers drink is what
staggers them.
Miss Faithful’s press was manned entirely by
women. The Leadenhalle Presse is womaned en-
tirely by men.
A young lady writes: “I send you a poem for
your Poet’s Corner.” All right. The poet scorner
has received and disposed of it.
A new proof-reader came on here and was out-
sido again within an hour. This is how he corrected
his first proof. “ Man historically and woman her-
torically considered ”
A printer being asked to estimate the cost of
doing some work, drew forth a pencil and paper,
and made the following calculation: “A nought is
a nought; three's into five twice you can’t —PIT do
the job for tbreo pounds eleven shillings and eight-
Eence halfpenny.” What a headpiece that printer
ad to sum!
If this should meet the eye of any one
suffering from Bronchitis, Consumption, Asthma,
or any Pulmonary Affection, we would refer them
to Dr. Jayne’s Bxportant, which will, in all cases,
afford speedy relief, and in most, effect a speedy
cure. To be had of all druggists and storekeepers,
and wholesale by Eeliott Bros , Pitt-street,
Sydney.


Professional Directory.
XXISCOCKS* FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
JnL cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscooks..
W.
Bydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocka’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
rn H E A T R E ROYAL.
'I Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garni k and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
The management wish to inform their patrons
that, having a number of novelties to produoe in
radid succession, they are compelled to announce
the L^XgE?OF BSIN. 8 SIN. WAGES OF SIN.
Intense enthusiasm and hearty welcome extended
that sterling actor and universal Sydney favourite,
Mr. ALFRED DAM PIER,
The drama produced under the immediate
direction of Mr. Alfred Dampier.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
O p
Lessees
E R
U 8 E
... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RI GNO L D and ALLISON.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
FRIDAY, October 31.
First appearance in Sydney of
Miss MARIE LAN YON,
supported by
A POWERFUL COMPANY,
On which occasion will be produced the beautiful
American play
YOUNG Mrs. VVINTHROP,
which has created a furore throughout the United
Btates.
Prioes as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’s, .518
George-street.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee .. .. •• Mr. John Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Crowded Houses, Immense Success. Grattan
Riggs, the Irish Detective. Seven distinct national
characters. Grattan Riggs. Arrangements having
been made with Mr. Charles M'Mataon for the en-
gagement of Ireland’s Great Comedian, who will
appear To-wight in the “ I
In preparation, “PEEP O DAY.
Box Plan, Nicholson’s. Tickets, Loder s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of music.
Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Second Week. THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Genuine and Increasing Success of
Mr. FLEMING NORTON,
in his Musical and Mimical Entertainment.
For lull particulars, see daily newspapers.
N.B.—Readers of The Bulletin are referred to
the criticisms of the leading London newspapers,
quoted last week by the reporter in his notice oi
this entertainment.
F. GUNTHER, Business Manager.
CAD E M Y OF MUSIC.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17th.
Re-appearance, after years of absenco, of
RAINER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR 1
AMERICAN WAR I
AMERICAN WAR 1
ROTESTANT
Castlereagh Street.
HALL,
TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4th,
Juvenile Entertainment and
Adult Quadrille Party,
BY
Miss LILLY CARTON and a New Company.
all of whom are under 16 years of age, and
NATIVES OF SYDNEY.
PROGRAMME :
Chairman’s Address ; concluding with a Recita-
tion, “The Poor Man and a Friend, ’
Master T. C. Walton.
Overture—“ Fliok Flock Galop,”
Masters H. Inghan and W. H. Flynn.
Song—“ Flower Song,” from Faust,
Miss Lilly Garton.
Recitation—“ Becalmed,” .. .. Master C. Bray.
Pianoforte Selection—** I Lombardi, ’
by Sydney Smith .. .. Master H. Ingham.
Song and Dance—“ Pretty Jessie,”
Miss Lilly Garton.
Highland Reel .. Masters M‘Rae, J. Sharp, and
Miss M‘Rae.
Violin Solo—“ Blue Bells of Scotland,”
Master W. H. Flynn and H. Ingram.
Stage Waltz Miss Lilly Garton.
Song—“ Forgive and Forget,” .. Master Sparks.
English Concertina and Violin—
Masters H. and R. Ingham.
Recitation— “Song of the Drink,’ Master O. Bray.
Song—“ The Gilt of Love,” ..Miss Lilly Garton.
Irish Jig •• .. .. .. Miss Bella Piree.
Violin bolo—“ Home, Sweet Home,”
Master R. Ingham and Miss Lilly Garton.
SoDg—“ Rock me to sleep,” . .. Master Sparks.
Pianoforte Selection—“ Irish Diamonds,”
M 88 Lilly Garton
Reel o’Tulloch .. Masters M'Rae, J. sharp, and
Miss M’Bae.
Sailor’s Hornpipe .. Miss Lilly Garton.
God Save the Queen !
To conclude at 10 o'clock ; after which, a
QUADRILLE PARTY will takeplace, to cono.ude
at 13 o'clock. _
Programme.
Quadrille. Polka, Lancers, Waltz, Circassian Circle,
Schottische, Lancers, Highland Schottlsche,
Waltz.
vst?" 'i he Reserved Scats tickets only will include
admission to the Quadrille Party.
The holders of tickets for the Quadrille Party
are requested to keep their seats until the body of
the hall is cleared.
Reserved Seats, 35.; Body of the Hall, 3«,;
Gallery, js.
jyj-ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET'
Herr and Mme. Vogrich’s
SECOND GRAND
SOIREE MUSIGALE!
TUE3DAY, NOVEMBER 4th,
and every following Tuesday.
Herr and Madame VOGRICH will be supported
by the best available talent.
Subscription for the 8 (Eight) Concerts,
Plan of Hall and Tickets at W. H. Paling and
Co.’B (Limited), 350 George-street.
VICTORIA RACING CLtJB.
DERBY. SATURDAY. NOVEMBER Ist.
CUP. TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 4th.
OAKS. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6th.
BTEEPLECHASE, NOVEMBER Bth.
GREAT FEDERAL MEETING.
Return ttckets at holiday excur-
sion FARES from all Stations, from the
27th October to the Bth November, available for
Return till 15th November.
The conveniences for the comfort of the public
at Flemiugton are now. admitted to be the finest
in the world.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Sec. V.R.C.
ICTORIA RACING CLUB.
Cup Week.
RETURN TICKETS issued from the STth Oc-
tober to 6th November available for two months.
First-claes £5 Bs. 6d-
Second „ 4 Is. Od.
A Special train to Sydney will leave Melbourne
after the close of the Meeting on ISATURDAY,
Novembers, at 1010 p.m., for which NO EXTRA
CHARGE will be m«de.
H. BYRON MOORE, Sec. V.R.C.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS H 'LL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions atd Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, wbich is
now tho most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centred the town.
It. is thoroughly furnished and fitted, feared for
500 people, and his a large Stage and Gallery.
Amp e means of access and egrtsi have been pro-
vided : also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for givipg
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
D
N
N
G
PKDF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite or
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 20l
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street,. P.S.-
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snring floor, &c. No decorations required.
BXpflgQC CJM*3**~
if tmt Thom
m
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Muslo, which has
neen separated from the general stock in order to
ffect startling reductions.
ffect star FQR QNB mqnth only .
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
laving in a stock of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the Public.—The newest and
choicest muslo rereived every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
niece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
' The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huexxerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
T
o ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
BORAS SOAP?
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP !
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CH APS, and CUTS
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
, I T3F" Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Gd. per Box.
Sole Manufacturers
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Prospectus
of „„„
IIOORWOOD BLUE METAL QUARRYING
COMPANY.
To be Registered under the Companies Limited
Liability Act.
CAPITAL—£&OC6, in 9000 Shares of £1 each.
Provisional Directors i
J - A - MA ?S!&» o c ffia#s K o M^?. NG ' KN -
australianjchnt 'stock bank.
Brokers i
PALMER a ,d WILEY, 113 Pitt-street, Sydney.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
of workiDg an extensive deposit of blue metai in
a block of ten acres of land one half-mile from the
Rockwood Railway Station, on the road to the
Liveipool-road, leased by the Government to Mr.
Jame* Hewitt, of Burwood, at a rojalty of six-
pence for each ton of metal raised.
The metal is of a very superior description, and
is sought after by the Municipal Councils of the
western suburbs and by the Government to such
an extent that Mr. Hewitt finds it impossible, with
the pecuniary means at his command, to supply
the orders which he holds. He has already by a
large expenditure stripped the lode for a length of
some fifteen chains, and from any point in ibis
lode metal may be taken in quantity. The lode is
found to widen as it deepei *, and it cannot be esti-
mated to what extent its depth and with expand;
but from the exposed part sufficient metal
can be taken to supply the surrounding munici-
palities for a long time to come.
From the manner of occurence it seems to be
one vast blow of metal, the result of convergence
of three distinct lodes, each coming from an east-
erly direction. _ .... .. .
With the limited means at Mr. Hewitt s disposal,
ho finds he can neither supply the necessary ma-
chinery, nor work bis quarry on a scale requisite
to secure the large returns it is capable of yielding.
Giving his opinion as an experienced quarryman,
he is convinced that a large amount of wealth is
to be obtained from proper development of his
quarry. And in this opinion he is supported by
that of other men as fully experienced as himself.
In respect to a market forthe stone when raised,
it needs but to be stated that not only is Mr.
Hewitt at present unable to supply the orders
which he holds, but has had to decline some which
were offered. „ , ,
Of course, with a fair amount of capital at com-
mand, it would be possible, with the aid of suit-
able machinery and an enlarged system of word-
ing. to raise any quantity of metal which may be
required, and with this object he has determined
to offer the property to the public—and he does so
with the utmost confidence in its bona flaes—in
9000 shares of £1 each, 5000 of which will be avail-
able to the publio. It is proposed that these shares
shall be contributed upon as follows:-2s. ed. on
application, 3s. 6d. on allotment, and Is per shaae
per month. The quarry is in good working order,
and, as the returns will be immediate, it is ex-
pected that not more than 10s. in each share wili
need to be called up. . ...
Mr. Hewitt, for his interest in the quarry, will
retain 4000 fully paid up shares, and take £B5O from
the subscribed capital as a partial return for the
large outlay he has incurred.
It is intended to apply the subscribed capital in
purchasing and erecting powerful machinery, such
as stone-breakers, winding plant, and other effi-
cient appliances to ensure a large and rapid output
and effect an immense saving in wage'.
No time will be lost in obtaining and erecting
the m«chtnery as soon as the necessary capital Is
subscribed. The quarry is now in active opera-
tion, all work b ing done by hand labour only.
It is calculated that from road-metal alone the
property will, at the very least, yield a profit equal
to the capital to be paid up within the period of
three months of the first year’s working.
As the stone is so superior, there will be a largo
profit realis d from the sale of cubes, kerbing, and
flagging, as well as screenings for asphalting, of
which many hundred tons are already at grass.
The faot of the quarry being in suoh close
proximity to the railway and to the stations inter-
mediate to Bydney, the l ompany could sell their
metal at a proportionately less rate than other
competing quarries, and still make large profits.
Attention is also drawn to the immense superiority
of bed over boulder metal. ...
Mr Hewitt is so confident of the value of this
property that he has no desire to offer it to the
public on anything like a speculative basis, which
is his reason for having fixed the capital at the
lowest amount requisite to meet the cost or plant
and machinery, and to eeeure to him a fair interest
in the concern. Should his estimate that 10s on
each share will be sufficient to meet the necessary
outlay be correct, the capital will virtually be still
further reduced.
It will be seen at a glance that, with the many
advantages coupled with an unlimited supply of
stone, the Company possesses unsurpassed induce-
ments, and we can with confidence p ace this local
industry before a discerning publio, as offering an
immediate and satisfactory inducement.
Shares will be allotted according to priority of
application, and, to prevent disappointment, early
app 1 i cationite requ es ted TLE y , Brokerg)
113 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ESTIMATE
of
OUTLAY AND EXPENSES.
Machinery, consisting of 10 h.p. Engine,
Boiler, and two Stonebreakers, en-
abling an output of 180 tons to be
made daily £lOOO 0 0
WEEKLY WAGES:
Wages of 60 men at 7a. per day .. .. £126 0 0
Manager at 12s. per day
Secretary
Fuel and Repairs. --
Carting and Filling Trucks, 180 tons per
day at Is. .. • •
Royalty, 1080 tons at 6d
RETURNS:
Sale of 1080 tons at 10s.
3 13 0
3 0 0
3 0 0
54 0 0
27 0 0
£216 12 0
£540 0 0
323 8 0
Weekly profit
Or over £16,000 per annum.
Machines could be easily kept at work at each
extreme which would give a profit of double the
above amount. ~ , ,
In the above estimate no allowance or calcula-
tion is made on cubes, kerbing, fiaggipg, and
blindings or screenings, which wou'd also give
large profits.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To Messrs. PALMER and WILEY,
Brokers to the
ROOKWOOD BLUE METAL QUARRYING CO-
(To be Limited.)
GENTLEMEN,
I have to request you will allot me
shams in the above Company, and beg to
enclose the sum of £ being deposit of 2s.
6d. per share, and I hereby agree to accept the
same or any less number that may be alotted me,
subject to the provisions of the Memorandum of
Association constituting the Company
Name in fu11...
Occupation
Address...
Date.
.188
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Ofticbs: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Bteamers Brisbane;, Bundaberg, and Port Maokay
every fortnight.
Fleet or Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRd
BARRA BOOL GABO LEURA
BUR W AH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGP,
WM HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 28tb October, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sur.
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of wbiob
is kept at every Post Offioe in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Gas Works’ Build- I
iDgs, Lunatic Asylum, Glades- I
vijle
Repairs.&c. Courthouse, Nundle I
Erection of Battery and Store-
room, La Perouse Cable Sta-
tion
Construction of Brickwork and
Masonry for Bridge over Rail-
way, Wells-street, Redfern
Construction of Wrought and
Cast Iron Work for Super-
structure of Bridge over Kail-
way, Wells-street, Kedfern
Erection of Stationmaster's
House at Doughboy Hollow,
G.N. Railway
Construction of Shed, Lismore
Wharf, Richmond River
Construction of Shed, Lawrence
Wharf, Clarence River
Erection of stationmaster’s
House at Windsor
Lease of BuDgawalbyn Ferry
for 1886
Repairs to Premises resumed
for Post and Telegraph Office,
Woollahra
Additions to Public Free Library
Sydney . „ , . I
Erection of Ladies’ Refresh-1
ment-room, Botanic Gardens
Tuesday,
4th November,
at 11 o clook.
Construction of Covered Service 1
Reservoir, at Lambton
Construction of Covered Service |
Reservoir, at Wallsend I
Erection of Temporary Building I
Department of Mines i
Constructing Foundations and ,
Pits. Workshop, Nos. 16 to 25, I
Eveleigh
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., Eyenock
Supply of Railway Small Stores, ,
1885 I
Additions, &c., Assistant Har-
bourmaster’s Residence, New-
castle
Erection of Police Barracks and
Officers’ Quarters, Toung
Erection ot Courthouse, lnver-
ell
Supply and Erection of an 'ron
Brida-e over the Murrumbid-
gee River at Comins Crossing
(Toomas)
Additions to Shed, Newcastle
Wharf
Erection of Tank and Making
Tuesday,
11th November,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
18th November,
at 11 o'clook.
Department of Public Instruction,
Svdney, 23rd October, 188*.
TENDERS EOR WOODEN BUILDING-
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of »
Wooden BuildiDg for the Infants d«P
ment of the Newtown Norih Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and lor
ot Tender obtained at the office of the uep
ment of Publie Instruction, Sydney. Rl ,iid-
Tenders, endorsed “TeDdcr lor Wooden
ing, Newtown North Public School, O “ r ,_
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary.
ment of Public Instruction, »tor before iu
a.m., on Wednesday, the 12th November,
The Minister does not bind himself to accep
lowest or any tender. i/ir „ rT
W. J. TRICK EfT.
•Slio
SINIVd
6
&
o*
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street
STORES: MILLER’S POINT-
or N.B. Pattern* and Prioe^^^l


THIRTY SHILLINGS.
■V
mr THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
T H i rs L <rI i imph , of m uBical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST UcEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful littlo instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H, B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organett.e ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of costand crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, Ac., Ac., &o, A child can
plHy any of these selections with perfect aocuracy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “be who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate } but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively plooes. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little oard-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
( hurehos, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment 1 han four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 George Street, Sydney,
\ Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
• hepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the boat argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we hare never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of It. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by a'l educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effeot for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, aud in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm whioh renders an other-
wise bard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone la aos.,
and where good music oan be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, tht absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rotad—" The Wages of Sin ” p. 8.
Opera House—“ Adrienne Lecouvier ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—“ Irish Detective ” ib.
Academy of Music—Mr. Fleming Norton... ib.
It was a little girl, who sat
Upon the step of the stage-door:
She might have been (say) seven years,
Perchance, she might nave been much more:
She held a bundle in her hand,
Whose size was pitiful and small ;
She’d treacle smeared upon her face,
And coated thick upon her shawl.
It was a sorry bundle that
She carried, that small fay.
Now, what is it ? ” a critic asked,
Who chanced to pass that way.
She smiled, as she replied, with her
Blue eyes quite bright with joy:-
It’s the prima donna’s washing, and
The tenor's saveloy.”
We’ll see the last of that stupendous moral
lesson, “The Wages of Sin,” on Friday, when
another moral lesson will be evolved—presumably
“ The Workman,” in wnich ill-treated Alfred im-
personates the persecuted artizan, who is starving
on 15s. a day; or else “The Stranglers of Paris,
which, we understand, though not strictly a
“moral lesson” in its acutest sense, is a cheerful
drama of the " Tour de Nosle ” order. We remem-
ber when we were young, and too demure to be
acquainted with Barrett’s Twist manipulators of
the other sex, we saw the “ Tour de N£sie ” at the
Porte St. Martin, in Paris. It was a grisly pro-
duction, bristling with blood—so coagulated, so to
speak, with gore, that before it the most frantic
efforts of Mrs. Radoliffe pale their ineffectual fires.
* * *
And this reminds us, in connection with
the Royal, that little Goodie, who has for so many
years been treasurer, is very sick—but not, we are
glad to hear, dangerously so. We are given to
understand that ms place has been temporarily
occupied by the dignified and resplendent Moss.
We were, on the whole, fond of Goodman ; so
regard this intelligence of his illness as a sorrow-
ful story. This to cheer him :
We hear, now, Goodie, you are cased
In plasters that are porous,
And that this corporeal waste
Is not due to the chorus.
Tho’ we ken—who’ve known many a “star ”
How great a man’s temptations arel
You never took (we know it, zounds I)
A fair and gushing coryphee,
By moonlight, out to courteous “ Brown’s ”
To breathe the ozone of the sea I
No, Goodie, no I we tell you true—
That’s not the matter, now, with yoi l.
** * •
In a dearth of things dramatic, it is
espeeial glory to us to put forward into public
prominence a Zoologic exhibition which bids fair
to, in time, outshine the most resplendent dream
of Mr. Frank Buckland, deceased, whose repre-
sentative in this colony (Mr. Walter Bradley) is a
gentleman deserving of immortalization in its
most effusive form. We visited the Zoological
Gardens in state; and, at once proceeded to inter-
view the lion, whom, we found in a placid, not to
say comatose, condition. We strove by many
allurements to arouse the King of Beasts from
his apathy; but after even being poked with an
umbrella, and bombarded with those nuts which
are popularly supposed to emanate from the
realms of Brasil (but, which we understand, ate
raised at Dubbo), he refused to do anything but
hiccup. We then sought out a keeper whose
demeanour was of a confused character, and who
explained, confidentially, that he had only claimed
acquaintance with the Majestic Ruler of the
Forest within the last few weeks, having pre-
viously been pointsman on the tramway line.
* * *
We afterwards paid a visit to the tiger,
who, despite our entreaties, did not even ‘ roar
like a suoking dove,” and was, on the whole, the
personification of feebleness. But. for a fearful
and emphatic fraud, commend us to the turtle.
This animal is about as big as the new Evening
News office, and, should a fitting salary be offered,
could, doubtless, edit that paper with" both profit
to its proprietors and oredit to itself. Taking
Chris , far example, wo should like to know what
intelligent bandicoot couldn’tconduct . How-
ever, we feel that we can’t conscientiously con-
tinue.
■ a *
There are two elephants in the Zoo; one
which is a baby elephant and one which is not.
The one which is not a baby elephant presents ,a
truculent appearance, and gives one the impres-
sion, rather than otherwise, of being a country
journalist who has met with misfortune while
administering to a rustic public a long-felt Want.
This expression is, in a large degree, engrafted on
our memory by the manner in whioh he partook
of refreshment, whioh we had commanded for
him at a fruit-stall. The last of Alfred’s bards
we invited to the banquet so disguised himself in
jam, that, from the moment of our quitting him,
he had to wander forth a vision enveloped alike
in confusion and in confiture. •he degraded oon-
hiuon of the elephant after besmearing himself
with the currants from Bath-buns ; with gnashing
mmaelf into a foam of cheap lollies, was coeval
with this. Itwasabject. It was more than abject;
it was dissolute; it was degraded. We gazed upon
nisiace with peculiar interest. He had, we are bound
to admit, the brand of literature stamped upon him
so far as his ears were concerned, they being of
the ragged sort inseparable to pursuits poetic,
we couldn’t, notwithstanding, detect, though we
searched industriously, any of the so-called “fine
irenzy in his eye; although, from the extent of
nis teet, we could not conscientiously doubt that
pe might, on a pinch, be capable of great things
m the way of newspaper poetry. Our family had
“ “d® upon' him, for which an embargo was en-
j upon us—3d. a head. We explained to the
conductor of this poetical quadruped that we be-
longed >o the press; but he only replied, “ Gooral-
mucbgomaruma-tramzooks-iHebaro-obigi.” We
nr*j D ’ hy way of propitiating him, proffered two
tor Woodyear’s Circus, a railway pass whose
nate had faded into oblivion, and a complimentary
season ticket for the waxworks; but he shook his
despondently, merely murmuring, "Jiko-
j mooomba - Cairo ; goshbishimma -gaosobung.”
this caused us to enquire of him if he had any
of the same dialect on hand; and, upon his
some eagerness, “ Corrialo-jum-
Doombaremo,” we fled iu the utmost disorder.
• • #
But to return to the turtle. This reptile,
in tsannounoed j n the Scriptures to have sung
“my Land, was, so far as vocalizition is
K , a perfect dumb asylum. We fed him,
d<u, I n* )e< J P n him, assaulted him—still he not only
UK®,?. 6 ® to favour our party with a solo, but de-
im^i a ■ y refused to quit his mansion. He was
tK vIOUB ?° flattery, and turned a deaf ear to
frooK ' ° lceB t lyrics we had brought with the bloom
straight from Rushcutter’s Bay,
»nt P « e!e « nt home of poesy. Really, the most intelii-
thn i£, er4orl P erB in the show we are untieing were
devoured the leader of our much
teemed editor with the utmost avidity.
* * *
gr^a s L Wor< *’ r - Walter Bradley gives a very
lnd ®ed, though we really wish he would
bana ffl® .Puma to kill the rumour that his brass
ilow music 1 * 16 CdUBe of the alligator’s death—to
MiK« m ßitary friends and admirers of
legioni < anQ we understand ;that they are
council..?' m the exuberance of their wisdom,
oom*Av « Ja,l y to open in Wycherley’s
hav.. in’ou A CouDtry Girl,” Miss de Grey would
bucepaa ~ Probability, experienced a pecuniary
vessel a different kind to t h*a which the open
ev^n e if C »rJ?Hnnii Glr * beautifully bright, and,
artificial, presents a series of pictures that
are eminently diverting.
* * *
intelligence of the company in this
p'ece stands out in bold relief; the dialect of Miss
8 Pegg ? r Perhaps, beiDg ihe only weak point
niri«*VGP? a^ raterpreta t‘o“- ‘" A 'be Country
Miss de Grey essays a Yorkshire dialect, and
the effect of her intonation resulting therefrom is
something Detween a lisp ana a cackle, and sug-
Sn-oa but agonised confusion.
n IBIHl 8 lH # e s Q / e l be ' ng a beautiful woman, it is
permitted to her, we suppose, to star in whatso-
ever play she chooses; ana, in all probability, the
lady gains confidence from the fact that she per-
forms nightly under the patronage, and in the
presence, of Mr. Dan. O’Connor. Wot a night that
us to the Opera House but we behold
f?® £?“• me “ b ® r tor West Sydney leading the
laughter, and shedding upon the star beams of
admiration from out of taose “ noticeable large
grey eyes. We have lona known Dan. to be a
mau ot siDgularly courageous temperament, but
we never thought he could muster up sufficient
borage to hus brave the flying saucepan-lid, and
the old familiar patten. He does this seemingly,
however, and, for the nonce, banishes all thoughts
of pork from his mind, and resigns himself
utterly to an un- diluted amusement.
• • •
Mr. Morton Selten.as Belleville is excellent.
His costume is in first-rate taste, and he looks the
gallant of the Queen Anne regime to the life.
His handsome leatures are clean cut. and his
bearing and costun ei most elegant. We do not
wonder in the least that-but mum’s the word.
Hem!
• * *
Mr. A. T. Hilton made a most excellent
Moody, the character being well drawn, and its
Interpretation artistic; while Mr. Matthew Brodie
gave a reaiiy fine rendering of Haroourt. The
bparkish of Mark Kinghorne was a mirth-pro-
voking creation, and Miss Florence Cowell made a
charming Alathea. To conclude, “A Country
Girl is admirably staged and beautifully acted.
• • *
It is finally announced that Miss de Grey
will take her farewell in “Adrienne Lecouvreur,”
a favourite role, of Bernhardt’s, and the “ let ” is
stated to be an abnornmal one. Tantmieux! We
like beauty to be patronised, no matter what else
on the side of the sublimely artistic may be want-
ing. But, there, what’s the good of talking ?
Hundreds of our pipe-clayed heroes don’t agree
with us, we know. And we don’t want to fall out
with the military—at cur age. Being on walking-
stick and revolver terms with the “ perfesh ” is
quite glory enough for us at present. We can't
conveniently wear more than one plaster at a
time.
TERRIFIED CITY MILKMAN: “GREAT SCOTT! WHAT’S THAT? MARY, BRING THE
GUN, QUICK. THERE'S A WILD BEAST IN THE YARD!”
MARY (who wag once in the country): "WHY, YOU OLD FOOL, THATS A COW!"
T. C. MILKMAN: “YOU DON’T SAY SO!”
Miss de Grey will not be succeeded, as we
had fervently hoped, by “Bobadil” (a new and en-
ri. rel ?L ori,?inal opera, by Luscombe Searelle, Esq.,
the libretto by waiter Parke, sic), but by a young
professional person, yolept Miss Marie Lanyon. Miss
Mar Canyon introduces into this country the
so-called “ beautiful American play of * Young
Mrs. Winthrop.’ ” upon which the New York
papers, exhaust themselves in encomiastic notices.
view the production of “Young Mrs.
w inthrop with special interest, and we only trust
to heaven there will be nothing of Bartley Camp-
beiiism enshrouding the productions.
• si
To supersede, however, “Young Mrs. Win-
throp,” it is an undoubted fact that Luscombe
Beare ]l e,Esq.—the translucentauthorof “Estrella,”
The Fakir of Travancore,” “The Wreck of the
Flnafcre,” and other glittering productions—will
follow on with another superb emanation froiu a
brain which is nothing if not. eminently operatic,
it is given to us>, in so many prose sentences, to
understand that “Bobadil,” so far as its book is
concerned, is partly the work of Walter Parke,
Esq., and partly, as in the case of that undoubted
success, “ Estrella,” the Joint production of both
composer and librettist. It is no figure of speech
—far from it!—when we put promptly forward the
fact that Mr. Searelle is indisposed in a general way
to expose the libretti of his operatic successes to
the vulgar gaze of the critics. We have begged
the composer, with tears in our eyes and eagerness
gnawing the check-strings of our heart, to let us
catch only one glimpse of that “ Bobadil” which is
beiDg already wafted towards us upon the tidal-
wave of an electric success, but the maestro merely
shakes his head, and says nothing. This reminds
us that, when shaking his head and saying nothing,
the Chosen satellite of Euterpe, &c, puts forth more
eloquence than is occasionally to be found in vol-
umes. Thanks, however, to the kindness of a rather
attractive young lady who retails rum in a dtgagi
manner at a theatrical - pub. (and who evidently
proved too much for the inflammable Luscombe)
we have been enabled to secure a copy of “ Es-
trella.” and to light up the pages of this journal,
in rather a dull week, by a couple of extracts from
lyrics in that work. Lend your ears, now, ladies
and gentlemen, to the music of this:
N O.'l.—Q ONDOLIED.
I (Chorus of girls off Stage unseen.)
“ Far o’er the moon-tipped sea
We come, we come to thee;
Fal lal lal la! Fal lal lal la!
We sight right merrily.
Let pleasure be unconfined,
For love is upon the wind;
Fal lal lal la 1 Fal lal lal la I
No matter if he be blind; [!!IJ
We bring a greeting of joy to thee,
We sing our sweetest melody;
Each spirit is glad to-night,
And thrills with u wild delight.”
We feel that we can feelingly (and conscientiously,
of course,) congratulate the writer upon the
touching simplicity of this lyrical gem—though it
has occurred to us that he must, st one time, have
got the loan of (say) Cyril Haviland’s slippers, for
there is a distinct similarif.y between “And thrills
with a wild delight,” and C. H.’simmortal line "I’ll
melt in pure delight.” And having modestly put
forward this much, we will merely (since this is a
free country) modestly murmur “Fa 1
on our own account, and pass on „o -Hate
things. Here Is another lyrical slab:
“ I am here, I am here, to be nearer to thee;
It is I, it is I, thy lover.
lam waiting and watching: oh, oitne, tome, my
love!
For the stars tears of dew are weening:
And the moon gleameth bright in the neavens
above,
As I wait, my lone vigil keeping.
So come, for this heart is aching, my love!
Never again we’ll part.
Then come, for ’tis nearly breaking, my Jove,
For thee —for thee, sweetheart.”
Poor old moon! At her again! Ever was the
stern hand of fate levelled against that unfortun-
ate orb I Th«v have no pity, these lUntiiv mongers.
To write of her seems to possess, for thorn, some
sort of weird fascination. We shoula tnink the
moon must be getting pretty “full ” hy this time.
And so ‘ Fal lal lal la!—and four sti rs.” Four
stars come as a pleasing variety alter so much
moon.
** * *
To see Mr. Fleming Norton again, was of
course, as much a necessity to us as a i Lt to
him. fn an editorial note whioh appeart <Jr this
journal last week, Mr. Norton expJainei llnill-
ness was the cause (he thinks so, auyt t w < i his
first nights failure. Mr. Gunther, c *■ t gent,
explains that Mr. Norton (Alfred oalis him “Mr.
Norton Fleming”) was tired after his 11 ij » ( om
Melbourne, and appeared encumbere i w 1)1 very
bad cold. Now, if we were not sect* u ,) good-
natured, it might occur to usthit ft. i. Anton’s
chief characteristic is largely emi i« i Ji the
word knocker” by reason ofhtar rijujcbe-
fore an eminently critloal Sydney anc t’m when
he was ‘ indisposed.” No annoui n Jitm ilthis
kind was made to the assembly (subf.v In rnough,
in itself) that appeared to welooa M . iteming
Norton,—and, therefore, they took uliu ts they
found him. As we did.
* * *
It must, however, be admit»tii that Mr.
Norton improves so far on acoufiaf a i • as to be a
merry mimical rattle; though, i J , btedly, the
whole of his entertainment rer t'-’es a stern and
solemn revision, coupled with rut the late H. J.
u so< L to call " a liberal ipp catlou of the
P.K.. Mr. Norton reckons to may a month’s sea-
son in Sydney, and i hen t-> do the country towns,
in which it is possible, like (the love we have loved
and lost) lair Georgie Smithson, no «ny do well-
We hope he will; but still to us it t Tr.MKS nit oe
is not less a complete than perhips a si i j fluent
‘•staggerer."
** * *
Mr. Grattan Riggs has made so big i nit al
the Gaiety, in ‘‘The Irish detect!ve," that ow to
management have got so proud i hat they insist on
reporters on the dally papers paring their i-noes
with an oyster-knife before entering, The oney
is rolling in at such a rate now, that C arlte
M'Mahon is one sciutillation of splendour. Al-
ways proud, his hauteur now is assertive; and,
when asked a question, he refers you, in majestic
terms, to his uuder-secrotary.
• • *
It is a matter of congratulation to us, who
have an eye (eve • if it be a glazed one) for dra-
matic art, to acknowledge that, as things at pre-
sent stand, Mr. Grattan Higgs takes, from an in-
trinsically critical view, tno premier position at
present in the city. There can be no question
whatevi r that, even in the poor series or sensa-
tional pictures, in whioh he appears, Mr. Higgs
stands out, in bold reliuf, a protean aotor of emi-
nent ability. His performance, indeed, is extraor-
dinary, if only from the fact of his marvellously
rapid changes, and the curiously composed
humour (for it is that) with which ho embodies
periods extracted out of a rather bald dialogue.
There can be no question, however, in the present
state of affairs dramatic, that Riggs is the man to
see. He makes yon laugh, and by his many antics
dissolves the rrcollection in your brain of the
bailiff in attendance outside.
* . *
The performance was characterised by
much liveliness; Mr. Riggs as “ Arthur Tracey (the
detective): Miohael (from the North country);
Hans Speilman (a German glazier); Pop Corn Juice
(an aged Negro clam soup me chant); Mrs. Mul-
doon (a fruit vendor); Ah Cat (a Chinese pie-
vendor);" etc. (and more so), succeeded in con-
vulsing an audience—which it must (perhaps in
as much justice to the actor as ourselves) be ad-
mitted was rather Impatient when he was (which
was not otten) absent from the stage. Miss
Adele was vivaotous as Grace Hoyt, but in
her vivacity there did not appear much either of
grasp or originality, though Maggie Oliver was
decidedly funny as Sally Racket. It is but due to
Sam Poole to state he seemed to aoquire much
popularity by his impersonation of Johnny Lem-
mons; but sweet Mrs. Jarley was—and imagine
our grief at having to say sol—a “frost,” as Mrs.
M‘Cormick (for which part, by the bye, a Miss Eva
Malvoise was billed). The rest of the cast were
splendid spectres.
•s •*
Next Saturday, “Peep o’ Day,” a pretty
piece by Edmond Falconer, will be given; and to
follow “The Fairy Circle,” written for Barney
For continuation of “Sundry Shows,” seepage 13


PEPPER AND SALT.
Here is a chance for the acquisition oi
Celestial property, which, though we must humbly
decline It for ourselves, we reoommend to our
richer and more pious readers. We clip from the
War Cry Wanted, in Petersham, some dear
friend to give a piece of land or build us a Hall, in
exchange for a mansion in Heaven. May God in-
duce someone. Amen.” It is not stated under
what Aot the deeds of the mansion iu Heaven are
made out, or where they are kept. This is an
almost fatal oversight in the present state of the
), pard ojil)c
u?ipti 17 i?ie\Ve&a (&*yp
liryeytar/ hcket.aya Im
juurftoo hj+y*ujei
ujosJ to jfy.®
Presto ajscii
THE SILENT TOMB.
p (*-
_ e? /C
Gomqle
O, therflent tomb b'a plan of gloom '
For the living, hot—though they oan’t conceive it-
Howerer they swear, when they once get there,
They like it no well they never leave it.
Then let eaeh bold grove-filler fa the room
Arise and drink to the Silent Tomb 1
From towns and therpes comes the Cheerful Corpse-
' The young and fair, and the old and hoary—
lln a long pine chest, with a plate on his breast.
And goes to the tomb in a gloom of glory.
Then, to show that your minds no malice warpd,
: Fill up and drink to the Cheerful Corpse 1
O, the corpse has joys, though he makes no noise,
He says no word, but he thinks like thunder;
And there he lies, and he winks hit eyes,
As his mother-in-law is taken under.
Then here is a tdhst—your glasses poise— i
*' May our coffins never be empty,” boys. i
And the corpse he has got a gay old 16t,
He has no troubles upon his mind, sirs,
'And he lies in state, like a potentate,
In a rose-wood coffin with satin lined, sirs.
Then charge your glasses—as who would not P
And drink to the corpse’s gay old lot.
There’s one more verse for the jocund hearse:
And a line for the merry mourning-coaches,
Ahd the sombre suits, and the mirthful mutes,
Like a long procession of black cockroaches.
Let us pledge them alt—for the time is scarce—
The suits and the mutes and the jocund hearse,
f~e sn-cctn*'- °j7
The Undertakers’ Picnic.
[WITH A DIRGE SPECIALLY COMPOSED FOR THE MELANCHOLY OCCASION.
Celestial real estate market. There is so much
competition now, that anyone who wishes to ex-
change a palace in Paradise for even a Petersham
three-roomer must give the plans and specifica-
tions and full particulars, or there will very pro-
bably be no trade. How much more, then, is this
likely to be the oase when a three-roomer is
offered in exchange for a hall? It would be a
pretty thing, after having taken up a mansion in
Heaven purchased in this way, to be served with a
writ of ejection the very first week l
• • •
We are grieved to hear that the rightful
Queen of Wahguuy ah (Yio.) has got into trouble.
Itappears that this regal lady, whose native name
we do not know (the white usurpers call her
Tilly), came into the town the other night to assert
her claims once more. She was found in the
morning stretched out upon the soil of her fathers
and in front of a rum-Baloon. She was—we regret
to say it of a Sovereign—drunk. They brought a
wheelbarrow, in which, she was rolled away by a
policeman to the lock-up. A Queen going off to
the lock-up in a wheelbarrow 1—
“ Go, think of it in silence, and alone.
And weigh against a grain of sand the glories of a
throne.”
An intelligent contemporary informs us
that the elder Charles Matthews was a cabman be-
fore he went on the stage. It is usually the other
way with members of the profession in the
oolonies. Here they become cabmen ohiefly after
leaving the stage. It was only last week that one
whom we had formerly known as an eminent,
though unappreciated, tragedian wanted to fight
us because we paid him only a shilling over his
lawful fare.
* » *
WHO KNOWS ?
We take this interesting item from the
entertaining columns of Alfred:— “Elizabeth
M’Clurkey, 80 years of age, was fined 10s. (in de-
fault two days’ imprisonment) by Mr. Addison.
S.M., in the Water Police Court yesterday, for
having been drunk in Crown-lane. For having
used obscene language in the same thoroughfare,
she was fined £5, in default three months’ impri-
sonment.” There is no reverence paid to age in
this country—a state of things which some his-
torian has said indicates the decline of a nation.
We have some policemen in this city who would
arrest tbe patriarch Methusaleh for vagrancy if
they met him, and some magistrates who would
give him three months without the option as soon
as take a drink. So it is but little cause for
wonder that the venerable gentlewoman, Eliza-
beth M’Clurkey, got no mercy at their hands.
This impels us to cheer her with a verse. The
coffin-plate, Alonzo! Now I
Ten years above the lot allowed to mortal
Hast thou lived here, O, ancient Betty,
Only to stand at the police court portal,
At eighty years, for some offences petty I
But take this truth to cheer thee in the station,
There is no ill but has its compensation;
In ten years more—if thou’rt not laid upon the
shelf—
Thou wilt most likely he a magistrate thyself!
* * *
The Akmidale Chronicle says that its
supporters “ will he glad to learn that we have
added to our stuff a gentleman well and favourably
known in the* district.” We should think they
would be—when it is understood that the gentle-
man In questfcon is the sexton. There Is a spirit of
poetical justleo about this arrangement which we
cannot help ad miring. It is not often that country
editors are willing to admit that the causing of
death includes the responsibility of burial,
a *
This is a crusher for the iron-jawed advo-
oates of the Rights of Women. We quote from a
oountry contemporary“ Although the fair sex
were allowed to take part in the recent election of
a Vigilanoe Committee in Bowral, only two re-
corded their votes.” We presume these two ’
widows. The rest, who did not vote, no
thought it vigilance enough to watch t
bauds.
» * *
“Where is that youug man J ou g °* o U o f
here, as reporter, a few weeks ago ?. “ towßl t
the principal storekeepers, in a Sou oro wer e
the proprietor of the local paper. Ja tter
some tracts of confusion on the face o in
as he drew his interrogator aside t 0 matter
his ear, “ Well, you see it’s ratbei « Of
—but I’m dealiDg with a man of „ —jp
course,” assented the storekeeper.


fact is,” continued the proprietor, “that so many
subscribers have fallen off lately, and so many cir-
ouses have cleared out without paying me for
their ads., and—and the family had to live some-
how, you know—” (this appealingly, as though it
might be a matter of doubt whether they had to
or not). Here he stopped and looked confused.
“Yes,” said the storekeeper, soothingly, “but
what has become of the young man?" “Well
you see,” replied the newspaper man, “ it’s a deli-
cate subject to talk about—but the fact is, we ate
him!"
■ • a
A Queensland gentleman has lately com-
menced the pursuit of mule breeding. He expects
Htrfp/ Pauses h^C ?
Sjccesber lb
,
MomeV LENDER^
/Bills ID i & counted
Itj** No m C )rl\ecJ Cheques
1 will be cashed
IDirecTor
rt£f>ej?l'£uMy cUrcliqes ib
'r«c*ivV Jpfjspr^^ oldmcj
at cb cb sbo no urodt accepl-
of I ou o
os lb o I
Putting a New Face on It.
to be soon able to supply reporters and dramatical
crickets ”at half the present rates. More rap-
ture for Alfred i;
• a »
The Corowa Free Press says, with fine
wroasm, that “ The Bulletin has just found out,
with great difficulty, the whereabouts of Corowa,”
and that the discovery is “ a little fortune ” to us.
AH this is serenely true. It is worth a little for-
tune to know where Corowa is, in order to keep
out of it.
* * »
Iwo lunatics have been recently added to
the population of Townsville. It is suspected that
ey are going to start a fourth paper there.
There is a Chinaman out at Botany oalled
Ah Mad. He is suspected of writing art-criticisms
for Alfred.
• • •
The Echo says that “ a very witty news-
paper paragraphist recently received a letter re-
questing him to state what were the principal
causes of his wit,” and that he replied, among
other things, nine hours of sleep. The Echo
man is evidently the very witty paragraphist. But
he should have added that he wrote during those
nine hours.
• • •
More joy! The Sovereign, elated with the
success of her last side-splitting work, and, feeling
a sort of Alexander Magnus or gimme-more-
worlds-to-oonquer feeling on her, has determined
to entrance the world with yet another book; and,
as if this wasn’t ecstacy enough for one century,
the Empress of Austria has kindly consented, at
the earnest request of quite a heap of friends, to
turn stamp-picker for this occasion ODly, and set
the thing in type. This titled dame has, it appears,
had considerable experience at the case, as the fol-
lowing specimen of her skill, from the proof of
some “society ” items will plainly show. Voila
“iTqe Beautiful maM] e Krow Hie- wqo Dresses
with such excellent taste* is vision# hea f; liend
Lu I ie JaMbro/ceski.” Thank heaven, the cholera
is spreading, and there is a fair chance of its reach-
ing Australia before the Queen’s new work.
• • •
“ What’s up now ?” enquired the brevity
bandit of the Nooze, as he saw the Rum reporter
sitting disconsolately on the steps of Hyde Park;
“you look as happy as if you had just been sawn
in two, or a load of hay had tumbled down upon
you.” “ Matter,” moaned the other, “ every-
thing’s th’ matter; here I am with one of the most
stupendous thirsts upon me that the mind of man
could well imagine, and yet if you turned me in-
side out, and examined me under an 80-candle
burner lamp you wouldn’t And a bloomin’ oopper.”
“ Same here,” replied the Noozer, as he slowly
passed along; “in th’ midst of life we are in debt,
but hope still lives in this stricken breast-there’s
a land-sale luncheon on to-morrow.”
* • *
“ A well-known divine by his doctor is told
For his health’s sakeito seek a new climate; ”
But people, suspicious, are puzzled to know
If the Doctor here meant is the Primate.
“I think you said,” remarked the presid
ing Judge, to the servant who was giving evi-
dence at Thurtell's trial lor the murder of Mrs.
Weare, “that the supper was postponed.” “No
my lord, I didn’t,” was her somewhat indignant
answer, “I said it was pork.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Nature’s sweet restorer: The Sydney
Morning Herald.
“Yes, my son,” said an old man of experi-
ence, always be honest-it is so much safer.’"
Insurance official: “Of what comDlainf
fouotUitm pfunty.” die
subscribers interests at heart. J nas 18
“The Premier,” says a telegram to a
country paper, improves satisfactorily.” How
does a man improve unsatisfactorily ? y aow
■ .«.^ e ® econd brevity in a late Echo was
Obye a Crime,’ Saturday’s Echo.” The third
might be: Fairfax’s Crime’’-any Echo.
Tne Monako Mercury informs its readers
that Mr. Dawson is suffering from a liver attack
The local journals are a little too heavy for him.
_ ‘‘ Fight down the ape within you,” says
British Moorhouse; but what is more to the point
is how are we to deal with the monkey that’s up ?
They say that in Germany bottles are
made out of paper. It’s a fair deal. Papers have
been made out of bottles often enough. Look at
the Rum !
The Akmidale Chronicle remarks: ‘‘The
Bulletin man says hell is full of Farnells. He
should be a good authority.” Of course, We
have been in Armidale.


A Bega editor wanjs to know why he
should not have a paper of his own. Perhaps be-
cause he would have to forego his road-making
engagements.
A Chinaman’s horse bolted through the
Btreets of Queanbeyan last week. A number of
the residents have been prostrated in consequence
of the unusual excitement.
A contemporary says that it takes four
days to answer a message from Silverton. Does
it ? It takes longer than that to answer a message
from the Small Debts Court.
Item [from home news : “The cholera is
confined to the poorest and worst-fed classes.”
Humph I It must be consoling to them to think
that they have something to themselves.
“ A washed pig will put on a fourth more
weight, with the same amount of food, than an
unwashed pig.” Now we know why you see so
many fat gentlemen at the Turkish baths.
At Silverton, where the average rain-fall
is about 40 points to every 40 years, they have
formed a jockey club. There is apparently a
strange regard lor dumb ar imals up that way.
A new history of Mahommed has just ap-
peared. All we want now is a biography of Peter
Campbell, and the ecclesiolcterical cycle will be com-
plete. We should like Peter’s last wife to write it.
Why is Dan O’Connor like a whale? Be-
cause he always rises up to blow 1 [The editor of
this paper says he thinks somebody has said this
before. Perhaps. Genius is perennial.— Writer.]
A man at Mudgee, who departed this life
a few weeks ago, asked, in a note left behind, to
have all bills against him lowered into the grave
with his remains. He wanted to have them settled.
’Tis said an offer has been made to Austra-
lia to contribute to the European supply of oleo-
margarine. They can’t trust the yanks. Not
for niK'oyUjcyt /ucs/he Ut. A z
oS « U/s/IX-Ktce. /4c- mevmeJ./i J UmSi/ieH
Mi hot* o/moA/nyher ckc ? k^^^Hr/fa
y* tzc-sStcr f*A Ce./o<*r /» urn fir f /Atm-
'*' S <Af>be.o. /C€A/ *t it some t-ochs —" J t*n// / oflo *s h
too/Ireps So/ct Uks>us/u S’ . '
flt discc/o fflz (ecLct 1 AtfcVc z/Tcy
use rC. fa-rge a 3 fife.. *
77} (roofless /4 c mi* r -m <«. ac ri s Ac so. e/ /y
***■ S' n e<£ fotir-a./-cL $ ho me
' r e '*’ 'fn a -n. a y y/ v a. /O n y /fit s/l or (
I 1 4fc K*• C 0-*x c 101* ScA ay/t try kicks COm'm *-* c / *sj?
/// <rm />fr- J /(> eh/* y 3
On a False Footing.
since the fat woman of a big circus died over there,
anyhow.
An Irish newspaper once announced a
“conversion” by saying that a distinguished
gentleman had renounced the errors of the Church
of Rome, and embraced those of the Church of
England.
The Town Council of Townsville have
ordered more water-pipes. For what purpose?
We have, up till now, heard of only one man in
that town who made use of water. He was a
milkman.
We hear that a fire broke out at the Cum-
berland Independent office one night last week.
And what have we to Kay about that ? Well, only
that it was the first time a light ever came from
that oflioe.
“The Vagabond ” did not lecture at Denili-
quin on “ Convicts and Cannibals.” And it is not
explained whether the coupling of the people of
the town and his subject had aught to do with his
failing to appear.
The nervous system of the sponge animal-
cute has been discovered. But the nervous system
of the sponge is still a mystery; and so it will
remain, until there is a revolution in the manu-
facture of toe-plates.
The Melbourne World asks distractedly
in what way an adequate punishment can bo dealt
to those who, themselves in affluence, will not
support their aged relatives. Would not making
them read the World come near the mark ?
We see that in New Zealand ihe executioner
disguises himself at the scaffold with a " crape
mask and false Dundreary whiskers.” What a
scoundrel must such a man bo when ashamed of
his occupation. A murderer with opportunities!
A game of poker was investigated last
week at the Jerilderie Police Court. It was as-
Berte* In the evidence that there were five sees in
the pack. The deuce there were I The fifth was
probably the ace of shakes so often spoken of, as
faith in the game was shaken. \
The best snake story so far comes from
the South, where a reptile is reported to have ml
on a fence and charmed a child, and when the
infant attempted to move, caught it by the dress
to hold it back. The man who relates this dis-
plays more cunning than the snake.
The body of a child of eight years old,
who had died from natural causes, has been found
in a London garden wrapped up in paper. The
authorities can’t imagine why the body was thus
disposed of. We know. The parents were poor,
and had heard about undertakers’ bills.
With a view of promoting and encourag-
ing literature in the district, the proprietors of the
Bowral Free Press have offered a prize of one
guinea for an original tale not to exceed twelve
columns. Quite a generous offer. This comes of
a diamond-field being discovered near the place.
The documents which passed between the'
Pope and King John of England in the thirteenth
century are still in existence. If King John wrote
the letters ascribed to him, he would not be able
to command a clerkship to a glue-seller at half- a-
crown a year in these days. Why, Joe could write
better.
Suicides have become so disgustingly fre-
quent of late—owing probably to the fact of the
picnic season being in full blast-that it is ru-
moured the Hon. Francis Abigail intends to move
for leave to briDg in a Bill making the deed a
capital offence. Wade in, Francis; that’s a capital
plan to squelch tho business.
It is said that over sixty acres of crops
have been destroyed on one farm in Victoria by
grubs. It is a melancholy thing to see grubs de-
stroying grub in this way. [This writer is getting
foolish.— Ed. B. They gave him water instead of
kerosene this week in mistake. The shock has
temporarily prostrated him.— Sub.-Ed. 8.l
The boys of St. Augustine’s school, Bal-
main, have assured Archbishop Moran in an address
that “ religious education ” was “ as dear as life to
them.” It is well that his Grace did not put them
to the test by giving them the choice between re-
ligious education and a set of cricket stumps. If
he had, we would have backed the stumps.
While the Dead March was being played
in a country church, out of z'espect to an old resi-
dent, who had quitted this life the day before, a
grizzled party got up and walked stiffly out of the
building, remarking that he “didn’t believe in
them there d d high church notions.” He
thought it was to be part of the service in future.
There was a man charged with stealing a
copy of the Jernel last week. He did not plead
temporary insanity. Consequently, he got seven
days. He should have got seven years. The man
in his right mind who could steal the Jernel for
the purpose of reading it, must have inherited his
mind from a newt. Why, even Chris, refuses to
read it.
In Wagga Wagga dwells a policeman who,
when asked the time, puts his hand into his
trousers pocket and pulls therefrom an egg-
shaped timepiece. There was considerable con-
fusion a day or to ago when he drew a raw potato
from the depths of nis pocket. It was accounted
for by ths fact that he was an Irishman, and
boarded himself.
A gigantic earthworm, measuring be-
tween four and five feet in length and about
half an inch across the body, and of a species
which sometimes attains to a length of six feet,
has been received in London from the Cape. What
a pity they didn’t, instead of puttina- it into the
Zoo, appoint it to the House of Lords or send it to
us for the Legislative Council 1
Scene, Theatre, . Overture just ended,
prompter anxiously awaiting the return of the 1
stage-manager, who has already been indulging as
freely as the low state of the funds will permit,.
Enter 8.M., with a staggeriDg gait and a thought-
f ul, not to say dejected, aspect. Prompter: “ Ring
up?” S.M. (sorrowfully): "Yes. D— 1 — theml
they won’t lend me more than half-a-crown on it,
though.”
The editor of a country paper considers
himself justified in assuming a loftier tone with
his contemporaries after he has got a gas engine.
We ourselves were not guiltless of a certain reel-
ing of hauteur when we got our new steam-power.
But now we find we are all out of it The War
Cry beats us all. How is it run, do you think?
Well, the Major who edits it says it is run by Holy
Ghost power 1
While a cirous band was being drawn round
Cooma, the driver of the van drove over an em-
bankment and capsized the concern, thereby
changing the tune. When the excitement had
worn off, it was found that the clarionet-player’s
head was so tightly jammed into the bell of the
bass-player’s instrument as to necessitate hissleep-
ing in it till the swelling in his head went down.
The orchestra for that night consisted of the big
drum.
The Churoh of England Assembly have
resolved to petition the Legislative Assembly in
Victoria to prohibit the publication in the press of
divorce oase reports. 80 says a contemporary. We
are surprised at this We do not think that minis-
ters should compel the females of their congrega-
tions to attend the Divorce Courts. This will be
the result if the petition is successful. For it is
hardly necessary to say that the women will know
all about the cases, whatever the cost.
In a certain large office where the hour of
attendance is 9.15 a.m., a red line is drawn at that
time, and all clerks arriving later have to sign the
time and cause of being late. At 9.45 a.m. the
book is taken away and examined by an official,
whose duty it is to see that no one offends too
often. Invariably the cause is “ train late.” But
a smile spread over that official's countenance
when, one morning, he found that fifty clerks,
who had signed “ditto” to the first late arrival
(the usual custom), owed their late arrival to
being “ knocked down by a cab.”
From an English paper ‘ An Australian
aneodote tells us of a convict who got on so well
on that side of the world that he rose to the
magistracy, and on his making some harsh reflec-
tions on a person Brought before him, whom he
fined 55., the delinquent retorted: ‘There’s the
money. I remember the time in England when I
should have liked much less to meat you with 5».
in my pocket.’” We know the magistrate. His
name is Yes. [Exactly.— Ed. B ]
The erratic movements of an up-country
editor had long pasted unnoticed, it being thought
that the intellectual struggle of writing a weekly
leader, in open conflict with the views expressed
by a butcher who had just won a fierce victory
over a blacksmith in an aldermanic contest, was
enough to induce a little temporary aberration.
But when he was overheard to say something
about making a will, and about squabbles over his
“property” after his death, it was at once seen
that he was “gone.”
It is chronicled that the bank manager of
Blauktown went away from there one day last
week. It is net said how muoh he took with him.
Perhaps, however, the gentleman has simply been
transferred to another post. If so, the above
chronicle amounts to libel. When a bank manager
leaves a town, and there is no reason to judge that
he has run away with the money, that latter fact
should be distinctly stated. The absence of speci-
fic statement keeps the public asking, “How
much ? how much ? ’
That party of irresponsible Legislative
Council and “ flrst-family ” politicians who are the
chief, and, in fact, only means by which press laws
long obsolete in all civilised countries are affec-
tionately maintained in N.B. Wales, are the kind
of people who regret the good old days in whioh
gibbets and gallows were ordinarily referred to as
; roadmarks. “You leave the township on your
right, and pass the gallows on your left.” When
shall we pass these politicians on the political
gibbet, or in the hearse ?
“ Pastepot,” an Inverell printer, makes
mistakes whloh would be humorous, if they were
wilful, but they are not—he is quite innocent of
wit. Some time ago he printed that “Australian
wines were making their way into flavour.” We
suppose he meant favour, not bouquet; wine is
above his ken. The musical club he onoe desig-
nated as a “ chloral society.” He meant choral,
not the narcotic, although the music had a drowsy
tune about it. He now prints that “thirteen
pints of water fell at Warialda.” Why, “Pastepot”
could oonsume the same quantity of beer any day
between two paragraphs—and still his paper be as
dry a rag as ever.
The Queanbeyan Dramatic Club gave a
burnt cork show a few nights since; but it was too
lively for the townspeople. One of the end-men,
who had Joseph’s coat of many colours, and Mar-
wood's cheek, so represented an Indian tobacco-
sign that a local tobacconist wanted to negotiate
for his purohase next day. The thrilling part of
the entertainment was the singing of a ballad,
“My Best Friend.” The singer’s best friend did
not happen to be the accompanist, ns each ground
out an air of his own, and to prevent a positive
break-down, two or three of the other performers
clutched at the air, and sailed along in different
ways. A dog-fight would now hit public taste
with more advantage.
There 8 hope of England’s national debt
being wiped off the slate after all, and, palmam qui
meruit ferat, It is the much maligned “Lords”
this time who have saved their bleeding country
just as those other geese once saved Rome. A
sweeping economy has now been made in one
branch of the British Naval Service. “My Lords ”
have discovered that, in some cases, flue-brushes
have been purchased for coastguard stations, and
they have directed that In future these important
and expensive articles are not to be provided at the
expense of the Crown, but must be paid for by the
crews of the Reserve ships. Britannia thlcs the
waves, but she draws the line at flue-brushes.
It was in the office of the leading organ of
public opinion in the Boulburn Vale. The edi-
tor, who had been unavoidably absent all the
morning, came in as the first sheet was being
pulled off the manvie. He held it out before him,
and a thrill of pride began to shake his frame,
but was arrested by a sneeze. When he got clear
of his attack, his eye met an item of Police Court,
business commencing, “ A low-looking scoundrel
was brought up nefore the Bench on Tuesday
morning—.” “Stop the press,” cried the editor:
unlock the everlasting thing, and change that.
Why, in heaven, didn't you show me the police
Sroof ?” “ I showed it to you, sir,” said a pale,
aggard youth. “ But it must have been when l
was drunk.” yelled the editor. “* A low-lookimr
scoundrel, indeed! Why. you son of a gun, that s
our boss shareholder. D'ye want him to come
dowp, here with the key of the door?”
The fares from the country districts in
Victoria to Melbourne during Cup week, and while
the racing fever is on, will be, the railway authori-
ties notify, reduced to excursion rates. This does
not satisfy everybody. A very considerable sec-
tion of Melbourne people want to get far into the
oountry at that time, and they want the fares from
Melbourne to be put on,the same scale. They prs>
anxiously for the boon, and aver that if tseir
prayer be not granted, they will go, nevertheless-
They say they think horse-racing immoral,
that, irrational as the fare was, they always ha\ e
gone away. That accounts for the consternation
which has annually showed itself In the faces or
oountry cousins. They had sent their in one J f !,"
the metropolis in answer to advertisements, or iu
goods, or on some seemingly honest ground, am
ad never got anything in return. Then they na
said, “ We"ll find them at Cup time.” Now *
know why they never found them, and never w
find them there at Cup time.


Bishop Moorhouse has been telling (he
cultured people of Kyneton tbat a devout believer
In many things having come to doubt the ellicacy
of prayer, suggested a practical way of testing
the truth of the Church's doctrine. “We are
troubled with rabbits,” said this strange Christian.
“ 1 hey are so prolific that killing millions of them
leaves us in a week just as we were. Now, try a
broadside of prayer on them. Pray to God to
curse them with sterility.” The Bishop declines
to apply this test, not through any mercy for the
rabbits, but on the specious ground that it is
reasonably within the power of man to subdue
rabbits, and that prayer is only to be bad recourse
to when the object is unattainable by human
effort. This is a familiar position for the Bishop
to assume in respect to prayer; but without
implying that his Anglican Didymus’s test of
sterility is more than a sterile test Dr. Moorhouse
should be invited to explain clearly what praying
for daily bread amounts to. It 1s reasonably
within the power of the great majority of the
people to obtain by his own efforts “ this day's
bread.” Is it therefore unnecessary for this great
majority to use this prayer ? And if uunecessary,
why do they do it ?
The express trains to Melbourne are daily
crowded with hundreds who go over to the Derby
and Cup, many having secured, before leaving,
one of Bray Brothers' (402 George-street) toilet
sets, which are selling fast, at twenty-five shil-
lings. *
Continuation of “Sundry Shows ” from page 9.
Williams, and played some time ago by J. C.
Williamson in Melbourne.
** * *
If for a pleasant par.,
Sweet readers, you are seeking;
Take one about a “ star ”
Operatic Josey Deakin I
She’s nightly at the play,
(The "perfesh.” out of the’ruck of it*),
And, viewing Jack, they say—
“ Thunder! he’s the luck of it.”
* He’s descended to this at last.—Ed. B.
** * *
It is noticed that the dress-cirole of the
Opera House is embellished every night by the
august presence of the noticeable man with large
grey eyes. Pork -quoif We have found room for
a par. for Dan; but lots of other pretty people—
notably, the Vogrichs (sounds funny), will have
to wait till next week for their slice of immorta-
lization.
*• * *
We are requested to state that Mr. E. W
Clarke, who, with Charlie Macmahon is one of
the present satellites of Grattan Riggs, is’the
special correspondent of the N.Y. Spirit of the
Times. Mr. Clarke thinks The Bulletin a very
olever paper, and wo consider the Spirit of thf
Times exceptionably diverting. Wonderful hov
these ideas clash, is it not ?
** * *
On the 10th the Circus will supersede Pro
Sample in Belmore Park, and once again we hope
to bask in the sunny smiles of Madlle. de la
Rosiere. We trust, by the way, that Woodyear
will take this little bit of “ soft stuff ” in the spirit
in which it is meant. Stay, though; on considera-
tion we hardly know if—but let it pass. We can’t
be supposed to be always able to control our feel-
ings. We have a heart that—etcetera—especially
etcetera. ..And fancy Ada Ward going to star
again at the London Imperial. And in “The
Honeymoon,” too! Well, if experientia “ does it,”
then Ada ought, for many reasons, to score a suc-
cess. There is no airri re pensie in this. Hem!
• •ft
A party writes us, from Corowa, evidently
about matters theatrical: but we can’t, for the life
of us, make out what he’s driving at. His hand-
writing is more exasperating than a plate of Phillip-
street hash, and his manner of spelling Corowa is
an insult of a gory character. His signature is
“ Jobuz,” or “Jacobs,” or “Johnson”—it might be
“ Smith; ” and he airly gives us the following slab
of enthralling intelligence “ Currowa.—Will
Bulletin authorise me to write a short report of
his cellars, &c., and thus will effect be given his
intentions. Kindly say yes or no.—Jobuz.” Now,
when we gravely state that we get, on an average,
from four to ten tons of such communications
daily, it will be understood how dearly we love the
world! We gather, somehow, that “ Jobuz ” (or
Smith) wishes to represent us dramatically, in
“Currowa.” Well, we’ve no objection. We, there-
fore, authorise the boss of the wombat hippo-
drome to let him in on our account; and when he /
$ in to job him in the eye with something blunt.
** * *
And, not to waste paper, we see that How-
ard Vernon, of the Lester-Leston-Wangenheim
oompany, has been at his old tricks again. A notice
of 150 lines in the Wagga Star. Phew I
" THE POOR PLAYER.
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession-
This is epidemic. “Poor Player” again,
or death, or dissolution of some sort. Dan Barry
at Mudgee, tendering a “ben.” to widows and
orphans with “ The Shamrock Green” and “Arrah-
na-Pogue,” being “ under the special patronage of
the principal residents of the town, including lead-
ing professional gentlemen, heads of educational
institutions, a number of the clergy, representa-
tives of the squatting, commercial, and agricul-
tural interests, the licensed victuallers, the ladies
of the district who have also gracefully accorded
their valued patronage, and the generous public
Senerally of this beautiful town.” Dan, we believe,
i getting quite inflated with ambition and success,
and intends to perform shortly in the principal
London and Continental cities, commencing with
Jamberoo And you remember our old friend
Blanche Corelli, erst with Salisbury’s Troubadours:
well, she is in New York, flourishing with Catherine
Lewis, whose death we have long and industriously
prayed for, and who is a star in a new opera-bouffe
called “ Madame Boniface,” the right of which will
doubtless be secured for Australia by that illustri-
ous entrepreneur, Arthur Garner, Esq... Ohl and
listen. The rage for burlesque and the ballet has
suddenly come upon us. Opera-bouffe wi.'l soon
be, so to speak, a thing of the past. We shall then
have to dish up dreary memories of Taglioni, and
Fanny Elisler; to talk of figurantes and oallerines;
to gossip of pas de basque entrechdts. and the like.
And would you like to hear that the
Penrith Sons of Temperance have purchased a new
piano for their hall, and purpose wrestling with
Shakespeare at an early date? And that, at the
Academy of Music, Carcoar, Mr. Byers and Miss
Julia Hudson, assisted by a party called Plummer
(with whose identity we are, in our ignorance, un-
acquainted), appeared on the 37th ultimo. We
have known Mr. Byers for seventeen thousand
years, and have notched his skull with our little
hatchet on several occasions. Wo have also fre-
quently stirred into his portergaff, insecticide in
large quantites, besides having soaked him with in-
flammable materials and set fire to him with torches
whenever we found it convenient. But it was
useless. He was beetle-poison proof, and could
spread “Rough on Rats” upon his bread-and-
butter with impunity. He laughed “Ha, bal” at
tbe dangers of the fiery elements, and his deter-
mination to live and flourish even caused strych-
nine to recoil powerless from his massive but ma-
jestic figure. Well, all we can say is, we have
done our best to kill him, and, if we have not suc-
ceeded, it is not the fault of deadly weapons either
subtle or otherwise. 80, sweet public, hurry up
with our little statue.. .The Marian Willis com-
pany (including the abnormally-gifted Keogh)
have vacated the Victoria Theatre. Newcastle, for
Plattsburg. Hiscocks’ Federal Minstrels opened
there last Saturday to enormous business. The
Mmstrels play overland to Wagga: do a night or
two there, and then travel on to Melheurne. Of
the style of criticism adopted by the Newcastle
Hanby, we give the following enlivening samp|e:
—“ Johnny Cowan came next, and his topicalities
about settled it. He knocked the last laugh out of
us, and we had to creep out quietly or perish in the
attempt." A man who could write like this
would flourish in a country exclusively populated
with guano ...St. Leon, it seems, is at Cooper-
nook, and Cundlotown, and Taree, and Wingham,
and Tinonee. The gifted Gus. announces large
additions to the personnel of his hippie opera:
Tasmanian devils, Tasmanian tigers, a bandicoot
that manipulates successfully the jew's-harp, and
a performing camel. We see that Horace Maudes-
ley is the business agent; though, who in thunder
Horace Maudesley is, if he be not the performing
camel, is to us a dark and sanguinary mystery
This is a little droll. The Armidale Chronicle,
in a recent issue, has the following:—“ Womau
against Woman,” at the Sydney Opera House, is a
most lascivious play, and is consequently well
patronised.” Well, A.C., we saw “ Woman against
Woman,” but it didn t shock us particularly. We
considered even there was a stern strain of
morality pervadiDg it. We advise A.C., should
it wish for reliable Information on things theatri-
cal, to limit its metropolitan boot-clOßer to (say)
sixteen pints. He may then chance to pos-
sess a dim glimmering of what takes place
on the stage of the theatre in the pit of which
he glows, on stipulated nights, with Bardoipbian
fire. ..Yes; and Count Lorenzo de Mentemeriin,
an unsuccessful tenor, has committed suicide at
Florence. He lived in London a long time before
he made his <Ubd t, and then his name was Johnson.
• •..The Cottiers have just been going it in Parra-
matta, their performance completely, apparently,
enthralling the illustrious Fskgy, and imbuing
the Parramatta populace with an insensate love of
burnt cork.... And a big New fork sensation is a
p J®°® called “ Adonis,” from which, however, our
old friend, Carrie Godfrey, was shunted with de-
cisive despatoh, being, as they alleged, too bad a
study” for the contralto part. ..Just time for
this. Twenty-five circus people were burnt in a
railway journey from Denver to Egerton (Wiscon-
sin). Hero is a little bit from the middle of the
report:—“The heartrending cries of the men on
the prairie smothered the appeals of the dying in
the car, while the roar of the flames and the howl-
ing of the animals made the tragedy terrible be-
yond description. The odour of roasting flesh and
the distant cry of the coyotes added to the general
horror of the occasion.” The astounding conclu-
sion of this cheerful ohronicle is as under:—“The
oause of the Are could not be ascertained, as the
managers, with the rest of the company, left imme-
diately for Golden, to fill an engagement.” ...
Kate Castleton, who sent us out so muoh pretty
paper announcing her approaching advent, won't
come, after all. There will be tears shed over this;
but, after it is all over, who in thunder is Kate
Castleton ?....Chiarini’s circus is doing immense
business in Auokland; and, if we don’t give this
additional gem from “Estrella,” wo should, as
Woodfleld used to pathetically remark, “posi-
tively expiah”:—
“ My dearest, sweetest, most angelic bride,
Your husband’s gone for ever from your side,
And as I write my soul within is vexed
For fear that every breath will be my next.”
Boohl This breathes the pure spirit of—some-
thing, or something’s pure spirit. Not rum, of
oourse—Our old pal, Dan. Harkins, is punishing
the sock land buskin at Chicago: Ristoriis at the
New York Star; and the gorgeously gifted Thynne
family have recently had a struggle with “ The
Octaroon” at Kiama. And we are reminded by
the illustrious Thynne of this, that Henry E.
Abbey and Henry ,Irving have had a row
over Mary Anderson re the “rlnt” of the
Lyceum, and that the fair (how’s this ;for exe-
crable style ?) Galatea sides with Mr. Abbey
With the rank and file of the theatrical profession
here, writes our London correspondent, things are
THE FICKLE WIND.
FIRST WAYFARER: “PARDON ME, BUT IB NOT THAT YOUR HAT THAT IS BLOWING
AWAY? AND YET YOU DO NOT SEEM TO-TO-.”
SECOND DITTO: “CHASE IT? NO. I NEVER DO; I FIND IT BETTER TO WAIT TILL
THE WIND CHANGES AND BLOWS IT BACK TO ME.”
far from bright. Hundreds of actors are out of
employment, and two fairly good men (one of
whom had not succeeded in getting an engage-
ment for three years) committed suicide within a
week. The cry everywhere is that amateurs, who
do not depend on the stage for a livelihood, are
taking the bread out of the mouths of the pro-
fessionals; that the stock-actor will soon be a
thing of the past; and that hard-working intelli-
gent mediocrity will not be rewarded, as in days
of yore, with an honest competence, but with
starvation. The actor, as he is known to the
Australians, was infinitely better off ere his art was
patronised by the “cream of modern birth and
fashion.” As with the actor, so with the artist and
the Journalist. Hundreds and thousands of people
act or paint or write for mere amusement, or next
door to it; or, on the other hand, they act or paint
or write in order that they may live, but they only
succeed in starving. In law and medicine, which
aie, justly or unjustly, protected professions,
matters are somewhat better—though no doubt
the early struggles of a friendless doctor in Eng-
land are no less severe than were those of the
author of “ The Diary of a late Physician.” One
qualified doctor is glad to get from you three
shillings for advice and medicine; another, who
lives in Cavendish-square, takes two guineas every
time he opens his front door. The condition of the
theatrical, artistic, and literary markets—not so
much in regard to first-class wares as in respect
to the productions of all but men and women with
fashionable names-seems to be here really dread-
ful. You go to a “picture slaughter-house,” or
cheap auotton-room, and see hundreds and hun-
dreds of decent and thousands of bad paintings,
representing an eternity of work, sold for a mere
song—a shillii.g or two apiece. Then the theatrical
manager tells you that he can get more good
supers, than he wants at a shilling a night—these
supers, consisting of either aspirants for higher
theatrical positions, or of broken-down actors,
who are—Heaven help them!—glad to earn a dozen
coppers a day to keep themselves out of the
Thames or the work-house. A man drives up to
the stage-door in a dog-cart, attended by a gor-
geous flunkey. The master’s name is probably
Adolphus Montmorencl Fitzclarence; he is are-
tired captain of a swell regiment; he has private
money, which enables him to live en seigneur,
while he accepts £1 a week from the theatrical
manager, who is sometimes a necessitous gentle-
man, compelled to make economies in all direc-
tions, and just as often an arrant cad who is only
too delighted to make a friend of the ex-guards-
man by allowing that worthy the run of his stage,
while he, the manager, saves the three or four
pounds a week he would otherwise have to pay to
the unhappy stock-actor. In the elegant words of
Mr. Barney Thompson, when anticipating the
result of the Melbourne Cup, it is. all round, a case
of “ shin of beef or roast turkey.” The age of the
happy medium seems to have passed away
Ristori is coming back again .(saysaN.Y. paper).
The dear old lady is about old enough to be a great-
great-grandmother, but she will begin her second
stage career in English for the exclusive benefit of
the American public ...The .now eminent Lord
Randolph Churchill says: "I don’t know that I
should call Irvincr a great actor., but he is certainly
a curious one. He is always I rving on the stage,
and always Hamlet in private lnfe.”...Mary Ander-
son, whose opening nights (as Galatea and Clarice)at
the London Lyceum, after her return from the
provinces, were a tremendoua success, said, when
interviewed: “I wonder what kind friend invented
the story that ascribes to me the intention to be-
come a Carmelite nun ? I have never entertained
the intention of taking the veil.”....Teddy
M’Lean has returned to Sydney with a visage
rubicund with hilarity, an d he wishes us to
state that he has paralysed them with his
troubadours in Queensland. This is cheerful news
—for Teddy is a jovial person, and as u managerial
[the screed is blotted.— Ed. B.] is probably without
a rival. With Teddy.it is recorded, the “ghost”
always walks. Edward is mow, like other distin-
guished performers, maestri and impressarios (oh!)
&o, “ resting.”
The brilliant genius that guides the
destinies of the Forbes and Parkes Ga-
zette spreads himself out in this style :
“Talking about the habits of the lower orders
of creation has caused us not only to con-
sider, but to be surprised at the habits of ladies in
different towns wherein we have sojourned. In
Sydney the dear creatures paint, wear eye-glasses,
and go to the opera; in Goulburn, they talk poli"
tics and precedence; but in Forbes, they ask the
police if they know where their husbands are ?”
Just as if she hadn’t reduced it to the dead cer-
tainty of finding him where the most rum could be
got for threepence.
A strange duel took place in Berlin in 1867,
between a working jeweller and another artisan.
The only weapon chosen was a bottle of vitriol. It
was decided that the one who threw the smallest
number of points at dice should swallow the con-
tents of the fatal phial. Fate favoured the
jeweller, who at once poured out for his anta-
gonist a glass of the liquid. What was his astonish-
ment when, instead of seeing his enemy fall in
agony to the ground, to hear him smack his lips
and call for "another glass 1” The witnesses had
had the good sense to substitute gin for the vitriol
and the affair terminated in a laugh.
This happened at Spitzbergen, or Spam,
or somewhere. Excited editor to sub: “ I say, Mr.
Blank, what’s the meaning of that heap of papers
in the cellar ?” Sub: “ Oh, they’re 10,000 copies of
our last week’s Daily Dustbin.” “ 10,000 copies
of last week’s Daily Dustbin! Why in thunder
were they not disposed of?” “Impossible, sir:
couldn’t sell ’em—no one cared to buy ’em.’*
“ Well, s’pose you couldn’t sell ’em, why the d—l
didn’t y’ give ’em away ? Don’tcherknow th’ ac-
countant’s cornin’ round next month t’ certify to
enormous increase of our daily circulation ? Enter
’em up as issued at once, and then as soon as its
quite dark pack ’em off to Gudgeon's tish-shop
round the corner.” That’s the way they work the
oracle in Spitzbergen, Spain, or somewhere.
In pursuance of invitation, as also of fun,
we went down to Mr. Wilkinson’s Coolalta wine-
cellars, Mort’s Passage, on Tuesday last, to observe
(philosophically) the tapping of a "Jumbo’ of
colonial claret. We have arrived shafely at the
offish, and havenoheshitation in writing (although
we would have some beshitation— hie— in Haying)
that Coolalta’s a jol’ goo’ feller, and J umbo’s four-
teen yards by shixteen gallons diameter. Alsho,
that the pr’duotsion colonial wine's the noblest
attribute of chivilizod manhood as— hie— ’plied to
the liquidation of the National Debt.
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
t Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot exvect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Ina M. W.”: You ask our opinion of the
verses, and slyly cruelly would, perhaps, be
better, but let it pro-stiletto us with:—“The sub-
ject is rather too hackneyed or too tnme for The
Bulletin.” Well, we can afford to be generous,
so n’importe. Our opinion, then, is that the vei’ses
are remarkable, and that the person who wrote
them—it may be you, lna, and It mayn’t—has
secured a big strip of the mantle that fell upon
Burns at the plough. Yet we don’t print them.
Odd, isn’t it? The (act Is, Ina, we don t print
them because (unworthy suspicion!) we’re not
quite sure that, in the language of the stable,
you’re not “getting at us.” Assure us of your
Identity and their originality and—our biggest
type is at your service. Aurevotr “ MacW
Yes, it’s a good story. The worst of it is that it
appeared in The Bulletin over a year ag0....
“Loder”: Received ...“ Hiiarion Received
“ Wm. C.”: Some of the items may be worked up,
but that about the tombstones is as venerable as
the rainbow “ H.P.” It is lamentable, of course,
but where’s the remedy so long as human nature
remains the same? ...“Scotus” Your letter is
powerful and suggestive. Wo shall, by and bye,
piobably, deal with it and the subjects on which it
touches. The Free-traders’ views (leaving out, of
course, the great economists’ writings) can be
fairly gleaned from the published speeches of
Bright and Cobden. There’s no doubt they thought
that the advent of Free-trade would inaugurate a
golden age. Has it done so ? The fact is, it was
left for George to explain—or, rather, to give logi-
cal expression to the thoughts of many—the real
cause of the unequal distribution of wealth; to
show how i-.oreasing national wealth is, owing to
stupid laws, invariably attended by poverty the
most abject. ..“Chronicler”: No; we will not
publish it, nor will the “ poetlo editor ” lick it into
shape. It is jerkey, knock-kneed, lopsided, and
salacious. And.yet, “Chronicler,"tht re are flashes
in it—flashes that make us regret you didn’t try
something decent You say you have
madame's permission. We believe you. Still, we
can Had room for a verse only :
“ They may talk of Australian beauty—
Of the beauty of England and Spain—
But I feel it a matter of duty
To cry, ‘ Vive la Fram;aisc’ again.”
It is the opening one, and, perhaps, the best of the
lot. And now all the young French ladies in
Sydney, past-mistresses in music or art, can guess
who’s meant ... “ J.H.R.”: The joke is a coarse
one. fitted, possibly, for the bar of a country
public-house, and—that is all “Blowhard ”: The
intention is clear enough, but the wording is a
good deal “mixed.” Strictly speakiDg, Bmitb is
right, as the relative pronoun “ which ’’—referring
to what precedes it—undoubtedly deals with the
bricked chimney and iron roof. Of course, you
know that these “ relatives ” give more trouble to
Inexperienced writers than all the other parts of
speech boxed Into one. Even Macaulay would some-
times recast a whole chapter of his “ English His-
tory” in order to dodge one “W.D.”: We
cannot find space. Try something shorter
“ Springfield ” (111.): The thing is a quack’s dodge.
Some of the drugs in the written prescription
“gratuitously" forwarded are not likely to be
procurable at a country druggist’s. Even if they
were, no instructions are given as te the division
into doses. One of the ingredients, “Halish’’
(evidently the “doctor” doesn’t know bow to
spell his ingredients, and meant “hachish” i.c.,
Cannabis‘.lndica), is not generally prescribed by
the (profession in larger doses than grain ; 2
grains would be an extreme dose, and the drug is
a poison, like opium. Now, in the prescription
one ounce—which is 437 grains /—iq ordered. The
thing is criminally reckless, and the dodge seems
designed simply to get a sovereign from you for a
two-shilling packet of drugs “Araluen”:
We've read your letter. It is a dark and mys-
tery to us. There’s something on your mind.
Write again, and tell us allabout it.... “ J.H.”: Re-
ceived— “D.S.C.”: We are a bit tired of giving
our opinion regarding these “sweep ” men. They
are swindlers all, or nearly all. Surely you can
understand that “H.A.S.”: We cannot say.
Consult the nearest solicitor “W.T.D.”: Never
got the marked paper. Any items you send will
be welcome. They will have to stand or fall on
their merits. ./.“New Chum We get letters like
youis every oay. Now, look here. You came
from England a few months ago. Good. You are
a cadet of a county family. Better. You are
stone-breaking. Best. But can you do anything
else ? And you rail against New South Wales!
Come closer. You can't write—even for the
News. You know nothing whatever of science
or art; have no profession or trade; can do ne-
ttling but guzzle half-and-half, and spout of your
relations in the army and navy. Then- you break
stones, and try to break them small. It’s about
the only thing you’re fit for... “ Chas. M’Gregor”:
Oddly enough, we have been thinking of supply-
ing the very deficiency you talk about “C. H.
Taylor”: Thanks....“ Rolling Stone Try.. “F.
B. Graham”: Just received “Dick Deadeye”:
You ask three searching questions. (1.) To re-
move freckles. We’ve thought a good deal over
this, Dick, as we’re freckled ourselves, and the
“ missus ” is one big freckle. There are a lot of
“ washes ” and things advertised in the papers,
but they are not much good. There is only one
real remedy we know of—remove the part. We
tried it with our hand. It remains for you to tiy
it with your head. It may feel a little inconve-
nient at first, but you will get used to it, and your
neighbours won’t notice the change. (2.) You are
30, you say, and have no hair on your face. It is
not so easy as you think to give a recipe for this.
The preceding answer will suggest one. When
you’ve got rid of your present Ute, of course, you
can clap on anything-a billy-goat’s, for instance.
J It will feel a little awkward at first, but you’ll
soon get used to it. (3.) You love a girl, acd
she loves you. What are you to do ? Well,
let’s see. We have it. Keep away from Clontarf.
“Engineer”: We think you’re wrong. So far
as we know, the D. Buchanan who squolches Free-
thinkers in the D.T. is one of the Mudgee mem-
bers. Yes; we’ve read his letters. They are re-
markable—very remarkable. His reasoning is
sound, and the absenoe of anything like scurrility
or offensiveness makes them pleasant and instruc-
tive— “A.C.C.”: We preserve a decent silence
even respecting your sad verses--sad, sad rhyme.
... “Blue Blood ”: “God has made of one blood
all the nations of the earth.” There is no family
in the land that can lay claim to a higher antiquii y
than Adam or the anthropomorphic ape; and he is
indeed a wise child who knows his own lather,


“ German Byrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. Id
three years two million four hundred tbousan
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States o
America to those afflicted with Consumption.
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, an
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup wi
cure them. The result has been that Druggists n
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Samp •
Bottles od. Regular size, 3s. 6d. Three doses wu
relieve any case.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have thie index pasted up bv
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
V,R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 2T, 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27,28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 6, 7.
AQUATICS.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Beach v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Casino Athletic Club Sports .... ..... November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC HEMS.
Largau and Bubear have forfeited to God-
win and Perkins.
On 15th October, at Port Macquarie, Sim
WilsoD, a Sydney ped., defeated C. Bull in a 75yds.
spin.
At Melbourne, J. Keenan, of Sydney,
defeated B. Farrell, a local man, in a handball
match for the “ championship.”
The Britishers make their debut against 15
of Adelaide, but they can hardly be expected to
show good form so soon after the voyage.
Horaoe Bavenport, ex-amateur champion
of England, on Sept. 2 swam across the Solent
from Portsmouth to Rydo and back in five hours
and 35 minutes.
Myers, the'American amateur flyer,|during
his recent English trip, did the half-mile in lmin.
55 3 ssec., and beat the English records for 400, 500,
600, 800, 880, and 1000 yards.
On August 30, at Omaha (U.S.), G. W.
Hamilton, the crack Yankee jumper, for a wager
of £3O, jumped over the trotting horse Michigan,
whioh stands 174 hands high, clearing him easily.
In the Zingari match at Scarborough,
Bonnor bowled three wides in one over. With the
fourth ball he bowled Hadow. So that the con-
fldence-tiiok may be done even in the honest game
of cricket.
The go-ahead Glebites are out with their
programme for annual regatta, to eventuate on
13th December. The card consists of an open race
for juniors in skiffs, maiden double sculls, maiden
fours, senior double sculls, and trial fours.
Mr. Alfred Isaacs, who owned Krupp, paid
800 guineas for the colt, and was offered £lOOO for
him three weeks before he died. Mr. Isaacs had
backed to win £2OOO on the Canterbury (N.Z)
Derby. Krupp was insured to cover all risks for
£5OO.
The editor of the London Sportsman has
received an official communication from the editor
of the Boston Herald, authorising him to chal-
lenge either Hanlan. or Beach, of Australia, to
row John Teemer in England for £5OO a side. Boo-
hoo to you!
Moonee Valley races on Saturday last.
Evie won the All-Aged Stakes; the Ngarieno
Handicap fell to Virtue; Hannibal carried off the
Selling Race; Meteor, Irralee, and Yatety finished
in the order named for the Moonee Valley Cup;
Clown won the Steeplechase; and Prodigal won
the Phoenix Handicap.
A pigeon race has been flown between 1000
carrier pigeons, from Dover to Brussels—a distance
of 140 miles in a straight line. The birds were
brought over from Ostend in baskets. After being
liberated, they ascended at once to a great height,
and then headed for Brussels, within three
minutes they were out of sight.
WQIn re the |Hanlan-Beaeh race, the New
York Clipper says: “ Further particulars of this
‘ surprise party ’ will be anxiously awaited.” The
’Fbisco News Letter takes its gruel “like a
man,” and remarks: “The ex-champion of the
world was beaten on his merits, and for that day
the Colonial proved himself the better man.”
Caulfield jockeys kept the plunder to
themselves, the hurdle race being won by J. King,
the steeplechase by J. Allen, and the big Cup by
A. Blair, all pig-skin straddlers resident at Caul-
field. Blair, by the way. is apprenticed to Mr. T.
Jones. and should get plenty of mounts as he can
ride at 7st., and the style he steered Blink Bonney
shows he possesses coolness and judgment.
Lovely weather for the opening day of the
Double Bay Amateur Sailing Club on Saturday
last. The afternoon passed off without a hitch,
and was altogether an improvement upon the re-
cent show made by the senior club. Mr. Trickett
suggested that, in future, ladies should take a part
in these opening ceremonies. We oommend the
idea for the consideration of the S.A.S.C.
A French gentleman, viewing a cricket
match at Lord’s, in London,laaked a neighbour to
explain the difference between “ gentleman ” and
“player,” and got the answer: “A‘gentleman’is
one who plays tor play; a ‘ player ’ one who plavs
for pay. “Thanks,” replied the Frenchman;
“ then that yamin I asked just now was not gam-
moning me when he said there was a ‘l’ of a dif-
ference.”
The 24-footers Lottie, Victor, and Dream-
land showed out in their war-paint on Sunday last,
and a spanking North-easter gave the crews a
good opportunity for practice. The three crews
landed at North Harbour, and in the afternoon the
boats had a grand run home. The Lottie and
Dreamland contented themselves with fore and
aft sails, but the Victor tore through it like a
steamer, under topsail and squaresail.
The English papers are just beginning to
admit that the Australians have been “ fairly suc-
cessful” this trip. Thus the Standard: "it has
been said over and over again that the success of
the Australian cricketers in this country has been
due more to Spofforth’s bowling than to any other
cause, and now, as the fourth tour draws to a
close, the fact becomes more palpable than ever.”
So it’s "all along of that wicked Spoff.l”
A correspondent recently asked a Sydney
weekly the fastest time "Black Charley” Rey-
nolds had performed over the champion course.
The answer was incorrectly given as 20min, 48sec.
Reynolds, with a swinging ebb tide under him and
feather-white westerly behind him, rowed, or
rather was blown over the course, in 20min. Bsec.
—the fastest on record. We clocked the raco with
a reliable watch, and, strange to say, it was the
only boat-race we ever '.saw three watches agree
about.
Mr. Jack Want has resigned the office of
Commodore of the P.A.Y. Club, which he had only
just accepted. The club will And it difficult to re-
place so thorough a yachtsman and genial a host.
Rumour has it that this gentleman is in treaty for
the Mistral, with a view to a trip among the
Islands. By the way, " ’tis an ill wind that blows
nobody good,” and the late owner of the Mignon-
ette may congratulate himself that her faulty
condition was proved in so unmistakable a manner,
before he committed himself and his party to her
treaoherous keeping in the South Seas.
The junior teachers held their annual
sports at Clontarf on Saturday last. The Ist, 2nd,
3rd, and 4th class 100 yards races fell to Berry,
Cummings, Herd, and Roberts respectively. The
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th class mile walks were won by
Bullock and Shaw respectively; Hewitt threw the
cricket-ball 98 yards; D. Berry won the champion
150 yards; Gray won the 440 yards ex-students’
handicap; Davis won the long jump; Herd won
the 150 yards hurdle race; Tnom won the mile
run; Sbute annexed the hoo-step-and-jump ; and
Kelly and Giles appropriated the three-legged
race.
The Double Bay Regatta programme has
filled up well, and given a fine breezy day on
Saturday next, the popular fixture promises to
pass off with its customary success, thanks to the
untiring efforts of the hon. sec., Mr. Stafford, and
the committee. Ellis’ last edition to the mosquito
fleet of half-deckers, Mr. Trebeck’s Wanganella,
will make her maiden effort, but until she proves
herself, we shall remain of opinion that extreme
dead weight in beamy craft of her description will
detract from speed. 'We should not be surprised
to see the Wanganella unable to obtain a place in
her class.
A French writer (in Le Charivari) has
some remarks on the great victory of the English
Eleven over the Australians at Lord’s. The colo-
nials, so the wondering Parisians are told, had
made the long voyage expressly to match their
strength against the champions of the mother
eountry. The mother beat her children, and beat
them very decisively. The vanquished children
could not stomach the blow. One of them hag
already committed suicide, and four others ore dan-
gerously ill! Clearly, as the astonished writer
observes, one can see that the struggle, begun in
play, has become serious.
The Football Union has at last deoided the
disputed University-Burwood match as “un-
finished,” and the Suburbans may be awarded the
cake as last season’s boss team. For the Cup,
Burwood defeated Balmain twice, by 15 to nil and
16 to 4; University once, by 7 to nil; Wallaroo
once, by 26 to nil; and Kedfern once, by 11 to nil;
and suffered their only defeat at the hands of Wal-
laroo, by sto 2. In addition to the Cup matches,
the Bur woods fairly ran over 20 Wellesleys by 38
to nil; St. Leonards, by 9 to nil; and Goulburn
twice, by 23 and 24 to ml respectively. If next
year the up-the-liners show up to last year’s
form, we would suggest a Burwood v. combined
team on the list of fixtures.
W. G. George lias made up his mind to re-
tire from the path, as far as England is concerned,
at the end of the present season, but before he
does so will try to alter a few more records. The
London Athletic Club made the following arrange-
ments for him, viz.:—He was to attempt to beat
record at 1000 yards in the open handicap at that
distance, at the L. A. C. First Autumn Meeting on
the 27th Sept. At the Second Autumn Meeting on
Oct. 11, prizes were offered for a mile handicap re-
stricted to 20 competitors, and with a 120 yards
limit in order to give him a chance to have a cut
at the 1500 yards and mile times, and a week later
he was again to essay the task of beating the
Deerfoot feat of 11 miles 970 yards in an hour.
The small use made by the junior cricket-
ers of the opportunity afforded them by the senior
association and ground trustees to show what
they could do on a good turf wicket, would
imply that the youngsters’ ambition reaches no
further than the watch chain babule and tin pot
business. In our day the highest pinnacle of bliss
a cricketer could aspire to was to represent his
colony in an Intercolonial or International match,
but the youngsters of to-day would appear to
have different aspirations, or they surely would
not have made such a poor response on Baturday
last. Donnan, Searle, and Sparkes showed excel-
lent form, and we should not be surprised to hear of
them in the first llight before long, provided they
do not get out of their depth and too big to accept
a hint or two.
“ E.N.R.” asks the time for the fastest 100
yards in Australia, and who by. Hewett is stated
to have covered the distance in seconds, but
wo are of opinion that oven time has never been
beaten in Australia—or any other part of the
world, given a correctly-measured, level track,
and reliable dockers. Seward is credited with 9J4
seconds, but how was the “ record ” obtained ? In
1844, watches were not quite up to the pitch of per-
fection we have them now, and when Seward ran
the race under notice, the time-keeper stated it
was done under ten seconds, but aby-stander, who
was said, in a paper of the day giving an account
of the race, to be the owner of a splendid watch,
cried out the correct time was 014 seconds. If our
memory serves us aright, the “ by-stander ” was
in some way connected with Seward, so that the
“ record ” is a very shady one indeed.
Cricket, as a manly honest sport, is knocked
clean over the fence at last, and “gate-money ” is
the name of the party who struck the blow The
Botherham (England) Council Club are seriously
thinking of dragging the noble pastime through
the mire of the local Court, and this is the casus
helli: It appears that the Rotherham Council Club
recently arranged with the captain of a Derby-
shire club to bring a first-class eleven over to
Rotherham and play a friendly game of cricket.
That was agreed to; but the Derbyshire man sub-
sequently sent an inferior team, the Rotherham
citizens flatly refused to pay for the privilege of
looking at a lot of “dom’d moofs,” and the result
was that when the gate-money was totted up, the
Rotherham club found themselves £4O on the
wrong side of the ledger. This proves that the
money-grabbing, pot-hunting, gate-money spirit
has fairly collared crioket now, and the sooner we
give up talking about the “ manly game ” and call
it the “ shady spec.,” the sooner will we get the
credit for calling things by their proper names.
The World rubs it into Murdoch and Co.
thusly“ That the Australians, when they win,
do so by sheer superiority of play, and when they
lose, lose by a combination of untoward casualties
—bad light, bad weather, bad ground, bad um-
pires, and so forth—has long been an accepted rule,
if not with each member of the eleven, at least
with the majority, and certainly with their own
countrymen. They are attended, it seems, by a
special reporter, who forwards his own accounts
of the matches to one of the Australian papers.
According to this imaginative and patriotic scribe,
nearly all the bowling in Englaud is unfair, and all
the umpires rogues—all the umpires, that is of
course to say, who have over given decisions ad-
verse to his countrymen. It also appears, by a
letter signed ‘Australian,’ in Bell's Life, that
this team is very far indeed from being representa-
tive of the cricketing strength of Australia. It
consists only ef Murdoch’s old friends and oom-
S anions, and contains none of the best bats and
owlers of Victoria or New South Wales. Mur-
doch, says the writer, has only himself to thank
for ‘ putting eleven cripples in the Held against
Kent, Sussex, and Gloucestershire ’—three of the
matches, it will be observed, in which these
‘cripples’ (who have certainly marvellous powers
of resuscitation) came off decidedly second-best.”
Now that the phenomenal champ , we
mean the Canadian sculler, Hanlan, has thrown a
glamour of glory over the prize distribution re-
cently held in St. Philip’s Grammar School by
handing over the literary trophies, and letting off
a goody-goody oration, we don’t see why the
thing shouldn’t be passed along, and a few other
distinguished muscular heroes be requested to
honour our coming Shakespearss, Miltons, and
Macaulays by their patronage. For instance, St.
Mary’s next school shivoo might be presided over
by Larry Foley, as a set-off against the Prods, of
St. Philip’s; Aiick Bannerman could orate in his
own polished style to the Congregationalists;
Bibby, the porridge-pasting champion, would be
able to deliver a telling address on the benefits of
an sescetic life to the Wesleyan crowd ; Donald
Dinnie would be all at home at St. Andrew’s, and
who could be found more suitable to lead the
Hebrew School festivities than Mr. Cricketer
Moses ? The University might then catch on to the
same idea, and secure the services of Dave Ingram,
who could “pitch a barrak” to the students in
Greek choice enough to make Sopbocles turn
green in his grave with envy. Taking it alto-
gether, this is one of the best notions we have
struck for years; and as muscle is god to-day.
where can we find better patrons that the Dii
majoresf
London Truth apologises thusly Some
three months ago I published certain * facts' sent
me by a trustworthy correspondent in connexion
with the early matches played by the Australian
team at Lora’s. Amongst these 4 facts ’ was the
statement that 4 the cheque they received was for
£1344 175., for which their representative did not
even say ‘Thank you.’ I have since had the op-
portunity of meeting some of the members of the
team, and they have shown me a letter that they
received soon after my paragraph appeared from
Mr. Henry Perkins, of the M.C.C., in which that
gentleman remarks that the statement is incor-
rect, and that they have his authority for saying
4 that the thanks of the team were tendered for
the liberality of the M.C.C. in the most courteous
manner possible.’ I, therefore, think it but fair,
although so long a time has elapsed, and although
the representatives of the Australians did not con-
sider it necessary at the time to refute the state-
ment, to give them the advantage of this contra-
diction. Whilst on this subject, I might remark
that other statements that have been made from
time to time in various quarters as to the eleven
having their luncheons and drinks for nothing are
equally unjust. It Seems to be forgotten that
when one person becomes the guest of another, it
is usual for the host to perform these acts of
courtesy. If a man accepts an invitation out to
dinner, he would hardly appreciate being sneered
at and told that he had his food and wine for
nothing; and so, I take it, it is with the Aus-
tralians.’’
RACING.
Ten thousand faces glancing with emotion all as
one
At the tulip bed of colour that is flashing in the
sun,
As the turf gives back the echo of the thud of fly-
ing feet
Of the satin-coated beauties that are emulous as
fleet.
As neck and-neck together they are racing with the
lire
Inherited through long descent from each wild
desert sire. ....
Ah! ’tis a sight which stirs the blood and bids the
pulses thrill.
As the crowd’s fierce roar at every yard is growing
louder still;
And head to head the leaders strain, with every
nerve of steel,
And stride for stride as the riders’ selves a part of
their horses feel;
While many a mem’ry’s busy round with the
thought of bloodless frays
O’er the old Town Moor or the Rowley Mile in the
famous bygone days.
Let carpers growl of the evil side of the gallant
“sport of kings; ”
Is there much in the world to which no taint of
scum or baseness clings ?
To thousands who love the gallant horse, what joy
so fierce and keen
Lives, as the thought of each splendid race their
eager eyes have seen ?—Weekly Dispatch.
The billiard tournament at Melbourne for
Messrs. A 1 cock’s prize terminated as anyone with
any knowledge Evans’ English form knew it must
do, the South Australian representative polishing
off Weiss in the Anal heat with just as much ease
as he had disposed of Byrne in the first. The great
feature of the play was the winner’s “ spot strok-
ing,” beside which Weiss’efforts in the same de-
partment of the game appeared quite amateurish.
Billiards, now-adays, resolves itself into a question
of the “spot,” pure and simple, and the best red
hazard striker makes light of the most brilliant
“ all round ” play of his opponents. Playing with
Weiss and Byrne, Evans could afford to work the
red to the top of the table Without any fear of
being beaten at his own game, and played out for
shots which he would fight shy of if opposed to
such men as John Roberts or Peall, inasmuch as
they, in their best form, would hold almost as
great an advantage over him as he over his two
recent rivals. As a matter of fact, Harry Evans
was always spoken of at home as an all-round
player; and, with “spotstroke barred,” there is no
man in the world who can give him many points.
Yet, last week, meeting players less experienced
in the once all-important branch of the game, he
allowed them to play “ all round ” while he con-
fined his attentions to putting down the red ball.
Such is the art of billiards. By the way, the Mel-
bourne D.T., in speaking of the hero of the hour,
informed its readers that “although Evans hails
from South Australia, it is understood he learned
his billiards in England.” Considering that he is a
“ new chum,” who before he came out here had
reached a time of life when a man doesn’t improve
his game much, this is really funny, even for a
religious organ.
The note of preparation for the coming
boat-racing season has sounded. The Double Bay
amateurs open the ball on Saturday, Ist November,
with a big afternoon’s sport, ana the Bal maniacs
follow with their great carnival on the 10th. As
there are several new boats in the smaller classes,
and most of the old favourites are getting on their
war-paint, some fun may be expected. Regarding
yachting prospects, Bince the importation of the
lolanthe and the launching of the Sirocoo, nothing
new has been added to the local register. In the
largest class, it is just possible that there may be a
meeting between those old antagonists, the Magic
and the Mißtral, and with the Waitanga and pro-
bably the Orthona to join in on their time allow-
ance, something like a revival may be looked for.
Under fifteen tons, the names forthcoming are
few. Sirocco will be raced as hard as ever.
Why have wo not a few more such owners ? But,
where are the others ? Guinevere is in the mar-
ket, and a doubtful starter. There appears no
chance of the Violet flying a racing flag—at any
rate, while in present hands. Harpy is now em-
phatically a cruiser. The Daphne is for sale, and
her racing days are over. The owner of the
Pleiades is in England, and she won’t be sent in his
absence. The Meteor, an unlikely starter; land so
on. So that things look blue in this direction.
Under seven tons, the constant lone, in a new suit;
the Sao, the perennial Beaky, with her new owner
up ; and the Doris, time-ownered by our genial
friend in the neat uniform, will most probably
furnish the dish (unless, indeed, “ Selvageo ” takes
it into his head to bring up the rear with that
noted clipper, the Bandiooot). If to this list the
lolanthe could be added, there would be some-
thing worth going to see. But her owner doesn’t
race her—more’s the pity. Of course, every man
has a right to please himself; but all lovers of the
sport regret the absence from our too meagre list
of racing craft of what many good judges con-
sider tho fastest boat of her class in Australian
waters.
Bathurst is the graveyard of sport of all
descriptions. Amongst the “perfesh,” it is an
axiom of faith that a two nights’ show up there is
equal to one insolvency; and it is also said that the
potter’s field of the City of tho Plains is chock-
full ol the mangled corpses of enterprising but
foolish men, who have been brutally murdered for
rashly attempting to get up a good day’s athletic
sports or horse-racing. As a sample of how the
game is killed, we may mention that about two
months ago a respectable citizen applied for
permission to hold a day’s fun in the en-
closure on the 10th of November, 1884. He
was politely informed that the committee then in
office were steeped to their ears in sorrow because
they could do nothing until the general meeting,
when a new committee would be formed, and, no
doubt, would have the greatest pleasure in acced-
ing to his mild request. Strange to say, however,
this self-same utterly powerless committee
granted an application made by the football club
to hold a kicking shivoo on Bept. 20—long before
the expected general meeting of the cricket
ground committee was held. Waiting patiently
until the conclave had sat, the sporting citizen
again applied, and was .informed by the
newly-elected secretary that he could not
have the grounds, as the previous secre-
tary (who deplored he “could do nothing”)
had arranged to hold a cricket match on
the same date. The Bathurst Cricket Club
has been “stone-broke” for some time past; the
cricket ground belongs to the public, and yet,
sooner than accept this citizen s tendered five
guineas, the oommitteo prefer to occupy it by a
day’s leather-hunting which will not turn in five
shillings. Then, again, loud complaints are made
that at the recent Geranium Club races held in
Bathurst, persons in good circumstances were
found “ fishy ” enough to slip in on the tickets of
their able-bodied relations, the said relations
having seoured an entry for themselves on the
plea of having accidentally left their pasteboards
at home on the “ grand peeanur.” What Bathurst
wants is twenty or thirty first-class funerals
amongst the ranks of its geebung aristocracy.
A writer in Vanity Fair, under the head-
ing of “ Sport,” gives the following account of an
ordinary battue:—Take this as a specimen of a five
days’shoot: “ The beaters got into line, and the
battue began. What a turmoil ensued! The beaters
shouted and yelled, and one long unoeasing fusil-
lade filed the wood with its deafening roar. Phea-
sant after pheasant rose in quiok succession from
the corner near which I stood. The golden youth
near me was busy. He had three guns and two
loaders, the latter hard at their work of loading
unloading, and banding the guns to their master
.Down came the pheasants in showers, their bright,
glorious plumage mixed up in quivering heaps in
their dying struggles. Many fell with only broken
limbs or shattered legs; I saw them crawling
around me. I counted eleven at one time swim-
ming about in a littte lake hard by, into which
they had fallen. Then came the hares. Here,
there, and everywhere, I saw them running,
terror-stricken and confused. To escape was im-
possible; the netting prevented that. Many were
shot through the lions or otherwise maimed, and
crawled about screaming and in helpless misery.
Ihe sporting Lord referred to had over forty of
these wretohed creatures around. Very few of
them wero dead, most of them dragging themselves
along by their fore feet, their ears back, their
eyes distended. Rabbits found themselves in a
similar plight. One poor hare came dashing into
the net close to where I stood, and became inex-
tricably involved. He had not been shot at. ‘Poor
brute, I will save your life if I can,’ I said, and
tried to unwind him. Inexperienced, I bungled
over the task; and when at length I succeeded in
extricating it, the animal was dead. Fright had
killed the poor beast, whose timid nature is thus
tortured by man. And so the battue went on. In
course of time the massacre came to an end, the
beaters arrived on the scene, and with their sticks
and hob-nailed boots put an end to the struggling,
quivering, dying beasts around. Several amongst
them were carrying animals still living, which
they had picked up and had not troubled to kill.”
Woman Items.
Aged widower: “If I could make up mv
mind to marry again, I would take a young wife
that would love me as long as she lives.” Candid
friend: “You may be thankful if you get one
that will love you as long as you live.”
A fashion-paper tells us that perpendicular
striped stockings will be much worn shortly. How
a stocking, striped or otherwise, can be perpendi-
cular when its proprietress is lying at ease on a
sofa, or saying her prayers, as a good girl should,
is a problem that worries us.
A German Prince, on visiting a small town
in his dominions, was received at the gate by twenty
young damsels in white. The ten prettiest maidens
had been placed in the front rank, and the ten plain
ones in the second. Charmed with the display, the
Prince, whose three-score years sat lightly upon
him, kissed every one in the front rank on their
beautiful foreheads, and then, with great presence
of mind, beckoning to his adjutant, exclaimed,
“Sparrenholz, here, go on with the rest.”
Thus savagely a Radical print:—“The
English matron is sometimes political, and is then
a degree more pernicious than when on the war-
path, trying to marry off her numerous daugh-
ters. When a woman meddles with politics she
becomes at once a person to be avoided. Political
women were a fearful pest during the ‘Jingo’
period, and they seem to be cropping up again in
defence of the Peers. This is troublesome, but
perfectly natural. Every Englishwoman, not a
niue-stocking, is a Torv full of Queen-worship,
Prince-worship, and Lord-worship. Parsons’
wives are perhaps the most ‘ intense ’ in all this
snobbishness, but the wives of the nouveaux riches
run them very dose.”
EQUIVOCATION.
We lingered, in the act to part,
The last word still unspoken,
By the quick beating of my heart
The silence faintly broken.
So beautiful she seemed and pure—
Ah, me! how I should miss her.
Unable longer to endure
My wish, I asked to kiss her.
A blush of deepest rose o’erspread
Her face, as if to mask it,
As, with a woman’s heart, she said
“ Why, Frank, you should not ask it! ”
The American papers are wroth at re-
marks made by English prints as to the growth of
the Transatlantic “ chloral fiend.” Thus the N. Y.
Sun:— “The average Englishwoman, with her
enormous consumption of porter, ale, and sherry,
and her mixture or bromide and sal-volatile always
at hand, takes more in the way of stimulant and
sedative in a month than her American sister in
the course of her whole life.”
A poet says: “ The beauty of her hair be-
wilders me—pouring adown the brow its cloven
tide, swirling about the ears of either side, and
falling around her neck tumultuously.” Very
poetical, that; but after he is married and sees her
hair swirling adown the chair-back on either side,
or pouring its cloven tide over one end of the
dressing table, or falling around the bed-post
tumultuously, the probabilities are that his
present bewilderment will be 00 per cent, more be-
wildering. He will be paralysed.
According to the legend, Eginhard paid
visits to the Princess Emma, daughter of Charle-
magne, after dark, while the snow lay thick on
the ground; but as he might have been detected
by his foot-prints in the snow, the courageous
young lady used to meet him at the garden gate,
carry him to her abode in her strong arms, and
then back again by-and-by. A spy reported her to
the emperor, who summoned his twelve peers to
decide what should be done with the young man
who had used his king’s daughter as a beast or
burden. Eleven of the peers showed sycophantic
souls by making horrid proposals for torturing
poor Eginhard, but Roland, the bravest of the
brave, said simply, “ Let them be married; ana
Charlemagne, with a laugh, exclaimed: I thina.
Roland, thou has named the best punishment alter
all.” _


Champagne
Heidsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsleck & Co.. Reims.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MS3LK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWATS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice dally, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
CUT THIS OUT.
BY cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
you will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
for £5 55.; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for £3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 6 years 1
Note the Address :
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878.
NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
cocme m conn,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR PROM GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson &Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at se. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
W™ PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Offloe CmoB for Bal ®* Apply Publisher, Bulletin
THEY HAVE ARRIVED!!
The Yankee Bubber Babies,
GO in the waistcoat
pocket, yet can be in-
stantly enlarged to Life Size,
resembling life, for like the
real article it coos at plea-
sure, yet screams awfully
if smacked. Experienced
fathers are deceived by
these laughter-producing
infants, and no home can be
a really happy one without
their cheering presence.
Post free, Is. 6d.
I’m a Daddy; I’m in Love;
The Mother-in-law; I’m a
Farder; and Before and
After Marriage. The fun-
niest pictures ever issued, 5
in each set. Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.: by
post, 3s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Wizard of the North’s Enchanted Pack of
Cards, used by Professor Anderson in his world-
renowned tricks, Is.; by post. Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal ;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. fid.; by post, 2s. fid.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. fid.; by post, 2s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. fid.; New Favourite, is. fid.;
Arrow Heads, is.; Afghan Maze, is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each.
The Puzzle Purse, an ingenious affair ; get the
money out if you can. Price, Is. fid.; by post, Is. Bd.
The Lucky Pocket Book, or Never Broke ; wins
more money than a racehorse. Prioe, Is.; by post,
Is. 2d.
Address all orders plainly to HORTON and CO.,
401 George-street, Sydney. P. 0,, Box 641.
DSRfPOUffS
. je only intaiiibfe remedy for
4*//fes/oi/s J) E B ill J yT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of tno nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, whioh causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
365.; if by coach, 2s. fid. extra. Agents for Sydney,l
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
£IO,OOO.—KIEL BOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. eaoh.j
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persona,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan of Distribution :
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and It will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prise, £3OOO, by far the largest
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for publio support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take plaoe before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P. 0.0., bank cheques. or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter. Send addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of Our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
THE FEDERAL ART UNION.— To be Disposed
of by Subscription, on the Art Un l on prin-
ciple. by permission of the Honorable the Attor-
ney-General.
£5OOO WORTH OF PICTURES,
in 10,000 Shares, of 10s. each.
Ist pr'ze, valued at £5OO : 2nd ditto, ditto £4OO ;
3rd ditto, ditto £3OO ; 4th ditto, ditto £2OO ; ot'i
ditto, ditto £lOO. 5 prizes, valued at £5O each,
£250 ; 10 ditto, ditto £25, £250 ; 20 ditto, ditto £2O,
£4OO ; 60 ditto, ditto £lO, £6OO ; 400 ditto, ditto £5,
£2OOO.
The drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected by the
subscribers, who will receive notice by three
advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily Tele-
graph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon as
two-thirds of the subscribers have been obtained.
When the drawing day has once been decided
upon there will be no further postponement.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over-valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will bo returned in full to the subscri-
bers.
Winning numbers will be advertised in all lead-
ing papers.
Amongst the pictures is a “View on the
Thames, by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50
years or more in the house of tho late Bir George
Stephen, Knight, Q.C., Deputy-Lieutenant of the
county of Buckingham, from whose sole surviving
executor it has been purchased. Authenticity of
this picture guaranteed by certificate from the
hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G - , Lieuten-
ant-Governor.
Send crossed cheque, P. 0.0., or stamps.
Apply to J. A. PARKER. Secretary,
81 King-street, or Box 606 G.P.0., Sydney.
Seoure tickets at once, so that an early date may
be fixed for the drawing. All prize-winners will
be written to and the winning numbers forwarded,
Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
m
COPYRIGHTED,
"THOUSANDS OP LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs, Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do
C'r’Ks purpose i s Solely for the legitimate healing l of disease
and the relief of pnin. It is prompt in notion.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
C3*Ladies, it will under all circumstances, net in harmony
with the laws that govern your system.
(Kr*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, nnd
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales nre
unprecedented. 11removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, ami relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.,£#
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
/t-fTIt revives the drooping spirits, invigorates ami har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the oyo, and plants on
the pale cheek of woman the fresh roses of life's spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
the cure of Kidney Complaints of either sex this
Compound i s unsurpassed, ./j)
Mrs. Travers' ‘ ‘Guide to Health” will be mailed freo to any
lady sending stamp. Let terswflnquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation ou receipt of price.
Address, P.O. Box, 907, Sydney.
MBS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty, tar CAUTION
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSB-TEAMS, for haul-
ing Bleepers, on the above contract. Long
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, tor
4|d. Four pence halfpenny. 4^d.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. od. s Letter, Bs.; Foolscap, 9s. pet
_ quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 342 George-street»
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tluee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
ASTHMA,GOUGH, BRONCHITIS,
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitation*,
tee that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 839 Oxford-street, London"
ou want to
ness
3»
For the /iS
/ v.
Illl.'
O/t/y
One
\
'/Mr
ENTed
m
b
IK if U (SUES
&
T
2M
0
usfralia
'-=•
3%^
'(!)
r
T
LFr- v
«5S
V
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OFMEDTLStovtr0 F MEDTLStovtrE rt *"•* “* BeBt ‘ They a ™ rded «OLD
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NETT ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKEIt, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow*
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:


TCI URNITURB SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDB,
CHAIRB, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
I A TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashioß : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for oluhs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
i and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
B
Bight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and tw© chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITORE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
£
PIANOFORTE, gua
strong, and durable,
laranteed sound
Trichord full
D 111 VI/ HCT 9 ULiVt uimaw| - —' — ——
compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\v just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street. _ ,
E’ A 8 Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLE 3
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
HA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ees, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BED BTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O Connell-st.
t oi s t ssfssff’
marble top, 80s the pair. -
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, Q’Connell-Btrcet_
with patent extending
) screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 teet. .
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, fr°®
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the ™ ita
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious oy9
construction; works automatically. y■ ®nsitions
out represents only two of the numerous p
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but
effort. It fits perfectly every part of: the
and gives the occupant entire rest. It u
to anything yet invented for the lawn, y® d gire <i.
camp, seashore, or wherever comfort.isdesireu
r 'TYh 3055 BRADLEY,^NEWTON
and U>nly). __
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable.
. Sites BRADLEY, NEWTON, andJ^Mj^
Framework for drawing-room_s un __
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A yer^ext^
sive assortment in Chippendale, in
and other designs, which can be , u P h nl ifremenM
any materials to meet the taste and requn-ew
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and
IRAMEWORK .for DINING-ROOM F% ak
IST REAL
B
F
Handsome and Massive,
TURE
BRADLEY
Inspection
LAM R'snrrng and^O’Connell-streets.
EDSTEADS, nickel-pLatedandWackandbrwe-
new shipments.
EDSTEADS, all hinds and sizes, at 0
Bedsteads, an Kinuu "-r’ mb
prices. Bradley, Newton, and_LamP__
B' EDDING.—AII descriptions at low^
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, u
nell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS,
w
.SHSTANDb, witn ffia l Ul Vr amß
BRADLEY. NEWTON, andLAM^
EN SEATS, 30e; Verrnidah u
lAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.^
Grlndian £ong-Arm
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, OCong
jgEIjTWOODFD^Ijro^AT.r^
SOCIATY
There was a baby-show recently m Auck-
land, a most elaborate affair, held in the Theatre
Royal. It attracted an immense crowd, and a
very liberal prize list was made up for the various
kinds of babies. There were eight pairs of twins,
upon whom the Auckland bachelors gazed with
more interest and wonder than on any other ex-
hibits. There seemed to be something about them
they could not understand. The judges awarded
the first prize—a pair of vases, also twins—to the
Misses Higgins, five months old. They were
named Maud and Nellie, and alleged to be both
the same age. For the best all-round baby, there
was a grand struggle, and finally Master Thomas
Cuthbert and Miss Lottie Finnerty tied for first
place. They were both large and soft babies, with
full-moon laces and double chins, and had ex-
tremoly fat limbs-at least. Thomas had. Both
had travelled along the milky way of existence
for just seven months. On being weighed they
were equal at 26161 b., but an observant
mother noticing that Lottie had her shoes on,
Thomas was declared winner by a quarter of a
pound. Lottie, however, who then began to cry,
was pacified on learning that she was winner o£
the special prize given for beauty, apart from
more substance. When she gets about 1» years
older, Miss Finnerty won’t care about being valued
by weight. The youngest and prettiest baby in
the exhibition was born, very appropriately, at
Mount Eden. The lightest mother’s-blessing was
iMib. at six months old, and the heaviest at three
and a-half months sent the scale down flop at
221 b. 2 oz. To the heaviest child under three
months old, a christening cake of guaranteed in-
digestibility was awarded. For a prize for the
prettiest baby born in Auckland, there were four
competitors: for prettiest Irish baby, twelve Mile-
sian mothers presented their productions; while
for the prettiest Scotch baby, five competed—but,
as the prize was given to a boy suspiciously named
Kelly, it is probable that a protest would be
■entered, and Master Kelly be called upon to prove
his identity. Baby MTntyre gained a work-box
I for having the curliest hair; Ethel Thomas was
adjudged the prettiest dark-eyed baby. There
was a prize for smallest baby, gained by one of
twins. The baby with reddest hair did not get
anything for himself, but his mother was pre-
•sentod with a cosey, and his father was authorised
to fro to tbe nearest tailor’s and get a pair of what s
their-names made to order. To make up, how-
fever, for this apparent injustice to the copper-
topped infant, another prize was awarded for no
personal merit at all, but simply to the child who
could lament having most brothers and sisters.
Hopeful anl fruitful parents, however, were dis-
mayed by an annou 'cement from the stage that
‘•clutches” of less than a dozen had no chance,
and eventually, amid general consternation, the
prize was handed over to the last comer of a
family, which—at latest advicei-numbers sixteen.
The prize for the plainest naby was awarded in a
rather furtive kind of fashion. No one of the
judges was possessed of sufficient temerity to
declare her good fortune to the resolute-looking
mother; but at last one of them mustered up
courage to inform her that her child had won a
handsome silver mug. The mother became
anxious to ascertain for what the prize had been
awarded. But, singular to relate, no one could tell
her.
* * *
In some respects they are much alike—
Longchatnps and Flemington. The day of the
Grand Prix at Paris, like the day of the Melbourne
Cup, is the great dress show of the year—a show
of bonnets and beauty which, even more than the
dove of the horses themselves, draws thousands
vfcogether to gaze on one another’s finery and
fashion. At Longchamps, the finest equipages are
seen; the toilets of the mondaine s-and the aemi-
mondaines, too-the pretty faces of the noted
beauties, and the clouds of titled patricians, are
attractions on which the Frenchman is never tired
of gazing, and never will be so long as Irench
women know how to dress. Every beautiful faoe
and figure in Paris goes to the racecourse on Grand
Prlx day, and the spectator comes away almost
cloyed with natural and artificial loveliness. Great
Is the plotting to secure the services of Worth for
that day’s triumph, and fabulous are the prices
paid to that imperious oracle of fashion for his
masterpieces in muslin and his marvellous crea-
tioQB in crepe. Hours have been fretted in
his waiting-rooms and his little closets for trying-
on But, If the day be fine, all the harass and
anxiety are repaid by the sweetness of a great
success. It is generally hot weather, but sunshine
does not hurt pretty dresses, and the eye is dazzled
by the wealth and glory of what Parisian women
show. The grand-standof the Jockey Club is filled
with none but the hmt-monde. No beauty who
has crossed the boundaries of respectability is al-
lowed there, be she ever so fair. Bohemian belles
have no place on this exclusive stand. Cytherea
and Lesbia would be frozen with frowns if their
dainty feet only touched its ground. Yet they
have their place scarce a few yards distant, and, to
tell truth, they come in for more attention, these
frail outsiders of the social Eden, than all the
noble duchesses and marquises who glance askant.
at them from their vantage seats. The ano-
nymas” recklessly display their superb flnery-
porhaps they feel a bitter satisfaction in flaunting
it They get it so easily. Their part of the stand
is a very Kaleidoscope of colours;.and, curious to
sav the palest of pinks, the daintiest blues, the
purest of snow-whites have ever been in singular
favour with these certain ladies at Longchamps.
I’hev come there in their artistic attire, their sot
smiles, and their perfectly-appointed carriages,
and those who like to read their advertisement
may answer it. As a rule, Frenchmen of position
do not fetch Cytherea and Lesbia: though not
very particular, they have a code of their own.
But they cluster like beesaround the vehicle when
it is drawn up in line, they smile and exchange re-
partee, and they send round champagne with brief
and well-understood messages. Very curious, it is,
too to watch the keen glances shot at these dubious
ladies from the pure and aristocratic stand, as one
and another scion of nobility threads tys way
through the throng to Lesbia, to bandy phrases
with her. But when the prodigal returns, he is
met with smiles, and the duchesses and marquises
arc not above asking questions about the Lesbias
whom they hate yet cannot eradicate. They would
not let their hem touch one of Lesbia s frills; but
they will talk her over among themselves, and
hasten to discuss her charms, her sayings, doings,
atvle. and number and name of her lovers, with
the males of their own sot. Indeed, they rather
pride themselves on being well posted up in the
doings of these stars of “the half-world;’ and
they conscientiously copy their bonnets, bodices,
and dressing of hair. And the Parisian ladies dote
on a serving-maid who has been Abigail to Lesbia
or Cytherea, and is wiokedly wise in the ways of
her toilet. Of course, there is nothing of this sort
at Melbourne. It is only in that naughty Paris.
• » •
It was at a reoent fashionable ball, and
the ma«h having reached a certain stage, he gently
suggested a seat in a dim corner. ‘Don’t you,
Agouisa,” observed her sharp-eared sister; “ he'll
kiS'you.” He protested it was an act he could
never dream of, but added carelessly, “ Supposing
I did, what would you do, Miss Agonisa?” And
the dear girl s cheeks had a nice healthy glow as
she gently murmured, “I —I slwuld Twt scream,
Chirlie.”
* * *
The Eureka Ball occurred on the 21st, and
was a joyful affair, like previous ones. To judge
bv the exuberant spirits of some of the young
«r°nt!e DeD, they were filled with more gladnessana
joy than they could conve dently hold. They quite
puobled over with bliss They a'l knew one an-
other, and how to dance, so it’s not surprising if a
g iy and airy freedom took the place of that dull-
ness which sometimes hovers over the souls of
young people when they are the least bit afraid of
one another. All the Eurekas are young, and 80
satisfied with each other’s style of dancing that if
wo had not been walked round by an extremely
engaging and affable young man, we might not
have been able to edge on to a programme at all.
He looked after us as carefully as a brother
—or a bailiff—every spare moment l n 9jnnng
whether we wanted a partner, or felt thirsty,
and could do a cigar, asking deferentially it
we considered the dresses pretty, or it we
expected the rain would hold off till the morning.
One young lady in a fancy dress of scarlet and
black took the name of the ball as her character,
only the dear creature spelled it “ Eureca. Hut
we always notice it is the plain girls that spell well
—the angelic ones are never particular about a
letter or two. Another character was Vaude-
ville,” of cerise and black, rather nicely got up by
Miss Ross; and an equestrienne was in green and
white. A vivacious School-girl came in blue from
Strawberry Hills; and Misses Andrews and Long
were Follies. A married lady made a most charm-
ing Colleen Bawn, and her sister-in-law a light-
footed Sailor. Two fancy dresses, though not
showy, were particularly neat and nice: one was
Miss Murray’s Patience, milkmaid’s hat trimmed
with poppies and wheat that wandered bewitch-
ingiy all over her partner’s cheeks—the other was
Miss M Donald’s sailor costume of short navy-blue
satin with white laced front and the bodice filled in
with white lace; hose, shoes, and hat to match.
Miss A. Service was a dainty girl as Cards in scarlet
und black, Miss Harman a Scotch Girl dressed in
harmany with the name, and Miss O’Brien like-
wise wore a pretty and attractive dress with a
gay military aspect. A lively Ultimo girl, who
could whirl round quicker than a gust of wind,
and just as lightly, wore a simple evening dress of
white, with plenty of spring in it —the tulle
drapery dotted with fluffs of down, and even the
other girls admitted it was pretty. Miss Adams
-was adams-el of considerable attraction iu crimson
and cream, and quite good-looking enough to
iaave taken Eve’s na ue instead of Adam s. But it
is our pleasing duty to reoord that a young lady
nailing under the foreign mme of Keegan, was
toelle of the ball. Partly beoause she was not too
gaily dressed, and partly because she had eyes like
grey stars. In addition to these good qualities,
this fascinating girl could skim the floor like a
swahow on the breeze. Mr. Charles Gee conducted
the orchestra with an ability we might fairly call
Gee-nius; while supper was well spread by Mr. G.
E. Edwards, of Glebe Point Road. Even under an
attack that threatened to leave any ordinary
tables as bare as the Barcoo in summer, this great
creator of tarts stood with a calm, superior smile,
that could only have resulted from full confidence
in an oxhaustless supply of pastry and innumer-
able dishes of jelly shivering in reserve.
* * *
Having a fine public hall, and a popula-
tion of whom a large proportion are at that inter-
esting age when it is desirable they should be
brought together, Campbelltown determined to
istart assembly balls. It is late in the season, but
the preliminaries occupied longer than expected.
!For one thing, a similar affair was projected at
•Camden, but it is alleged there are only four
■eligible young men in that prosperous place, and
‘the girls didn’t regard that number as sufficient to
igive them a fair chance. Then it was found that
on one night fixed, the local debating society
would be disturbed; and, as the fate of the whole
country occasionally hangs on their deliberations,
the Campbelltown Gladstones immediately met,
and asked one another in the sacred name
of liberty whether their rights were to be
thus trampled on. At last all things became
settled, and on Friday a number of the representa-
tive ladies and gentlemen of the district, with the
addition of invited visitors, held their first assem-
bly with brilliant success. Various trains brought
visitors from Sydney and elsewhere, and buggies
and sociables brought others from all round. The
night was calm, bright, and deliciously 0001, es-
pecially in the supper annexe, which was a canvas
framework along the outside of the hall, with
plenty of seats. Mr. and Mrs. Fisher and assistants
provided an exhaustless supply of delicacies from
the opening of the ball till half-past four, when
“ God Save the Queen ” brought it to an end. They
were civil, and their contract was thoroughly well
carried out. Wines were from Eschol Park. Card
tables did not find many patrons; the floor was
good, and also the music sent from town. The
entire building was adorned with ferns, willows,
and geraniums, twisted in loops and wreaths and
long garlands; flowers were profuse everywhere,
and the whole arrangement bespoke taste, and the
touch of ladies’ hands. One of the secretaries, Mr.
W. L. Moore, was u nable to attend, but Mr. J. Laing,
assisted by Mr. J. Davies and Mr. Booking, received
guests, and took great pains to see to their comfort.
Mr. C. Bull, ex-Mayor of Campbelltown, volun-
tarily took the duties of M.C., and managed to
bring in a few extras, to the girls’ great glee,
which filled time till the mail train came through.
Many visitors stopped with friends in the town,
and Mrs. John Davies had quite a houseful of
guests. Liverpool was represented by Mr. and
Mrs. C. Bull and Mr. and Mrs. Varney Parkes, and
of the local district were Mr. and Mrs. Davies, Mrs.
A. L. Park, Mrs. E. H. Woodhouse, Miss Wood-
house of Marlesford, Messrs. P. B. Hurley, John
Kidd, J. Payten, &c. Of the principal figures on
the floor, Mrs. Jobson wore one of the prettiest
dresses, a well-made pink silk, hung with fine net,
and looking admirable; Miss Wilshire, of Ashfleld,
a rich crushed strawberry edged with blue, and
pale-yellow skirt; Miss Thompson, a neat black of
light texture, in contrast to he fairness; Mrs. M.
Vardy, a neat pink; Miss Britten, of Harrington
Park, blue silk and flowered flounces; Mss Mackel,
from the Post Office, was a winning little brunette
in pale pink. Miss Booking wore a model of
dry nioeness, white tarletan touohed off with
pink and ruched pink edging. Miss Margaretta
Davies, an accomplished dancer, wore rich cream
broche and lace, Miss Martha pink, and Miss Cora
blue. Miss Chippendal), of Bradbury House, wore
a dress of pleasing style, the bodice being of pink
satin, and the skirt, with a few tucks at the bottom
and made to fall straight, being of delicate medusa
green. Miss Hoskisson wore a costly blue silk,
and Miss Amelia an ivory silk. Miss Clarke, in
white satin with blue tasselled tabs of broche,
danced in a way that was the acme of ease and
grace. Miss Kiss wore a pretty combination of
pink and white; Miss Pearce, of Balmain, a cream
kilted dress ; Miss Bayliss a rich burgundy broche
and white lace front; Miss Godfrey a simple white,
charmingly suitable; Miss Lillie an ivory satin,
and Miss McCoy the same—both capitally effective.
Miss Payten, a dark-haired handsome girl from
Goulburn, wore a dress of light blue trimmed
withdBrk blue, and was a leading attraction of
the room. The local beauties were very effective;
and notwithstanding the winning maidens who
were visitors for the night, the title of honour,
generally given to the Jady at a bail pre-eminent
for charms, was not won away from the distriot:
Now, perhaps you will ask
Us to tell you the belle—an
Embarrassing task!
But sho came from Narellan.
A face on the plan
That is known as the Greoian,
Such beauty as man
Isn’t safe unless he shun.
As fair as a dream,
(0, her accents ran glib on!)
Apparelled in cream,
With a dash of blue ribbon.
A butterfly tread,
And as tireless as merry,
And a droop of her head
That was lily-like, very.
Oh I it grieves us to say,
That we very soon fell an
Unfortunate prey
To that girl from Narellan.
* • *
At Greenoakes, Darling Point, a show and
sale of flowers was held on Friday and Saturday,
in aid of a church at Moruya. Judging by attend-
ance, the general public did not seem to care
whether the benighted inhabitants of Moruya
have a church or not. In fact, the flower-show
met with rather slim support—the few who went
there were nicely dressed and estimable people,
but most of them residents of that lovely looality
who already have heaps more flowers than they
know what to do with. A band discoursed music,
cake, ices, &0., were vended in a marquee; and the
flowers for sale were displayed in a large tent,
which was very gay to look at, but very wann to
stay in for long. A few folks strolled round the
trim lawns ana rustic walks of the splendid Groen-
oakes grounds, admired the cool nooks where art
has aided nature, and gazed on the entrancing
panorama of the harbour view; but the only really
interesting thing was the conduct of a r ® B P e °t a “|®
looking grey horse who was not pleased with the
way the band played and consequently kicked a
buggy to pieces out of sheer dissatisfaction.
•* . *
On Monday, at the Masonic Hall, Parra-
matta, the close of the dancing season was signal-
ised by Mr. Alfred Bead’s ball. It created a good
deal of local interest, besides attracting a carriage
full of visitors from town, and fanoy dresses
enhanced the gaiety of the occasion. Ope special
item was the polonaise march, consisting ot a
number of graceful evolutions to march time, and
terminating by all sliding off into the ever-
favourite waltz. Altogether, 32 dances occupied
till well on in the morning, and the weather being
warm, the cool porch lit with coloured globes and
the festive supper room were very weloome
during the intervals. Although demoiselles were
in the largest proportion, they by no means mono-
polised attention. Mrs. Crewe was most Prettily
engaging in a fluttering dress of white, livened
with leaves of vivid scarlet; and her sister, also
in white, decked her skirts with variegated
butterflies, with tasteful effect. Another sister
took the character of that wilful little witch.
Cigarette. Continuing the Parramatta list, a
charming little maid from over the way, Miss De-
vine, blushingly enjoyed her first ball as a Sailor
Lassie; a gentle girl from Church-street looked
captivating in white cashmere trimmed with silk,
and Miss French was an artless Shepherdess, as
gay as colours could make her—but instead of fol-
lowing the sheep, they followed her. A Cyclist
looked very neat, land, in fact, both he and the
looked more suitably and coolly attired
than any one in the room; except, perhaps, a
dazzling dancer who was labelled Romp, "ne
glance at her skirt would convince anyone she was
determined to be cool. Then there was a King,
gorgeous as to his tunic, but when one looked at
his legs, oh. as the ghost says in Hamlet, what
a falling-off was there.” Never was the dig-
nity of a king dependent on suoh poor sup-
port. A claret satin, with apron front of
rows of white lace, was very handsome and
so was a pure white satin dress, with train, and
trimmings of rosewood velvet. The oostume of a
fair lady—white satin and black velvet—was also
excellent. Miss Johnson was a pretty blonde in
cream veiling pleated, and adorned with pale-pink
roses; and Miss Wilkinson, a dancer to dream of.
A lovely flower came from a FairfleM nursery,
chatty and eheery, with a Bed Riding-hood cloak.
Two daughters of a city alderman, from William-
street—one in a golden amber satin fitted up with
pale-blue; her sister in white veiling edged with
purple velvet —both looked handsome and viva-
cious. The ball was certainly enjoyable, and Mr.
Bead will close his Richmond classes on Friday
with a similar dance.
• * •
At Wollongong, the Harmony Band gave
a ball in the Temperance Hall, and, skimmimr
over the Argtts man’s account, we rather like it.
He loves the dress the belle was in, not because it
was costly, nor for its fashion, but because it
suited her most.” It was snowy India muslin on a
graoeful form, with one solitary gleam of satin
round the waist-and what more could you want 7
If ladies would only learn wh »tF r aoe and taste
are to a man’s eye, and leave those brooades and
velours at guineas a yard 1 When we meet that
Wollongong man, we shall request him to nominate
the liquid that will assuage his thirst, and we Will
defray the cost of his answer even if it runs Into
eighteenpenoe.
* * *
The number of male dancers is steadily
decreasing in Paris. In consequence of this
anovel kind of register office has been started,
where young men can be obtained at a mo-
ment’s notice to fill up an unexpected gap.
For instance, X. gives a ball, and his list
of male guests run short, he applies to the office,
which supplies him with the necessary contingent.
He deposits the sum demanded, and the thing is
done. For a trifling amount you may obtain any
amount of stylish young gentlemen, paragons of
perfection, in full flg-patent leather pumps are
specified in the prospectus—fit to shine in wjy
society. “Varied and improved conversations
during the five figures of the QuadriUe. All
complete I That this modern institution bids fair
to suooeed may be inferred from the fact that the
bureau de location netted 83,000 francs in one year,
besides a profit on the sale of Becond-hand gloves I
* * *
The members of the Balmain Rowing Club
are to be congratulated on their successful concert
last Friday night. The club being popular, and the
ladies and gentlemen who graced the stage being
well known acd popular also, doubtless contri-
buted to the eclat of the proceedings. Sydney
pleasure-seekers are known to have a weakness
for socialities of the “invitation order, but it is
rare to see a room so well filled as on this occasion,
when it was “the sweet privilege of youth to
pay.” Mr. Percy Jones, to whom the organising
of the entertainment was confided, was happy in
the selection of his supporters, for they all gave
satisfaction to the elite of Balmain; whom
(according to the ticket) wo reverentially expected
to see. And so we did, for they mustered
in strong force to give a bumper to the boys.
Madame Marius sung Levy’s Esmeralda and
“The old Look” very pleasantly. Les^ Vespres
Siciliennes” and “ La Naranjera/’ contributed by
Signora Fabris, were well received by the elite,
who, doubtless, had the advantage of us in under-
standing all that liquid language. One of the most
agreeable contributions of the evening was Liszt s
transcription of the “ Marche Tannhauser, ex-
quisitely played by Mrs. Percy Jones, on whose
w filing fingers, by the way, fell the brunt of the
accompaniments. M. de willimoff gave an artistic
rendering of Wienawaky’s “ Legende, and, in the
second part, a cavatina |by Raff, both of which
were deservedly well received. Mr. Percy Jon® B
sang “Alla Stella Confldente ” with M. de Wil-
limoff’s assistance in the violin obligato, and Mrs.
Jones, as usual, at the piano. This number was
tunefully given, arid elicited an enoore, to which
Mr. Jones responded with a well-known song
from “ Victorine,” which brought the evening to
a close.
* * *
Lady Augustus Loftus gave her first
Garden Party this season on Saturday afternoon
last, in the grounds of Government House. There
were not so many guests as usual on former occa-
sions, probably owing to the Flower Show at
Greeaoakes taking plaoe at the same time. And.
also to the fact that a number of the habitues had
departed to Melbourne for the races. Among
those present, some elegant toilettes were very
noticeable—light colours, such as fawns and greys,
predominating. Lady Augustus wore a handsome
black broche, tastefully ornamented with beads,
Lady Hay, also black:; Lady Allen, black silk and
stamped velvet; Mrs. E. Barton, the Speaker s
wife, a beautiful short silk, lace flounces, and car-
dinal ribbons; Mrs. Barry wore a quiet black
dress; Mrs. Clarke, dark green silk; Mrs. Paul, a
delicate dove-colourod satin ; Mrs. Airey, black,
Mrs. S. Burdekin, cream and blue; Miss Constable
appeared in smuke-srey cloth and broohe; Miss
Moore, in a neat check; Miss Allen, in cream; Miss
Halloran was attirfid in a light cream dress; Miss
Q. Eagar, in fawn cashmere ; Miss E. Burdett
Smith affected cream and lace; and Miss Stretton
looked well in dar k blue. Another of these very
agreeable re-unicuns is to be held on Saturday,
November 15th.
m * *
A cheery ball last Friday was that which
closed the winter socials held in Warwick Hall,
Newtown. The return one, however, was held in
St. George’s Hall, where were found good floor,
music, and supper- Two sisters from Krsklnyille,
one In blue and cardinal and one In pale pink and
silver, won many admirers. A pretty girl from
cFor oodtinuaticp of Sootal, •» next p«e.)


SPECIAL NOTICE —ALTERATION OK AR-
RANGEMENTS at the N K
_ LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
«nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
aii. ® am. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s
Cavtt by Mr. Frederick
la vile, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
ffance to England in 12 hours, 20th AuVust
Lii. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-ot-an-hour.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
T HK LtTBItj RAHHTRa‘ttA^IG f E B ™ DICA ™.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
In 2000 PROMOTERS' SHARES of £lO 309. EACH.
£im Placed to the Credit of the Company, which
will be dividend-paying without calls.
up T t h o £BK p^r b ton n gr°o8 B ia &t £9l POr to ”
With four picks at work, £BOO worth of ore per
annumf be n,r now ralsed - or nearly £50,000 per
reports l :-®' ll f,om J< W ' of Silverton,
Kn Eubra B truck chloride ol silver vein in shaft
50 feet below outcrop of lode.” f
bankers *
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Melbourne,
_ Sydney, and Adelaide, ’
To • permitted.
James Duerdin, ColHnslstreet, Melbourne,
Me8 bourne r ° n Mooro and M ‘ L eod, Exchange, Mel-
D r B< otoP ( av * o3 ' 287 George-street, Sydney.
h'n' M^r k nB ° u n ’, l irie ' 8 treet, Adelaide. y
H. U. M Lean, Silverton.
and r o., agents for the vendors,
<6 Colhns-street west, Melbourne.
The prospectus and report of Mr. Norman Tavlor
can be had on application to the agents and shared
can be applied for through any bFoker.
1Vr AT RIMONIAL.—Parents, the newly-married
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
f ° r FePly t 0 C * C ‘ W - B^W6?BSoJ
BEVERLEY PARK,
ARNCLIFFE.
Only 1 mile over Cook’s River Dam,
opposite
HIGHBURY BARN, close to the PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
Within 5 MILKS of Sydney,
and
only a short distance from
the
ARNCLIFFE RAILWAY STATION.
Over
3800 FEET of RAILWAY FRONTAGE,
besides
FRONTAGES to the main GANNON’S FOREST
and KOGARAH ROADS.
The 5-MILE PEG is ON the Estate.
LEVEL CROSSINGS from th? property to the
railway line.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
Batt, Rodd, & Puri/es
Have received instructions to sell by public
auotioD,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, Bth NOVEMBER, at 3 p.m.,
The above grand property, known as
“ BEVERLEY PARK,” 1
subdivided in a liberal manner into
large BUILDING SITES,
BEVERLEY PARK occupies a splendid position,
le over COOK’S RIVER DAM, op-.
It is only 1 mile over COOK’S RIVER DAM, op-,
posite HIGHBURY BARN, close to CLU&E*S
HOTEL and numerous good RESIDENCES.
Only 5 miles from the city, on a par with Sum-
mer Hill, say within a QUARTER OF AN HOUR’S
RUN by RaIL.
The RAILWAY runs-right through the Estate,
without interfering with a single allotment, and
the ARNCLIFFE RAILWAY STATION is within
five minutes’ easy work.
The VIEWS are simply UNEQUALLED along
the whole line, embracing the OCEAN, BOTANY
BAY. and HEADS GEORGE’S RIVER, SYDNEY
—in fact, comprising a complete PANORAMIC
VIEW of the w hole surrounding country.
The TITLE is TORRENS’ ACT,
and
Tho TERMS MOST LIBERAL,
viz
10 per cent, deposit, the balance by 12 equal quar-
terly instalments. Interest at rate of 0 per cent. A
PLANS and all particulars in due course.
SPECIAL CONVEYANCE on Day of Sale.
ON THE
BrioJstielcL Hill.
«*°st ELABORATE PATTERNS In LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Atttiittrfian Perns and Flowers
Curtains? °f vouhke d the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
y ou iiKe the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it o ot, and we will forward exaetlv
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns. lOrwara exactly
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
;4;
5®
s
a
1
as
j!k
...,.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
. _ -L*ACJB CURTAINS.”
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
' ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
7LACE curtains'! 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. |7acb curtains]
■ —*
l*“ Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
King-street wore cream and cardinal ribbons; two
Camperdown sisters were bewitching in pink and
oardinal. Three sisters from Glebe, two in white
and one in blue, danced most charmingly; and a
Darlington blonde looked nice in pale pink,
draped with blue. Simmons-street sent a fair
damsel in black satin and grenadine, and a pretty
combination of cream veiling and silk came from
•King-street. Thanks were proposed to the presi-
dent and secretary (a married lady and her
daughter from Frskinville), and the medley dance
was finished by 2.30 a.m., when a move was made
tor home.
** * *
Lady Loch gave a garden party to nearly
2000 ou Tuesday; and on the sth Nov. a large ball
will be held at Government House, Melbourne...
On Thursday night, at West Maitland, Mrs. W. K.
Colyer entertained about 80 friends in the Masonic
Hall, to commemorate Miss Colyer's birthday.
Dancing was kept up till 2 o’clock. Decorations,
musio, and catering nice, and the belles were M 88
Jenny Wiseman, from Bourke street, and Miss
May Colyer.... Mundooran baohelo s give their
ball on 7th Nov....lnverell hospital ball last week
was a good one, about seven score being present. ..
Burwood Football Club ball soon....'lhe Lytton
Club of amateurs gave a performance on Wednes-
day in the Petersham Town Hall, to aid the Owl
Club to get a piano. Fair attendance, musical pro-
gramme first, and then Byron’s “ Uncle ” actea by
the amateurs— Amateurphotographers of Sydney
hnd their first picnic nn Saturday afternoon. The
Mascotte took them round the harbour, and at
Fern Bay they landed, refreshed, danced, and took
photos of one another. There were ladies present
—of oourse, they never object to be taken On
Friday, Mr. and Mrs. Baumann, the well-known
caterers, give their employes a social evening of
music, dancing, and a little supper.
SOCIAL FIXTUREB.
Ladies’ Complimentary Ball (Glebe
Town Hall) October 31.
Mr. A. Head's Ball (Kichmond) October 31.
B.A.D. Club’s Social (Balmain Sohool
of Arts ... : October 31.
Glebe BowiDg Club Soiree November 6.
Assembly Ball (Sohool of Arts, Bal-
main) ....November 7.
Messrs. Needs’ Bocial (Nithslale) November 10.
Lady Loftus’ At Home November 15.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My dear Belle,—One day last week we re-
ceived lrom Sands’ most unique cards of invita
tion to attend the opening - or their new piotur
gallery. They (the cards) were,! believe, desigDec
by “ Hop.” aDd engraved by the Photo-engravin
Company, 24 Pitt-street. Well, wo went, and w
saw the gallery, and, as we were fortunate enough
to be near the walls, we :saw some pictures too
but even then we were squeezed so close that 1
made us squint, which ;gave the pictures no
chanoe. But I heard everybody say (and everybody
could not be mistaken, could !they, 'dear ?) tha
most of the pictures were very fine. Aftersevora
futile attempts to have a look,round', we had to
content ourselves with talking to our friends anc
listening to the music. The chief topics of oon
versatlon were the heat (and it was hot up in tha
gallery) and, of course, the ipiotures. *' Had we
seen Mr. Ashton’s new pictured No? Oh I you
must see that. There it is, hanging right in from
of you -best position in the room.” We looked
but I only saw the back of a lady's bead adornec
with a brown straw hat with amber feathers-a
pretty enough picture to be sure, but that wasn’
Mr. Afhton’s, for it wasn’t hanging. It movec
away in .time (tbe ibrown ;hat and ;feathors), anc
then we thought we should see the picture at last
but at tbafmoment a bald-headed gentleman
who was evidently on the same “ lay,” claimec
the space, so we got impatient and gave it up
fyow* we could have stood the hat and feathers a
little longer, but the back of a bald head is so un-
interesting. Mons., de Willimoff just saved us
from dying of heat and fatigue, for his Hungarian
dances made us forget all our sufferings. He is
9J?‘te a pleasant performer, without being either a
wiihelmj or a Remenyi. Mr. Fisher gave u« some
pdinoforte selections, and played accompaniments
to Mens. de Willlmoff's violin. At a picture show
, n * <: .tt r ahy expects to see something artistic In
the ladies' costumes; but upon this occasion they
Were disappqinting. But I heatd a gentleman
» remars which was as follows: “i have
PHen observed that when;Bydney girls go in for
Of any inteliectqal pursuit, they almost in-
variably make dress but a secondary considera-
And really, when one thinks of the magni-
cent oostumes worn at sports, regattas, and the
like, and compares them with suph as were seen at
the Picture Gallery, it would seem that this gentle-
roan was nearer the truth than his se* senerally
are in their remark* concerning us. Of course,
there were some costumes really nice on Saturday,
out I speak of the majority when I say they were
ojaappointing. Some day, when there is no chance
or there being a big pro>vd, I mean to go and have
a quiet look at these piotures, but I shall take a
„ roP'Stool with me, as there’s nothing so tiring as
standing. I’d rather walk two miles than stand
one' 1 mean stand as long as It would take to walk
The last but one of the Wednesday matinees was,
80rr ? to say, a shade more dull than any of
preceding ones—scarcely anything but vocal
Certainly Mr. Halleweh’s singing oompen-
f?r E reat deal, and Mrs. Foster wa* also a
Change, though by no means at her best,
h “ Marius was in her best voice, and sang
uer urst solo, which suited her style quite nicely.
the vocal trio, ”0, Memory,” Miss Heed’s deep
ji,sounded well, and we were quite sorry she
Dla? The “Ruy Bias” piano duet,
art,, y Misses Eva and Amy Thompson, was
httii »? y Performed, and it struck me that the
orswL Ml 88 Thompson has a touoh of more than
of hi- ry ® n *Puess and power. I believe she is one
ni.r?! roster s pupils. Miss Thompson, as usual,
v you two solos in a satisfactory manner.
th^n' 5 1 must tell you about a dress I saw
It waB vei> y appropriate for a matinee.
haaiTo o. <r e ., v ?. ry deepest cream Madras muslin,
a bJu,P u te ful ji. an d gathered In at the waist with
irofs Tbe conical-shaped hat was of fine
tlDa a Plentiful buDch of lovely cream
Anntf?£ tr Wming. Now, I know you will like that.
a bronze satin with panels of the
net to old gold-small brown straw bon-
• But the most uncommon head-gear
found hood with very deep laoe gathered
cominffW u? 1 ' a pd enciroling tbe face most be-
flsurJi 188 Thompson wore paie heliotrope
Madame , n * with plastron ot violet velvet.
Wdblaet , ?r , U 8 wore a Jacket of gold
rock stripes, over a dark skirt. A iovtly
y a ?, of L russet-brown short plush, and
reached to the hern of the skirt.
far o j ff B L b^n remlnded that Xmaa ia not so
X®7 saj°S’5 a j°S’ by seeing some most exquisite Christ-
mas and New Year cards, imported by Messrs
Cbari*s Hugo and Co., 8 Bond-street Chamblrs'
and r So'n B s tre< N’o w° d P ubliahed by Kaphael. Tuck
there are some things about
Christmas which I don t like at all; for instance
plum-pudding, which' invariably gives indigestion
heath Jn°^? re oblige A d t? eat some, or be dubbed a
heathen at once. And poor old cook is so scan-
nn ho d Zrt eil 1 timidly suggest that they should
tinnuL wi 1 nch ;. » he Ba y B there must be a dis-
tinction between them and all-thc-vear round
ein^'i?ni ddlnB K’ and how is she to make a differ-
?P®® unless she puts in a double dose of fruit.
nnmltM oundied peel, &c. &c. ? So we have to put
'mpaired digestion for custom’s sake. But
new h l4B card . a 1 There is always something
new about them, and such ondloss variety I In one
da i“ ty b°*th ereiB a pale-blue plush book-shapPd
® a *l d ’. the centre of which is an oval mirror;
and inside the double card are sprays of choice
flowers, beautifully hand-painted. And upon
out D like ano^ h T 0r satohet, a tiny bouquet jumps
PM.t jihe a Jack-in-the-box,” and is fastened
into a white satin pocket or holder. And then there
!^ een ® ard s, whioh are intact miniature
screens, and would make pretty drawing-room or-
I intend to get some of these* ards. and
r a J® them framed, for they are quite worth it,
each one being a work of art. But, if I were to
tell you any more about these things, which are so
lovely that they make the heart feel glad, you
to Bpend a small fortune on them.
you want anything really
choioe in that line, to send for some of those
satisfied** by aad Co*» and you are sure to be
.
I suppose we all’ have our’.hobbies, but the fun-
PmWhiP* 9 e , ver ka ?? a lady t 0 have is-what do
fn P AtwPP&T °mt er , Pf°P le ' 8 boys, just like Jo
J a A ves - . The lady Ispeak of has about TO
under oharge, and trains them for the University
ho a <f ll P, ar sohools—and they love and respect
Bhe , waB a goddess. She has a little room
built away from the main building, where those
who have a turn for carpentering can make as
much noise as they like without fear of disturbing
anybody—and two or three times a week a skillod
carpenter goes and gives them lessons in tho
handicraft. And there are some of the most
graceful dancers you can imagine amongst those
boy 8 : aad no juvenile party, for miles around, is
complete without a dozen or so of Miss C ’s
I had any boys, that’s just the
P'“ d , 0* school I should send them to, where the
head devotes her life in trying to make them happy
and in making the very best of any talent they
may possess, even if it is only for carpentering;
aad * am sure they-are allowed to have their
pillow fights at stated times, though they did not
tell me so. I quite envy those boys.
Yours as ever,
MAR
ANALYTICAL REPORT.
Melbourne.
~ . _ My examination of a sample of
Bavarian Hop Bitters has elicited
the following among other particulars: It is a
clear, pale fluid of low density (99731) containing
” ~Pcr cent. of extract, which is all vegetable, the
ash being nominal, less than many potable waters.
* c hey have a Pjeasant light hop flavour,
modified by presence of other herbal bitters. I
have not been able to find any noxious ingredient
or injurious contamination. ... I think they
m ay fully be expeoted to answer the purpose for
whioh they are designed.
SYDNEY GIBBONS, F.C.S., Analyst.
Bad dreams, disturbed sleep, indigestion,
stomach gas, all vanish before Hop Bitters. Read
ana ponder.
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 00* Hunter-street.
Sydney.*
“What do you raise in Sydney at this
season?” enquired a Melbourne man. “Quaran-
tine,” replied his friend; and the price ought to
be raised on the dinner-sets, an extensive variety
of whioh Bray Brothers have at 403 George-street.*
Which is the best Perfume? There are
some “Open Questions ” with regard to the toilet,
but this is not one of them. The ladies have
settled it-wisely and finally. As there are counter-
feits, always ask for the true Florida Water pre-
pared by LANMAN and KEMP, New Fork. V
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The praotioe of painless Den-
tristry is oarried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denfch,
Rooms, 104-6 Market-st., near Hyde Park *
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-btrebt, Sydney. 13Br Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, & o. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purohase on
commission of Pure-bred Btoek.*
Mr. DbCottbcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerais, Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castlo-
reagh-street, Sydney, tar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of reoord in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ing^t Carpet Bag's Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted i ast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
ger paokage. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &0., &0., by return post.*
There is a railway station at Rookwood.
There are many in N.B. Wales, but the Rookwood
one is running in our mind just now for many
reasons. We shall give one only. Half a mile
from the station there is a valuable mine of—road-
metal. We never hear of road-metal but we think
of the time when Why call up again those sad
memories of the past? We will try and forget
them. Well, in a 10-acre block, half a mile from
tbo Rookwood Station, there is sufficient blue-
metal to macadamise the milky way. Smart men
have secured that paddock, and are about to turn
it into “ The Rookwood Blue-Metal Quarrying
Company.” There’s money in it— savez 1 *
“ King Stephen was a worthy peer,
His breeches cost him but a crown;’’
and yet the ungrateful monarch was not contented,
for the song goes on to eay—
“ He deemed them sixpence all too dear,
And so he oalled the tailor lown.”
Still, it was not bad—four and-sixpence for a pair
ot nether garments; though, by the way, in those
days these necessary articles of apparel were only
half and-half sort of arrangements, Just touching
the knee; and we may fairly assume that a n asher
of the period would have paid a trifle more for a
legitimate pair of continuations. Times alter,
fsshiens change, but the necessity for something
like the garments that King Stephen grumbled at
is still apparent to most of us. Like him, we don t
like to pay too much for our broadcloth and trim-
mings. We like something useful and not abso-
lutely out of the fashion, and we find that sort of
thing i« done best for u« at Anthony Hordern and
Soi.B Palace Emporium, Ha>market.*
cold ooffee round our pigantie
hnDt Q o+ B t tt;l tlown in il c oo> spot, and Riving our
concluskm^that subJe , ( : t - we have come to the,
the ’ f WO ,V an j be an an^el and with
in SiP^ort 8 , we , wl| l endeavour to be a banker
PjJr wefl PP t H in f NpthiDK to do. and being
iifft s iiiT t fhr a ? tor doing* it, is tbe run of a banker s
the landlord a ? I * B wasn’t joy enough,
him in hnnrH K^* tne leadin *r hotel not only finds
to the h b nnif d ov- fc e j etl ! end ? rt yoooß lady round
Lihl b k every day to clean the place, do tbe
soviet enmi D Jh C t hoor the clerk ’ 8 80ul with a smile
e to °i? i a \ an anchorite from his cell
man wmr,! °n hlB b .eer. Thrice blessed is the
man who runs the cash house at Silvert.on.


Mashers—The best and lightest gm.«
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Wno* ft
What are the desirable uae, easy
whisker dye ? It must be convenienx i app car-
to apply, impossible to rue off, ®i,^r oH AM s
ance, and cheap in price. huc ail tbs#
for the_ Whiskers unites in
merits.
Try it.
Political
Points
In his Edinburgh speech, Mr. Gladstone
said he wished Germany Godspeed in colonisation
if she paid “ due regard to the previous rights or
other nations and to the rights of the aboriginal
inhabitants.” A precious deal of regard wo Eng-
lish have paid to “the rights of the aborigines.”
The Limerick Corporation have reoeiveda
letter from the Lord Lieutenant calling upon them
to levy a rate to pay for the extra police put into
their city under the Crimps Act. The Corporation
unanimously decline to comply with the order,
and will probably be sent to prison.
From Brough’s “ Songs of the Governing
classes ”
“ My Lord Tomnoddy is thirty-four;
The Earl can last but a few years more.
My Lord in the Peers will take his place,
Her Majosty’s Councils his words will grace,
Office he’ll hold, and patronage sway.
Fortunes and lives he will vote away,
And what are his qualifications ? One i
He’s the Earl of Fltzdotterel’s eldest son.”
The Khartoum expedition has a tough job
before it. The Mahdi may “clear” on its ap-
proach, and re-appear, stronger that ever, as soon
as it has left. But, should he give battle, our ex-
pedition may be too weak for the hordes of the
False Prophet. The British have not this time to
deal with mere savages and clubs. The Madhi's
troops are formed of the remnant of Zobehr s
mighty slave armies, who are splendid rifleshots,
of the Kababish, and other of the most warlike
and powerful tribes of the Soudan, all well armed,
and whose leaders fight on their own ground
They have plenty of artillery, arms, and ammu-
nition, and are trained by numerous Arabist
officers now in the Mahdi’s service, many of whom
were educated at St. Cyr, the French Military
College.
From the Watchman, a Wicklow paper
which deplores the mildness of the tactics em-
ployed by the Nationalist party in the Commons:
—“Mr. Parnell seems to have resumed his place in
the ranks of the Wicklow landlords, and is, we are
glad to hear, grouse-Bhooting at Avondale. Only
why is not he denounced as a 1 land thief ? If his
ancestors—it is not far to count since the Parnells
came from Cheshire with the Cromwellian planters
—bought the lands confiscated from O’Tooles or
O’Byrnes, we do not for ourselves see ithat his
title is a whit better than that of his fellow-land-
lords, in many cases quite as good and more
generous ones than he is. Let us have one mea-
sure for all alike, and not the partial [sycophancy
of men who live and thrive on flattery as truly as
any base Roman of the days of Horace, who lied
for the crumbs from his Patron’s table.” Be-
gorra!
Thus a well-known English writer: “It is
well known that an abominable traffic is counte*
•naneed in England, called the sale of benefices.
Really, it is a sale of souls. I pay ten thousand
pounds for a rectorship, and I can nominate as
pastor there, if I like, the Arch-Fiend himself.
Now, so long as this traffic, detestable as it is, goes
on, I contend it should be open. If Lord Ducks
and Drakes can go and buy a fat living for his son,
why should not I, plain ‘ Northumbrian,’ be able
to go, if my conscience allows me, and do the
same? According, however, to the resolutions
reported by the Church Patronage Committee, one
effect of them, if they are adopted by the Legis-
lature, will be that the power of acquiring private
patronage in the Established Church will become a
class privilege, open only to landed gentry. Now,
though no working man worth his salt would care
to go into the open market and buy a village full
of souls, this trifle shows the grab-and-grasp
policy of the upper orders clearly. Henceforth,
none but the usual privileged class, the land vul-
tures, are to be allowed to purchase Church pro-
perty. Thus, everywhere we see ourselves reso-
lutely kicked back. Let us act. Let the House of
Lords be abolished, and in any ten days’ work of a
reformed Parliament we should soon see who was
the master —work or idleness, the artizan or the
aristocrat.”
Re the Foochow bombardment thus a home
paper:—"What sort of glory is it that men earn
by slaughtering 1000 to their own seven slain, by
Injuring 3000 to their own fourteen wounded ? Is
it war or butchery ? But horrible as are the details
of the French butchery at Fooehow, it at once as-
sumes a comic aspect when we find our own Jingo
journals gravely lecturing Johnny Crapaud on his
conduct. We, at least, have our eyes too full of
beams to pull the motes out of the optics of our
brother. Unfortunately, Pharisaism is the beset-
ting vice of the age. We go about continuously
thanking Heaven that we ars not as other men.
When we bombard Alexandria, wo are noble bene-
factors of the Egyptians: when the French bom-
bard Foochow, they are bloodthirsty oppressors of
the Chinese. Our motives are always pure; the
motivee of our neighbours are always selfish. The
worst of it is that we really believe it. It is to us
a marvellous thing to see a bald-headed old gentle-
man who goes to church on Sunday, loves his wife,
biß children, and his dogs, and steps aside to avoid
crushing a worm in his back garden, howling and
shrieking for the foreigner’s blood upon the
slightest provocation.” In the same journal are
two leaders. In one the woes of a four-weeks-old
baby are served up with a sauce of tears and
lamentation, and all that is humano and tender
and pitiful. In the other the same people who are
asked to weep over the sufferings of the month-
old victim are urged to clamour and clamour, and
never cease clamouring until their rulers send out
an army to slaughter and burn and pillage and
make thousands of men and womon and children
endure agonies by the side of which the sufferings
of the Birmingham Midget are the merest flea-
bites. If we go on receiving our instructions
from the same quarter the John Bull of the future
will be a counterpart of the double-faced gentle-
man in the pantomime—a smiling philanthropist
on one side, and a bloodthirsty ruffian on the
other.
In his recently-published book, “Notes
from Ireland, 1880, Mr. W. Sime narrates a con-
versation with an Irish farmer:—Mr. Joyce, for so
the large farmer is called, gives his opinion freely.
“Has he any fear of being shot?" “None what-
ever; he never did any man harm.” “Did Lord
Mountmorres over the way do anybody harm?
“ Well, not exactly; but he was peculiar; ho would
go about like a labouring man.” “If he had been
a noisy, swearing lord, who never went among the
people except with an oath and his hand up, how
then ?” “ He would not have been shot.” “ W hy ? ’
“ Because they don't understand a man talking to
them in that civil way; they’ve never been accus-
tomed to it.” “ Then Captain Boycott, you think,
has taken the right way with them ?” To be
sure, though I think he has been high-handed
enough. I’ve driven home with him sometimes on
a market-day, and he never stopped his car for any
crowd of men. He would drive right through
them, and scatter them from side to side. He
wouldn’t accommodate himself to them.” How
might he have accommodated himself ?’ “Well,
I’ve let my labourers away now and then for a
day or two at a time, and never asked where they
went.” “Even when it was inconvenient?” Yes.
“What do you suppose they were doing?”; I
have little doubt but that they were drilling
Bomewhere.” “Drilling?” “Yes; and theres
not a man of them in the country-side of Lough
Oorrlb or Lough Mask who can’t fall into position
as well as the regulars.” “ Who drills them.
“ God knows.” “ But you don’t think there’s any
general feeling of rebellion against England and
the Government ? ” To that Mr. Joyce declines to
answer, being as much in the dark as his ques-
tioner; but he adds that “he believes they don t
learn to do that for nothing.” “ Why do you
allow your labourers to go away when it is incon-
venient?” “The Land League.” “You are
afraid of it ? ” “To be sure.” “ And even though
you think you will not be shot, you believe the
League may harm you through your people if you
do not oblige them whenever they choose to make
an unreasonable request?” “I know it would;
and 1 don’t know but what it will harm me,
whether or no. If they are going to drive us all
I out, it may be my turn next; but I will oblige my
people as long as I can.” “ That is, you will sub-
mit quietly to whatever tyranny they subject you
to if the Land League dictates it ? ” “ Weil, I sup-
pose that’s what it is.”
Tbuth’s own Labby entertains the follow-
ing profoundly commonsensical views on “The
Question of the Hour’’—the Peerage question; we
condense from his paper in the Fortnightly:—
“ I can conceive that there would be certain ad-
vantages in an Upper Chamber composed of wise,
experienced, aDd independent men. Find them,
and then it will be time to discuss whether their
services can be utilised as tae members of a sort
of Court of Appeal. One thing is certain, that the
House of Lords is not such an assembly. Let us
look into their independence by the unerring light
of statistics. The House of Lords, exclusive of
minors, consists of 507 members. They enjoy a
rental of £11,873,830 derived from 14,251.133 acres,
but in pay, pensions, &c., they receive £639,845
from the public exchequer. Since 1850, the 28
dukes and their families have reoeived from the
taxpayers £9,760,000; the 33 marquises and their
families have had £8,303,950; and the 280 earls and
their families have had £48,181,202; 36 peers have
at the present moment salaries as members of the
present administration, and 190 have had salaries
as members of preceding ones—B6 peers are Privy
Councillors, and 61 have decorations. The peers,
therefore, are not only a compact Jand wealthy
territorial oligarchy, but, notwithstanding their
enormous riches, they make use of the legislative
power which the constitution secures to them, in
order to obtain places of emolument for themselves
and their families, and to throw the cost of the
latter upon the State, whilst not satisfied even
with this, they insist upon honorary distinctions
I being showered upon them with a lavish hand.
The average cost of an hereditary legislator since
1850 seems to have been £108,477, and the average
cost of a ducal legislator during this period has
been £348,571. How have they earned this money?
By opposing, mutilating, or rejecting every valu-
able Bill sent up to them. Every class except
their own, every sect except the Church of Eng-
land, has had reason to regret their existence. In-
dependent they are not; above class prejudice they
are not; wise they are not. Had they had their
FRIENDSHIP.
“THE BROWNS ARE STILL LIVING IN BRISBANE. VERY NICE PEOPLE,
AND WE ARE UNDER OBLIGATIONS TO THEM.”
WIFE: “I’D ASK THEM OUT HERE TO SPEND THE SUMMER WITH USMMER WITH US IF I WAS CER-
TAIN THEY COULDN’T COME.”
wav. we should still have rotten boroughs and
rottenmunicipalitieß. Catholics, Nonconformists,
and Jews would still be outside the pale of the
The Irish farmer would still be
fobbed of his improvements by his landlord, and
around to the dust by the lords of the soil. Edu-
Sational endowments would still be the appanage
nf h spot and the poor would be without educa-
tion It one man is more separated than anothor
frnm the mass of the nation, it is a large land-
owner protected by an entail from the accidents of
tertune and worshiped from his cradle by the
vul tar An hereditary Upper House, whose mem-
bers are drawn almost exclusively from great
landowners, is the reductio ad abeurdum of states-
man In , mpariBoU w , t h it, the superstition of
SllhMwt noirro grovelling on the banks of the
mm bfock of wood, and believing it to be
nOnd is wisdom. Since the death of Lord Palmer-
ston 86 new peers have been created. A few-a
very few-have received peerages for services
rondpmd to the State; some have obtained their
titles because they had been tried as Ministers and
found wanting; some because they had spent
la«e sums in electoral bribery; some because
were large-acred squires; one because he is a
Doet 7t would be invidious to mention names, but
Pet an through these 86 creations and he
will hardly venture to assert that in any sense they
can b* termed the intellectual or political cream
of the nation We are often told that the concur-
2ent Ixnormnce of all Constitutional States is in
favour ?f two Chambers. This is not quite cor-
reetter Greece-a country which has made more
solid progress in the last twenty years than almost
anv other European State-has only one. With
us the fact that there are two Chambers is a
matter of hazard, and originated in Lords being
regarded as superior beings to Commoners. In
rnfnv countries our example has been followed,
hist m it woutd have been followed had it so hap-
npned that our Parliament had consisted of half a
Soren Chambers instead of two. In Sweden there
were not long ago, four Chambers-Lords, Priests,
Peasants and Burghers; and when it was proposed
to Substitute two Chambers, just as much was
urged in favour of the wisdom of the existing cum-
bersome arrangement as is urged by your advo-
cates of two Chambers. As a matter of fact, in
everv country where there are two Chambers,
efther one absolutely dominates the other, or
there are perpetual disputes between the two.
Be this however, as it may, it is an error to mix up
the auestion of one or two Chambers with the
question of abolishing an Upper Chamoer, in
which the members are all wealthy landlords who
sit bv hereditary descent. Equally a mistake is it
in Badicals to suggest themes for reforming the
House of Lords. To reform is to increase effi-
ciency A reformed House of Lords would be
more objectionable than one which is unreformed j
because it would be stronger. Another „ tn
that has been put forward is to allow the Peers to
elect a certain number of tj}® 1 *
vote. But what should we gain by this ? W nether
the Upper Chamber be composed of five or of flve
hundred Peers, is a matter of absolute unimport-
ance. We object to the privileges. wWoh this
House collectively possesses, not to the numbers
who exercise these privileges. We are °PP?.
rotten boroughs, because they are rotten. But what
rotten borough could V>e worse than that a number
of gentlemen should have an hereditary right to
select the members of one house of the legislature r
It is obvious that the easiest method of giving
practical expression’to the opinion that the House
of Lords should be extinguished, is to decline any
longer to vote £40,000 per annum for the expenses
connected with that assembly. There l®. 110
that the vast majority of Liberals are in favour of
abolition. They have only to give effect to tneir
views at the polling-booths to ensure their fin;ai
triumph. When the time comes for the abolition
of the House of Loids, it will indeed be necessary
to make a great creation of peers in order to
swamp all opposition. Lord Salisbury is neither a
trimmer nor a time-server. He declines to he a
mere lay figure in the legislative assembly, which
is mainly composed of narrow-minded gentlemen
happy in being called “mylord,” in their social
supremacy, in their wealth, and in being permitted
occasionally to vote as they are ordered m a gor-
geous chamber. Such a chamber he regards as
utterly contemptible. We go a step further, and
regard it, not only as contemptible, but as baneful.
He seeks to meet this state of things by a straight-
forward attempt to give it the reality of power: we
meet it equally straightforwardly by reiterating
the resolution passed by the Long Parliament, Ihe
House of Lords is useless, dangerous, and ought
to be abolished.”
» * *
Mr. Gladstone advises the advocates of
Church Disestablishment in Scotland to make the
question a test at the poll, and he will abide by the
result.... One hundred new peers would have to be
created (or botched up, shall we
the obstruct ive peers on the Franchise Bill, from
the present temper of the British public, it would
be much more likely Mr. Gladstone would propose
to make them that number less... .The French Mi-
nister of Marine now thinks that only convicts
of a superior class” should be sent to New
Caledonia. It seems probable that in future
French Guiana will take four-fifths, and New Ca-
ledonia only one-fifth, of the French convicts....
Within the last 33 years, the dukes, earls, and mar-
auises of England, with their relatives, have
divided amongst them over £66,000,000 of public
money; while out of 509 peers, 438 PO BB ®® B
one-fifth of the entire national soil
acres), yielding them a rental of £13,000,(K)0 per
annum 1.... The French journals are as full of
China as a modern lady’s boudoir. The Parisians
are more warlike than they have been at any time
since the fall of Sedan, and every man who sips
his cup of coffee on the boulevards cuts off an
imaginary pigtail with his spoon.
The remarkable immunity enjoyed by
drunkards from the consequences of falls :In-
duced a great traveller to write : Never fall over
a precipice. But if you do fall get thoroughly
drunk ere you take the leap.’ Drunken men have
fallen2oo feet without being killed. The reason
for this immunity is, according to the Book or
Health, that “ the nerve-centres, which regulate
the heart and vessels, are so much paralysed in
the drunken man as not to be affected by the
shock of the fall, which in a sober man would have
acted on them so violently as to stop the heart,
arrest the circulation, and cause instant death.”
Appetites are supposed to diminish with
civilisation. In “ Barrow’s Travels in South
Africa,” ten of the natives, in the writer’s
presence, ate an oi, all but the hind leg, in three
days, and three Bosjesmen devoured a sheep in
less than 34 hours. On the other hand, it is related
of Dr. Fordyce, a London physician and lecturer
of the last century, that his one meal a day—he
took no more —consisted of flsh or fowl with a
quarter of a pint of brandy, a pound and a half of
rump steak, with vegetables, and a quart of strong
ale. This was followed by a bottle of old port.
“ When the dinner was finished, as it invariably
was in an hour and a half, he went to meet his
class, and lecture on chemistry."
Some maniac has given currency to the
rumour that Herbert Spencer’s works are to be
translated into Chinese; and many papers have
copied the statement, as if it was rather a fine
piece of literary gossip. When it is remembered
that he is one of the profoundest reasoners on ab-
stract subjects of this or any age, and has been
compelled to construct a vocabulary of his own,
and that to grasp his system requires a capacity of
long and sustained attention not possessed by one
in fifty of what are called educated Englishmen,
the absurdity of attempting to express his mean-
ing in a language made up almost wholly of sym-
bols of concrete things is clear. Fancy a Chinese
equivalent for this heading to an important section
of his pychoiogy, “ The Relativity of Relations!”
Bah! The Chow-chow of chopsticks.
“ I like to see my employes comfortable,
contented,' and, above all things, independent,”
said the head of an extensive drapery establish-
ment in Jamberoo, when he was being banqueted
prior to his departure for a trip on the “ Conti-
nong.” And as the festivities proceeded, one of
the independent employes, when responding to
something, casually remarked that early closing
wasn’t such a bad thing after ail, and that the
general adoption of the system would tend even
to make himself and his fellow-employes more
comfortable, contented, and independent, yet his
speech was received with a coldness bordering on
frigidity. But when he was interviewed next day
by the manager and was informed that as late
hours seemed to be prejudicial to his health and
that there happened to be other business places in
Jamberoo where early hours were rather the rule
than the exception, and that he (the independent
was to a certain extent a free agent, he
began to discount the grandiloquent sentiments
of his chief, and he now reckons that it is all right
to be comfortable and contented, but he has to
stretch a point if he wants to be independent.
A “Lover of the Sabbath ” has written a
most distressful letter to the Melbourne D.T. about
the way in which certain youthful Victorians
desecrate their Day of Rest. This poor gentle-
man, It appears, took a walk the other Sunday
along the verdant Yarra hank, when he discovered
a “black spot.” The peculiar blackness of this
spot is best described in the “ L. of the S.’s ” own
words: “ I beheld a sight I have never before seen
in this colony, though I have been in it for nearly
twenty-eight years. I came upon an enclosure,
which I found, upon reading a sign-board, to be a
tea-garden, said board notifying that ‘ tea and
colonial wines ’ could be obtained there. In this
garden were about forty or iifty young men, en-
gaged either in swing, see-sawing, or playing at
quoits. The place was a perfect Babel.” This is a
sad, sad story. We have often wept over desecra-
tions of the Sydney Sabbath, but we refuse to be-
lieve that the most lawless spirits of this city have
yet sunk to such a depth of degradation as to “see-
saw ” on the Seventh Day. Yet, after all, it may
be that the “tea’’was the prime mover in these
orgies. All the wickedness lurking in the bosoms
of these young Melbourne fiends was stirred into
activity by the tea, perhaps. This will be a bitter
reflection for Booth.
Here’sanother touch of that Nature which
makes the whole world kin. According to the
last returns, there are now 12,128 Chinese in Vic-
toria, and of these 447 are members of the Church
of England, 18 are attached to the Presbyterian
denomination, 229 are Methodists, 5 are Baptists, 6
are Bible Christians, 1 is a Disciple of Christ, 122
are Roman Catholios, and 4 are Mahometans.
Here's where the touch comes in. At the taking
of the last census, 156 Chinamen objected to state
their particular style of religious belief, and, in
fact, positively refused to give it a name in any
shape or form whatever. As this happened to be
something unusual, Mr. Government Statist Hay-
ter dir acted the interpreters to worry round until
they discovered the cause of all this reticence, and
it then leaked out that the prudent objectors had
secretly seceded from their own Joss-houses and
worshipped on the quiet with the Christians, but
they objected to this being made public, because
they happened to be in business, and some of their
bigoted countrymen, “ alleesame Clistyans,” would
at once withdraw their custom if they knew their
cabbage-growers, general hucksters, and fan-tan
bankers had thrown over Confucius’s “ bulwark ”
and caught on to that of Britain. Religion is a
funny fad as it’s played to-day, no matter how or
where you take it.
An up-country editor was sick and has re-
covered. This, to the cynical mind, will appear
another calamity. To our mind, it is .subject for
profound Te Deum. He had written out a splen-
did account of a successful race meeting held in
the distriot. He had shown (which was the fact)
that the racing was superb, and the public de
lighted. But, somehow or other, the account di<
not satisfy. There was a void somewhere, an<
read it often as he would the void got voider. And
yet all horsey men said he was accurate in his par-
ticulars. Gloom settled on his soul, and, of course,
rum into his stomach. Even in his most drunken
hilarity, however, the dagger .would [float before
him. At last he got others to read the article, and
they complained of a vacuum, also. The township
was as if a pall spread over it. One night, sitting
moodily in the corner of the bar, he observed
another man sitting opposite, if possible, more
gloomy than himself. At last the stranger ap-
proaohed, and the editor recognised him as the
wreck of the racing secretary. “Would you
know,” asked the spectre, “ the hiatus that has
blasted your life, brought this community to un-
timely insanity, and made me a wild waif on the
drifting sands of time ? Hear it then,” he hissed
under his (breath, “ whdfl you (wrote that article
you called me secretary, with fiendish malignity
you refrained from calling me indefatigable!’’ The
dream fled. Reconciliation. Hilarity. Cheerful-
ness.
A long correspondence is progressing in
the London Standard on the subject of what
that organ of the “hupper suckles ” emphatically
calls “Injudicious Patronage” in the Anglican
Church. Much of the churoh patronage is “ in-
judicious ” just as the crime of the burglar or the
horse thief is, to use a Sydneymorningheraldism,
“improper.” For instance, a poor clergyman
who has £lOO a year and no house, is appointed by
a benevolent Dean to an office bringing in an
extra £6O a year. The Dean dies, whereupon the
chapter take away from him the latter appointment
and give it to one of their own number who
already has £3OO a year as Vicar, £240 a year as
holder of another living, and a well-paid lecture-
ship—in all £650 apart from what is stolen from
the other man. Then it comes out that an
Archbishop and a Bishop desired very earn-
estly to serve respectively a great friend and
a near relation. If each prelate bad appointed his
own candidate, there would most probably have
been two local outcries against such jobs—one in
each diocese. But the difficulty was surmounted
in a way which could only have been thought of
by men who prayed regularly and got their
wisdom direct from heaven. The Archbishop
benevolently appointed the relation of the Bishop;
while the Bishop most generously, in return, ap-
pointed the friend of the Archbishop—a policy at
once clever, effective, and “judicious.” In both
cases the persons thus nominated had not served
one single day, either as curates or incumbents
in the diocese in which they received promotion.
MONEY AND TIME SAVED.
Messrs, thomas henderson and co.,
Agricultural Machinists, of 89, 91, 95 Eliza*
beth-street North, Melbourne, furnish us with
the following: combined statements received from
some of their employes, under date 26th January,
1884 Mr. William Downes says : *' With pleasure
1 bear testimony to the efficacy of St. Jacobs ui'
as a. household remedy. One application I have
found to totally remove the pain and marks or a
severe bruise, and I believe it to be an invaluable
remedy for sprains. Since experiencing: its good
qualities I have recommended it to several trienas
tor neuralgia, soreness of chest, &e , and in every
Instance it has given relief.” Mr. w. A. M’Horgi
accountant, contributes the following statement.
“ I sprained my ankle very badly. I tried tne
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. My ankle was greatly
swollen and painful, but after the first appheat on
the swelling had sensiDly decreased and the leeums
of stiffness entirely gone out of my leg; in rat .
a week’s daily application of the Oil effected
complete cure, and I had not to remain away
single day from business. (A friend of m in , e vj*L
seeing my ankle, prophesied three weeks det
tion at home.) I believe the Oil to have
curative power for sprains, and that ft P°ss
the properties claimed for it.’ Mr. R. gti
fitter, sprained his ankle severely. He apphe , pgB
Jacobs Oil with the most beneficial results, in
than a week it has made a perfect cure, * a e
was not absent from work for a single day. .
has also used it for toothache, wlfchitw
almost at once. He reoommends it to all sune
Mr. John M’lntyre, carpenter, In our empioj.
speaks of its virtue. . . . Having OTStaa*
severe fall on my back, I was, through the
half paralysed, I tried St. Jacobs Oil, * rmg .
using two bottles I found much relief. >7 " the
which I could not raise above my bead at r
fall, I can now use freely, and can oil as a
work as well as ever. 1 look upon the
most valuable medicine.
A SOLICITOR’S SOLID
M. E. Benjamin, Esq., of the
Hart and Benjamin, solicitors and Commit® malje
for Australasian Colonies and New Zea » m t»ers,
the following statement:— Pacific “ cem ber
60 Collins-street \V est, Melbourne, 11th ha ve
1883.—Messrs. Elliott Bros.-Dear b.rs..^ eff ecta
much pleasure In testifying to therem 0 f g
of St. Jacobs Oil. I have used it in a an d
severe sprain, and also for rh ® , fP?n j o( i by almost
its application has always been attended
immediate relief.—l remain, dear sirbenjamin-’


Health and Beauty
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
rfheum, Eczema, PsoriasiSj Barber’s Itch, Bore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply. Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticttra Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
I COMMENCED to use your Cuticura Reme-
dies last JuJy. My head and face and some
parts of my body were almost raw. My head was
covered with scabes and sores, and my suffering
was fearful. I had tried everything I had heard
of in the East and West. My case was considered
a very bad one. I have now not a particle of Skin
Humor about me, and inv ease is considered
wonderful. It has been the means of selling a
great many of your Cuticura Remedies in this
part of the country.
Decatur, Mich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE.
Cure sworn to at the British Consulate.
Sold by all chemists and druggists.
R. Towns Jfc Co., Sydney, Consignees.
I HAD running sores on my left leg for seven
years, which reduced my limb to simple skin
and bone, and unable to support my weight unless
swathed in bandages. A consultation of physi-
cians at the City Hospital of Boston decided that
it would have to be amputated to save my life.
Such was my condition when I began to use the
Ctjticuaa Remedies, which have effectually oured
me, in gratitude for which I make this public
statement of my case.
JOSEPH A. PALMER,
Hudson, Mass.
Price, Cuticura, 60 cents; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.I.A.
c.
MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler .
|y TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only award*)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrolled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, dec. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osboknb ; also Angela Bor-
•lonl. of Brescia, Italy.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED
Meda/s Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
0T Teeth painlessly extraoted by Laujrhintr Gas
JEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
w
■ tstP'
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
©I3GkA.l>Ti3,
BT THB RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices tor Cash ; or Easy Terms.
I®* ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK,
■ M. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW SOUTH WALES,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
25? Caterln « Establishment in N.S. W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c.. Ac.
T and! SS?kiKf d 0 “ tUndertakGn f ° F Bal,S ' Woddin * 8 ’ Banquets. Dinners. Luncheons
DtlemeQ ’ th ° flneBt iD
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOk/nG LOUNGE Beef Bffißl?Coffee in the Bar until 11 pm.
p _ E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READTHIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
COOL ALT A WINES,
SIT/VER MEDAL BORDEAUX, '
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 George-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT!
GENT.’S 50, la. od.; 100, 2b. <Jd.
LADIES' 50, 2s. Od. ; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 33. 6d.; 250, 6s. Od. ; 500, 103. ; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOK ENGRAVING PLATE.
@ r Orders exeeutod and forwarded by return
post.
TEE DIRECT SUPPLY CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Messrs. U, LLOH h CO,
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
_ A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected hr
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland Cled by Mr.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIIIBT GRAND SHOWOF TEA. GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children’s
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BRAGH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. I LONDON MACHTNE-MADE UNDERCLOTHTvn
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*'
BRANCH OFFICES.
BouTH*Rif District, N.8.W.;
Goulburn
Vou
Booming
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Waggra Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culoalrn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
WBHTBTUr
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertlre
N/ngan
Forbe*
Condoblla
Nymaire*
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northmrw District, N.S.W.;
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgrett
Hrewarrlnc
Tann*orth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
South bun and South-Wmtbrn Lnror
Brlabana
Roma
Dalby
vXooqmvQ
aqinal
Rockiiamptor
Bofrantungan
Bum raid
OnrrsAL Liim
Oft pel la
Comet
Northern Lin*
Townsville
Charters Towers
Kavenrwocxj Junotioo
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WML. M CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED,
■T Agendas In all parts of the world.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
u/.
S 3
53
ms
i=
Sr
K
St
M'
m
N*
£
p>
H 5
4£
<«l
B
s»
m
3H
ass
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL AND WIN*,
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGBNTB.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
2CO GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond^treet.)
Prom the Strand, London.
hall
<t
%
Co
\
Ya
vs
m
mmS*
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Btout selected with great care from the
—it of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
oannot be exoelled. To be procured everywhere.
OATTELL k 00 N Sole Agents.


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
'and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
' without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘aliment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will lind a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay isunitormly
•successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castleroaeh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at oflioe.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 073.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-stroet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
pw” Facsimiles of Handwriting for Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of flrst-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a stair locally trained, is now in a position
EfTO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SITSPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
J2P" Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
Pnofo raving
y* 'a cuf - engraveb op ©)ype
af pftofo-cfJermcaP rY\ea.ry.
y nnounfecj r xf c % R an. cL
cap §e /et 1 in oj? 1
,cj pripfecl j?ronr\ aav ordi—•
' 17.
ari . .
nary pr in.'ling prey. appear—
arjee ;r ryenni
a cooob cuL aacj y fc>
saper/edc fo a greaf* exfer?C
tßaf <sPooo oosTf/ nxctß-ocL •
o engraving . V/e oaip opfer
areaf i fo aff coßo
afe ouj/ Price
fifty > Oafafoguey or a.gy '
ing parpyc. our
e-sfirn-afy* a.n.c| fry uy fmmif
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
.St e/
\?er
cfosefy
80LE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
80LE AGENTS FOR THEJ
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
DR.
SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAfR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
7.
V.
'A
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes !!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
v Eleotrio Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
\lishod, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle in made of a new odorless competition, resembling ebony: a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, "Which acts
immediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P-,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Eleotrio Hair
1 Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chuichill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
tSTJSend for Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets , efr Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
Crewkeme, Nov. 12,
Sir,—My patients have given
me a very satisfactory aocount
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, q p Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.E.
Prom Dr. Lempribrb, D.C.L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford.
Dec. 23, 1881.
Gentlemen, —I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No oae who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is,
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances. The
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, 0. Lbmpribrb, D.C.L., &e.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
These Brushes oan be obtained of all ChemisWond Fanoy Storekcopers.lor will be forwarded
direct to any part of N.B.W. or Queensland upon receipt of prices nnraed, with Is. added. Re-
mittanoee can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia, tee that the name Of Dr. ocott Is on the Box, without which
none are genuine. \
PILL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64,MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
A correspondent of the World draws at-
tention to an application “ from * William Booth,
General of the Salvation Army and Minister of
the Gospel,’ to be registered as the proprietor of
a trade-mark, in which the designs of a cross and
crown and the words * Blood and fire ’ form the
principal part. The application is for Classes 12,
Cutlery and edge tools ; 41, furniture and up-
holstery ; 48, perfumery (including toilet articles,
preparations for the teeth and hair, and perfumed
soap).” There’ll probably be a lot of “ Blood and
fire ” aboutlwhen anyone comes to shave with a
“Salvation razor” which the enterprising General
has sold him, in the name of Heaven, for half-a-
crown.
Seeing that the modesty of the Melbourne
“bobby” is proverbial, everyone will sympathise
with a certain active and “ intilligent ” young
officer of that city, who was recently placed in a
very painful position through the waywardness of
Margaret Pearce, a nymph of the Carlton pavi. To
be brief, then, Margaret was interviewed by the
“aotive” one in her humble home on the ridicul-
ous charge of seeking to tell the time by a Mr.
Wheeler's watch. She was annoyed at this, it
appears. Judging from the appalling story subse-
quently unfolded to the Bench, Margaret must
have been awfully displeased. “ She stripped off
every stitoh of clothing and dared me to take her,”
said the blushing “ Robert ” to Mr. Call of the City
Court. And it will remain to the everlasting credit
of the force that their sorely-tepnpted brotner did
not take such a delicious ‘‘case” without further
persuasion, but permitted her to “scream and
swear with nothing on” until such time as a female
relative had hidden sufficient of Margaret’s charms
to enable her to be “ run in ” in a cab.
A thrill of joy passed through the bosoms
of the honest farmers of the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.), when it became known that the “Vaga-
bond ” was about to electrify them with a rcchaujfi
of his South Sea Islands experience, and let them
into the grim secret as to how the unsophisticated
natives of those southern islets served up baked
missionary on the half-shell, along with other
playful pastimes of those guileless children of
nature. Not altogether on that account, however,
was the travelled Julian so heartily welcomed as
for the fact that he was commissioned by the
Argus proprietors to write up “ Pioturesque Vic-
toria,” whatever that may be; and even as a de-
crepit chicken aspires to be written up as an as-
piring and robust rooster, so does the average one-
horse community yearn to pose before the world
as an “ important centre,” “ the garden of Aus-
tralia,” “the future Chicago,” or something of
that sort. Weil, Julian went to Mooroopna,
sampled some of its liquors, took a cuisory view
of the hamlet through the bottom of a tumbler,
and then hied himself off Shepharton, where he sat
himself down and gouged out a lengthy article on
tho village he had just left, describing its beauties
and general advantages in a left-handed compli-
mentary kind of way He came to gush, and left
only to scoff. Ho when the two-penny Thunderer
arrived from the metropolis, a few days after-
wards, and the Mooroopnians read therein that
their “ important centre’’ was designated a slab-
sided, or a wall-eyed village, or something, they
fairly revelled in rum and profanity, and cursed
the veracious “Vag.” and his ancestors even
unto the seventh generation. And not content
with howling maledictions hot and strong at
the writer, “ they held a public indignation
meeting to protest against the correctness of such
reports^’—we quote a local print—“ and to consider
wnat aotion should be taken to refute them.”
Furthermore, it was loudly (and we might say
vehemently) expressed “ that we quote again—
“the Vagabond had been ‘ got at,”’ and motions
were carried to the effect that the article describ-
ing Mooroopna “ is nothing but a tissue of false-
hood,” and that “the proprietors of the Argus,
Age, and Daily Telegraph be asked to send up
reporters to write an account of Mooroopna and
the surrounding district.” It is said that a blood-
thirsty Mooroopnian went so far as to father a
resolution demanding the head of Julian on a
charger, but this requires confirmation. Julian,
however, continued his triumphal career through
the district, and finally we stumble across him
again at the flourishing little village of Nathalia,
where he visits the office of the local Herald, and
—but let the “ Vag.” tell how he started the rum
of that hitherto promising journal:—“l inscribe
my name on the walls of this pioneer newspaper-
office. and drink success to its endeavors (sic) to
enlighten the selectors of the neighbourhood.”
This was too much happiness for the local editor;
but Julian had judiciously crossed the Murray at
Tocumwal ere the infuriated Beckett had sallied
out, with bis meat-axe in one hand and a copy of
the Argus in tho other, to ask for an explanation.
The Heritage of Woe!
Misery, shame, and agony, often bequeathed as a
sole legacy to children by parents, is neglected
Scrofula. To cleanse the blood of this hereditary
poison, and thus remove the most prolific cause of
human suffering, to clear the skin of Disfiguring
Humors, Itching Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions,
and Loathsome Sores caused by it, to purify and
beautify the Skin, and restore the Hair, so that no
trace ot the disease remain, Cuticura Hksolvemt,
the new Blood Purifier, and cuticura and Cuti-
cura Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautiflers,
are infallible. They are the only remedies that
succeed when physicians and all otherlmeans fail.


THE
IGNO
IF’ia.n.o.
war?
tmM
ini m co.’s
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt,
done their level best to rival ua— blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous nourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinkiDg public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies-in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in Now Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its n
word.
e is really a household
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had Jon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for firrt-class work and
richness of tone.
J 1 !uinxT^T Cat ? 10 ,? ue i with full description
on ° N aad aU ° ther good inBtrument s.
NICHOLSON AND GO..
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. *
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
*- URArm i Cn remedy for RHEUMATISM,
RAINs L< i I^oHEADACHE > TOOTHACHE,
.akenoJf’ BBUISES > BURNS. SCALP 3, & c - and
CRAMPR er onr?r CUreB DIABE H(EA, U
«»d pains, COX,It » and all other nitferna aches
Price, a/ - Sold Uverywhere,
E. MOULTON, sole PROPixroR,
tE LBOUENE -A.TVD o.DNEY
PAINT
Marshall’s
tonic nervine
\ 8a fP nm,,, MOISTIHItI,
A VO. fan^ST AIN ;* SPEEDY CURB for Vo N
!^ a t SDjirp a frnm and all complaints
ToothPchf 1 N^.l^. Ck of no rve foroe, as Neuralgia,
pp^fil 9 T?P eBB J Indigestion, Loss of
ttloJ * ,l* orders - Diver and Kidney
£?<! sootbing^eff.T 1 *? 1 Power ' &c- By its tonic
I®; Alcohol r^+L 1 * , at . °nce removes all craving
To« r Powerful ■wifo?i-T lchn . eBs in phosphorous and
I°NIC NERVTW^ elements, MARSHALL’S
'Jhole system n 7, u . nBhc , s and gives vigour to
§SSK&«AS , MB^r Jal - SS ' ‘ “*"■
AYER’S PILLS.
tr
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
,are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W.iL. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., dune 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Fills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
§leasant. safe, and reliable family medicine.
'OR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Moxia, Texas, Juno 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. llarlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLAND 3 ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends In a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS' EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood.
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose
and cream. ’
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, whioh is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. hour sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros.. E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith's Latest KTove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
! 418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY.
PICTURES, FANCY GOODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, ETC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in the*, to expedite
remo> al of his enormous stock.
The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
m
T s BOOTS
-aN 1 EQUALLED
,y SYDNEY
_ EITHER FOR
B’RICE OR quality!
■404
■Mceorce s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
<.Tr,t pa r 6 from Dandelion, and free from the
sugntest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparatien, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
immed e iato re t lief. ear that they haV ® DOt afforded
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HT 808 GEORGE STREET.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILOBINQ ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-strant,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEBT AND BEST-ASSORTBB
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
13?~ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
NEW SOUTH WALES.—MONSTER CONSUL
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro*
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in lO.ntO shares at 10s. each. About 235
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £3500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution :—First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£250 : starters, £250; non-starters £500—£2500.
Fi Bt prize gift. £600; second prize gift, £300; third
pri o gift, £150; 10 at £5O. £500; 10 at £25, £350;
20 at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn,
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.O.
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard o,
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
-.'Vti-EBRArFP’
° x^9cotcW^
WHOLEBAUI
GROCER
and
WINE and
dPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
%m~ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
<5
m
S 3
$
511
or
ft
£
o
3
O
3
*
<0 co
to
prv*e
fC
05
4
r
yfi
3
I
$
«
%
f
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
D=3eXlafble Eu.g'g'les!
\
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
tW BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
terHOTO GRAPHIC
1 'STOCK ,
IMPORTERS 4
Rj
%
%
Mm
A.
V
<2/
' , ls - ' tock^ nf ,
a CAMERAS,
CARDS /CHE Ml CALS Me;
* v MM>
W.JOHNSON&SONS
NIT R.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD P
for


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will lit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frcse’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored#
A young lady in one of our pro-
HAMBURG minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
TEA.. among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
HAMBURG her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
TEA. accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
HAMBURG tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
TEA. physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature ot her
HAMBURG ailment, failed to afford relief A
TEA. friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate reliei by
HAMBURG using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. one
TEA. made trial of it, and, to her great
joy, found a decide improvement as
HAMBURG the result. After a few days’ use ot
this popular remedy, she was tuny
TEA. restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A marvel of the age. It is i™P°*"
Bible to say too much in praise ot tear,
good old standard remedy, hinu
Freee’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a ms-
ordered stomach. Once used it is a
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
fSold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
ASTLE <8 S/%s*
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N Eiv:
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Printed a&d
paper Co.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A Hymn to Humbug.
Verses unto tick.
MERCHANTS’ MANOBUVRES AND TRADERS’
TKICKB.
in lightly touching on the tricks of trade,
Whence shall I draw sweet inspiration’s aid 7
Shall Lesbian Sappho be invoked to pour
Her measures forth, as erst in days of yore 7
Shall Glio or shall Erato relate
What thiags are dene where merchants consre-
gate?
Or shall Thalia bid the stanzas flow
In praise of Bunkum, Blatherskite, and Go.?
No, surely not; this tuneful trio guides
The amorous strain, and over love presides;
Tells of the joys that spring from mutual troth,
And traces love’s insidious, glorious growth.
Here I may own that Sappho's melting song
Would now he deemed immoral, lewd, and wrong,
By Anderson, who straightway would arraign
The publishers of such a wicked strain,
And with quick prosecutiou Intervene
To stop the sale of what he deemed obscene;
With ready zeal display his eagerness
To act as self-made Censor of the Press.
But, once again, who shall inspire the line 7
Ah, Mercury! the theme is surely thine;
Patron of merchants, here thou dost bestow
Thy kindly help, and when received below
Dost guide them, if we trust to lully s page,
Where ever rolliDg fiery torreDts rage.
The Latin wi iters also plainly tell
That Mercury was god of thieves as well;
And from the combination it would seem
That Romans held not merchants in esteem,
The name of merchant, then, comes from the
Erench
Word michant, “ wioked,” (vide Dr. French)—
The extra letter being joined thereto
Because our ancestors, as playwrights do,
In stealing from the French, their gains disguised
Lest the words stolon should be recognised.
And this purloining of a foreign term
Is source of wealth to many a Sydney firm.
One man by skilful fraud his pockets fills
By making Holloway’s or Johnson’s pills;
Another firm, In avarice as great,
With home-grown cabbage-leaf will imitate
The Cuban weed that’s held in such repute,
And in Its place suoh rubbish substitute;
A borrowed box, and label counterfeit
Afford a cover for the dark deceit—
And a good discount can be always earned
If empty boxes are intact returned.
Again, some recent law-suits can explain
How much of “ Fruit Salt,” stuffs so named con-
Andfrom the Hehald’s interesting page
We learn the way they make this beverage:—
" Tartaric acid smashed up very flue,
With soda, also finely-crushed, combine;
Then Eno’S bottles, and his labels, too,
Prove ‘ Paris ’ to be French for-Jatnberoo.
(The meaning here Is murky, 1 oonfees,
But libel laws, just now, are merciless )
What large resources Sydney has displayed!
Here goods from every land and clime are made;
Does Lilly's stream give Dublin porter fame 7
What’s that? why S street can make the
same;
And not alone the self-same well-known brew,
But with the Dublin brand, and capsules, tool
While B street discovers leady sale
For all It makes of Tennant’s bottled ale;
Then real Scotch whisky's made in C— —•—-
And*JHuffiand’s gin flows from the same retreaf;
While real French brandy and Jamaica rum
From Waterloo on ponderous lorries come.
Such manufactures yield a welcome gain,
And if they fall, two mines of wealth remain;
To daring men a never-falling Held.
Which to the greatest rogues most profit yield.
The first, Insurance-erstwhile wisely-planned
To stay the stroke of tell disaster s hand;
But now abused by many, who contrive
From it a base-earned prefit to derive.
Who has not noticed that when trade stagnates,
And banks announce a rise in discount rates,
And speculative dealings almost cease,
How quick the calls lor firemen s help increase?
If forage tails, and credit feels the shook,
How quickly flames consume the lingering stock!
And thus a modorn Pbceoix is descried;
For when the all-devoui ing flames subside.
Although the goods have taken flery wings,
Yet from their ashes double value springs.
And then the last resource-wby should 1 dwell
On thiH device, which now is known so well ?
Why should 1 name the frauds that are employed
By those who go to Stephens or to Lloyd ;
No, 't would be tedious as a “ twice-told tale,
To toll the histories of those who fail.
One of the poet i has most truly said
That men, on stepping stoues of their selves dead,
Can rise to better things, and here his thought
Had surely reference to the Bankrupt. Court.
But yet, while blaming some, the Muse can find
Praise lor tnose merchants of a nobler kind,
Whose minds, by rectitude and conscience swayed,
Confer an honour on the name of trade;
Watson and Ewan are among the band
Of merchants whom the Muse’s praise command;
Behold their kindness! each one gladly came
To Mason’said, and either lent his name
To guarantee ten thou., and for this aid
They only asked six thousand should be paid,
Great was their kindness, and we feel surprise
That lying tongues should dare to stigmatise
The worthy pair, and, with expression strong,
Condemn the fact as infamous and wrong.
’Tis but the breath of envy—who need care
For what such men, with bated breath, declare;
Watson shall flourish, let who will upbraid.
And pocket his six thousand-u’hen ’tis paid.
ISHMAEL.
Deserters.
Pair Beauty is noted for fleotness;
A little, It gambols before us
And round us, and under, and o’er us,
The stricken air swoons with its sweetness—
A little—and then ’tis away I
Brave strength, too, is noted for goiog,
J ast as we expect it to tarry;
>Vhen most we have burdens to carry,
It, rolls up Its trousers, and throwing
A scoff at us, gives us good-day!
But Beauty, though fleet to deceive us,
And Strength, although sudden to fly us,
Are both lar more trustworthy by us
Than Money. Oh, Money, believe us,
Is hardest of all to make stay!
Spurned.
If in the dust he had but lived and toiled,
Among the herd that live and toil in dust,
And look through steam and smoke unto the
heights
Where Greatness 'sits, his fame lad not been
soiled
With blame, that blackens worse than dust,
when j ust,
And scorn had not swept o’er his sleepless nights.
But he would climb, with unwashed hands and
feet,
And features wrenched awry with base desires;
And rested not, until, where sunbeams meet
And flood the smooth white peaks with fire, he
stood,
And set his face among the great of soul,
Who shine more bright the brighter gleam the
fires.
And argued that, because he reached the goal,
He with the great and good was great and good,
[N.B— These verses, “ Spurned,” are not by the
author of “Murmurs of the Stream.”— Ed. B.]
Such extentive rioting has been provoked
by the proceedings of the Salvation Army in Eng-
land, that the authorities will ere long, probably
have to altogether Interdict their proceedings.
Recently, at Frome, two “officers” were sent to
gaol in default of paying a fine Imposed on them
for blocking the streets. When they were released,
bills were issued:—“ Coming Home, Thursday,
August 38. Return of Captains Smith and Cozens
from their Seven Days’ Rest in Shepton Mallet
Gaol. Major Sowerby, twenty Illood and Eire
Officers, and a Host of Red Hot Soldiers, with
Brass Bands, will give them a proper welcome
homo. Grand sßanquet at 5 p.m. Everybody
come. Monster Salvation Tournament at half-
past 7. The boys from the gaol will wear the
prison costume, and relate their prison experience.
Come early.” After breakfast, the two ex-
prisoners were arrayed in convict’s dress (canvas
suits with the broad arrow), and then the whole
party went for a picnic. In the evening, they
‘processed,” anul there was a terrible riot, in
which all the “ Army ” rtags were oaptured by the
mob. The bands suffered also, many of their in-
struments being battered out of all shape, and the
big drum was cut open. Then the mob sang
“Rule Britannia!”
Our picture shows a lovely morning bonnet for a watering place—not but that it
would be elegant anywhere, it is so light and pretty. It is composed of cream surah
and lace, and can be made from the illustration by any one who has taste in that line.
The crown is of stiff net, covered with the surah, and the peak is trimmed with two
rows of deep lace, and a bunch of heliotrope adorns the side of the bonnet strings; and
bows of sarsenet ribbon one inch and a half wide.
The bluest blood of the Cabbage Garden
aristocracy is evidently on the boil, and some of the
first families down there are going it fit a pace cal-
culated to lead to trouble. The very latest sensa-
tion is an open secret whioh says that a second
edition of the notorious Beecher-Tilton scandai
will shortly be'trotted out and put through the
refining process peculiar to tho Melbourne Divorce
Court. Of course there’s a parson at tho bottom
of the racket, because now-adays a Divorce Court
scandal without a parson is like “ Hamlet with-
out the young Danish “ crank,” or a pump without
a sucker. What the sunshine is to the earth, the
dew to the thirsting flower, the stars to the night,
love to the heart, religion to the soul, and a quart
of beer diluted with a hot saveloy to a Rmi poet s
bingie, such is the average popular parson to the
spicy Divorce Court sensations of the present day.
This time, tho co-respondent is described as being
“ a clerical person of mature age, austere character,
and high rank in his churoh organization ”—quite a
nineteenth-century copy of that giddy old eider of
Daniel’s day who, touting the chaste Susanna,
attempted to screen his own rascality by declaring
he had surprised her in the company of her hus-
band’s coachman under a spreading mastic tree.
In the Cabbage Garden case the chaste Susanna
is a leader of fashion, and so h rand a person that
she “ was not quite sure whether dear Lady Loch s
kind heart would not induce her to receive per-
sons whom one could not possibly meet! It would
be such a pity to have to ignore Government
Housel” The injured husband is described as
being one of tho curled darlings of South
Yarra, or, in every-day English, a swell official of
good standing and ample private means. All this
is common-p'ace enough, and a matter of every-
day occurrence, so to speak, but here’s where the
laugh comes in. The virile old church digni;ary is
not the only one on whom our aristocratic dame
conferred her favours. Several lesser lights are
reported as being “in the swim” as well, and
amongst these is the lady’s Buttons, an unfledged
young angel of about fifteen summers. Some-
thing like a wave of infidelity to matrimonial
contracts is apparently sweeping, over,Victoria
just at present, but we suppose it’s all on account
of the dry weather, for, as Byron sings,
“ Wbat men call gallantry, and gods adultery, f
Is much more common wbtre the climates
sultry.”
And this reminds us touching our own sweet
it is rumoured that a popular preacher—
however, that will keep a little longer. Sufficient
for the day is as good as a feast.
He was a Capting in the Harmy engaged
in the conquest of New Zealand, and for the first
time in his life he found himself outside a horse.
His intention was to invade a certain township and
‘ take it ” by force of arms. Tho steed bestrode by
the undaunted warrior was the property of the
local pound-keeper, who also lighted the street
lamps in the borough where the Capting had his
head-quarters. The horse was accustomed to carry
his master round from post to post. The lamp-
lighter’s usual custom was to carry a box or
matches in his mouth, and when he reached a post
he stood on the horse’s back, lit the lamp, and de-
scegpding to his seat on the saddle, started tor the
next. In this way the horse came to know his
business well. When the Capting started on the
■ expedition, there was a chorus of hallelujahs from
the sisters assembled to send him off. They saw
him off—in fact, in more ways than one. The old
horse started well, spreading himself out over the
street as if he was “in it ’’ for the Derby and was
determined to win, while the Capting held on to
the mane as if It was a favourite text and was well
worth sticking to. When the fiery steed reached
the first lamp-post, however, be paused suddenly
from a bard gallop to a full stop, while the rider
continued the journey some distance further and
came down a cropper on his hat, to the terror and
dismay of the sisterhood, who rushed to his assist-
ance and clustered round him in a tumultuous
whirlpool of hallelujah bonnets, each dear sister
struggling heroically who should be first to kiss the
bump which had “suffeied ” in the collision with
Macadam. After a deal of endearment bad been in-
dulged in, the Capting was sufficiently recovered to
make another dash for an outside passage; but on
getting astride the animal, he found it would not
Pudge from its position under the lamp. One of
the sisters, however, who was the lamp-lighter s
maiden aunt, here came to the rescue, and ex-
plained to the Capting that he must make pretence
of lighting the lamp if he expected the horse to
go on. The Capting accordingly stood up in the
saddle and struck a match; but before he could
get back into his seat, the horse started at a gallop
for the next post, while the unlortunate amateur
lamp-lighter tumbled off backwards over the ani-
mal's tail, and fell groaning in the dust from which
he had just newly risen. The sOters again gathered
round him, like a lot of hens converging and cack-
ling round a dying cock-a-doodle; and, cheered by
their renewed sympathy and endearments, he
shook hims If together on one end, and seeing the
horse standing patiently at the next lamp-post,
started to try his luck once more as a performer
of wonders and miracles on horseback. His re-
newed efforts at imitating the lamp-lighter were
more successful, and nothing further occurred till
the last lamp-post was reached, when, satisfied that
his duties in that respect were over for the day,
the horss started for the pound at a furious canter,
which nearly shook the Oapting’s buttons off, and
seriously disarranged his digestive functions. On
reaching the pound gate, the horse suddenly stood
still, and chucked the Captiug into the enclosure
to keep company with a wild bull impounded
three days before. As this gentle animal had had
next to nothing to eat since his incarceration,
he was not in a mood to be trifled with, and de-
clined to swallow the Capting's remark to the effect
that all flesh is grass, which the latter made imme-
diately on finding himself on his back in the Pound
with his eyes full of manure and serious defalca-
tion apparent in his costume both fore and aft.
The bull was very hungry, and had been led to
expect some consideration in the way of turnips;
but when he investigated the Capting’s bald head,
he knew at a sniff it was not the kind of vegetable
he wanted, so he threw his nose ominously in the
air, lashed the fence with his long tail, and began
to raw the bottom out of the Pound with his heavy
forefeet. Just then the Capting started up, and
the bull immediately started forward and inserted
a horn in his uniform and returned him with
thanks to the horse on the outside of the Pound.
But the Capting had enough of it, and gave up the
expedition till a more convenient season: and,
taking a round-about road to avoid observation,
sought the shelter of the barracks for repairs.
“ Saint Peter sat by the celestial gate,
And nodded o’er his keys; when, 10l there came
A wondrous noise he had not heard of late,
A rustling sound of wind, and stream, and flame;
In short, a roar of things extremely great. ”
And when the commotion cooled down a trifle,
the worthy old janitor polished uj his nose with
fhe sleeve end of one of his wingß, and yelled,
“Hullo! who’s thar?’’ “Keep your seat, Peter;
it’s only me,” replied a tall, gaunt, slab-sided old
dead-beat, as he hung a tattered umbrella and a
battered carpet-bag on the spikes of the gate, and
handed over a card, on which was written “Ter-
tius Bull winkle. Esq., editor Cooreenyrangah-
COOMBOOBIGAH TIMES AND JACKASS ODDLY AD-
VERTISER.'' "Oh, its you, is it? ’ exclaimed the
apostle, as he double-locked the inner grating;
“ well, th’ best thiug you can do is to slide round
to the Hades Hotel before it shuts, an’ see if you
oan get a bed there. We’ve got special orders not
to let you in here at any price whatever. As a
rule, we never do care muon for you newspaper
fellers at all, because y ’ eat more at one square
meal than all th’ rest o' th’ cherubim an’ seraphim
nut together; and as for jinin’ in th’ sacred pro-
cessional hymns, why y’re got no more voice
than a fried sardine, an’ the whole of your
‘reppertwor’ seems t’ oonsist ov ‘Nancy Lee’
an’ the ‘Two obidiabs.’” “Pardon me, Peter,”
said the new arrival; “but I was the solo basso
profunda in our little choir at Jackass Gully for
over fifteen years, and the ease with whioh I used
to take the bottom D’s was the admiration and
envy of the w hole district. I’ll jußt warble a little
thing of my own, as a sample. Do-JH-Sol ”
“Here, that’s enough,” shrieked the enraged
janitor; “if you let out another yelp, I’ll brain
you with these keys. We don’t want you or your
measly old voice in here at all. We heard you
were cornin’—in fact, we ready’r lyin’ poetry send-
off in last night's Evenooze, and in less than half-
an-hour after 767 signatures were stuok oh to a
petition not to let you within cooey of this here
gate.” “Oh, hoi” replied the editor, as he opened
his carpet-bag, and unrolled a bundle of papers;
“ the wretched hirelings of my native land object
to my company, do they ? Trot ’em out, and let
them state their objections in propria personce.”
The janitor went ins.de on hearing this, but shortly
after returned with a multitude of enraged, howl-
ing citizens, who flourished their harps and flapped
their wings in the most alarming manner possible.
On Mr. Bullwinkle being pointed out, a mad-
headed old seraph dressed in spangled tights
poked his head through a hole in the gate, and
yelled, “Yahl you’re euchred this time, olu
’un. Why didn’t you give my circus show a
puff, an’ say the daring feats of horsemanship
displayed by Mons. and Madame Angelico have
never been surpassed this side of the equatorial
line ; whilst the chaste performances of the
monkey Jacko, and the trick dog Julius Caesar,
are enjoyed alike by babbling childhood and
venerable old age. Why didn’t you put that in
yer rag, hey ?” “ Simply because you got all your
job-printing done at the Jackass Gully Stab, and
your name’s not Angelico at all but O’Ragin,” re-
plied the censured editor, coolly. “ Come down,”
shouted Peter ; “ that let’s you out, anyhow.”
“ Why didn’t you notice that monster egg I sent
you ?” shrieked another red-faced angel behind the
bars; “it was live inches long, and four inches in
circumference, and spoke volumes for the wonder-
ful efficiency to which we had brought the art of
laying. Governor Loftus has a futtoe of it in his
bedroom ” “Yer darned old egg was rotten,”
shouted Bull winkle back; "an’ when it bust we
hid to shift the office ” “ Skip down,” cried Peter,
“the man from Jackass Guliy scores two.” “ Look
hero, you abominable wretch,” shrieked a spike-
nosed, putty-faced virgin ; “in my lines to
Lorenzo L , I wrote,
‘Sad was my heart; gloom filled my soul from day
to day,
But soon the right man came and parted all away.’
It was sweetly pretty; but you, you dirty, wall-
eyed, web-footed, whisky-besmeared ignoramus,
you made it read, * The right man came and carted
all away.’ Ooooh ! I’d like to tie you on to the
beast with seven heads that's in here, and let him
scoot round the plainsof Hades with your ugly pole-
cat perfumed carcase.” “Gently Madam,” observed
the editor; “ keep y’r hose on—there’s the manu-
script, and I’ll defy the recording angel himself to
read it.” “Verdict for the defendant;” chimed in
the janitor. “Why did you write up old man
Maggles’s scab-wasu, and never say a word about
my new system of extracting liquid manure from
dead dogs ?” squeaked a dried-up old party in
seedy, snuff-coioured robes. “Because Maggleß
paid me for printing all his pamphlets, and you
stuck the mighty lever which moves the world,
otherwise known as Jackass Gully Advertiser
for seven-an’-twenty shillings,” returned the other
witn a grim-sardonic smile. The rest of the elect
then began to yell out their complaints in unison,
but Mr. Bullwinkle calmly sorted a pile of bills of
unpaid subscribers, and it came to pass that when
he attempted to serve the company with them,
they all tore their hair, and rushing over a steep
place near the coast broke their nocks first, and
were afterwards carried out to sea and drowned.
But Peter, taking Bulliwinkle by the hand, ex-
claimed, “Trot right in here, old man; these
chaps bluffed us here, but thanks to the un-
shackled press which now delivers its invaluable
wares alike at the threshold of Paradise and the
gates of Hell on payment of 135., strictly in
advance, wo now know the exact style of hair-
pin these fellow are. Come right along and stay ;
we badly want a few such men as you in here.’
And humping his kit once more, Bullwinkle
followed.


Jr
Ingham’s
SUPHOP\BIi\
l|4 Queensland Cure
Asthma BkoJVCMnsf j'l
14 Coughs.,
iC
ND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
PREPARED ONLY' BY
[OMAS Ingham
OCKHAMPTON
Mi
*9
adshP
&
, /r i p
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield flill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes- KewiiTß neatly exe-
cutes
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Sheet, anil Ornamental Glass,
O| L & COLOR MERCHANT,
painter AND DECORATOR,
lass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
be autl A l ai ’£ e stock of Paperhangings of the most
Ul ul designs ever seen in the colonies.
at terns sent post free.
2§ l GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
KIBBY AND CO.,
OS King-street.
s Msrars, k
stlir at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled I Never
Pm ln Fit vmMty or finiBh -
tri C gg rwea r for Winter, large variety, lowest
Co,? Wear ’ new and stylish shapes.
ars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
& CO., 96 King-street.
4
o
c
o
s;
MARK
IRAOt
<0
Or
c"
-O
(2
£>
t CROSf
bQ
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling - , healthful, refreshing - , and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
A
NGLO-AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital £102,570.
Reserve Fund .. .. .. £5OOO.
Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
C. C. Skarratt, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P.
J. H. Newman, Esq.
Benjamin James, Jr.,
Esq.
Deposits received at following 1 rates
At call Five per cent.
3 months .. .. Five and a half per cent.
6 Six per cent.
12 Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 12J4 Pgr
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
KOVAL ARCADE. GEORGE RT.. 498 SVDNEV.
SE’EIKT©- SEASOH, 1084.
PEAPES and SHAW
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
ARE HOW opening for the coming season,
Farming millinery and straw goods,
ALL THE NEWEST DRESS MATERIALS,
Sadies’ PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Giltltibs, and Newest Handles.
Real and Imitation T*£lCE> GOODS,
11 Cr °am, White, and Black, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
Also, NEW GOODS and NOVELTIES in tiie following departments:—
and stmc wa
TRIMMINGS
and SILK HANDKERCHIEFS
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
i Our Plain Drapery Department
supp]i e< j with an mmsu a lly large assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
quite sure our prices will compare favourably with any house m the trade.
, Towellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &c«
Gentlemen’s Departments.
es and Scarfs ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
-size, and colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing; Gentlemen’s White
and Coloured Shirts of every description,
BEADY-MADE CLOTHING —We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Boys’
, >t, “big, cut on the most scientific principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
ATLORInq DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
■A.PES & SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 326, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
Ahd 123 PALMERSTON BUILDINGS, OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Axe IXTo-w Open.
’S HOTEL,
Cor ner of KING and CASTLEUEAGH STREETS.
r Slv R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
ATla BAR up-stairs.
Barry's Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow on bald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry's Florida Water!
The Original and the Best. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Rioffnisng ssstl Go.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH!
Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hofei,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
Eassed. The magnifleient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT n. d.er ■ta,Hs:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
£
Si.
miiiiin
mill 1
i
WIJWIII
ip
o
ft
Co
INVALUABLE
K surrEßiNc
m
°Ss
o'
Her
you
s s
Stei
!»ii
fia
ftPTED FOR T
CoiaNiEs^
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
G- COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER
f"
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen,
gf C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as fdllows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O m the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I, Y. WAREHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
VST THE PREMIES WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Matured
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Solo Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
300 Georgs Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex* crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t.: refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
DaS| Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1839.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital £BOO,OOO
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
AtTDjraORS:
Jag. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
General Manager:
if. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralamborie.
Gosford, Nyupran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander. Esc
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. HL .Ariell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J4,and lib. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
,!: r::**
■r
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. DO PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams lor b« ’'.-measuring
forwarded to any part of the coionv
H
//V THE
ACC DENT
y (limited)


-A.fs'liSLn.is'ts-n. G-olcL J" e-w©ll©ry *
if
(K.£GI-iTEU.ED.)
9 SIDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
PARISIAN DIAMOND Jill
LATEST FASHIONS.}
-f-
IF’ESOUvC 30s.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT
PRINK fT !
PRINK '
PRINK K l '
IAM A
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
348 GEORGE ST
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.)
XMteurtlxi. Keeslian,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, hemp close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and spirits.
The? most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co. s telegrams
supplied. Sporting from all parts of the colony posted up.
JACK THOMPSON..,,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SAl>^
91 King-street. i
*
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
ASK YOUK GROCEIi FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRIT & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best alo or porter.-LANCET.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
®anQg|
iiOKNE
1 T.ORWfi
!'
YtlA
c/rU*l
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should bo carefully compared, as largo
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HiGGnrs
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLBEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’a Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCK Ell & CO., Sole Agents,
?5'j r o George-street. Sydney.
wallach bros;
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, TREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agenta for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORjLN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MEIiYSN and SONS’
Kdinbrngn Pale 4 -e.
AFTER BEFORE
hted
MOUSTACHE and WHI2EE23.
Boyd* a Beard EU&ir did thin , and
I will do it on either bald head or
bare fare. Force» heavy Mona .
t ache in from 3 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
BEFORE AFTER
Copyrighted.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect. Packets la. Qd.
each, 3 for 3 s. 6d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
.Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,N.S.W*
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
lar* WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attent
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: COWPERWHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S IMP" 0
STEAM FVM**
H. P. GREGORY & &
17 PITT STBE®
SYDNEY, .
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOB
To®
and have in Stock and to a
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SEBVIC® 1
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS g
DEEP-WELL-SINKING VO*
,rrive"
IMPS
'AIR&CIRCUBAT
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL pA '
_
CATALOGUES FORWAr
IBV$ P
OLEND
jTradc
Ji
&CISTE&
COLLIE BLEND
of the PUREST
bining fulness of body, Wit-
af taste and flavour. u
Agents.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vi9°
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. 0 J e '
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
