

THE TXTIiTTEES SE-^-SO3IT-
-ISS-
4 muni 4 sins,
tT;
9 ■*■ f
EPrc-vld-ers I PrcTriders I
Have recently received
I SEVERAL SPECIAL SHIPHEfITS of
WINTER C5-OG
ALL DIRECT EROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
%HONY
P
HORDERN AND SONS
SOLACE emporium, haymarket, only.
r'-A.SXXIOITS! — WDTIIIE PASHIOITS!
of every description in LADIES’ MANTLES and WINTER CLOTHING, including every New Shape and the
Newest Materials—The “Dolman,” The “ Eour-in-Hand,” The “Newmarket.”
|}| (L CLOTHIMG-—The largest and most variously-assorted stock in the colonies.
g» Overcoats! Overcoats! Overcoats! —New Shapes, New Styles, New Patterns,
! Boots ! —Eor Ladies, for Children, for Gentlemen. Our Boots are celebrated throughout the colony.
, ! BBankets !—Twenty Thousand Pairs of the unequalled quality, and at the wonderfully low prices for
, which The Palace Emporium, Haymarket, is so. celebrated.
Pupsiitur© ! Furniture ! —Household Eurniture of every description, imported direct from the Best English
M Manufacturers, at very low prices.
WHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
JfcSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES
I 1,!


W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 19S PStt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CATER’S system of importing all poods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
PRENCII MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, STL 1 "' SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DHAPERY OE ALL KINDS, AT W.l ... .SALE PRICES.
ifST’ Our Introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter, as done in Paris, is a great sucsess. We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
■ WHOLESALE PRICES.
■W*. CATER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
]EL L. SUMMEBFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 23T PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Roys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
G. W. E&MMRTT and GO.,
68 KING STKEET,
OUtt 13-fiUINEA BICYCLE
for this season is a marvel for lightness, strength,
and, hill-climbing power; it has ball-bearings,
and all latest improvements.
SANSS»AREIIi RACING BICYCLE,
Won the Five-mile Championship, May 10th, and
__all heats and finals,jwith two exceptions.
%3f~ Our TIME-PAYMENT TERMS are by far the easiest and best in Sydney.
We are the oniy house in town where you can get your bicycle promptly repaired by English workmen,
Sole Agents for BAYLISP, THOMAS, & CO., Coventry; HUMBER, MARRIOTT, & COOPER ;
W. ANDREWS, Birmingham.
E2P" Send or call for list. Inspection cordially invited.
G
IBISp BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
G! BBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OE CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
,1. G-.stiing and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertioal Engines,
Threshing 1 Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Cross! ey Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M 'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
V ivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Qiroksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Eels ami Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bcii and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Bed Orr.?s Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, fce.
De Wendt 1 and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Per ty and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
SW~ INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
S. LE I A PORTERS C P
Onfy irsn-ffamed Pianos S
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT ETS.EE r.
■■■ ■-
mm
■
•‘ ■•
>4tf9Z
W-EI
■
wm
is» asis®?*
SOLE AGENTS FaR THE
SMITH OHGAH.
CKAMPTON" & BRUCE,
197 TITS BTEC£T.
ZKEairtlxi. Keeslian,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
t fRI.IS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav &c
1 Superior Accommodation for families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines andSnirim
-i t„ mnsf. Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar mthe city. Albert S.Manders and Co.’s tele*™™
Sportitig’ telegrams fyoxn all parts of the colony posted up, a telegrams
M tir most
(tuppilcd-
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.
11, MEET, ail
9
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGI'• AIII,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND-
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery*_
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricul
Implements.
JKNGINES
Eobey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
f&p©c\e& Steam, CeTxt>r\.tu.ssa.\, bjo.<\
Tore© &rv<Y XAtt.
BOILEES.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY. ,
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting a 0
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WO©SJ-WORKING MACHINERY.
law Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret £a
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-powei»
English and American Agricultural Implements. , ier g.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse .Hoes, Land j{Beb lB
hakes, helpers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, 1 hiesu
Varnish
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, WoOdenware, Leathers and Furnishings,
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. .
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized*
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled I Joists.
Squatters’* Supplies. _ _
Woolpaeks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing a Qd P*®
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. , Toolf >,
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements In Carpenters
Particulars and Price Lists may he had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDABE AND
mr Ceercgn Street, Sydney.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
"
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
80UTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yasfl
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundrfc
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowaboo
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubtoo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
ISourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tam^ortb
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern an© South-Western Linn:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Obntral Lin*:
Rockhampton '
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenawooc. Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
‘ v'V
WM, M CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
nr Agencies in all parti of the world.
Foster’s
Bu
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
The BEST ALE and STOUT W tbe
SOLD BY ALL
Virgoe, Son, & Chap
AGENTS.
m~ THE NEW SOUTH WAh fnJ’^ l>h
INVESTMENT COMPANY O' 1 ,
Capital, £lOO,OOO. » m
Allow Interest as follows:
tpT V^
on fixed deposits for 12 months; *V g . 1/% F*
and UPWARDS for shorter pcrioa«
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O hJjL.g 4 P* l
Branch, Payable on Demand. Om . fa n»S et '
i. v. wabbhaM*
G*Cae6^3*saC-?
fefcJß/fOE MA«rCii)
5^
our^jUl
BOAR’S HEAD
of Stout selected with thfQjor
best of the brewings of
Arthur Guinneaj and Co., Dub ei
cannot be excelled. To be proe .
CATTKDL & CO„ Sole Affents,


THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 57.—New Series
SATURDAY, JUNE 14, 1884.
Price —6d.
France a nd Australia.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 14, 1884.
Under the heading of “Political” we pub-
lish to-day a translation of an alleged con-
versation between Sir Henry Parkes and a
representative of Le Matin, a Parisian daily
newspaper. We need not concern ourselves
at all with the authenticity or accuracy of
the published report. The language which
either came out of the mouth of Sir Henry
Parkes, or was put into his mouth, is iden-
tical in effect with a good deal of what has
been said and published at this end of the
world. There was nothing said, in fact,
that was not equally spirited and appro-
priate. The disposition of the French Go.
vernment in relation to the interests of the
Australian colonists must be regarded as, in
the diplomatic sense, distinctly unfriendly.
The history of Australian development is
one unprecedented in history. An enor-
mous territory, for the most part capable of
being applied to productive uses, and the
discovery that it contained immeasurable
treasure of tho precious metal, imparted an
exceptional impulse to its settlement, and
precipitated it by bounds and leaps from the
condition of an Alsatia to that of a re-
putable and law-abiding community. It is
mainly to those combined attractions that
Australia emerged from the condition of a
penal settlement to that of a law-abiding
andjprogressive community. But for these,
the original element would not have been
swamped and dissipated amidst an over-
whelming access of reputable colonists. The
preponderance of the latter element enabled
the people of Australia, early in their his-
tory, to show such a front to the Imperial
authorities as peremptorily terminated the
flow of objectionable accessions to the popu-
lation, There are no grounds for supposing
that this history would be repeated in New
Caledonia. The requisite conditions appear
to be altogether lacking. The attractions
for free settlers do not at present exist, nor
is there any indication or reason to suppose
that they may develop later on. Any ex-
periment whioh the French Government
may make in that colony must be more or
less at the expense of Australia. There is
no manner of doubt about the danger to
whioh these colonies are exposed. And it is
of such a nature —involving a renewal, in
fact, of the infiltration of those bad elements
whioh the colonists long ago refused to
reoeive from their mother
there is no extremity of resistance which
Australians will not be justified and right
in opposing to it.
• *
In so serious a case,however, there is a special
necessity for the profoundest consideration
of every step which may be proposed, and for
the most sagacious foresight in all particulars
of the policy of resistance. Mere fretfulness
and excited clamour may be more hurtful
than helpful. The violent declamation and
preoipitate swagger which characterise the
remonstrances and attitude of the Victorian
Government on the subject, strike us as
singularly maladroit. The position is so
thoroughly embarrassing, and so hedged
round with difficulties, that mere brawl-
ing can only deepen them. It is ex-
tremely foolish, in any dispute, to
threaten more than one can certainly per-
form. And that is precisely what is done,
when such intimations are made as that re;
ferred to by the correspondent of Le Matin
in his interview with Sir Henry Parkes. To
olose the ports of Australia against the
vessels of a great Power, betweon which and
Great Britain friendly relations and actual
treaties of commerce [subsist, would be a
step altogether too momentous to be accom-
plished without almost incalculable results.
In the first place, no enactment having that
effect could become law without first receiv-
ing the consent of the Queen— in other words,
the endorsement of the Imperial Govern-
ment. Now, it must beobvious, on very brief
reflection, that the relations of Great Britain
to France are governed by a multitude of
extremely involved considerations, among
which the state of matters in this quarter of
the globe is not necessarily the most im-
portant. Just as Great Britain sends hither
but a weak squadron of light vessels, and
maintains the real strength of her navy in
the Channel and in the Mediteranean, and
has actually stronger squadrons alike on the
Indian and China stations, so it may be con-
jectured that the weight of the departments
BAKER PASHA (THE NOTORIOUS EX-COLONEL VALENTINE BAKER.)
of foreign policy which bear in those direc-
tions may prevail in the Imperial Councils
over any question which may arise here.
The fate of the Empire still has its centre of
gravity in Europe, and depends upon nice
adjustments of alliances and mutual good
oflioes among the Great Powers. With the
future of Egypt trembling in the balance,
and Russia again advanoed by a prodigious
stride towards one frontier of Hindostan,
while France has effected, in Tonquin, a
lodgement but slenderly partitioned off
from another frontier of “ the bright;
est jewel in the British Crown,” it
may be questioned whether there may
not be extreme reluctance on the part
of any British Ministry to pursue or coun-
tenance any course which would involve a
rupture—iu feeling even, if not in fact —
with France. The possibility must, indeed,
be taken into reckoning of the engagements
or complications of British foreign policy
being such that no consideration relating to
these dependencies would be of weight
sufficient to overbalance the objections to a
rupture at the present time.
• • *
Here, then, we have a very serious possi-
bility, apparently not at all reckoned for.
Local legislatures might in a heat pass laws
antagonistic to French trade, and hamper-
ing people of that nationality in the matter
of free access to Australia. And the Queen
might be advised to disallow such enact-
ments when passed by Australian Parlia-
ments. As a matter of ordinary reasoning,
it appears that any such measures most
certainly would be disallowed. Otherwise,
the entire theory upon whioh the affairs of
the Empire have, till now, been conducted
would be shattered. Dependencies would
be admitted to the exeroise of supreme
functions, and colonial legislatures would be
recognised as entitled to hold the balance
between peace and war. If combined Aus-
tralian Legislatures could pass laws, and
have them assented to as a matter of right*
which are tantamount to a rupture of
friendly relations with a European power,
any Legislature in any colony possessing
constitutional institutions could do so; and
a grievance of the Cape colonists or the peo-
ple of British Columbia might precipitate
England into hostilities with Germany,
Italy, or Russia, at the same time that a
trouble in the Paciflo had irritated an Aus-
tralian Legislature to bring about a war
with France or Spain.
* * »
It is, therefore, perfectly clear that there
may be too much vapouring about the Reci-
diviste trouble, serious and really critioal as
it undoubted is. There are two very impor-
tant questions to be solved. First, to what
lengths the Imperial Government will be
prepared to carry its interference on our
behalf; secondly, whether, in the event of
the home authorities declining to actively
follow our lead, it would restrain us from
taking our own part; and thirdly, whether
in oase.it were intimated that we must be
oontent to sacrifice the vital and moral
interest and future of Australia for the
benefit of the Empire in general, we will be
prepared to resist by force the mother
country herself, or to separate from the
Empire and fight our own battles, unaided,
with the Frenoh nation. These are surely
alternatives startling enough to make
thoughtful Australians gasp, and to create a
distaste for the excited and superficial rant-
ings of Mr. Service and the Jingos of Vic-
toria. The tone whioh these persons wish
Europe to believe is the true ring of the
voioe of Australia, is not really a manly one.
It is the expression of a bumptious small
boy, who threatens all who aggrieve him
with the wrath of his big brother. Let it be
considered that were a port of the United
Kingdom closed to French merchantmen, or
only kept open subject to insulting condi-
tions, the act would be equivalent almost to
a declaration of war. Is it likely that France
would tamely submit to be flouted by
a dependency in a fashion she would not
endure from the mother country ? And is it
likely that the mother country will (say),
sacrifice her grip of Egypt to satisfy Aus-
tralia, or will oonsentto a bouleversement of
her entire foreign policy for the same cause ?
Clearly the thing is more than doubtful. In
each instance it is unlikely. When a man
or a nation enters upon a dispute, he or it
is unwise and likely to oome off badly in the
end, unless the worst possibilities be taken
into account and prepared for. Before,
therefore, a rage is worked up with respect
to this recidiviste trouble, it will be wise to
settle how far Australia is prepared to pro-
ceed in the matter, and whether the colo-
nists are ready to make the sacrifices which
a war —possibly without Great Britain for
backer—would demand. It may happen
that the eminently practical and commercial
spirit which has thus far predominated
amidst these bustling communities, may so
prevail over high moral and national senti-
ment, that when it came to the test the
colonies would sooner put up with an influx
of blackguards than with the commercial
catastrophe and total suspension of gain-
making which a war would most assuredly
entail.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Challenged.
Among the brayings of the agitators in the Do-
main, there were occasional ringings out of
voicings clearly and significantly human. Ono
speaker, whose remarks appear to have been sup-
pressed by the reporter where they were most
significant, was, at least, allowed to appear in print
to the extent of an allegation that the members of
the Government let contracts to themselves
through a dummy contractor. We have heard
talk of this kind before, in connection with the
Parses’ Government, as well as this Government,
and Members of Parliament generally. The evi-
dence in the ease of Watson v. Elkington, pointed
straight to an illustrative example. We do not
wish to give too easy credence to such
reports. When they related to men whose chief
was a person of notorious commercial immorality,
it was impossible to deny some belief in the possi-
ble truth of the rumours ; but every man, or set
of men, are entitled to the benefit of his or their
general reputation, if a man has obtained a char-


t •mm;
BRIAN BORU
SLiSi-i ■.! w l '/v/ibf 7 1 vt
BKIAN BORU WHISKY is manufactured from
the ti nest Irish Grain. When well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in
enormous quantities to all parts of the world.
Australian consumers will find this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Wh<sky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENT,
THE LiDIiHERIIIVIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. do
Brandy in case and bulk, * and ***.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass's Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 25 Flinders-street East.
Adelaide Office; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
[E Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
Mr pure rum,
Extra Strong,
IS. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Bejnrtment,
UASKBT BTKBBT.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you ean obtain for
©cL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNE L IS H WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY.
6s. ftd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
acter for fair dealing and conscientious repugnance
to crooked ways, it is just that there should be
long hesitation and demands for particular proof
before a rumour of corrupt practices on his part
is allowed to influence people. The members of
the present Government are in that position. They
have certainly exhibited a deficiency of resolu-
tion and of nerve-power, but a disposition to
crooked ways and corrupt practices has not
been among their apparent defects up to
this time. They are in a position, there-
fore, to treat with contempt vague allegations
of malfeasance. On the other hand, however, a
particular charge has been formulated. A voice
from the crowd is not always aoontemptiblething.
It has been publicly stated tbao the omission to
enforce one penny of penalty on the contractors
for the Murrurundl railway, although the contract
was three years overdue, is attributable to members
of the Government being concerned in tho contract.
This is too definite a slander to be passed over in
silenoe. The Government should prevent soandal
by at once answering this challenge from the
crowd. They should state publicly who is the
contractor for the Murrurundl railway; whether
this contract has exceeded the stipulated time;
whether any penalty has been enforced—and, if
not, why not.
So the Rev. Jefferis and others have talked
to such a tune that Mr. has ordered a
report from that world-wide authority, Inspector
Johnson, and he has reoommended most of what
the men of noise have clamoured for. Scripture
lessons are once more to come into prominence in
the schools; and schoolmasters who smile over the
puerilities of Jewish history, are to be bribed by the
State by extra marks to relax their efforts in
teaching reading and the common sense teach-
ings of human fair play. That is, the feats of Sam-
son, and the movements of a primitive race of
wandering nomads, the witch of Endor and the
Lot business in salt, are to take the place of in-
struction in the constitution of star, and
fruit, and flower. The raids on Hittites and
Amorites, and the sites of Gilgal and
Gilboa, with their bloody memories, are to be
kept current, while Bull Run, Khartoum, and the
interests on which the sun shines to-day, are to be
kept out of sight for another generation, because
a few blindfold brawlers will not wake up and
see that right conduot and the knowledge of past
and present heroism are the only hopes of a vir-
tuous generation, and that the substitute that
they have been victorious in giving our children
is inoperative on children’s morals, destructive to
those of the teacher, and only an antiquated nos-
trum which every intelligent child will have a
painful struggle to forget within a few years. A
people who permit this ecclesiastic reaotion de-
serve it.
The Rates op Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per inch:
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 conseoutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Ar’ y’ theer, Sandy Stooart ? Weel, then,
jest oatoh hold on this, ma pauky skyte, an’ see
what yer driddle-waddle or deeplocmacy’s dooin
for the puir wurkin mahn oot westwards. Quite
recently the Government telegraphed to the
contractors for a certain line of railway
asking whether they could And employment
for 25 men at 6s. a day. The contractors
jumped with joy, and yelled, per wire, “ Yes. Send
them along Immediately.” And it came to pass
that the men were sent along by rail at the
State’s expense-a matter of something like £35
at the very least. They arrived last Saturday
week, and immediately the shrewd contractors
discharged 25 men, who had been slaving at from
7s. to "s. Bd. a day, and set the new men to work for
ss. Call ye this a backing of your friends, the
unemployed ? Go to 1 You simply pass the trouble
onwards, at a loss to the revenue, and to the cruel
injustice of honest, hardworking labourers who
never troubled you for assistance. Like Mr.
Micawber. and his promissory notes. Premier
Stuart writes a “ pass ” for the clamouring unem-
ployed, and then gleefully rubs his hands and
observes “ Thank God, that’s settled, and the poor
man is now fully provided for.”
Ah, ha! The time has come at last, and
the whole perfesh, from the coruscant star down
to the ten-bob-a-week-and-flnd-your-own-socks
super, is now about to revel nightly in gastrono-
mioal delights thatwould make tne mouth of even
one of the mummied Pharoahs water. No more
wooden hams, canvas chickens, and glittering
goblets filled with tan-pit-water tea are to bt
tolerated on the mimic stage, but the real articles
themselves aro to be placed on the festive board,
and you cau gamble allyou hold that ample justice
will be done to them by the now no longer poor
players. In a Parisian play produced by Octave
Feuillet at the Gymnase, one whole scene is taken
up by a supper—and, ye gods! such a supper, too.
Everything laid on is the real thing. There are
twelve covers, and there are seven courses served,
each course with its own wine of the rarest and
best vintage. The well-known restaurateur, Mar-
gery, furnished the meal. Besides tne Major-
Domo, or “ Butler,” who. of course, oversees
everything, and himself serves the wines, three
of Margery’s well trained garvons, dressea in fine
livery, are on the stage and do the waiting. Cruci-
fied Cicsarl Think of that, ye Irvings, Tooles, and
Terrys of this fair land ot ours! But this is not
all. The London Surrey is about to rejoice in a
new piece, called “ The King of Diamonds,” by Paul
Meritt, who, bearing in mind the glorious example
of Mr. Crummies when he ordered a tragedy to
be prepared solely for the purpose of introducing
a set of wash-tubs, has succeeded in obtaining the
use of a real Nordenfeldt machine gun made by
the eminent Mr. Nordenfeldt himself. The breech-
loaders to be used in the piece have all been lent
by the Henry Rifled Barrel Company. The local
colouring is obtained in a great measure from a
book by Charles Du Yal, called “ With a Show
through Southern Africa;” and now, hare comes
the joy. The last scene (which is sure to be encored)
will represent an English oamp laagared, with the
Dutch lines in the distance, and, just to preserve
the “unities” of the play, buckets of real lager
beer will be provided for the troops. All a supe.
will have to find will boa good, reliable, Desert-of-
Sahara thirst and a quart-pot, and he can then sail
along to glory. If we can t be an angel, and with
the angels sing, all we’ll ask for is to be a Surrey
super, and allowed to stand in the front ranks of
the lager-liokers in “ The King of Diamonds,' 1
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor notn-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“G.W.”(near Molong): May make some-
thing of it. Will see “Pickwick”: Would take
up too much room even in the most condensed
form “Laurel Barrington”: Scarcely adapted
in its present shape. Terseness is wanting. But as
it contains some spurts of originality and humour,
we may fix it up... “R. 8.”: It is quite superero-
gatory. Why, the Primate (Dr. Barry) is one of
our most conscientious readers—wouldn’t miss his
Bulletin for anything—goes right through ad-
vertisements and all as carefully as Henniker
Heaton through Debrett and the Court Circular.
No. We daren’t say anything to offend our good
bishop..“ J. Parsons ”: The translations are appro-
priate and—free. May use. Mudgee Tavlor is be-
having so well at present that we are thinking of
giving him a rest.... “ Nemo ”: Yes, about a ton of
chalk might work out the number of libels in your
note, if a black board big enougn could be found.
“Freethinker”: We think with George that
private property in land is the chief cause
of the hopelass poverty existing in England
and elsewhere “Beeswax”: Not adapted
“J.N.D.C.”: Thanks. We don’t mind being abused
by ecclesiastics of the type you describe. In fact,
we like it. It increases our circulation “As-
modeus”: It was John Bunyan, not John Knox,
who went to hell in a vision, and couldn’t get near
the fire for parsons “Balmain”: “A black,
crooked little thing that asks questions,” was the
answer given to Pope when he asked, sneeringly,
“ And what, sir, is a note of interrogation ?” It is
scarcely applicable to Mudgee Taylor... “ Patriot”:
It is three, not five, Frenchmen that one English-
man can wallop. Can't say how many one Aus-
tralian could up-end. Must be a big number, ac-
cordiag to Service and Parkes ..“Old Salt”: It
would be scarcely fair to pit the Wolverene against
the French Pacific squadron. We would back her
AT THE OWL CLUB.
MEMBER (sternly, to funny man, who will have his joke): “CONFOUND YOU, WHAT ARE
YOU SO SEVuRE ON MY NOSE FOR? DO YOU THINK IT WAS MADE AT THE EX-
PENSE OF YOURS?”
against two or three of their ironciads, but it
might be hazardous to run her against the whole
fleet now that Henniker Heaton is in England.. .
“ bubscriber The Melbourne Herald and
the Evening News are, we believe, the only Aus-
tralian papers to be found in the London clubs.
But they are found in all sorts of places
“Jack”: Tne lines on “A pair of professional
swindlers” are powerful, especially the chorus:—
“ The case that they tell you will cost you live
pound,
They'll bill you with one score and ten;
Roboers are bad, without the least doubt,
But yet not half as vile as those men.”
No prose could express this so felicitously. Yes;
poetry is your line. But—don’t s«nd any to the
Nooze. They might print it “CoonMmble”:
You have a comprehensive grip of the “tram”
difficulty. You are j.ist the man the Superinten-
dent is looking for. Call at his office and <xplain.
N.B.—Bring a club. N.S. Wans officials aro bump-
tious— “Rex ”: A pocket pronouncing dictionary
will surely solve the question. If not, try Andy
Lynch “Theodolite”: Wo have looked through
the N.S. Wales statutes. There is no law to prevent
the editor o( the Gloucester Gazette from head-
ing his trenchant journal ’ Saturday, June Ist,”
instead of “M iy3lst.” Besides, it is leap-year —
*' Constant Reader” (Launceston): Thanks for your
communication. Send more when the pious tit is
upon you “ >t.F.” (Erina): You seem to be a
very sagacious person. Your pertinent remark
that if we took notice of and published all per-
sonal giie vat ce* we would requ re more paper than
is manuractui ed in the colony, and that our stall
would have to be legion, is very much to the point.
So clearly and so sensibly, indeed, do you seem to
think upon this point, that we fancy we need
hardly excuse ourselves if we did not print your
communication. Yet you see we do not print it.
This is because you are such a sagacious person
“jntx ” (Narandera): We have used your item.
Any more funeral intelligence you have on hand
fend to us. We like to supply our subscribers
with light and cheerful reading. We have noticed,
by the way—and this is a profound observa-
tion that nothing puts people in such good
spirits as reading about other people being dead,
except the comfortable intimation from the
pulpi that they are probably damned. This is one
of the most touching traits of human nature
“Lover of Justice ”: Grievances due to the eccen-
tricities of police magistrates and policemen are of
daily occurrence. Wo can tackle the more glar-
ing ones only. Couldn’t attend to the lot without
doubling ihu paper.
Woman Items
The latest growl from woman is that she is
defrauded of her due rights in the matter of
pockets. While a man oan safely stow away his
own (and his neighbour’s, if he’s not over consci-
entious) little indispensables in his army of
pouches, poor woman rightly grumbles that she is
limited mostly to one pocket, that it takes close on
half-an-hour to get at, and, when it is got at,
isn’t worth anything, as far as its carrying capa-
city is concerned. Woman should pocket this
affront no longer.
When I want to accomplish anything, says
a lady friend who sends us a sparkle now and theD,
I always dress up. A woman’s success anywhere,
in publio or private life, mainly depends upon her
get-up. She may have splendid brains, but if her
dress is shabby, no one Btops to find out what her
qualifications may be. Yet, if a woman is a fool,
and has tact enough to garb herself in exquisite
attire, she takes the front seat every time, while
she of the brain-power sits back and smiles, if she
has sense. But if she has both brains and beauty—
why, then she can just roll this poor little globe of
ours under her omnipotent foot, and twenty mil-
lions of women will copy every tag she wears. For
myself, I despise the accent which is placed upon
dress, to the exclusion of womanly qualities ; but
since Mrs. Grundy will have it so, she rules. Never
fight the voice of criticism, especially among
women, for the sake of a few yards of stuff. Dress
well; above all, be Men gantee, and you may meet
your enemies in the gate.
As Artemus Ward says, there’s a good deal
of human nature in men and women,and the thirsty
desire of each sex to acquire a knowledge of the
other is one of its striking features. The “ model ’’
which was the original of a celebrated English
picture just sold was a girl of singular beauty,
and during its painting several young students
were studying under the artist. One day a curious
grating noise, from the passage in which the house
porter sat, attracted notice. Looking up, the
artist saw the point of a gimlet just appearing
through the wooden wall, and a sudden entry into
the passage disclosed the amiable porter with his
eye glued to the orifice he had just completed—
apparently, with artistic ideas of beauty, “study-
ing from the nude.” On being reproaohed for his
peeping-Tom proclivities, the virtuous gimlet-
twister averred that he only bored the holes “ to
watch the young gentlemen a-painting.”
Socialities on the Never Never. Half a
dozen lady visitors to a certain station, are having
a friendly after-dinner “mag” together, and
amongst the fair group is a leader of city fashions
and of very high tone indeed. The hostess, a real
rough diamond, in her way, enters, and being
desirous of paying the culchawed dame a compli-
ment, says “ Me and John hev just been having an
* argy ’ about the proper way to address a bishop.
Now, Mrs. , just decide it for us. You ought to
know, because you are certainly the very rankest
lady about the whole district.” Urgent business
called that oity lady home next day.
“Madge” writes the truth when she de-
clares that the extremity of some poor ladies is the
opportunity of their richer sisters. There are
pieces of old lace, fans, jewels, dinner services, and
many other things, that could tell their own tales
of unholy “bargains.” The “ beating-down ” pro-
cess is easy when poverty helps. She heard a woman
say once, when it was a question of buying some-
thing of an impoverished gentlewoman : Is she
very poor?” “Very poor, indeed,” was the reply,
“ and in want of the ordinary necessaries of life.”
“Oh, then, I should think she would take ten
shillings, and be glad to get it. You may tell her
I shan’t give more.” This story of Madge’s re-
minds us of the yarn about the fat mt n who was
robbed of his hat. “ Why don’t you follow the
thief?” asked a bystander. “I’m so corpulent, I
can’t stir a step without losing my breath.” “ Not
a step ?” repeated the interrogator. “Not a step
if my life depended on it.” “ Then here goes for
your wig ’’—and the wig went after the hat.


Political
Points
The New Queensland Land Bill will, if
Eassed into law, be the first attempt to give effect
y legislation to a large portion of the land theories
of George, Wallace, and Spencer.
General Roberts has ordered places to be
selected in cantonment in tbe Madras dis-
trict, where works are to be erected to be held in
cases of emergency as “places of refuge.” Does
Fred smell a rat ?
At present, Bismarck’s policy is based
upon three political exigencies :—G) A close and
intimate alliance with Austria; (2) friendly rela-
tions with Russia; (3) the isolation of France from
all Continental alliances. So far he has succeeded;
and, during his lifetime, this policy will probably
maintain Prussia in her present commanding posi-
tion. After him, the deluge.
Mr. John Bright has been reminding his
political friends that in war the working-man pro-
vides most of the blood that is shed, and that upon
him chiefly fall the poverty aud misery which war
occasions by tbe increase of taxes and the damage
to industry. “ Household suffrage in boroughs
and counties will provide the means by which our
people may defend themselves against these enor-
mous evils.”
The World wails“ No one can complain
that our Court is unduly exclusive. At tbe last
the husband of a famous Court milliner was
presented; and at the drawing-room, the daughters
of a well-known tradesman.” It was something
like a Court when it only admitted a criminal
colonel of hussars, adulterous dukes, lecherous
lords; but when common people, who earn their
own living, get in, why, it’s shocking!
London magistrates committing to prison
miserable parents who cannot pay their fines under
the School Board Act, and whose furniture, if dis-
trained upon, is not of sufficient value to satisfy
the claims of some four or five shillings and the
cost of the man in possession, unless tbe beds,
tables, and chairs necessary for domestic use are
seized. That such poor souls should be fined at all
under such conditions is a scandal and a shame.
Under the heading “ The Imperial Link,”
the D.T. furnishes us with some lugubrious ex-
tracts from Parkes’ article in the Nineteenth
Century, from which it appears that the Austra-
lian in England still persists in playing the English-
man in Australia. Concerning all the vaticina-
tions of these returned Australians, and their
everlasting clack about Federation and “Links,”
we have nothing to say, but that we are full up of
having our relationship to the Imperial Link
stated by Missing Links.
If the hair of Victorians doesn’t grow
eurly from this day forward, it is not in unguents
or lotions that hopes of capillary loveliness can be
reposed. The Queen has placed her hand on the
head of Victoria. Mr. Murray-Smith Avrites to the
Premier telling, in words of wonder, that he for-
warded the original of Service's letter of condo-
lence to Her Majesty, and that Her Majesty—ha,
listen to this! —didn’t return it, “ which is a strong
mark of Her Majesty’s appreciation of the sym-
pathy ” of Victoria I
The Legislative Council has been giving
reasons for its disagreement with the Assembly’s
proposal to allow attorneys to appear in the
Divorce Court. By simply disagreeing.it would
have proved its value as a drag (that is, would
have justified its existence to those who believe in
the necessity of obstruction). By giving reasons,
which are no reasons, it simply raises the question :
Of wbat use can be a Chamber that cannot read
the signs of the times, that is not in harmony with
the spirit of reform, that is Busbyish-Piddingto-
nian-Jacobian-Hazy ?
Mr. A. A. Tighe, who has just resigned his
seat in the Sydney Assembly, was what might be
called a still-born Minister. Anyway, he holds the
belt for bciDg the shortest-lived portfolio holder
that ever held office in Australia. A dying Ministry
made him P*stt»aster-General in the morning, and
in the evening the whole crowd were bundled out
of office. This almost comes up to political life in
Spanish America. Over there, it is nothing unusual
to have two or three revolutions and half a dozen
changes in the Government between sunrise and
breakfast time.
The manager of the Holmhurst Estate,
Fiji, was recently fln«d £5 for improperly sending
“men” to the hospital, and mounting guard over
them with a loaded gun; and £1 for sending sick
"men” into the field to work—facts which will
prove, first, that slavery is practised in Fiji under
the nose of the Lord High Commissioner of the
Pacific; and, secondly, that the Government of
Fiji (i.e„ the aforesaid Lord High, ete.) is not averse
to indirectly benefiting by it; else, sending sick
men into the field to work would have rendered
the perpetrator thereof liable to a penalty really
proportionate to the black atrocity of the offence
—a penalty the person and not the pocket
of tne offender.
A return has just been laid on the table of
the Assembly containing copies of all pamphlets,
&c., issued by the Agent-General relating to immi-
gration. Amongst these is (to quote Samuel’s own
words) “the copy of a handbook on New South
Wales, prepared and issued by the Society for
Promoting Christian Knowledge, the information
for which was furnished by me.” Chapter v. of
this handbook is headed “ Church and Religion,”
and, of course, only contains Anglican informa-
tion. There are two appendices to the work, that
headed “B” containing “Prayers for the use of
Emigrants.” Whether it be the duty of the Agent-
General to supply copy for a sectarian handbook
is a question pretty certain to be raised, more
especially as (save in those portions where it is
merely statistical) it is a very silly little book, ab-
solutely offensive in parts, through its asinine
goodygoodyness.
Phew! Talk about rubbing the masses up
the wrong way, and propagating seditious lan-
guage, why, Pat Ford, O’Donovan Rossa, and even
old Smith, of “scent-bottle ” renown, are never in
it when placed by the side of the present Bishop
of Newcastle, England. Preaching at Newcastle-
on-Tyne, the other day, this pugnacious prelate
declared “ one of the characteristics of tne age
was the increase of wealth and the concurrent
poverty side by side. The increasing luxury of
the rich Avas terribly multiplying the misery
amongst those from whom the wealth was with-
held. If England could not find a solution for
this evil, one might possibly be forced upon her.
The land is the property of God, and must not be
sold, bought, rented, or mortgaged.” His Lord-
ship must have been rending George in bed, after
a supper of Spanish flics, gunpowder tea, and
devilled kidneys.
When bishops talk liberality it is time to
watch them closely, since one may be cocksure
something's at the back of it. Bishop Barry has
just made a big profession of his anxiety for all-
round freedom. We trust he means it. But there
is just a suspicion that he is plotting an attack
upon the object of his professed anxiety. The
Protestant denominations constitute a numerical
majority. If their ministers agree on a coprse of
-action, and can only keep their flocks in hand,
what is to prevent them from making the secular
schools Protestant schools ? That is the ministe-
rial idea ; and, to secure that end, it is rumoured
that churchmen and dissenters are to be asked to
unite. We don’t believe for a moment that a
majority of laymen will follow their pastors to the
perpetration of such a great wickedness; but only
think of the injustice of the idea ! If it be enter-
tained by the neads of the Protestant denomina-
tions (as there is reason to believe it is,) what a
commentary is the fact upon the reoent words of
Dr. Barry : “ There is no tyranny half so absolute
as that of the majority.”
Fifteen years ago, Ben. Butler, of Massa-
chusetts. then a Congressman, made war upon the
sinecures and quasi-pensions, which were leeches
upon the Federal body politic. He was met by the
whispered word, “patriotism.” But, finally, Gene-
ral Butler thus undermined even that word. Sap-
ping and mining one day in an almost forgotten
catacomb under the dreary building known as the
“Capitol,” at Washington, he encountered a spec-
tral-looking individua l , Avho seemed disposed to
escape observation. “ Who are you ?” queried the
investigating Congressman. “Keeper of the
General Washington crypt.” “ But General Wash-
ington was buried at Mount Vernon, twenty miles
from here.” “Nevertheless, yonder is his crypt.”
" Are you paid a salary ?” “1 have fifteen hundred
dollars a year, and I succeeded my father in the
office.” This sent the investigator to the records,
who discovered that sixty-five years previously a
certain Congress, expecting to entomb General
Washington under the Capitol, had established a
crypt and a keeper of it. Other Congresses forgot
the subject, but the salary survived, while tne
“ patriotism ” of successive secretaries of ihe
Treasury forbade inquiry into the subject. Very
soon afterwards, upon narrating his tale to the
House—shouts of laughter drowning “ patriotism ”
—General Butler passed his Anti-Sinecure Bill.
The outpourings of the press have been
(says an English weekly) both mendacious and ex-
travagant—indeed, so ludicrously toadyish, that
even the Queen herself seems annoyed and ashamed
by their flattery and fulsome fiunkeyism. It was
asserted in the Times and some other journals
that, on hearing of the death of her son, his
mother was so terribly overcome that she tumbled
to the ground head over heels. This statement,
the invention of some servile scribe, was, how-
ever, met by the following contradiction, pub-
lished by the Court Newsman s—“ The statements
which have appeared in several of the daily jour-
nals respecting the manner in which the Queen
received the news of her son’s deith are incorrect,
FRIEND: “BY JOVE, LITTLE SIMPKINS, ONLY A MONTH MARRIED, AND IN THIS
STATE: AND WE ALL THOUGHT YOU SO AWFULLY SMETTEN WITH MISS D-,
THAT WAS.”
LITTLE SIMPKINS (with a groan): “TRUE, I WAS; BUT NOW I’M WORSE SMITTEN BY
MRS. S-, THAT IS.”
and the account of Her Majesty falling to tho
ground is without foundation.” The Queen has
awakened to the absurdity of the Royal Family so
frequently posing as the principals in acrobatic
performances. Some time ago we were told of the
Duke of Connaught tumbling out of a window at
Marlborough House, after dinner, and slightly
injuring himself. During the lifetime of the Duke
of Albany we heard of his constantly falling down
and injuring his leg. Then the Queen, the news-
papers informed her subjects, lolled over after
lunch, and sprained her ankle. The deceased
Prince, it appears, roiled down a flight of steps
just previous to his death, and the newspapers
would have it that the Queen tumbled down on
hearing of her son’s exit from this world ! This
was too much, and hence the contradiction by the
Court Newsman.
The experience of the London Board
Schools has revealed the appalling destitution of
thousands on thousands in the richest city of the
richest country in the world. Children subjected
to the educational process have fallen off their
seats, fainting from want of food, lips have turned
Sale, the thread of strength has given way, and it
as been discovered that at certain times of the
year a large large percentage of the children come
to school unfortified by food, and depart from it
with but a very poor prospect of any sustenance
before bed-time. These are not mere accidental
or sensational cases, they are only too common
and too prevalent. Certain kind and energetic
women came to know of this distress. They deter-
mined that if they could avoid it, the children
should starve no more. With the aid of the School
Board authorities and the teachers, they satisfied
themselves that the children were being starved
simply because the domestic cupboard Avas bare.
Collecting some small sums from the charitable, at
the outset, they commenced a series of periodical
dinners for these poor waifs. Scarcely had this
excellent mission been started, when the pro-
moters of it were assailed with invective by the
philosophic philanthropists. This was a form of
out-door relief intolerable to the mind of a certain
section of Bumbledom. The good women who
were feeding the hungry little children, were told
that they were pauperising and degrading the
people, they were encouraging the poor in idle
and vicious habits, and they were by this charity
opposing the first principles of modern organisa-
tion in connection with the poor, Never, for one
moment, was any alternative proposed.
In New Zealand, recently, two leaders of
public epiuion have spoken, and it is worth while
to contrast their utterances. One of the speakers
is Sir George Grey and the other Sir William Fox.
The one is the advocate of reform in tho Land-laws
and the other the N.Z. apostle of Total Abstinence
and defender of tho Faith against the advancing
tide of Freethought. Sir George gives his hearers
a vivid description of the appalling misery exist-
ing at the present t ime in the great cities of Britain.
He stated that 41 per cent, of the population of
Glasgow lived indwellings and hovels of one room
for each family. In the parks and public gardens
of London he had seen hundreds of men and
women, who had no homes and no money, sleep-
ing under the trees in miserably cold weather. He
had seen poor young girls, in thin cotton dresses,
spending the night on seats and benches in the
open air under tbe shadow of Buckingham Palaoe.
The Ancient Britons had no such hardships to en-
dure. The very poorest of them had huts to sleep
in, and freedom to hunt and fish in the woods and
streams. He attributed the present misery and
distress to bad land-laws, and warned his hearers
against perpetuating the system in New Zealand.
Sir Wm. Fox, lecturing in defence of Christianity
against Freethought, described a horse of a differ-
ent colour altogether. Misery and crime, according
to Sir William, were to be found in Pagan lands, and
happiness and virtue in Christian England. He
intended soon to take a trip to the old country,
and on landing he would be surrounded with
innumerable proofs of the advantages of Christi-
anity. Such had been its effect in humanising the
people of England, that in the great metropolis he
would find on every side of him hospitals, lunatic
asylums, ohantable institutions, missionary socie-
ties, and even a house of refuge and hospital for
homeless dogs. This was enough to convince him
that Christianity was a better investment than
Freethought. Any misery there might be in the
old country Sir William attributed entirely to the
“aocursed drink.” The two worthy knights of
Maoriland have the true remedy between them.
Break up the monoply ®f big estates and stop the
drink traffic, and the cure is effected. It matters
little whether men and JwomeuTare Christians or
Freethinkers so long as they benave themselves.
A good Christian and a good Freethinker will go
to the same place when they die. God cares for
them all, Sir William, although you may not be-
lieve it I—
“ Christian or Pagan, Turk or Jew,
Mormon or Anchorite-
Distinctions that seem vast to you,
Are nothing in His sight.”
A friend in Paris has sent us a copy of Le
Matin newspaper of March 7, containing an ac-
count of an interview by a representative of that
journal with Sir Henry Parkes, in London. We
translate the principal passagesA correspondent
of Le Matin has had, to-day, an interview with
Sir Henry Parkes, ex-Premier Minister of New
South Wales. No statesman is better informed
respecting public opinion in Australia than Bir
Henry Parkes, and the main object of his voyage
to Europe is, it appears, to acquire for himself a
complete understanding of the intentions of the
French Government on the subject of the trans-
portation of convicts to the French possessions in
the Pacific. “ One has only to refer it is Sir
Henry who speaks—“to the deliberations of the
Intercolonial Conference held in Sydney last De-
cember, to be convinced that public opinion is
unanimous on this subject. Energetic resolutions
have been voted on that occasion. These invited
Her Majesty’s representatives te make serious
representations to the French Government.”
“ Have the colonials, then, already had cause
to complain of the sojourn of French diportis at
New Caledonia ?” “ Certainly, admitting that the
number may be limited, and that New Caledonia
contain, strictly speaking, only political offenders,
it has, nevertheless, oome to pass that crimes have
been committed among us by convicts who have
managed to escape shortly after their arrival; and
the feeling occasioned by these deeds has been
more intense than would have been the case had
these been the deeds of our own countrymen. It
will be understood, then, that the prospect of a
large increase to the criminal population of New
Caledonia cannot bo contemplated without resent-
ment by (ne puixw laisser froids) the inhabitants of
our colonies, and that of a surety every step will
be taken, on our part, to prevent the landing on
our shores of these unpleasant guests.” “What
could you do in such case?” “Well, if the re-
presentations of the British Government were
ineffectual, the colonials would undertake to
protect themselves. They would adopt such
measures and they would make such sacri-
fices, »8 might suit the situation. All rela-
tions with the French colonies, and even with
France itself, would be broken off, and life would
even be made very unpleasant to the French resi-
dents, who are numerous throughout our English
colonies.” (On fera memo la vie dure aux residents
Franeais.) Parkes then referred to the anti-
Chinese legislation, and continued“ And nothing
could prevent us from making similar disposi-
tions with respect to other nationalities
France couldn’t make war on us without attack-
ing Great Britain. The Australian Government is
about to propose, it is said, an Act to shut its ports
against the vessels of the Messageries line.” “ Is it,”
asked the reporter, “ with the object of breaking
off communication with France. Is it an applica-
tion of the law of reprisals?” “I know nothing
of any such design,” replied Sir Henry, “ but I am
confident that the Australian Government would,
in self-protection, go to the length of breaking all
connection with France and her colonies, should it
be necessary.”
Talk about Saul being among the pro-
phets I Why, itisn'ta patch on the circumstance
that Dan -the jaynyil apologist—is now among the
preachers. A few days ago, the West Sydney
representative wrote a private letter (for publica-
tion) to his dear Father Fiunegan, the mimber-
maker of Gundagai, and, with charming simplicity,
Father Finnegan handed this ponderous epistlo
over to his dear little Bailey, “just to read and
pass the time away,” and, of course, the unsus-
pecting editor fell into the trap, and published the
whole concern in all its repulsive nakedness. .At
the first glance, Dan s artful bit of gush would
appear to be a “discoorse" on the “Edycashin”
question, as it opens up in this style:—" If we are
to preserve tho noble type of our ancestors in this
colony, or in Australia, we shall have to retrace
our steps on the Education question—to give up
the shadow, the pretence, for the substantial
teaching of Christianity, which can only be done
effectually during the time when the mind of
youth is plastic; there is not. and there cannot be,
any incongruity in a child, boy or girl, learning at
once the Rule of Three, and acquiring some
knowledge of the life of our Divine Lord. This
greut and most desirable change will take place as
soon as the thousands of pious Ged-fearing
Protestants realise that they have nothing to fear
from Roman Catholics who are now here in the
great continent of Australia, making such efforts
to maintain in honour and glory the priceless
teaching of Jesus Christ; but they have just
fears, as lathers and mothers, to dread the
horrid consequences llowing from the life-
lowering, soul-destroying system, Infidelity .” So
far, that lot might have been clipped from one
of Archbishop Vaughan’s Education Sermons, but
a little farther on the cloven “fut" sticks out, and
the“inlamouB Stuart Government” is withered
up. “This infamous Stuart Government,” says
the preacher Daniel, “ was founded on the express
and clearly defined plan of excluding men from
their ranks on account of their religion. It was
publicly stated so by those who had most to do in
arranging the offices of the various Ministers, and
I neod only point out the shabby way in which Sir
Patrick Jennings was treated by men—some of
them, at least, his inferiors in everyway.” Of
coorse, the illusthryous o-ra-thur wasn't a bit mad
at losing his chance of a share of tho Ministerial
loaves and fishes at all, aud therefore his champion-
ing of the great Sir Patrick’s cause is all the more
honourable to him, especially in the eyes of those
who, to use Dan's own words, are mere" innocent,
baby politicians.” As it would be utterly impos-
sible for tho “frind av Wintwirth” to say or do
any thing of importance without slobbering over
the “ moighty dead ” Ave are quite prepared for
the following conundrum, which asks—“ What
Catholic in this country would desire to see one of
his own faith in office if Ave had men of the intel-
lect anfi undaunted courage of Wentworth, the
unswerving justice of Deas-Thomson, the manful
abhorrence of chicanery as evidenced in the life
of tho Hon. William Macleay, or the incorruptible
and never to be forgotten William Forster?” Our
private opinion is that a great deal would depend
on whether the Catholic in question wanted a
Post-office, or a Conditional Purchase Inspector’s
billet, and then he would most decidedly prefer to
see a Protestant in power, because bitter experi-
ence shows that with some Catholic politicians ft is a
fixed rule to kick away the ladder which has helped
them up to the pinnacle of their ambition. Having
worried tho “Edycashin thrubble” to death, the
janil Dan rips the “Stooirt adminishtrashin ” up
over the Orange magistracy business, and, then,
alter indulging in a general rally, he winds up by
saying, “And, now, my dear Father Finnegan, I
think you will agree with me that the members of
the Stuart Government have earned the just con-
tempt of every man in the colony, and their de-
struction is a sacred duty which every honest legis-
lator owes to this and the generations that are to
follow us.” All this, of course, is very natural and
lovely, but certain persons who can read between
the lines declare that although the recording angel
may rub an onion over his eyes in order to enable
him to drop a tear big enough to wipe out Dan’s
recent attack on Dallev, still, the Catholic electors
of West Sydney don’t approve of onions, and,
therefore, when the time tor another election ar-
rives, the “frind av Wintwirth ’’will have to look
round for another electorate it he wishes to plant
his “fut ”on the “ flure” of the House again. This
being the case, Avbat would be easier, or more de-
sirable than for “my dear F’ather Finnegan” to
persuade his prottgi, Mr. Watson, to risk being re-
jected by the electors of Young, and to then exert
his influence Avith the free and independent Gun-
dageese, in order to secure the return of “ My dear
Misthur Dan O Connor.” This being properly
worked, who can say, but that the time will como
when a third party in the House will be formed,
and the country blessed with the ruling of an-
other unholy alliance, the foremost members of
which will be. Sir ’Enry Parkes, Mr. James Wat-
son, and Mr. Dan O'Connor ? The epistlo of Daniel
to the Gundageese, was a “moighty cuteoidcah,
indeed,” but, we fear it’s too thin.
m •
British Commons, by big majority, endorse
G. O. M.’s view that the Franchise Bill shall not bo
delayed until a redistribution of seats has taken
place. Another big sell for the Opposition ...The
missionaries put these words into the memorial of
the chiefs of Tanna: “If our island is to be an-
nexed by any civilised Power, we would prefer it
to be annexed by the Australian colonies.” Since
when has Australia been a “ Power ” in the
political sense? ...The Crown law officers have
decided that neither of the offices held by Andy
Clarke disentitle him to his Victorian pension.
There is honour among—aheml... The Govern-
ment to the ogre Obstruction: “Thou comest in
such a question-able shape!” —Service’s idea of a
Federal Australian Court at the London Inter-
national Exhibition of 1886 is a far better one than
his bombastic attempt to play the rfile of an Aus-
tralasian Monroe. Something serviceable may
result from the former; from the latter idea all
that can be expected is a repetition of what has
already occurred usque ad nauseam— Service mak-
ing an exhibition of himself.
Beach’s persistence had the desired effect
and on Monday evening a match was fixed up fora
race on the Champion Course, Parramatta River,
£5OO aside, to eventuate on l«th August. Hanlan
will no doubt add the event to his numerous list of
wins, but whichever way it goes we may look
forward to a fair and square race for the champion-
ship.
There is nothing new under the sun, and
for the truth of this dictum, we have the authority
of the wisest of mortals. Custom and fashion but
repeat themselves in the vaunted ideas and notions
of modern times, and this fact is singularly well
exemplified in the odds and ends of our daily
dress. The crinoline of the present day is but a
reproduction of the hoop of Queen Anne’s and
later reigns ; the fashionable high-heeled boot is
only a doubtful improvement on the pattens and
clogs of our great-grandmothers; and we might
almost go so far as to say that the dainty attire of
the exquisite of the 19th century, is but a reason-
able modification of .the fig-leaf garments of our
first parents. Indeed, it is only because science
and knowledge have taught us to make West of
England tweeds and pearl buttons, that we are not
now “walking in the Zoo” in goat-skins, tied
together and fastened up with de>~r s sinews, and
artistically arranged fish-bones. We did think that
the old-fashioneu shopkeeper, the vendor of every-
thing from “Bibles and bacon” to “godly books
and gimlets,” was extinct—at any rate, in our large
cities Not a bit of it. The Magic Wand of Harle-
quin Time, has but turned him into “ The Univer-
sal Provider,” who utterly eclipses his humble an
cestor in excellence and usefulness; and, endowed
with the name aud virtues of Anthony Hordern
and Sons, builds the Palace Emporium, filling up a
gap in our social wants, and possessing a value not
easy to estimate.


Personal
Items
Just before he died, Charles Reade cor-
rected the proof sheets of a work on Scripture
history, “Bible Tales tte told,” upon which he had
long been engaged.
Von Bismarck disapproves of vivisection.
“Nothing on earrh,” he replied, on receiving the
Berlin Scientific Society’s invitation to become an
honorary member, “ would induce me to become
in ny way whatever the colleague of Virchow or
of Mommsen. lam a Doctor of haw of Gottingen,
and an honorary citizen of Berlin—l am satisfied.
Count Lesseps, we are told, frequently
sleeps for twenty-four hours at a stretch. From
which we infer that the great “canawl” maker
eithor camps in a single bed, or has boen fortunate
enough to marry a wife who never snores Now,
we—but, soft; we must dissemble. An angel's
footsteps are on the stairs, and her right hand
grips a broom.
Diner-out Hayward was at Mrs. Lane-
Fox’s one Christmas Day, when some visitors
who came in wished her “a happy Christmas.”
Whereupon, up got Hayward abruotly, scowling.
“Good morning, Mrs. Fox," said he, “this is the
hundredth time I have heard this. Thank good-
ness, I am going to spend the rest of the day with
Baron Rothschild.”
Henry Ward Beecher is now known as the
Apostle of Suicide, and in the course of a recent
sermon ho said: “ When an individual determines
that it is no longer worth while to drift about on
this sinful planet, he is then justified in sailing iato
the great hereafter by his own hand.” And now
everybody is asking why in thunder the great
H.W.B. doesn’t sail.
Buchanan might possibly induce the Gov-
ernment to vote for his resolution that the time
has come to establish btate machinery at Rook-
wood Cemetery for the; purpose of giving prac-
tical effect to the system of cremation if he would
only volunteer to be the first subject. Let • im
but make the offer, and Dibbs will find the money
for the necessary apparatus witaout a murmur.
M. Daryl, in his work on England, rubs
down the “great war correspondent” in this way:
he asserts that Forbes keeus at his London house
two campaigning equipments, one for summer and
hot countries, and one for winter and cold climates.
Arms, clothing, camp equipages, saddlery, every-
thing Is there in readiness, even to a purse filled
with gold, and passports and letters of credit upon
all the chief capitals of the world!
Kate Vaughan appears to have finally
renounced burlesque, as unbecoming her position
(humph!), and has been playing Peggy, in the
“Country Girl,” at the Novelty Theatre, London.
Among the company was Charh-s Sugden, who
once “assisted ” in a divorce suit brought by Earl
Desart against his Countess, and subsequently
married the fair delinquent. Ho Kate, you see,
like Beoky Sharp of old, mixes with “ the best
people” now.
Ogevani, the medicine man of the Papuan
Koitapuan®, has gone to his own place. He lived
in comfort all his many days upon the supersti-
tions of the people—was, in fact, a sort of bishop:
would, probably, have developed into one had he
been spared to witness the spread of civilization
and to oompreheud the use of gaiters, aprons,
shovel hats, and lawn. He was a rare old hand at
laying on of hands, and would have required no
development on that lay.
The Duke of Buocleuoh’s estates in Scot-
land exteud over 430,000 acres. He also owns
gO,OOO acres in England. He has a larger number
of oountry seats than any other Feer: Drumlanrig,
in Nithsdale; Bowhill, in the Yarrow and Ettrick
Valley; Dalkeith Palace: Boughton, in North-
amptonshire ; Ditton Park, near Eton; and
Beaulieu Abbey, in the New Forest; Langholme,
Branxholm—the original seat of the Scott family,
—and a villa at Richmond,
Madame Martrex de Preville, nee Riquette
de Mtrabeau—grandniece of the peer who passed
over to the people, Honors Gabriel, Comte Riquette
de Mirabeau, “the tiger pitted with the small-
pox,” the first »mongst the foremost to bring
about the French Revolution-has just been
granted a bureau de tabac by the French Govern-
ment. Bureaux de tabac are substitutes for pen-
sions granted to the widows and daughters of
those who have served. Glory ends in smoke 1
Good again, old girl! Miss Helen Taylor
(John Stuart Mill’s step-daughter), one of the
leading spirits of the London School Board,
resisted a resolution of condolence to the Queen
on the death of the Duke of Albany, on the
ground that a similar motion condoling with the
deaths of the poor children in the “Sunderland”
disaster, had not been allowed. Helen carried her
point, and there isn t an honest, sensible man in this
world who wouldn’t hug her for her genuine
pluck and principle.
This is the pedigree, according to “Burke,”
of the giddy young Earl of Euston, of Mother
Cook and Divorce Court celebrity: “ Henry James,
Earl of Euston, born at Grosvenor-square, Lon-
don, 28th November, 1-48; married, 1871, Kate,
daughter of John Walsh, Esq., and widow of
Smith, Esq.; educated at Harrow; formerly in Rifle
Brigade; is a D.L. of Suffolk.” His performances
are too well known to require recording. Widow
of Smith, with a dash, is good, but the Ksq. tacked
on is something heavenly.
Who can be the millionaire who does
Granny’s London correspondence? “A good
deal of surprise,” says he, whoever he may be,
*• has been expressed at the smallness of the late
Charles Reade s personal property. It does not
amount to more than £20,000. Mr. Reade was
known to have been very unfortunate in his
theatrical speculation® but no one had supposed
that these latter had left him m very poor.” It is
not so long ago that a literary man possessed of
£20,000 would have been a Croesus in his profession.
“Mr. David Blair, a wealthy Scotchman,
has joined the Benedictine monks at Inverness,
a id mace over to them an annual income of £6600.”
vv’e are authorised, however, to state that this
drivelling old dodderil is not the David Blair of
Victorian Review notoriety. That particular
David doesn’t believe in Benedictine monks, and
says they were never designed for a pure purpose.
When he joins anything it will be the “ great
majority,” and then all he’ll leave the Benedictines
can be poked in their eyes with a brad-awl with-
out injuring their sight one iota.
Upjohn, the Victorian fiaggellator and
“ worker-off,” delights to be heroic. The other
Sunday morning he took the air in that locality
where his “ cases ” most do congregate, and
leined against a lamp-post, with a sort of “come
one, come all ” kind of expression, in defiance of a
mob of “the boys,” who speedily assembled
round him. Hangmen, now-a-days, don’t appear
to be endued with the modesty of dear old Cal-
craft, who, throughout his interesting career,
preserved, as far as possible, a strict incognito.
Upjohn’s peculiarities may have the result of find-
ing him a hero’s grave.
General Grant's $200,000 make him the
richest ex-President since Buchanan. Mr. Hayes
has, perhaps, $lOO,OOO. Neither Johnson nor Lin-
coln had over $50,000. P:erce went into the White
House poor, but had about $50,000 going out. Fill-
more and Taylor were never rich. Taylor was a
bankrupt when he was President, married a for-
tune afterwards, and lost all in the war. Polk was
worth $150,000. Andrew Jackson had nothing but
his “ Hermitage.” Adams was rich. Monroe died
jiCt debt. Jefferson bad nothing to leave behind
him. Washington was very well od. Van Buren,
who died worth $BOO,OOO, was the richest President
America has had.
Coleridge, Lord Chief Justice of England,
must be a nasty, horrid, old brute of a man, in-
deed. When asked to adjourn the Court, out of
respect to the memory Prince Leopold, this
Pyrmont-quarry-stone-i ' -'od monster flatly re-
fused to do so. and sa’ i>u his perch and went
on with his biz., just tli - one as if nothing at all
had happened. Arid the ouiy reasan this miserable
man could assign for his brutality, was that “ he
had a duty to perform—to administer justice to
Dynamite[?]Scare. —No. 1.
YANKEE PASSENGER PER [?] CITY OF SYDNEY ([?] who has [?] to [?]rch [?]
far explanation): "WULL NOW, I'LL DE DURNED IF I HAINT LOST THE KEY: BUT
IF YOU WILL GEP AN A[?]E AND BUST IN THE LID, YOU'LL FIND ALL THE
DYNAMITE NEAR THE TOP."
the suitors who were thronging the courts, and
besides, he had some criminal appeals to be con-
sidered, which affected the liberty of men then
lying in gaol, and who, for aught he knew, might
be suffering innocently.” So he declined to shut
his shop, and the funeral had to joggle along with-
out him.
John Copeland, of Melbourne, doesn’t be-
lieve any more in hasty marriages. John, you
must know, entered into the holy bonds of matri-
mony with very considerable precipitancy. Some
eight weeks ago he first set eyes on the fair widow
Read. She was reading a book in a hotel whither
he had gone to fetch his supper beer, and John—
Dynamite Scare. —No. 2.
“BE JABERS, NOW, AN’ I’VE
FORGOT W HICH IS THE DYNA-
MITE, AND WHICH THE TO-
BACCY.”—(Takesa bite.)
IT WAS THE WRONG CAKE, AFTER ALL.
to use his own words—was “struck with her.”
The widow, presumably, reciprocated the “strike,”
for four weeks later they became man and wife.
Scarcely had a fortnight of their honeymoon
elapsed, when the newly-made Mrs. C presented
John with a pledge of some person’s affection, and
the happy husband took an early opportunity of
lifting his blushing bride across the street. For all
that, John has been let in for “ maintenance.”
Poor John I
Reoent home advices say that that distin-
guished Victorian litUrateur, Mr. Arthur Patchett
Martin, who used at one time to write for—and
occasionally in— Australian journals, has been
elected a Fellow of the Royal Colonial Institute of
London. Mr. Lawrence Benjamin, Melbourne; the
Mon. G-eorge Shenton, M L.C, J.P., Mayor of
Perth, Wedt Australia; Mr. Sivismund Sinauer,
Sydney; and Mr. William C. Beattie, Queensland,
have also been similarly sentenced. Strange to
say, however, nothing is said as to the nature of
the crimes these unfortunate persons must have
committed to deserve such an ignomi- dous punish-
irlent. Arthur slings ink for Vanity Fair, and by
Competent judges he is reckoned to be the equal
of Archie Forbes—so far, at least, as veracity on
Australian matters is concerned.
Our old straight-half-mile of a friend,
Chang, the Chinese giant, is pretty well, thank you,
still; but we regret to say, dyspepsia is playing the
tallen angel with the long-’un’s vitals. For an
ordinary lunch, ail that his weak stomaoh oan hold
now is four large plates of soup, forty-three fried
oysters, two rara tenderloin steaks, with nineteen
baked potatoes and two dishes of stewed tomatoes,
a large roast chicken, three bunohes of celery, two
custard pies, one ininoe pie, one apple pie, five
cream puffs, six bananas, a pound of figs, two
oranges, twenty-six ginger snaps, and eleven slices
of bread and butter. He also drinks eight goblets
of water and four cups of coffee. Mrs. Chang
(who hails from Maynooth, by the way) is fre-
quently late with the dinner in consequence, and
then her old man reels off the sacred songs of Li-
Kung and Confucius in a style that would scare
the soul out of even a Solomon Islander's wooden
god.
Lars Olsen Smith, though a big Swede, is
no turnip-headed fellow. After having made a
fortune by the manufacture of very questionable
brandy, he is now spending it as—don’t laugh—a
social reformer. Did not Rebecca Crawley (n6e
Sharp), her questionable days being over, settle
down to a life occupied in works of piety. Was
not her name on all the charity lists ? Did not the
Destitute Orange Girl, the Neglected Washer*
woman, the Distressed Muffin-man find in her a
fast and generous friend ? And why should any-
one grudge Smith the satisfaction of spending the
coin he made out of the degradation of one genera-
tion upon the moral molleycoddling of the aext?
The gold that the adulterator, the conniver at
dummyism, the invoice-salter, or such-like fraud,
puts into the plate on a Sunday, is it not as yellow,
as hard, and as intensely respectable as the gold
put in by Mr. James Watson or Mr. William Neill ?
So here’s to Lars Olsen Smith, the social reformer I
When the beardless little stone-slinger of
Israel took Goliath in the os front is with a rock on
the plain of Terebinth, the assembled hosts were
not more astonished at the Philistine slogger’s
knock-out than the members of the Legislative
Assembly were on last Friday night when Ninian
Mel/ille boldly faced the mighty “Giraffe” and
sent him clean over the ropes. Baid the Mudgee
six-footer: “It is one of the highest compliments
that could have been paid to me to hear the hon.
member for Northumberland pooh-poohing my
ideas. What does he know about the land law ?”
Said the Newcastle Tom Thumb: "What do you
know about it?” Mr. Taylor: “If I didn’t know
more about it than the hon. member for Northum-
berland, I’d—well, I’d make my own coffin.” Mr.
Melville: “That’s what you’ll have to do—for
you’ll never be able to pay for one.” Then the
long ’un rolled over and croaked on the spot, ex-
olaiming as he fell, “ Tell my people i died with
my back to the field and my face to the foe.”
Fortune du Boisgobey is a sensation novel-
ist. Though over sixty, twenty years ago M. du
Boisgobey had not begun his career as a novelist.
He had been in the army; he bad served in Africa-
It was not until 1868 that it occurred to him to try
his hand at literature. He wrote a sensation novel
or two which proved successful. He not unnatur-
ally persevered, and soon became exceedingly
popular. Ponson du Terrail and Gaboriau were
not "in it ” with the author of “Le Crime de
1 Omnibus.” The work he turns out is sensational
with a vengeance, but eminently readable. It is
only rarely tbat, as in the case of “L’Auberge de
la Noble Hose,” Boisgobey permits himself to be-
come tedious. As a rule, his romances are absorb-
ingly attractive. If they are not always as ingeni-
ous as some of Gaboriau’s, they are generally far
more easy reading. They have no psychological
purpose to serve, no philosophic lesson to teach.
They are simply fairy stories told of the Paris of
to-day, instead of the Bagdad of the Just Haroun
or the No-man’s-Land of the fabulists.
Sold again! And by a Scotchman, above
all others. Crown Prosecutor Mere wether seldom
lets slip a chance of endeavouring to up-end his
honorable, but not learned, friend,” Buchanan;
but, as a rule, the doughty Dawvid, having the
advantage of his Parliamentary experience, gener-
ally manages to knock his adversary over the
ropes. Up at Forbes, the other day, for instance,
Mr. Merewether, in replying to the Mudgee iunior’s
detenoe of a prisoner, said that Mr. Buchanan was
either ignorant of the law or was wilfully mis-
leading the jury. Dawvid struck the floor at
once, and denied the allegation with the same ex-
cited fervour as he defied the allegator. His Honor
thereupon touched Mr. Merewether on the raw
for charging the stern and wild Caledonian with
misleading tne jury. Mr. Merewether then apolo-
gised, but, by way of a Parthian shot, said he
would now have to fall back upon Mr. Buchanan’s
ignorance. Instantly the bluid ava’ th’ Buchanans
rushed madly through the insulted chieftain’s
veins as he yelled, “ Fa’ back on yersel’, then, for
ye’ll find plenty o’ it there.”
Yet another effort is being made for the
release of the romantic murderer of poor bank-
clerk Kinder—the once fashionable Wynyard-
square dentist, H. L. Bertrand; and this time his
friends are determined to make a long pull,i a
strong pull, and a pull altogether in his favour.
Bertrand has been a model prisoner since his
incarceration, and it is said has also become highly
proficient as a painter of sacred subjects. It is a
rather strange anomaly that Bertrand is still
under the sentence of death. So that if he is
liberated, he will probably be the only man in the
world, who, being at large, could be arrested and
legally hanged without a trial. And, as he was
ever in search of novelties when he was at large,
this Damocles-sword-like feeliDg will no doubt
have its charms for Mona. Bertrand. The last we
heard of his fascinating accomplice, Mrs. Kinder,
was that she was starring it as a New Zealand bar-
maid, where her infamous history had earned her
a sort of notoriety. Sir Alfred Stephen was always
very much in earnest whenever he spoke of the
advisability of spraining the neck of Mons, Ber-
trand.
Thorold Rogers, M.P. for Southwark, is
a shocking example of intemperance in book-
learning. Gifted with parts which might have
made him a good usher or a successful sea-lawyer,
habits of early indulgence in ardent prints, un-
checked by knowledge of men, have reduced him
(says “Jehu Junior”) to the condition of a con-
firmed Professor. He professes everything. He
once even professed Christianity, so far as was
necessary to enable him to take holy orders; but the
latal vice of knowing more tha .i was good for him,
added to the absence of the office of Pope in the
Church of England, caused him to relinquish the
character of parson, and to turn for distinction to
the fray of Parties. He stood for Scarborough in
1874, and was beaten; but in 1880 Southwark re-
turned him to Parliament and gave him a right,
which b.e has used mercilessly, to lecture, birch in
hand, the House of Commons, the Queen's Minis-
ters, and the universal earth. He was born owe-
and-vixty years ago. Re knows everything. He
is quite a clever man. He tells broad stories, and
says smart things of his adversai ies. Some of them
are true.
One who knows Khedives and Pashas well
writes as under in a description of Nubar:—“lf
you must talk politics, well, the blue spectacles
are put on, apparently to hide the closed
eyes, while the veteran assures you that the only
safety for Egypt lies in granting her the
maximum of progress with the minimum of
change. With a profusion of Mon Diem! and a
chuckling laugh, he will tell you that Egypt has
endured since the time of the pyramids, and, he
thinks, will last as many yeais longer; that
changes happen in all countries; that they don’t
do much good; that Egypt must change naturally,,
but not too quickly. Shifting in his chair as he
reiterates this final argument, pas troy vite, he wilt
invite you to bidiards; if you accept you are un.
homme assez intelligent, and if you are any hand at
the cue you may even rise to be considered bien
intelligent, while if you beat him you will be ad-
vertised as possessed of beaucoup de talent. If you.
refuse, he will politely resign himself to the inevit-
able with a sigh, and listen with an appreciative
naturellement and sans doute to all you say; but.
you will be stigmatized hereafter as a man of pew.
d’intelligence, or, if you carry it too far, mauvaist
ton." We suppose that Nubar quarrelled with
Ciifford-Lloyd because that head strong fellow
wouldn’t take his cue from him.
The Rev. Dr. Begg, that bigoted old
Scotch divine, who, up to the day ot his death,
roared out against the iniquity of permitting
organs in churches, seems to have had one green
spot in his heart, after all. Though his son,
“ Walter Bontley,” had strayed so far out of the
narrow way as to become a “ hactor,” and a verit-
able child of Satan (according to Begg’s lights), the
old man didn’t quite forget that the erring one was
his son, but bequeathed him, in his last will and
testament, the snug sum of thirty thousand
pounds. When you remember that such as
M’Eachern and the rest of the crew that hunted
Charles Strong out of this country are secular-
minded men compared with poor old Begg, it be-
comes evident tbat even a l'resbyterian minister
can sometimes sacrifice prejudice to a sense of
duty. Bentley, we suppose, will give his legacy a
chance in some theatrical speculation, in which
case he certainly ought, under the circumstances,
to stick to the " legit.” and high class drama. Th®
worthy governor would turn in his grave, if the
bawbees were laid out in the production of leg
pieces, that he would. By the way, another
clergyman’s son is one of the lion comiques of the
London Music-halls. He’s a fat, flash, tuneless
cad, named Harry Rickards, who once paid
Australia a visit, and who many years ago
was brought up before the beak for pitching intq


I HAD SALT RHEUM
any permanent good. My fiiends in Malden knw
I fullered. v> hen 1 began to use the Cuti-
£“ y limbs were 80 raw and tender
♦ h« t a JiJ? oul<l i n « ot bea r F y ’weigrtit on them without
trm°ov! cla < crac^ H bleeding, and was obliged to
go about on crutches. Used the Cpticujia mcsm
s ou iS.^Sh'
n« ~ Ii U A S ?d ve ( th e great skin cures; exter-
manently ’ WaS COmplete)y and P«r-
. Mrs - 8 * A • Brown, Maiden, Mass.
References: Any citizen of Maiden, Ma6s.
To avoid all mistakes, ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps, and by a continuous use of that cole
leaseofHfe! 8,1 Be ° Ure f ° r yourBelf “ eSeSSfe
someone who had twitted him with his parentage.
That shows you how tastes differ—the comic
howler felt the same contempt for the cloth, that
the cloth, doubtless, feels for him.
Mary Anderson, the heavenly beautiful
and angelically virtuous American actress, who
has been gathering together the dollars at the
Lyceum Theatre, London, made an error of judg-
ment just at the very last moment of her engage-
ment. Mary’s “ farewell performance ” was an-
nounced for that particular Saturday when the
Prince—“ whose death is an irremediable loss to
the nation he adorned,” etc. etc.—was to give his
farewell performance, at Windsor. On the pre-
vious day all the London managers received a note
from the Lord Chamberlain (good, useful man)
informing them that, although no commands
would he given for the closing of tne theatres on
the occasion of the Duke of AJbany’s funeral, still
they could act as they might think right.” With
the exception of beautiful Mary and her business
man, all the managers muttered a big big D, and
decided to shut up shop; but the practical Yankee
actress didn’t quite like the notion of losing her
“ben.”, so taking it for granted that the poor,
dead Duke wouldn’t be offended, she announced
her show in defiance of the Lord Chomber-
lain However, at the last minute. Mary con-
sented to be ‘ takeu ill,” and the theatre was
closed. This was after having it explained to her
that “ Wales ” and other royal admirers might
withdraw their patronage on her next engagement
if she courageously stuck to the original intention.
Mary, to ner credit be it said, hadn’t thought about
the amorous Wales at all in the matter.
Here is a word picture of Matthew Arnold
lecturing upon Emerson:—“ Bland, suave, and
icily critical, as is his wont, he surveyed his
audience for a good five minutes, took a deep
draught of the Pierian spring from the customary
water-croft, and suddenly, with out-shot lips,
started off, in a monotonous sing-song voice, in
hot pursuit of Emerson. He talked in the irrita-
ting up-and-down cadence of a typical Oxford
parson ; he slung his sarcasms against the kindly
and gentle American thinker, like some hlasi
Davia, who had grasped a boulder instead of a
pebble wherewith to slay Boston’s Goliath. His
only gesture was a somewhat weak and deprecia-
tory fashion of closing his hands in front of him-
self, and then waving them backwards with a
feeble flap. The lecturer’s real estimate of Emer-
son. He was a modern Marcus Aurelius— ‘ the
friend of those who would walk in the spirit.’
Bound and round the metaphysical mulberry bush
went the good Matthew. He dogmatised on ‘ hope-
fulness,’ ‘serenity,’ ‘lucid freedom,” and revelled
in glorified adverbs. What he evidently wanted to
say was that Emerson was kindly, gentle, joyous,
and human, but suoh easily understoed words
were impossible to him; and so we contented our-
selves with ‘delicacy,’ and ‘elevation,’ and made
the most we could out of them. The general
effeet of the discourse of the teacher who has
succeeded in irritating an entire continent, was
that he preached a doctrine of Bumptiousness/’
Bartle Frere, G.C.8., G.C.5.1., D.C.L., &c.,
went to his own place last week. Nephew of
Hookham Frere (one of the founders of the
Quarterly), he was born in 1815; educated at
Haileybury ; entered Indian Civil Service ’34 ; in
’42 became secretary to Sir George Arthur,
Governor of Bombay, whose daughter Catherine
he married (Arthnr had been Governor of Tas-
mania) ; from ’56 to ’6O Resident in Sclnde; from ’62
to ’67 Governor of Bombay ; he claimed as special
Commissioner to Zanzibar, in ’73, to have brought
about the abolition of the l«cal slave trade (which,
however, still flourishes, despite the fact that he
got the freedom of the city of London in a golden
box for his successful exertions on behalf of the
nigger). Afterjdoing India in “ Wales’s ” suite, he
was appointed, in ’77, to the last official post he
ever ocoupied—that of High Commissioner of
South Africa, in which billet he surpassed all his
previous efforts as an intolerant, hypocritical,
- Pharisaic jingo. An impious and sanguinary
fanatic, taking the name of God in vaiu, adding
the fuel of national bigotry to the flames of colo-
nial cupidity and race-hatred, he expended million#
in the wanton destruction of Zulu lives. Every
hideous massacre he prompted was preceded by
despatches abounding in phrases of edifloation
about the obligations of England as a civilised and
Christian Government, about the national guilt in
sanctioning elements antagonistic to the national
religion. The Zulu war, of which Bartle Frere
was the main instigation, was one of the
most atrocious crimes ever perpetrated in the
national history. Infamiam qui meruit ferat!
That poor Duke of Connaught! Accord-
ing to a lap-dog (who writes from Meerut), H.R.H.
“ gets very little leisure, his time is fully occupied:
there are inspections every day this week, and
also a week'B race meeting.” Perhaps it wouldn’t be
amiss were Connaught to have even a little less
leisure, seeing how he employs it. Fancy a Son of
England—of that nation which professes such
anxiety to raise Hindostan to a higher level of
civilisation—attending with his wife and their
respective suites an elephant fight got up speci-
ally in their honour by that brutal sensualist, the
Maharajah of Bhurtpore. The very self-same
lickspittle who thus sorrows that H.R.H. of Con-
naught should be so overburdened with the re-
sponsibilities of his high command, gives the
following details (in his own inimitable way) of
poor dear Arthur’s method of wearing himself
out by his high heroic devotedness to duty:—“ On
Thursday H.R.H. inspected the 13th Hussars, and
on Friday a day’s pigsticking was arranged. The
Duke got a first spear after a very long gallop of
over three miles. The boar was quite beat, and
tried to shelter in a small nullah, where H.R.H.
most cleverly stuck him. The Duchess saw the
sport (the clever sticking of a quite beat perker)
from an elephant. The Maharajah of Bhurtpore
gave T.R.H. a grand ffite at his palace.” As a set-
off against this patronage of drunken elephant
fighting, T.R.H. will probably plead their patron-
age of holy Mother Church, since we read of the
Duke having recently presented a cross and pair
of candlesticks, and the Duchess a handsome altar
cloth worked by herself, to the parish church of
Bagshot (Eng.)
A few days ago the gates of Darlinghurst
Gaol opened and there stepped out a party by the
name of Dr. Pearson. Sixteen years before this
eventful morn, the self-same gates had closed on
tne Doctor's stately form, and, during the course
a brief conversation he had previously enjoyed
with a venerable old joker in a black cap, he was
cheerfully informed that his neck would be
sprained at an early date, and, if he felt at all
anxious for his comfort in the next world, it would
he a prudent thing to make all the necessary
arrangements with one of the clerical advance
agents who generally did the gaol business. This
happened during the rcuseabout days of the bush-
rangers, when it was nothing unusual for the
s}°®P*pg mail-coach passenger to wake up just in
ume to And himself looking down one end of a
FJfi’ while a gentleman in asoogee-bag domino
up the other, and proceeded to borrow every-
thing valuable that the traveller had about him.
iL w “i° ne cf those frisky Prince Hal freaks that
t®! 688 u ed the Doctor’s visit to Sydney, and, as
si,.i Policemen happened to be fatally plugged
foe, scrimmage, the authorities decided to
j~f foe playful Mr. Pearson where he wouldn’t
“top into any further mischief. The death sen-
f nr® was, however, commuted to imprisonment
n u . te ’ .and Anally, having behaved remarkably
if/i! .during his incarceration, he has been allowed
hia Wltll the giddy throng once more. During
ha a SF* 1 ® n f from active life, the genial Doctor
le ? medicine with success, but, unfortun-
Kl e „liaB not as yet been able to extract the
war , Uets which the police escort planted by
son eepsake in his sacred person. Mr. Pear-
ana n, 8 J )r ? ve( i himself to be a first-rate prisoner,
turA we see no reason why he shouldn’t
W 110 be a flrB f-rate doctor,
be bate y er brother Buncombe Booth may
intemperate temperance lecturer, he is
ever mL. on ® ?f the very poorest logicians we
befm-iwu• PPf B^ 6 of Gladesville. A few nights
Pool lL* 8 water-bottle champion raked in his
he wi? 0 e f? r 9ihly illustrated this by declaring that
"use”™) ad , st - Paul recommended Timothy to
It-benp?,! 116 :: 116 hid not either say take it or drink
was ,„ u „ B . e it was straight evidence that Timothy
If Paul All this is as clear as mud.
didn t wish his friend Tim to take or drink
his little tot of Shiraz, or crusty old ’39 port, what
in thunder did he want him to do with it ? Did he
think the old Ephesian bishop was going to pour
it into a creek to make a champion course for the
Hanlans and Laycocks of his time to pull one-man
races over, or did he want him to cut it up into
strips and make flags, and banners, and table-
moths, and things for his temperance guilds to
slosh around with ? Did he want Timothy to
rub it on his saintly “ turn” like St. Jacobs Oil, and
expect him to be three times the man he was
before he started using it, or did he fill his head
with the idea that the apostle was going to tie a
quart of golden sherry round his throat for a
necktie to “ mash ” the maids of Ephesus ?
Get out, Brother Booth, with your zoedone drivel,
and don’t play such a low down game on men
who died 1800 years ago, and are consequently
too sick just now to stand up and take their own
part. Paul distinctly said, “Do not still drink
water; but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake
Dynamite Scare.—No. 3.
TO CONTEMPLATE THE POSSIBILITY OF THE POST OFFICE CARVINGS BEING DES-
TROYED BY DYNAMITE, IS ENOUGH TO DRIVE US ALL TO DRINK.
: Stomach i ®, D ‘ B-]—and thy fro-
, and bia clear ly Proves that St.
Paul didn t gamble very much on the medicinal
properties of cold water. Like Brother Booth, we
too, are glad that Paul told Timothy to use a little
wine, because our inference is that the latter party
used to abuse it—get “ on the Heliogabalus ” (as
they used to call the “ Jamberoo ” in those days);
ana we venture to think our deduction is far more
reasonable than that put forward by the flat-
catcher from the “goldarned carntinint of Amu-
rikur.” And look here. Brother Booth, we want
no new-fangled readings of our Sorlptural texts,
and, least of all, such readings as you can give us.
Go home, Brother Booth, go home.
«... u .
After all, young Russell, the defaulting
assistant railway station-master at Orange, who is
now mixed up with the deepest-dyed roughs in
Berrima gaol, appears to have been as muoh sinned
against as sinning. From the evidence of Mr.
Thompson, the accountant, it is clear that superior
Dynamite Scare.—No. 4.
THE PABSENGERS PER S.B. CITY OF SYDNEY MEET WITH A COLD RECEPTION.
railway officials have been allowed to wink at
little laches on the part of some of their subordi-
nates, and that a certain license is allowed to well-
connected young men placed in positions of trust,
provided they are able to make up their deficien-
cies when required. It is right here that young
Russell came to grief. He bad ‘ temporarily ap-
propriated” certain moneys belonging to the
Government, fully intending to repay the lot
when he was flush of funds. This, he was unable
to do when the critical moment arrived, simply
because his salary, which was sworn to be lawfully
due to him, had not been paid. Furthermore, it
appears from the evidence of the station-master
that sums of from £75,000 to £BO,OOO probably
passed through this unfortunate youth's hands
during the past seventeen months, and yet all he
received for his services was a paltry £96 per
annum, and—this is a true touch of departmental
meanness—” the honour of being styled Deputy
Station-master of Orange.” Here wss a young
man placed in a most important office of trust, and
expected to keep up a good position and appear-
ance in one ©f our most important towns, on a
salary which can be easily earned by any of the
ragged little gutter-snipe hoodlums who peddie
the evening papers through the streets of Sydney.
The very “ honour of being styled Deputy Station-
master ” is enough to induce most young men to
‘overrun the constable,” and when this is done
on starvation wages—and the wages not even paid
up punctually—it is small wonder that the pro-
mising lives of so many unfortunate colonial
youths are blasted for ever by the hellish taint of
the cells of Berrima gaol. Why a Government
servant, who, whilst enjoying a salary of £6OO a
year, embezzles £4OOO should be placed under the
mild regime of Darlinghurst, and treated with
every consideration, and, at the same time, a
miserably paid lad is sent to herd with the time-
hardened scoundrels in Berrima for filching a few
paltry pounds, is more than we can very well
understand—unless, indeed, that what all the
world says must be +rue, and a good connection,
like charity, covereth a multitude of sins.
Our first impulse, on hearing of the death
of the Duke of Albany, was to rush out and either
invest in an inky cloak and a ten-guinea suit of
woe, or else perch on a commodious three-storey
dung-heap and scratch ourselves red with oyster-
shells and broken bottles, after the manner of the
fine old prophets of ancient times. Our second
impulse was to scoot round to the Telegraph office
and cable home our application for the vacant
billet. Our third was to do neither, but keep
on grinding away in the same old groove; and
now we’re downright glad we did so Somehow,
the life of a Duke of Albany does not seem to be a
particularly happy one, aHd we wonder why
parents can be found so hard-hearted as to bring
their sons up to the business. The title of Duke of
Albany has been adopted five times in Scotland,
and four times in England. In six cases, the title
became extinct with the life of the first recipient,
and four Dukes of Albany have died with their
boots on, which is the court way of saying they
met with violent deaths. The title of this Duke-
dom hast never passed to a second generation
This looks as if the second generations had rather
level heads, and a tendency to believe that it was
better to be a live fish hawker even than a dead
Duke. Prince Leopold’s grand uncle, the Duke of
York and Albany, died at the age of 27 in a
strangely similar way to the late Duke, and about
thirty miles from the same spot. Fitzgerald in his
“ Lives of the Family of George III.,” says’—“ In
the month of September, 1767 (September 17) the
Duke of York and Albany, who was as usual’tra-
veiling abroad, was seized with a fatal illness at
Monaco, and died. This gay and interesting Prince
was not thirty years of age, and had made a favour-
able impression on every one he encountered ”
The “gay and interesting ” seems te have chalked
out the way for his successor to follow, as Fitz-
gerald continues“ His Royal Highness had
danced and eaten too much at the chateau of a
Serson of fashion, and this had not only fatigued
im, but occasioned a very strong perspiration.”
I Strange to say, no historian ever mentions whether
the dunes drank too much or ever drank at all. The
parallel goes further in some small items, the Cap-
tain Percival of that day being Captain Wrottesley,
upon whom fell the unpleasant duty of breaking
the news to the Royal Family. All this is certainly
curious and interesting just now, the names of the
two Royal Dukes, their ages, the circumstances of
their deaths, and the locality all being so singularly
coincident. Even the dates (1767, 1884) have this
peculiarity: that if the numerals in each case be
added together they amount to the same sum.
Truth is stranger than fiction; and very much,
scarcer, too. That’s why we like to give it a show
occasionally.
Poor George Mizon, for whose murder
Cordtni will, in all probability, die the death, used,
at one time to keep the Buckeye Hotel out behind
the Big Hill, at Sandhurst (Vic.) Being in Sand-
hurst (Bendigo it was then, by the way), we used
(in common with a large and influential class), to
go out on the Sabbath for a drive. Booking back
from here at our career in those days, the conclu-
sion is forced upon us that we were awine-and-
spirit-bibber, and a scoffer at religion. For we
wouldn’t for the world drive out eight or ten miles
now on the Sawbath just purposely to get filled with
Kangaroo Flat dust, in order that we might have
the fierce pleasure of afterwards laying it, in an
illicit manner, with Australian swipes. But we’ve
all got a skeleton in our back rooms, and the mem-
ory of those licentious goings on is our little fossil.
A terrible place was this same Big Hiil before the
roads were made, when loading was £l5O per ton
from Melbourne to Sandhurst, and you had to be
condemned gentlemanly to the carriers to get it
taken at that. It is on the main road between
Caatlemaine aud Bendigo, and in wet weather you
could always find a line of teams unyoked at the
bottom, waiting until their turn came to be hauled
up the hill by the com'-ined horseflesh of the
whole crowd. It was no uncommon sight to see
about two hundred horses crawling up this
ghastly height [Two hundred ! are you quite sure ?
—Ed.B.] with a waggon load of grocery behind
them. Very like a funeral procession this turn-
out looked, from a distance; but when you came
near enough (which wasn’t so very near) to
hear what the drivers were talking about,
you gave the funeral notion best, in a hurry,
and went in search of a cavern black
enough to hide your monstrous visage in.
Ye«, dear Kerristian readers, the teamster of those
days used either to blaspheme with his whole heart
and his whole soul, abetted by a focussed memory
and an active imagination, or let it alone alto-
gether. And we never kuew one to let it alone
altogether-or even just a little. Later on, when
that irrepressible (we had nearly written “ redoubt-
able, but that belongs to Dick Thatcher) Scot,
J. V. A. Bruce—one of the wrought-iron figures
of early Victorian history, and the father of Cab-
bage-garden railways—was getting on towards Big
Hill with his cuttings, the locality became what is
known in religious circles as “dam hot.” At Big
Hill there is a heavy tunnel, and at the cutting of
this a vast horde of men were employed. And
lower down towards Harcourt (it was the ill-fated
Mizon who told us this) there was employed a huge
gang of Irish exiles—good and true ” Tips ” every
one-who had, even atthatearly period, some faint
beginnings of a notion that Ireland was being
knocked about, and that some day she would
arise, free and glorious, and trample the tyrannical
Saxon in the dust. Well, these boys struck work
one day, for some cause or another, and sent word
up to the Big Hill people that if tlm didn’t also
strike work, they (the Tips) would stroll up and
see about it, in the cool of the evening. But there
was no particular notice taken by the Big Hill
excavators of the mandate of Higgins's party, and
they drilled and punched and blasted at the rocky
wall till “the sun dropped, and all the land was
dark.” Then the usual Saturnalia commenced,
ana the young ’possums had their ears inexpres-
sibly shocked by ‘ sounds of insult, rage, and
wrong” till midnight, when the silence of the
new great strange land came out of its hiding-
place and flopped down on the camp, and
everybody slept. Save one. That one, for
a marvel, was the only man in the camp who
had the “horrors” on that eventful night.
As he lay writhing among hideous phantoms in
his tent, something told him to rush out into the
P l fi lt f, and . la a voice wi ld and awful as that which
told Glamis to “Sleep no more” yell “ Higgins's
men I Higgins’s men 1” which he at once did.
Most of the tents had the doors facing east, so the
camp kept on going in that direction till they were
pulled up in a trouserless and famishing condition
at Kiama—where most of them died. It is said
that one aristocratic ganger, who had the only
night-shirt in the Australias at that time, fled in
it, and is at the present time the real Kiama Ghost,
but we don’t know. Blankets and moleskins were
cheap along the line for the rest of the year, as not
one of them ever showed up again at the Big Hill
Camp, savo the! man who had the horrors, and his
reward was great. The moral of iwhich is—[There
is no moral.—Ed. B]. Poor old Mizon I when he
told us these things how little could we dream
he was to die by the blow of a murderer, one day
far enough from there I By degrees the trade
withdrew from around Big Hill, and he went into
farming ; but it is poor granite soil, and the last
time we saw the Buckeye Hotel it was a mossed
old farm-house, gone about the elbows a good
deal, and with a somewhat haunted expression
about it. And where once were waving crops :
“ The rabbit fondles his own harmless face,
The slow-worm creeps, and the thin weasel there
f ollows the mouse, and all is open field.”
• * •
The tongue of a certain judicial Docker
would be none the worse judiciously docked ; at
least, such is the impression of jurymen.... David-
son, of Mudgee, to be prosecuted for speaking
e n iu°^i.l l8 ’ nlti ? B ',, He B P ok e against Time....Of
aii the things a fellow would rather not have said.
• b i?B ? a worm will turn, and I have turned to-
mght must assuredly be reckoned. Dibbs. who
doesn t think small beer of himself, must have
been real mad when he acknowledged himself to
be a backboneless annelid.... Alderman Halliday.
of Bathurst, takes the High God to witness that
the baivation Army has been raised up for a big
purpose, and unbelieving beaks and sneering
Gallios might as well try to stop it as to stop the
sun from shining or Niagara from rolling over its
Jails. He might have added, “or an Alderman
from making an exhibition of himself.”. Major
Innes, R.A., advertised as a deserter. Supposed to
be off his head, globe-trotting.... A. J.S. Bank
Francis Adams succeeds Giblin, deceased, as
general manager.
* * *
Prince Victor Bonaparte is paying ad-
dresses to a Princess of Wurtemburg, who is a
relative ol his family.... Gordon Pasha, when in
nn U P^n lB ft 1 of tossiDg a coin in the air as
frtr tP rovl<3 ence. w onder he doesn’t
try boa .^ B J o discover his Khartdoom I
Hunt, the Michigan millionaire,” who died
recentiy, bequeathed £lOOO each to Josh Billings
and the mother of Artemus Ward. His widow
>? tde P aymen tof these sums, as she con-
siders he must nave been insane to make such
bequests... .Miss Baring's marriage was announced
°« th e day of Albany s death. She rejected an
offer of marriage ho made in 1880. J an


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
i. mu m,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Majeroni, supported by one of the best companies
In the colonies. BS*" See future advertisements.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
►Messrs. Wili.iamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
England’s greatest Actress,
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD,
and the Popular London Actor,
MR. W. VERNON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
the original play, in three aots, by F. C. Grove and
Herman Merivale,
FORGET ME NOT ! FORGET ME NOT 1
FORGET ME NOT I FORGET MB NOT !
GRAND PIANO from NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES A 8 USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
AIETY THEATRE .—Lessee, Mr. John
VT Bennett; Sub-Lessee, Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Positively last three nights of Ireland’s Great
Comedian, GRATTAN RIGGS, who will appear
TO-NIGHT in his great impersonation of “ Conn
the Shaugraun,” in Boucicault’s great sensational
drama, THE SHAUGHRAUN. Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, June 12, 13, and 14, three last ap-
pearances of Grattan Riggs, whose performances
have been witnessed nightly by crowded houses.
Friday next, Benefit of Grattan Riggs. Prices—
s)S., 25., and Gal. Is. Bus. Manager, G. A. Coleman.
GAIETY THEATRE—Mr. Wybert Reeve has
great pleasure in announcing that he has
completed arrangements with Messrs. Williamson,
Garner, and Musgrove, for the first appearance in
Sydney, on Monday next. June 16th, of the
famous Irish Comedian, Mr. JOHNF. SHERIDAN,
•who will appear in his great character of “The
Widow O'Brien,” in the musical and farcical
oddity, FUN ON THE BRISTOL (as played by
him over 2000 nights), supported by a specially-
selected company of London and American
artists. Business Manager, G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music 1
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, in their Grand CHANGE of
PROGRAMME Every artist encored nightly.
Terrific Success of the New Burlesque
WESTWARD HO !
By Leopold Jordan, Esq.
Admission—Fauteuils, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3,3.20,
3,40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
JQ A N C I N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is muck longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
~M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS ,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL
THE NINTH ANNUAL BALL,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
THURSDAY, JULY 3rd, ,je|
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Worship the Mayor,
JOHN HARDIE, ESQ.,
and
THE MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
EVENING DRESS.
Decorations by Messrs. Sale and Dare. Refresh-
ments by Cripps. Band: The Young Australian.
Stewards :
Hon. E. A. Wright
Hon. W. J. Trickett
Hon. G. R. Dibbs
Hon. Wm. Laidley
Captain J. G. Barron
Charles Pearce, Esq.
J. B. Holdsworth. Esq.
John Hinchliffe, Esq.
T. R. Allt, Esq.
C. J. Roberts, Esq M.L.A.
John See. Esq. vi.l.a.
G. N. Griffiths, Esq. M.L A.
John Harris, Esq. M.L. A.
R. Sands, Esq.
George Munro, Esq.
R. G. Vallaek. Esq.
R. Fowler, Esq.
Tickets : Double, 305.; Gentlemen, 205.; Ladies,
12s. 6d.
D. MURRAY, I Joint
V'. A. BLACKSTONE, f Hon. Sees.
R. A. KEDDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAY'S.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAW ARB A
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney,
WASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, BttljUsTin
Office.
$
i
<3
8
eg
36 LfTTiE COIUNS
WEST
•ft
LBOUME.
n - C.C AM ERAS, ~ q r . hL
(U p CARDS .CHEMICALS. i4 a P h
\qents for : wv&m«v\
■4— |f W.JOHNSON 86S0NS I paper!
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD?^
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
QUINA LAROCHE.
■wk.ajt is it?
ASK YOUR DOCTOR
zT i- '."T ■
CTriE 5 ,
iSQ^L
LEVIATHAN “AD AM ASTER” COMPANY.
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PHIZES : £5975 FOB STARS; AND £4025 FOR HORSES.
Flan of Astronomical Distribution:
TFirst Horse (Winner of the “ Melbourne Cup ”
Second Horse
Third Horse
£l5OO
750
375
First Star ... ... ... ... ... £lOOO
Second Star ... ... ... ... ... 500
Third Star ... ... ... ... ... 250
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
16 Stars of £lOO each; 10 Stars of £6O eaoh; 17 Stars of £35 each; 20 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns of £lO each.
Astronomical and Township Prizes:
Mars
Jupiter
Mercury
Neptune
Saturn
Venus
Uranus
Hercules
Fomalhaut
Centaur
Grand Aroturus
Aldebaran
Cygni
Sirius
Rigel
Capella
Orion
Canopus
Table Mountains
Chamelon
Acheron
Hydra
Touoan
Antares
Spica
Prooyon
Monoceros
Zaurach
£lOOO
500
250
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
Cetus £5O
Menkar 25
Diphda 25
Phoenix 25
Alpherat 25
Betelgeaux 25
Southern Cross 25
Castor 26
Pollux 26
Regullus 25
Deneb 25
Bootes 25
Berenice 25
Alt air 25
Aguila 25
Ophruchus 25
Algenib 25
Andromeda 25
Perseus 20
Medusa 20
Mira 20
Cassiopea 20
Pisces 20
Avies 20
Fornax 20
Edidanus 20
Camelopavelus 20
Tauruo 20
Beechworth
Beenas
Belfast
Bellarine
Belmont
Belvoir
Belleven
Benalla
Bendoc
Beremboke
Berbin
Berwick
Bet-Bet
Bethanga
Beveridge
Big Hill
Birregurra
Black Hill
Black Lead
Black Springs
Blackwood
Blakeville
Bobinavarrat
Boggy Creek
Bolao
Bolvarra
Boraang
Bonegilla
£lO
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
will be
>r the liberal support that he has received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Programme
ion of a number of his clients, he has been induced to lessen the number of prizes, ccnsequently mlikmg them of more value,
mtiicou -.v, x,xj Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New South Wales.
All parties are requested to forward drafts or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be added, and in all cases postage fees. Post Office orders and cheques payable to or
>e returned, A representative Committee will be appointed. Results sent to every shareholder. Application, by Registero ' Lettei only, addi e^sod
“ ADAMASTOR,” in thanking his subscribers for
for the coming MELBOURNE CUP. At the suggestion „ „ „ ___ ,
the smallest being £lO, as against £3 heretofore. My Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New boutb Wales
ADAMASTOE,” Care of 1L- -A..
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W.


(MBS
Wmss?
Hil ’m
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its.music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas.
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POBT FRhiE,
AND AT OUR KIsK:-
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s , and 12s. 6d
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites, 35., 45., ss. perset
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 10s. per 6et
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent's handsome Scarf PiHS, 3s. Cd., 55., 65., 7s. (id.,
Bs., and 10s. each
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
each
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
and 128. 6d. each
Gent's very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
20s , 255.. 275. 6d , and 30s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 80s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d , 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides andtassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. ho
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chatalaines, 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 6
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 17 6
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 2 6
IS?” These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert £5 5 0
No. 7.
Rotheram'B celebrated English Patent
Levers . £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balanoe .. £5 5 0
No. 0.
The celebrated Waltham watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Bilver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Obskkvh.—lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROYAli—“Forget-Me-Not” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—" Shin Fane ” ib.
O?ERA House— Mrs. Dr. Potts ib.
academy oe Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
“Forget Me Not.” That is the name of
the new attraction at the Theatre Royal. Gene-
vieve Ward, the American actress, plays in the
title role, and deserves the name, for none who
ever saw her in this very high-class comedy are
likely to forget her or her superb acting. Per-
haps you would like to know something about the
plot of the piece. Well, there isn’t much riot
about it. Stephanie, Marquise de Mohrivart (Miss
Ward), is the relict of a Parisian gambler, who was
killed in his own bed by a Corsican whom he had
ruined at the gaming table. Stephanie was also
marked for death, but the police rushed in just in
time to save her bacon from the dagger of the
assassin. She was a shrewd, unscrupulous woman,
with wonderful conversational powers, and drew
the rich young Bwells about her like flies around a
pot of honey. And she had a son, who, at toe age
of 22, married an English lady of position, named
Rose Yarney. The young man died, for some
reason or other, a few months after his marriage,
and then his mother, the dashing Stephanie, set
about retrieving her fortune and social position.
She discovered that by the law cf France the mar-
riage was illegal (but would be made “ regular” if
she gave her consent to it betore a year elapsed),
as tne bridegroom was not 25 years ©ld on his
wedding day. With this knowledge in her posses-
sion she went to Rome, where the Varneys were
then sojourning, called upon them, told her story,
and compelled Alice Varney (Miss Maggie Knight)
not only to accept her as an inmate of the house,
but to introduce her about as a very dear friend
of the family. At length, by the appearance of the
murderouß Corsican in Rome, she is frightened into
leaving the Holy City, and that’s the last you see
of her until the next night, when she turns up
again, and goes through tne same old game, just as
though nothing had happened the night before.
• • •
The play was written by F. C. Grove and
Herman Merivale, and, should it be the only one
they may ever write or have written, it will hand
them down to the posterity of the stage as
amongst the best playwrights of the century.
The character of Stephanie is a wonderfully
olever creation. Bhe has all the audacity, all the wit,
all the beauty, and all the immoral courage that
has probably been compounded in one woman
since the time Old Nick himself wore petticoats
and used bis tail for an improver. She had the
beauty of Cleopatra, the audacity of Joan of Arc,
the moral stamina of Susana Wesley, and the wit
of Madame de Stael, as well as Margrave's secret of
renewing his youth, all wrapped into one, and tied
with a bow-knot fore and aft.
* * *
The difference between physical and moral
courage is finely developed in this character.
Stephanie is so full of moral audacity that you
can’t help admiring her. She has the oourage of
her opinions and wit, and uses them with “uch
effect on those about her that they don't know
whether it is a hornet’s nest they are fooling with
or only the devil in disguise. She shows her intel-
lectual superiority over them in every utterance,
every act, and yet when physical danger threatens
she becomes a miserable, abject coward that you
can’t even pity. We have seen men of a similar
stamp in battle. They were always in the front,
where the bullets flew thickest, and were the first
to scale the bulwarks of the enemy. Many a time
hare we lain behind a stump and seen them do
this. The next day, if some big bully threatened
to put a tin ear om them, they would grow white
in the face, and sneak out of the first loop-hole
that presented itself. In the very next engage-
ment you would see the soldier in the front again,
and the bully would be hunting us away from the
best-selected stump on the whole battle-field. We
once asi<ed an eminent General to explain
these phases of human nature to us, and he said:-
“ Moral courage isn’t afraid to die, and, therefore,
makes the best soldier : but it don t like to get its
eves blackened, and, therefore, runs from the
bully. The bully doesn’t care for a pounded
visage, and, therefore, courts a fisticuff ; but h©
is afraid of death, and, consequently, when an en-
gagement is on, he hunts a stump. And that is
the way it would be with Stephanie were she a
soldier. She would go right to the front with holy
enthusiasm, and plant her country s banner on
the bullet-SM ept rampants of the enemy ; and
then, if a mouse ran past her, she would hold up
both hands and scream like a Piute Indian at a
scaln danco. No-come to think of it—death was
exactly the thing btephanie was afraid of, and she
cleared out of Rome t@ avoid it. Somehow or
other we always get mixed when we go out be-
tween uhe acts, and net to philosophising on
huma-i nature. But we do know that there is
just as much difference in folks as there is in
butter, and on that ground, if on no other, the
character of Stephanie is as natural as the sun-
set glow on a toper’s nose.
* * *
Miss Ward’s acting has been praised so
much, and in so many different languages, that
there is nothing left for us to say about it. Her
voice is a little harsh at times, but she sings like
a nightingale, and, when she laughs, a miniature
cataract of melody leaps over her chin, and dies
away in distant ripples behind the further wings.
You hear the songs of birds mingled with the
murmurings of somo mountain stream ; or the
strains of an Eolian harp, hung where Heavens
sweetest winds may sweep its strings, to make a
tom-cat grin with envy because it can t sit up and
yowl like that. Genevieve reminds us forcibly ot
Mary Anderson. Their acting in impassioned
parts is as much alike as two peas in a pod, but
Mary depends a great deal more on her statuesque-
ness* of form, and makes you jealous of the man
who has to catch her when she faints.
* * *
Mr W H. Vernon takes the character of
81r Horace Welby. It is an important r6le, and
yet it is bo overshadowed by the brilliant concep-
tion of Stephanie, with which Sir Horace comes In
constant contact, that you are apt to lose I sighYof
the finer points of acting in the minor part. Some-
how or other, knighthood is always associated
iaour n ind with a tall, handsome, eagle-eyed,
commanding man—something Mke us and fo
that reason Sir Horace disappointed us just a UttJe.
He is scarcely as tall as Stephanie, and all the while
we had a suspicion that she could catch him by the
hair and shake him until his teeth rattled. He
speaks his lines, however, with the skill of a finished
and experienced actor, and does remarkably well
under his heavy star-part handicap.
*
Mr. George I eitch’s Prince Malleotti is as
good a piece of comedy acting as we have seen for
many a day. There is a subtleness in Mr. Leitoh S
conception of this character that must be closely
looked for to be discovered and appreciated. It is
the class of comedy that depends more on the
polished rendition of the author s lines than in the
buffoonery thatlmay usually be thrown with goed
effect between them. And yet we had expected to
. see a Prince just a little moro fon A
a little less yielding to the exactions of others.
However, that is the authors fault, not the
actor’s. .
* * *
Miss Maggie Knight, recently of the
Gaiety staff, has been specially engaged to play
the part of Alice Varney. Maggie is always
ting into trouble. We saw her shedding tears in
“Passion ” over the frailties of her father, in the
“ Squire ” she wept over Eric Thorndyke, ( t
misfortunes he brought upon her; i Q the Woman
in White” she went crazy and died, and, then
turned up in a mad-house, afterwards , and in t e
Money Spinner” she was swamped
misery than the little girl whose doll s head tails
off and gets broken. Now, aB .-^] ic ® Jj that
system is wrenched to its foundations for fear that
the world may find out that there is a flaw in hr
sister’s marriage certificate, and that.she _herself
may become an illegitimate outcast. And she is a -
ways iu love. One time it is with one kind ot a
character, and again with another. How it comes
that she can greet them, each and all, with the
same set of smiles, thssame blushes and the same
tears, is one of those mysteries which are known
only to women who are well up in the business ot
playing nine-pins with the hearts of men.
» * *
Miss Annie Taylor, as Mrs. Foley, was a
great favourite with the audience, but itstruckus
that she acted a good deal more like an old maid
than she did like a widow. A widow, you know,
is supposed to have some “ savee” about her when
she’s in the market, but Mrs. Foley went just the
wrong way about it to catch a second husband.
And then her voice had the sharp ring to it that
generally haunts the accents of the ancient spin-
ster. We don’t know why this should be so, unless
Mr. Foley might have died so soon after his mar-
riage that his wife hadn’t time to get her old-maid
voice thoroughly brokeninfor widowhood, lancy
a widow showing jealousy because the man she
wants to captivate talks pleasantly to some other
woman. Oh, no! There isn’t a widow any where
that doesn’t know more about a man than to do
that. But away with ‘‘Forget Me Not for the
present. It will run two weeks after this, and
you’ll have plenty of time to see it, if you don t
procrastinate, or die. We are dying, ourselves—
of thirst, so if you’ll excuse us we’ll just step out
now, for a minute, and return next week.
* * # *
The Federal Minstrels, at the Aoademy of
Music, continue to draw the largest orowds that
ever thronged into this bright little hall. We
went the other night again, and sat right behind
Genevieve Ward and Mr. Vernon. Those who
have only a partial knowledge of theatrical life
naturally imagine that actors would take little
interest in performances of any kind, as they are
so much behind the scenes them c tlveB, and know
how hollow are the speeches and the sentiments
expressed. But the fact is that good actors love
their profession as a rule, and on “ off ” nights you
will generally find them improving the oppor-
tunity to attend a performance, if there is any on
in town. Miss Ward attended the Gaiety the first
night she was in the city, and evinced the liveliest
interest in the acting of Grattan Biggs, Sam Boole,
and the others. But you should have seen her at
the Minstrels. The first time Sam Keenan showed
the chalk in his eyes, she nearly had to swallow her
cambric handkerchief to keep from screaming
right out; and when Horace Bent opened Are witn
some of his cayenne pepper jokes, we thought the
top of our head would come clean off watching
her. Carroll, too, was a puzzler, with his double
throat and duplex uvula.
* * *
Carroll is now thinking of playiDg two
engagements at once. He’s going to hire his
female throat out to sing babies to sleep in some
foundling hospital, while he sings baritone solos
with his male throat at the Minstrels. We don t
know whether Colonel Hisoocks has been con-
sulted in the matter or not, but we do know that
Carroll has the idea strongly impressed on his
mind. We know that it is strongly impressed, for
we put it teere ourselves. The next day we found
him at the Biverina singing a baritone solo in one
room, and a lullaby over Sam Keenan’s baby in
another. After a little more practice he hopes to
draw double salary, and if the Colonel objects he s
going to sell fish up one right-of-way, and green
iruit up another.
• * •
Alf. Moynham, the Girard, says that he is
not double-jointed. The London Medical Soeiety
had him under examination for about two hours
one time, and finally declared that his joints were
just like other people’s, only Alf. had learned how
to use his better than they. We asked him the
other day what it was that ailed him, anyway, and
whether he lived on angle-worm soup, india-
rubber pie or the flexible statements of the Bum.
He replied that he was an ardent admirer of
corned beef and cabbage, and that his wonderful
suppleness was entirely due to constant practice
from the age of eight years up. We are only
telling this now because the attendance at the
Hospital has been falling off of late, and the daily
papers haven’t had anything, in lieu of accidents,
to write about. After this information gets
abroad, half the boys in Sydney will be hanging on
clothes-lines, getting into barrels, and trying to put
their feet wedged over their heads. It is an aw t u 1
thing for a boy to get stuck that way, as we know
by personal experience. We tried it once when we
were young, and our elder brother nearly warmed
the life out of us with a barrel stave before we
could get untied again. When we did get un-
tangled, however, you can bet we made it hotter
than Sam Hill for our mischievous relation. He
was always imposing on us. Ono time he waoted
to pull a tooth, and we volunteered to help him.
While he was tying one end of a fish-line around
the tooth we were tying the other end to the
handle of a smoothiDg-iron. Then we threw the
Iron out at the door. The tooth followed the iron,
we followed the tooth, and our brother followed
us. About half-way up the hill he caught us and
sat down on us, and pounded us until we were so
black that a nigger wouldn’t have touched us for
fear of soiling his hands. Somebody was always
imposing on us when we were little, and that is the
reason we treat everybody so fairly now that we vo
grown up. ,
A very pleasant feature of the Federal s’
entertainment just now is the quartette composed
of Messrs. Braham, Beid, Porter, and Emery. We
had been wondering why the Colonel hadn t
brought that quartette out long ago, but on second
thoughts the reaEOn came to us. Hiscocks has found
out that the people are not going to let him go
away from Sydney for two or three months, and
so he has been saviQg up his novelties to have
something new in store for each succeeding week.
That is the way Christy has been doing in London
for about fourteen years, and Billy Emerson has
been doing in San Francisco for a couple of years
or so: and why shouldn’t Sydney support» stand-
ing Minstrel troupe? Oh, by the way, we had
almost forgotten to tell you that Col. Jack Haver-
ley, the great Minstrel manaaer of the States, has
gone to London and opened in Drury Lane lheatre
again with something over 100 performers, amongst
them being Biily Emerson, Charlie Bead, and a
number of other people who are well known in
Australia and America. Haverley s Hundred in-
vaded Drury Lane once before, if you remember,
and he got terribly frost-bittea for his daring
pluck. Haverley hashoen knocked to pieces more
times than any man in the show business, but he
always gets himself together again, and now owns
about a dozen of the largest theatres in the States.
Billy Emerson has sold his San Francisco theatre,
and-but. there we go again: rambling, as usual,
and forgetting all about the subject in hand.
* * *
Next week, if you go to the Academy, you
will probably see the new farce, entitled “ Fun on
the Brighton, or a trip to Manly,” which Keenan
and Bent have been diligently engaged in getting
ud for the last week or two. But we have stayed
long enough at the Minstrels for once, and are
going out for a fresh clove or two.
* * * *
We have often wondered if actors felt
themselves to be the characters they represent.
It is a matter of histrionic lore that John Wilkes
Booth, who shot President Lincoln, grew so in-
tensely in earnest in duel scenes that his opponent
had to use the utmost caution and skill to keep
awav from the vicious thrusts of the mad trage-
dian In fact, he wounded several actors with
whom he fenced. Pondering upon this thought,
the other night, we suddenly remembered that
Grattan Biggs had invited us to spend a while
between the acts in his dressing-room. We
dropped in on him just as he was making up for
Hans Seeilman, the German Glazier, in The Irish
Detective.” The blue blouse didn’t seem to have
any effect when he put it on. but as he progressed
with the painting, and his nose grew red and his
face flushed, we could seea hungry look oorne into
his eves. No sooner had the blonde wig been ad-
justed, and the moustache been fitted under his
nose than one hand reached convulsively forth
for a bottle of lager, and the other skirmished be-
hind the mirror for a link of Bologna sausage.
After he had eaten about four inches of the latter,
and drained the bottle to its dregs, he remarked :
“ Now, mien frent, I feel me besser, I mus go
oop.” After a while ho came down again, and
made-up aa the aged negro clam-soup peddler.
How do you think the burnt-cork aflected turn.
Why, he made a grab for a slice of kangaroo ham
with oae hand and a slice of watermelon with the
other. The darkies of America are especially
fond of watermelons, but it must have been the
effect of the Australian climate that made Mr.
Riggs pine for kangaroo meat. Presently he had
to make-up for Mrs. Muldoon, the fruit vendor.
Scarcely had he tied the strings of the bonnet
when he snatched a bottle of whisky from the
table, took a good stiff nobbier, and then climbed
up on the back fence, and threw a stick over at
his neighbour’s chickens. Next we watched him
preparing to represent Ah Chat, the Chinese pie
vendor, and may we never tell a lie ag'ain if he
didn’t bite a chunk out of a roasted rat and swallo w
a cupful of cold tea. After that, we ceased to
wonder why Grattan played so naturally in the
different characters he had to assume.
* * *
But we dropped into the Gaiety last Satur-
day evening again, and found that “Shin Pane, ,
the well-known Irish drama, had taken the place
of the American production, “ The Irish Detec-
tive.” The plot of “ Shin Pane ” is as well-known
as we are, and twice as homely. In this piece, Mr.
Riggs assumes four different characters that
wouldn’t know each other if they met at a picnic.
There is Suil Gair, the Irish peasant; Con, the
simpleton; Mrs. Hanbury, a New York boarding-
house keeper; and Mr. Maguire, a ready-made
citizen. The audience did nothing but hold Its
sides from the time the star went on until he went
off, for his characters were so irresistibly droll
that nobody could help laughing. The scene on
board the ship, where Mr. Riggs personates the
emigrant bound for America, was especially funny.
His family are about him in the forecastle, and he
gives the baby gruel with a spoon. Most of the
gruel, however, finds its way down the throat or
the fond and self-indulgent parent. Presently a
suspicion of something wrong inside shows itself
in the expression of the emigrant’s face, and the
Gaiety seemed to rock and heave like a Now
Zealand coaster as he threw away the bowl and
made for the gunwale. We’ll wager a new hat
that Grattan hasn’t had such a ride since the time
some squatters up at Benalla persuaded him to
mount a buckjumper, assuring him, in the first
place, that it was a quiet and gentle lady s hack.
We shouldn’t speak lightly of this, however, tor
the amateur horseman was laid up for three
months as a result of the practical joke.
• • •
We found out, too, that Sam Poole has
more “act” in him than we had supposed. He
played Shaun Rhda, a tool of Martin Doyle, the
returned convict, with so much naturaluess that
you would have thought him born that way. Only
the night before we had seen him as Johnnie Lem-
mons, in the “ Irish Detective,” and the charac-
ters were so entirely different, both in make-up
and conception, that we soaroly expected to see
the same actor in both. As Johnnie Lemmons
you would know Sam Poole, but as Shaun Khda
lie was as strange and pisturesque as a Maori hen
on a mud fenoe. Shaun is evidently Sam's forte,
and he should stick to it like grim death to a dead
nigger, if he wants to bcoop the Poole.
• • •
Michael Curran (Mr. Palmer), the well-to-
do farmer, is an up-hill part to play. Much
depends upon the character, and yet it is so
weakly drawn that it resembles our salary after
the landlady has trampled on it. However, Mr.
Palmer made the most of it, and as the ancestral
progenitor of El'en Curran (Miss Ethel Adele) he
was so benevolent-looking at times that we
wouldn’t mind having him for a father-in-law.
(No tinted notes, please; we are not in the market
this year, nor in shape for a duel either). D’Arcy
Stanfield’s Mackerel was fairly taken. After you
see D’Arcy in two or three roles and then meet
him face, to face in the street, you wonder where
in thunder he keeps all the foolishness that crops
out of him oti the stage like pimples on a measle
patient. Really, on the street he is like other
folks, and you can tell he is a man ; but as he
appears on the stage he is a sort of left-handed
conundrum, and it would puzzle an antiquarian's
brother-in-law to put the correct label on him.
* * *
Mollie Sullivan (Miss Maggie Oliver) the
Irish Diamond, was just to our liking. We always
were fond of “Irish Diamonds” when boiled in
the skin, or better still, when mashed in butterand
filled around a platter of Irish stew. But Maggie
isn’t exactly that kind of a diamond. She isn t
boiled nor mashed, that we know of, but she is as
pretty as any little pink-eye potatoe you ever saw.
and you instinctively want to appropriate her
every time she comes near the foot-lights. Ah,
yes, and Miss Nita Steele played Betsy Koach, and
sang a captivating little ballad, for which she was
loudly applauded. Miss Steele is a stranger to
Sydney play-goers, but since her at the
Gaiety she has been steadily increasing in favour,
and as she really has some ability, as well as a fair
share of prettiness, we hope to see her succeed.
• • •
Mr. Appleton’s Pierce Curran is not the
worst thing we have seen him do. We honestly
believe that Mr. Appleton is learning to act a little,
and, if he would only put his voice under culture
at the hands of a good voice-builder he might yet
acquire a distinct articulation. He has a way of
gasping, when drawing in his breath to begin al-
most every sentence, that is painfully monotonous
at times. We don’t believe that he has ever
noticed this himself, and as it is one of those
“stage vices” that every aotor should avoid,we
feel like pointing it out to him. It is said
that “ whom the gods love, die young.”
Mr. Appleton is an exception to this rule.
The gods, that is the gallery gods, seem to
love him, and they give him a “reception ” every
evening. We don’t like to bo hard on a man, nor
to blight aspiring genius in the bud, but it is only
by drawing attention to these little eccentricities
that the public ever learned what an astute and
discerning critic we are. Moreover, if they
escaped unnoticed, the stage would soon be over-
run by a lot of amateurs that never could hope to
return a proper equivalent for the public’s money.
We don’t mean to say that Mr. Appleton is an
amateur, for he is not. He is a notch or two above
that, certainly, but still there is room for improve-
ment, both in his voice and manner that nothing
but diligent and persistent study can effectually
accomplish.
• • •
On Wednesday night the programme at
the Gaiety was changed again to the “ Shaugraun,”
with Mr. Riggs in the title role, but we didn’t have
time to attend. It is the bill for the remainder of
the present week, Mr. Riggs taking a benefit on
Friday evening. Next Monday evening “ Fun on
the Bristol” goes on at the Gaiety, with Mr.
Sheridan as the bright particular star. In the
meantime we are going out with Coleman to get
some “three-star’* hot, as it is so confoundedly
oold we have worn our molars all away chewing
on frozen cocktails.
•* * *
The smoke nights of the Sydney Lieder-
tafel last week were as great crammers as Henni-
ker Heaton’s romance of the secret despatches
which he did not carry at the risk of his life. If
anyone were to slander the singing members of the
Liedertafel to us, we shouldn t defend them. They
are quite capable of taking their own parts. We
don’t know which of their songs we liked best,
but we think-this is our sly way of putting it—
we liked the last one best. There was one false
note during the evening. The clarionet-player
sent it, and it was to the effect that he couldn’t
come. A member of committee communicated
the lie to the audience—some of whom had the
happy inspiration of applauding the announce-
ment, and then blushing and pretending they had
only been trying to crush a black-beetle with their
boots. By and bye, the man with the cold turned
up. We don’t know how he managed it, but we
suspect an habitual drunkard must have passed
his window and thawed him out with the glowing
tip of his—the habitual’s—nose. Anyway, he
oame, and smiled at the audience as cheerfully
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows,” see pagre 12,


PEPPER AND SALT.
This is the style they fish “for safety” in
the city. Amateur angler to fish-shop proprietor:
“ Well, how’s the supply to-day, Mr. Gudgeon ?’’
“Any amount ov it in, sir. What sort’ll I put you
up, Bir?” To which the amateur angler replies*
“Oh, I don’t want any this evening, thanks—in
fact, I mightn’t want any at all. Y’see, me and a
few othah f’lers are goin’ out for a day’s fish in
th’ mornin’, and I thought I’d just make sure you
had some in case we didn’t catch any. See you
again, praps. Ta-ta.” Next night, a party of five
weary wanderers, carrying one very depressed and
sickly-looking “ squid ” on the end of two yards of
string, creep cautiously through Mr. Gudgeon’s
back gate, buy half-a-crown’s worth of assorted
fish a-piece, and then saunter bravely round the
hotel bars, and lie like war correspondents over
the “ dem’d fine day’s sport they had all about th’
’arbour.” This may cause them to look big in the
sight of man, but Dan O’Connor’s friend, the re-
cording angel, has a special book and a bucket of
indelible ink for all such bare-faced swindlers.
* * *
There oomes a tale from the Western lands,
and it bears the stamp of truth in job-type letters
on it. VoiU! A certain meenister was invited to
fill a vacant pulpit, and to preach a sample sermon
in anticipation of a rousing “ call.” He put up at
the house of one of the leading lights of his
church, and as the worthy pair sat and sipped their
gingerbeer-with-a-dark-bottom, the host hoped
the new divine would avoid saying anything in his
sermon that would offend the Salvation Army
IT HAS BEEN SUGGESTED THAT THE LIBERALS MIGHT BE BEAT AT THE OPERA HOUSE ON SUNDAYS, BY SOMEWHAT ENLIVENING THE ORTHODOX SERVICES WITH
ADDITIONAL ATTRACTIONS. SOMETHING IN THIS STYLE, PERHAPS.
votaries, as there were many in the town who
really believed in their tambourine tomfoolery.
Walking down the street soon after this, the parson
met another pillar of the church, who earnestly
implored him not to be rough on the Papists, as
the Irish element predominated in that district,
and had great influence with the local member.
A little further along, another elder, who was
a publican as well, button-holed his reverence
and observed: “ ’Tween ourselves, now, I wouldn’t
drop on to the moderate drinkers too sultry—in
fact, I wouldn’t touch them at all. Y’ see, Dr
Barry’s with them; an’, besides, they’re not half
bad fellows, either. Come in t’ th’ back parlour
and try my new teetotal mixture.” Sunday
arrived, and the minister was about to enter the
pulpit when one of the deacons whispered, “Beg
pardon, Sir, but, for heaven’s sake, don’t say any-
thing against the land lotteries. Our Mayor is
deeply interested, an’ that’s ’im there—th’ stout,
red-nosed old man in th’ first pew, sir.” “ Look
here, my friend,” said the perplexed preacher,
“What on earth shall I preach about?” “Well,
lemme see, now,” replied the deacon, as he stroked
his chin; “ oh—ah-yes-look here (excitedly), give
it t’ th’ God-forsaken Jews—rub it into them hot;
giv’ ’em a real monkey and parrot ole time of it,
air—they haven’t got a dam—beg pardon—not a
single friend in town, sir 1”
• • *
This is a pretty fair sample of the style
of legal amenities which are played off in a certain
town out Westward. Sucking Solicitor (with the
soul of a Demosthenes in the body of a sick sardine
to sleepy Police Magistrate: “Have a care, your
Worship. It might come to my turn to be Minister
for Justice yet.” P.M. (contemptuously): “Yes
you might; and pigs might fly.” Demosthenes,
junior: “They might, your Worship. At least,
some pigs might; but the accumulated scientific
talent and abilities of the two hemispheres could
not construct a pair of wings strong enough to
raise you one yard above your judicial chair.”
Policeman O’Toole: “ Will yez kape soilince down
there whin th’ Coort’s a-sittin’ ?”
• * *
“Considerations of public importance”
have induced the Victorian railway authorities to
forbid persons—other than members of the legis-
lature—from riding in the guard’s van.—
A miner away West has knocked a local
preacher through a door, and as there is to be law
about it, let us try to approach the subject with
some circumspection—just to show our astuteness
like. Well, no names are to hand in the telegram
relating to this—er—what shall we say—this, yes
this affair. Consequently, if it should turn out
that the miner, who is an old man, knocked a
preacher through a door, the question arises
straight up on its very hindest legs, whether the
miner drove him through with dynamite, or a
cheap cartridge with a wet fizzling fuse, or
whether he got ho}d of one of the preacher's moßt
eloquent sermons, held him back against the door,
and read it through from where Moses and Co.
rolled up their breeches to the knee and
waded off with the Egyptian’s Walthams, and
Oriental nose-rings, down to the period when
the same legislator mounted Mount Nebo, and, be-
holding the fertile valleys of Palestine, took pos-
session of it in virtue of a title endorsed by one
Abraham, who had some sort of a claim under an
old aot. Whatever was the manner of this outra—
no, this dastar—no, this, er—in fact, it is evident
from the Evening News and the Herald that a
theologian is more than suspected of having
suffered some slight inconvenience by having
passed through a door with a degree of speed that
might, in an unregenerate man, be regarded, as,
well, what shall we say ?—regarded as—[No. The
borderland of libel again. The times won’t run
it.— Ed ]
i«l
Some short time ago there was an outcry
raised about rabbits being scalped and turned
loose again, but it was partially discredited at the
time. That such a practice does exist is, however,
proved, by the fact that an aged, but otherwise
respectable, old party named Goobroy, from the
Billabong, has just written to say that as he was
out looking for clean-skinned calves the other day
he saw a rabbit trip up whilst running through the
scrub, and that the top of its head fell down a
hole and was lost. Upon going over he found the
rabbit—a full-grown doe—had had all the upper
storey of its skull sawed off, and something else
had then been glued on to keep the rain from the
animal’s brain paD. Unfortunately, however, the
doe died before old Goobrey could find the missing
cover. Similar incidents are recorded from
several portions of the Riverina district, where, it
is said, artificial crowns are made out of greenhide
by the bushel, and fastened on to the scalped
rabbits by means of patent cement and sealing,
wax. This would be a wholesome and profitable
recreation for the natives up there, and would
occasion much innoeent amusement amongst the
bob-tailed bunnies, also, were the latter not un-
happily prej udiced. Rabbits are very conservative
in their ways, and have a deep-rooted objection to
go scooting around with the butt-end of a calf’s
tail jabbed on their heads for a night-cap.
* * *
Some fellow on the Rum has been inter-
viewing Genevieve Ward, at Petty’s Hotel, and
the gifted Jane—her proper name, we know, is
Jane—loaded up the reporter to the muzzle with
information, and he fires off the whole thing in the
columns of the Rum aforesaid. We learn that
Miss Ward has a dog, and that she has lost all her
money in the Oriental Bank. Well, during the
last few days we have met 17,000 people we know,
and they all seem to be in the same predicament.
Still, for all that, there seems to be no diminution
of the amber beads in their moustaches; and, if
anything, since the failure, level boot-heels appear
rather to have increased. We have lost a few
thousands ourselves; but our name is still (appar-
ently) good at the fish-shop, and we haven’t as yet
given a definite answer to a deputation professing
to organize a benefit. We don’t thiDk we will take
it, anyhow—for there are so many pros, who seem
to have lost much more than we have I Besides*
we don’t arrogate to ourselves any prescriptive
right to monopolise the monkey-show and the cat"
circus even for one consecutive night.
. * •
At the funeral of the late John Harris, of
Parramatta, the chief mourners were his two
little orphans, who each carried a cross of white
flowers. A local poet or poetess was so touched at
the spectacle, that he or she dropped into verse
which, for Della-Crusean limpidity of pure bathos,
bangs Banagher. Having made the poor little
kids ask, “ How can we go back to the desolate
home ?” he or she makes answer to them in this
wise:—
“ Yes, babies, return, and think of the flowers
Laid in that ‘ vault,’ in sorrow's sad hours;
They rebelled not, nor wept, when cut from the
‘stem,’
But submitted in meekness—go imitate them.”
For unadulterated Pecksniiflan bosh, surely this
takes the cake. Why, it is almost Sladenic in its
pointless insipidity. The subject wps susceptible
of poetic treatment, but then it wanted one with
some measure of poetic gift. Unfortunately, it
fell into the hands of one to whom poetry is an
unknown quantity. Our advice to him or her is—
“ Go, look at the local culturist’s crops,
Nary pumpkin of which into poetry drops;
They have ne’er sent to Fekguson lyrical gem,
But are stupid in prose—oh, pray, imitate them.”
The indignation of hon. members respect*
ing the young schoolmaster who “gotround” a
girl and subsequently married her, is calculated to
impress upon those that are aware of the elevated
social proclivities of hon. members very consider-
ably. The delinquent ought, cry many of our
legislators, to be dismissed. Now, listen I
O rulers so immaculate I
Each one of vice a scorner ;
Say, how many of you, of late,
Have “ mouched ” at that dark corner ?
No harm, of course—the old, old song—
“ To send a teacher,” say, “ along.”
Beneath the shadow of that pile
We have seen you in droves, sirs ;
Oft waiting too, a long, long while.
Before you copped your loves, sirs !
But yet the boy who had the whim|
To wed—why, what’s too bad for him ?
The scribe who is “doing” New Caledonia
for Granny has an evident sympathy for forger*
(or as David, of Mudgee, would call them, “ manu-
facturers”). Whenever he wishes to emphasise
the indulgent softness of the French penal regine
he invariably contrasts the blood-stained mur*
derer with the forger, whose trespass he seems to
reckon as venial. And yet of the two kinds o
criminals, is not the forger in truth the worse by
far, the baser, the more offensive ? Of course*
there are murderers and murderers; still excluding
those of the utterly abominable type—the P°
sonere, par exemple— and pitting forger agsif**
murderer (as one drafted them haphazard iro
French or Australian gao's), it is certain that .y
would find the viler criminals in the ranks or t
“manufacturers.” Even Bill Sykes is an angel
comparison with Uriah Heep; while the murder
Montague Tigg was certainly not the worst oi *
little mirtakes made by Mr. Jonas Chuzzlewit.
When plain Dick or Harry takes journey by train
Of a privilege he’ll be debarred,
For he’ll not be permitted—no, never again—
To ride in the van with the guard ;
No more can he venture to handle the brake,
As he oftimes did in old days—
There’s a by-law just made, which (to save a
mistake)
Gives that boon to the dear M.L.A.’s.
And the van for the Members will strictly be kept—
’Tis there they will muster in strength—
Closely watching the guard, till they’re fairly,
adept
At stopping a train “ in its length.”
In the search after knowledge—no matter what
kind—
That may benefit his fellow man,
The paid legislator—as usual—we find
Takes proudly his place in the van.
AN ANTI-TEETOTAL HYMN.
Let us now in song extol
Every kind of gen’rous liquor—
Sing the praise of alcohol
Till the toper’s pulse beats quicker;
Tell of all the sweet delight
Yielded by a deep potation—
How it lends a rosy light
To our nose and conversation.
Every joy that man can know
Magnifies with wine’s assistance ;
When the port and sherry flow
Troubles vanish to a distance :
Never do our fancies float
To the fairy regions nearer,
Than when pouring down our throat
Half a pint of old madoira.
As the rum or whisky steals
To our brain in fragrant vapouTS,
Then it is.« M ow feels
In the cue for cutting capers ;
Men, when drunk, see certain sights
Never seen by mortals saner—
Visions haunt our beds o’nights
That never visit the abstainer.
After twelve or thirteen beers,
Just as sleep comes creeping o’er us,
Dead tea-totallers quit their biers,
Marching in review before us ;
Awe-struck, we behold them there—
Temperance ghosts and anti-smoker*—
Warning us to never “ swear
Off,” like they did (poor old jokers 1),
[And we don’t.]


Society (London), like the offensively
snobbish rag It is, says:—“When the remains of
the young Duke of Albany were carried in solemn
procession through the streets of Windsor, it was
only here and there that a head was bared. As
Windsor is a Conservative and loyal borough, we
are considerably surprised at this exhibition of
bad taste. Au contraire, the guests invited from
London travelled bareheaded, and arrived so at
Windsor Station.” Talk about the knee-plush-
ultra of loyalty, what do you think of these syco-
phantic guests from London going in bald-headed
for influenza, out of respect to Albany’s memory.
Somehow, we don’t think that blessed memory hap
much to do with it. The Windsor folks, who had
nothing to gain by exposing themselves to the
risk of a cold, nor to lose by remaining tiled,
acted like sensible fellows; au contraire, the in-
'jtt
f/l\As*sQs Le
ft a^y^-
y W 6l % *-
cXjL<L&A^~^-s
<* ■£&jf*^
7 /? Up- SjzjL cu^>C 9<r (
7T f
72 *£~ ~
C(n£jt
' u \
'ryv ;
< 'Zcr-icGuaX&., a.
Smoke-Night of the Sydney Liedertafel.
A PUFF BY OUR OWN ARTIST.
vited guests, with whom sycophancy means pick-
y)gs. considered it biz. to run the risk of a cold in
the head. If it were the mode for a score or so
of / oun ? people of fashion to be buried alive with
® head Royal Highness, families sulficently snob-
bish to supply the victims, would be found in
galore. Scrape any of those people who trave led
bare-headed from London to Windsor, and be-
neath their professed Christianity and boasted
civilisation, you would find either the servile
heart of a votary or the selfish mind of a hiero-
phant of Mumbo Jumbo.
It was only a few short months ago that
?h r soul was stirred when we read in the Nooze
that thrilling narrative of perils on the deep by
J. Henniker Heaton. In weirldly desoriptive lan-
guage that gifted writer told how the terrific
c y?lone lashed the ooean into wild fury; how the
wild wind whistled jigs through the ratlines and
rl kgings and things of the Messagerles steamer;
and how the seething waves threatened to enguli
the almost doomed snip and its living freight. In
fact, his word picture was go realist!* that our
mental vision could easily disoern one manly form
on the deck of the vessel—an intrepid and fearless
sea-dog, who paced the planks with a firm step, and
calmly surveyed the raging elements, whilst his
fellow passengers, with blanched cheeks and
terror-stricken hearts, were lying under battened
hatches, expecting every minute to be their next.
Need we say that this living type of t.he hardy
Norseman was none other than our own Henniker ?
[.Scarcely.— Ed. B.] And, furthermore, were we
not bubbling over with enthusiasm when we learnt
that he imperilled his life and liberty in the cause
of his country, by running the blockade, so to
speak, with those famous despatches, and deliver-
ing them safely to the British Government, and
thereby constituting himself the saviour or the
nation. Not only did he do all this, but no grasped
his graphic pen and let an expectant world know
what manner of men his ship-mates were. We have
a vivid recollection of how the remaining hairs on
our vonerable head stood ereot as we read the
terrible story of that cannabalistio young hero
who murdered his wife’s paramour, fried the liver
of the corpse, served it up on the half shell, com-
pelled his better half to banquet on the delicate
dish, and then artistically slit her jugular. Was it
any wonder, then, that we almost fell down and
worshipped this marvellous man, whose intrepi-
dity was only equalled by his genius as a story-
tell we mean a descriptive writer ? But. Just as
we were about to dip our pen in violet ink and
write his praises in blank verse, Captain Boyle, of
H.M.B. Tourmaline, clips in and knocks all the
stuffing out of the secret despatches in one round.
Here was a crusher, indeed; but it was followed
by another “belt” that completely floored our
Henniker. The “ Vagabond ” now openly charges
Mr. Heaton with deliberate plagiarism in the
matter of the pleasant cannibalistic anecdote, and
states that the yarn was spun by himself in a
Sydney paper ever bo many years ago. If this
kind of thing goes on, we shall begin to grow
sceptical. We may, under mild nressure, be made
to Delieve that Henniker’s services to his Queen
and country were not so valuable as the Nooze
would suggest; but, then, to think of him as being
guilty of literary (?) piracy—perish the thought!
Isn’t it just about time we gave the Duke
of Albany a rest? When alive, he was generally
as quiet as a knot on a log, and the bulk of tb’e
people took no interest in his doings. Now that
ne is dead, however, it is simply impossible to split
a home exchange that doesn’t positively reek with
the Duke of Albany. All he did, and all he didn’t;
all he said, and all he left unsaid, are duly chroni-
cled in a style calculated to make every reasonable
man mad. Here, for instance, is the London
Lickspittle and General Groveller, which
says:—‘‘The late Priuce Leopold, although not a
sporting man—he being too deiicete to engage in
the rougher pastimes—was very fond of watching
the races at Sandown Park. His Royal Highness
was a member of the Jockey club, but aid not
often attend the meetings.” By heavens! we’ve
caught the mania now ourselves. We, tco, will
recount his deeds and grovel, so here goes: “It is
not generally known that Prince Leopold was an
ardent lover of the chase, but, as the joggedly-
joggedly action of a horse used to jolt his ‘innards,’
he was eompelled to sit on a rail and chew dande-
lion lozenges while the hunters and dogs ran
past.” Again: “ The Duke of Albany was passion-
ately fond of fishing, and used to be frequently
wheeled down to a little goose-pond in the park,
where he would sit for hours bobbing for eels
with a bit of fried beef on a bent pin. Occa-
sionally, John Brown used to dive down
and fasten a sardine on the hook, upon whioh
His Koyal Highness used to gleefully haul it
up and declare that angling was a sport
fit for the immortal gods themselves.” Once
more : “ Football will sustain a heavy loss in the
death of our beloved Prince. Not that he ever
even saw a game played in his life, but he used to
send Jars of arnica, and barrow-loads of splints to
the nearest hospital, whenever a friendly game
was played.” Still another: “ The late Prince
Leopold had all that wild, dare-devil love of the
flea, which waa the chief characteriatic of the old
Vikings, whose blood evidently coursed through
his regal veins. As he usually suffered very much
from the “Ob, Mys” and the Wba-hooo-oooDS
whenever he was forced to skim the waves, he
generally contented himself by sitting on a
bathing-house step and reading Captain Marryat s
thrilling sea stories.” Striking off on a job lot of
otner remarkable traits in the Duke of Albany’s
character, we may also add that His Royal High-
ness translated the Bible into Chinese, and made
several valuable improvements on tne original
story. He was also the author of a set of copy
books, and when only three years of age could
read the inscriptions on Babylonian bricks as well
as he could when he was three-and-twenty. He
was the inventor of the steam engine, the green
potato bug, and the yellow janders. He discovered
America 12 months before Kit Columbus whs l orn;
he fought with Julius Cresar at Vinegar Hill and
Fontenoy ; he was the first Mormon elder that
ever married into a red-haired woman’s family; he
knocked Goliath out in three rounds, and then out
off his leg and threw it down a well. He was tne
co-respondent in the case of Potiphar v. Potiphar;
he shod Balaam’s ass on a Sunday, and was changed
into a pillarof Epsom salts oy way of punishment;
he was the mother of the Gracchi: and he stole
Buchanan’s boots, fixed them up an wtieels, and
then palmed them off on Minister Wright as a new
style of tramcars. He was the Man “in ihe Iron
Mask, and subsequently became the Siamese
Twins, and Margaret Catchpole He iTttilt the
Central Police Court and the Tower of Babel. He
made the world; and, in fine, he said, did, thought,
and planned out everything that has ever hap-
pened. And now, having paid this slight tribute
to his memory, we trust all other journals will let
up on His Kojal Highness for at least another
week. We can stand a Dook for breakfast, and we
might even try another cut for dinner; but when
it comes to hashing the balance up for tea, and
then grilling the boDos up for supper, we object,
and maniacally yell: “ Not any more Dook on our
plate to-nignt, tnank you.”


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Notiee.
Ask for Hookings’ High-olass Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
The hair is frequently rendered premature-
ly grey by care, grief, delicate health, lowness of
spirits, or a depressed tone of the vital powers.
The use of Hall’s Vegetable Sicilian Haib
Kenewer will restore its youthful colour and
beauty.
Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonio Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. vVholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoifnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-.-treet, Sydney.
as if he didn’t know they had wanted to
kill him only about ten minutes before. Ana
when he had done smiling, he began c o u F““{f
through his instrument in a manner which would
have done no discredit to the heavenly choir dur-
ing a celestial influenza epidemic. During the
disturbance which followed, we ascertained tbat
the gifted performer’s name is Mr. Kore. lhe
audience were almost unanimous in oiamounuu
for someone to “hang Kore.” We think colds
must be conducive to effrontery, and infectious at
that: for. instead of a picketltrom the committee
coming forward and respectfully hanging
that hardened offender trotted out and sarcasti-
cally bowed his acknowledgments. The next item
in the performance, which “took well and gave
pleasure to all,” was Herr Vogrlch’s Gneco-
Roman wrestle with the piano-stool, lhe talented
performer commenced the struggle by getting a
neck hold of the stool, and deliberately sitting
down upon it. Without any apparent effort, the
Stool promptly heaved him off, and stood looking
at him with a composed but defiant expression.
The composer dashed upon it again, and, getting a
grip, twisted its head round till its eyes stuck out,
and its squeals and laboured breathing could be
heard in the remotest part of the hall, then
Vogrich sat down upon it again, and an ex-
pression of pain and uncertainty settled up-
on his features. The stool, concentrating its
strength for a grand effort, bucked, and lifted
its antagonist clean off his feet. Several bouts
rapidly succeeded, with the same results, lhe
stool seemed as fresh as when it started, while
Vogrich was evidently getting pumped. Suddenly
he made a supreme effort, sectlred R tremendous
hold around the waist of the stool, and, wrenching
it from its footing, lifted it high in air, and
dashed it behind him, whereupon its backers threw
up the sponge, and passed'in a chair for him to
worry. This was a very fine performance in the
leg-ato style, and was followed by a rally with the
pianoforte, in which Vogrich had all the best of it,
getting in his left with immense effect, and making
the instrument groan. The history of Mr. Halle-
well’s misfortunes in the Desert was another item
in the programme whioh afforded much enjoy-
ment. The worse his sufferings, the better the
audience seemed to like it, and there was great
enthusiasm when he intimated that a detachment
of vultures were about to have him for iu°®h-
He concluded with the well-known theme, {he
Camels are coming,” and escaped with his life.
The remainder of the Circus was lost upon us. as a
small dude took our seat, and we had to take a
place behind him, where our view of the stage was
entirelvshut out by the meerschaum which had
brought him to the concert.
** * *
We went out to Botany last Sunday after-
noon to see what sort of an entertainment Mr. F.
Smith was offering to the public in the way of
Sunday concerts, and we were agreeably surprised.
An excellent orchestra, under the directorship of
Mr. Charles Austin, discoursed sweet music, which
floated out between the bents of the pavilion and
made the Muscovy ducks in the pond at the rear
turn their heads on one side and look at the sun.
Mr. J. Gordon was the first singer to appear on the
stage. He sang a solo called “ The Vidette ’’ away
down in his boots somewhere, and made the bass
cornet hide its head under a kettle for shame at its
insignificance. Then Miss Alice Johns came forth
and sang “It was a Dream ” in such a pretty go-as-
you-please style that the birds were fairly charmed
out of the bushes and swarmed down to pick up
the notes that fell all about the grounds like sugary
crumbs from a wedding breakfast. And then
Percy Shannon. T. H. Rainford, Signor Gustavo
Bellini, and Miss Reives came afterwards, and
warbled away until we went to sleep, because the
bar was closed with a sergeant of police on duty in
front. During part of the concert we took a stroll
through the beautiful gardens attached to the
pavilion, and felt our bachelor loneliness more
deeply than ever as we passed this little arbour and
that, and saw young gallants whispering the “oft-
told tale” into the ears of listening maids. The
thought then struck us that if we were in love
with a girl, and were afraid to tell her so, we should
take her up to Botany some Sunday, and go on a
stroll through those gardens. With the orchestra
playing in the distance, and the voices of the
singers floating down to us like the soughing of a
summer wind through groves of orange and pome-
granate, we could muster up courage enough to
make a start in the right direction if our tongue
hasn’t altogether forgotten all the cunning of by-
gone years. The crowd, which mostly came in
buggies and carriages, numbered about 10C0, and
was very orderly and quiet. Botany isn’t half a
bad place to spend a Sunday afternoon, you may
depend upon it.
** • *
The series of lectures given by Mrs. Dr.
Potts, at the Opera House, have during last week
and up to Wednesday night of the present week
been liberally patronised by all classes of the com-
munity. The talented lady has thrown out many
valuable hints, especially to the ladies; and her
pleasing style of speakiDg has been greatlj en-
joyed. We know that the ladies have received
some valuable hints from Mrs. Potts, because we
asked several who had been to hear her what they
had learned, and they refused to tell. That's the
way with a woman. When she gets hold of any-
thing good—really good, and that a man would
en j o y_ B he won’t tell him a word about it. If it
were something bad—something he really wouldn’t
want to hear—you can lay odds that she never
would rest until she had told him all about it.
Anyway, we are satisfied that the lectures were
good, for we don’t believe that a man like Alec
Waugh would be found dead along in advance of
anything that wasn’t worth the public’s money, or
wouldn’t draw it, or something.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .l
Harry Emmett is happy again. His wife,
Marion Melrose, is back in Melbourne from a
country trip with the Grattan Riggs’ Combination,
now playing at the Gaiety: and Harry is playing-
with the Majeronis Rosa Towers is happy, too.
It’s a boy, and weighs almost as much as his father,
Herbert Woods (Rosa’s husband). It isn’t often
that Towers are built of Woods nowadays, but
here is an exception. We saw the little musician,
the other day, and he loosed as proud as a peacock
with two tails... The Majeronis have been behead-
ing “ Marie Antoinette ” down in Melbourne. We
don’t know who wielded the cleaver, but Nat
Douglas, Harry Emmett, and Mr. Glover are all
highly spoken of by the Melbourne Press. By the
way, if that isn’t enough to damn the whole lot of
’em, we shall consider their popularity safe ...
Genevieve Ward aud Mr. Vernon occupied a pri-
vate box at the Gaiety Theatre one evening last
week. The play was “The Irish Detective, ’ and
Grattan Riggs was at his best The irrepressible
Emelie has been doing a wonderful business at the
Bijou, Melbourne; but the trustees of the in-
solvent estate are said to have wolfed about
all the “ cabbage ”... Mr. Alfred Dampier is going
to Maoriland shortly with his own company.
How the skin on the noses of those romantic
daughters of the Kauri forest will be irritated
when the new-chums get amongst them 1.. ..Alli-
son’s London Comedy Company are playing at
Williamson and Co.’s Theatre in Adelaide. The
troupe opens at the Princess’, Melbourne (now
closed), shortly. What can all this interchange of
theatres, and brotherly love between Allison and
the triumvirate, mean ? And will somebody kindly
tell us why Jeffreys-Lewis is said to have almost
failed to catch the Melbourne public in a new piece
like “Fedora?” Yes, and will somebody give us a
hint as to why those long despatches about Miss de
Grey’s “failure” in Adelaide are wired ahead of
her to the Melbourne and Sydney dailies ? But,
never mind. Life is too shoit for you to figure
that out. We could tell you, but prefer to wait
awhile. It doesn't alwavs do to let a cat out of the
bag until the crockery has been put away....
George Ireland and Elolse Juno are in Melbourne,
organising for a country tour. May their shadows
never grow more transparent. Ireland, you re-
member, is the Spider who was hanged for killing
the Silver KiDg....Big demand for “Pros.” in
Melbourne. Several troupes organising there for
provincial trips Pat Finn’s “office,” at the
coner of Bourke and Swanston streets, Mel-
bourne, is still well watched by the pros.
and cons Dan Barry is in Sydney, for a
breathing spell. There has been a dissolution
of the partnership between Barry and Charlie
M'Mahon. Charlie isn’t much longer than a two-
foot rule, but what he doesn’t know about busi-
ness wouldn't put a fortune in the pocket of any
one else Rumour says that Ethel Adele is going
to get married to the handsomest man in Adelaide.
Nyum, Nyum! Oh, Lor! what nave we been tell-
ing you ? Now we shall go out and get our head
shaved.. .Frank Fowler and Frank Beverley are
about leaving Melbourne with a burlesque party.
George Darrell, Ned Kennedy, and Marshall
the Melbourne show printer, shipped for England
on the Iberia. Bon voyage, George, and may you
return with more money than would buy the
biggest plantation in “The Sunny South.” And
this reminds us that the Kennedy Family have
been paralysing Victorian audiences over Ballarat
way with their Scotch songs and big teeth. It
beats all how the Kennedys are clearing out of
this country for home. Ned gone, the Family
going, and Tom almost persuaded. Oh, yes, and
Tom has been on the sick list lately, and thought
it rather hard his cousins didn’t call on him
while here. But there. That’s none of our
business as we know of, nor of yours either.
The Melbourne Mutual Imps have decided
to throw open their fine rooms as a club for the
free convenience of actors. The hours of access
will be from nine in the morning until ten at night.
After 10 p.m. none but the Imps of Darkness will
be allowed to drink cocktails and eat ham sand-
wiches. Brother Darton is to be special secretary.
Have you “ tuppence ” about you, Pat ?—Arthur
Vivian and Company are rambling around in South
Australia. It’s cheaper to come back by water,
but the walking isn’t nearly so good that way
Poor Jack Drayton is dead and buried. He wasn’t
a bad fellow, but we’ll bet a new hat he’ll talk the
ear off St. Peter if he doesn’t let him in at the
golden gate Wat Douglas, Solange Novaro, and
Monty Browne join the Allison party for the pro-
duction of “Romeo and Juliet” at the Lyceum,
Melbourne, next month. We have often won-
dered if Monty Browne is the father of Pattie
THE GOAT AND THE PTG.—A FABLE.
(BY OUR OWN ESOP.)
A GOAT, BROWSING ON A GREEN SWARD, APPROACHED A PIG-PEN, AND SAID TO ITS
INTELLIGENT OCCUPANTS: “WHY DO YOU STAY IN THAT FILTHY PLACE WHEN
THERE IS SUCH A LOVELY SPOT AS THIS SO HANDY?” “BECAUSE,” GRUNTED
THE PIG, “THE PEN IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SWARD.”
Browne. If he; is, we just want to tell him that
he’s got a mighty good-looking daughter, and
don’t you forget it. Keep your seats: it’s no use.
She’s mortgaged Willie Arrowsmith.lß. Watson
(new-chum comic vocalist), and Tilly Lake| are
with a compact little company travelling on the
way over from Melbourne. Our correspondent
says they will get here about July 1. What 1 are
they walking? The Auckland Observer
says : “ Hoskins recently received another bene-
fit in Melbourne. He should be called * Farewell
Benefit Hoskins.’ ” Also that Beaumont Read is
getting very fat. Good Lud ! the observer man
should see him. He could read his paper through
him The Theatre Royal, Dunedin, and the
Royal, Christchurch, have been leased by Messrs.
Macdonald, Carey, and Walton. Let’s see: isn’t
Walton the man who took Pat Finn’s opera troupe
up the country from Melbourne once upon a time?
M’Lean's Operatic Company, including Misses
Horan and Fox, and Messrs. Walton and James,
are lifting the hair of the denizens of the Monaro
district The Stanley Juvenile Opera Company
were at Newcastle, recently, some of them wheezy
with colds. If there is anything that is calculated
to soothe the playgoer’s soul into restful repose, it
is a Juvenile Opera Company with a bad cold. The
company have since swooped down on Maitland,
with what advantage to the local undertaker we
have not been informed The Royal Comic
Opera Company presented the “ Grand Duchess ”
to a Maryborough audience a few nights ago, and
the local News divided the plum-duff about
equally between Miss Lambert, Miss Beatrice
Lome, Mr. Vernon Reid, Mr. Tyrrell, and Mr.
Templeton The landlords are Munning the
Dunning Opera Company in Melbourne for rent,
but the responsible Dunning happens to be
“convenientlj r ’’ in New Zealaud, and so the Court
business will stand over for a month—The Mon-
tague-Turner Opera Company have been siDging
to holiday houses at Albury. They sang ii. the
Mechanics’ Institute Hall, and the Border Post
says that the audience remained in the Hall simply
on suffrance. This was not owing to the singing,
however, but to the coldness of the place, the
acoustic defects, and a lot of other things. As the
hall is a new one, the looal architect will probably
call the editor of the Border Post out, and put a
Mansard roof over his left eye —Chiarini s Royal
Italian Cirous and Menagerie is still at Adelaide,
and is having a most successful season....Ben-
hamo’s Englisn Circus is also in Adelaide gather-
ing in the soveigns at an astonishing rate. There
will be few coppers dropped in the Sunday School
plate at Adelaide for some time to come, if the
youngster of to-day is anything like the young-
ster of twenty years ago King's Mammoth
Minstrels “benefltted” Miss Lolo de Glorian at
Armidale the other night —lhe Wheeler-Russel
Dramatic Company are in Melbourne after a suc-
cessful up-country trip with Miss Lillian Russell
as "Little Jo.” Professor Baldwin has been de-
luding the people of Townsville. He will be in
Sydney before long to renew old acquaintances
and revive their “spirits.” Mr. George Leitch
Walker, now playing with Genevieve Ward at the
Theatre Royal, is the author of “ Coming Home, or
Sichors to Grind.” Before we knew who the
author of this piece was, we thought he ought to
write another one and then die. Come to think
of it, we are pretty much of the same opinion still.
The Blayney Advocate seems annoyed
because the Bathurst Times people—Dowse and
Macdougal—have started a paper called the Blay-
ney Argus. D. and M., who, it seems, run that
vivacious organ, the Bathurst Times, announce
that in their new venture they have “ high aims
independent of pecuniary gaino.” The Advocate
denounces this as “ bunkum,” and proudly ex-
claims—“ We have helped to make Blayney what
it is.” We thoroughly believe this; and therefore
we have too much delicacy to state that we have
been several times up in search of Blayney, but
have never boon able to find it! Carcoar Mary,
by the way, has a sub-title as the Blayney some-
thing ; and we are anxious to hear what she has to
say about the matter. We have an idea, though,
that the Advocate boys won’t tackle Mary. They
know how we writhed when we felt the weight of
her editorial foot—we mean the castigation of her
Illy hand.
This is, of course, another gem corusoating
in the crown of Alfred the Great. Read it: —“ He
ought to have remembered how like it is to Bul-
lamy’s (sic) introduction of Mr. Montague Tegg
(sic), *By your leave; by your leave there! Room
for the chairman of the board. By your leave.’ ”
It is supposed to be a synonym for that little
judicial creature in Adelaide who ordered the Court
stand up and salute the Chief Justice. Unfortun-
ately for Alfred and his strain after the euphemis-
tic, there was no “ Bullamy ” in the “ Anglo-BeD-
galee,” and equally there was no “ Mr. Montague
Tegg.” We are sorry to have to say this, because
we have respected Alfred ever since we last saw
him at lunch! A man who has his fowl and mush-
rooms hoisted up in a soup-tur Well, there I
But, for all that, there is no “ Bullamy,” and there
is no “ Montague Tegg,” either: unless Alfred—
which wouldn’t surprise us—has written a “ Martin
Chuzzlewit” of his own
One of the meu who had the Tamwobth
News has taken a pub. up there. He says the
people will invariably swallow what he edits now,
but formerly they were inclined to be sceptical.
The NEWB is now owned by Jews, and also managed
by a prominent descendant of the seven tribes of
Judah. He is at issue—his name is Joseph—with the
other editor, whose name is Hooke. The latter has
put in the window of his bookshop a frame con-
taining specimens of the writing of all the Hooke
family, and also a fac-simile of Joseph’s alleged
letter to the editor of this journal, a sample of nis
illustrious pothooks also appearing. This seems
to interest the Tam worth people a good deal-a
circumstance which demonstrates, perhaps, that
they are easily interested. The plant of the other
paper—the Independent—is “ mouldering in its
grave,” and things journalistic up Tamworth way
are not effusively gay. About the most exciting
place we know for a paper is Singleton. The
editor there is a charming fellow ; but he ad-
mitted, in confidence to us, that if he were Hot
stirred up by a stipendiary boy occasionally, he
would assuredly get mouldy.
Up in Maitland, the other Sunday, a eeiv
tain Wesleyan minister expressed the hope that
the contribution, which was to be for missionary
purposes, would be particularly liberal. He hoped*
in fact, that everyone present would put the
largest coin they had on them in the box. The
Wal Times says that immediately a great many
people began feeling for their pennies. We didn’t
know before that so many Scotch people were in
the habit of attending the Wesleyan Church, and
are inclined to take the Times’ statement for sar-
c ism. We do remember, however, once hearing a
conversation between an Irishman and a Scotch-
man. They were “barneying” each other, as a
matter of oourse, when finally the Irishman said:
“ It’s a divil av a pity, anyway, that the farthin’ is
no longer a circulating coin av the realm.” “ Why
is it a pity ?’’ enquired the Scot. “ Share, now that
it s no longer circulatin’, the Scotch haven't any-
thing to put on the plate av a Sunday mornin’.”
Mr. Summers, Inspector of singing masters
in Victoria, has been drawn into a controversy
about musical criticism, and has pleaded for the
right of professional men to write criticisms for
the newspapers when he himself no longer has to
compete with his brethren. “It is agreed by all,”
says the Melbourne letter to the Brisbane
Courier, “ that a capable amateur is the best sort
of critic to have.” With this we agree; for, of all
the men in the world, the musical man is the most
tsuohy when it comes to criticism. Everybody
read how the Age critic, Moule, got thrashed for
saying that Signor What's-his-name's Muss was
poor. Or, was it the other man who got thrashed ?
It’s the same thing, for both were professional
musicians. Anyhow, a “ capable ” amateur Is cer-
tainly the most reliable man, but how many ama-
teurs are capable? We have known men, who
have no more ear than a goat, criticise Ketten,
and Madame Goddard, and fill long columns with
their rot. And we have seen a similar thing
attempted about pictures by men who cannot dis-
tinguish between green and blue. Let us have
capable amateurs, by all means, but let them be
capable.


That furred tongue, bad tasting mouth,
fnd miserable feeling, says you need Hop hitters.
Lead and believe.
Too late. How often do we hear this cry
of anguish from those who find them selves sink-
ing fast under the pressure of dnease, as they look
bank at the lost opportunities to regain their
health. To all such we say, it is not too late I Try
Bristol's Sarsfarilla aDd Piuls, they have
ured hundreds of sufferers. Try them 1 try them!
John T. Mclnnks and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham
bers, 90 Pitt-strekt, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
&o. No commission charged for buying. Agents
for the sale or purobase on commission of Pure-
bred Rtonk.*
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
w
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
ILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THUR DAY, the I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARKE, Hon. Treas.
(care F. Lassetter and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 Geortfe-streefc.
T
HE BEST LOCATION IN THE COLONIES
FOR SMALL BUYERS.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
GRANTHAM ESTATE.
MODEL TOWNSHIP SUBDIVISION.
People’s £5 ALLOTMENTS, 30x2 0 fcetdeep: pay-
able 5s deposit, balance ss. per month (no
interest) —suitable for BUILDING or
CULTIVATION.
ALL TRADES WANTED
Rare opening for smart industrious men and
families in the thriving township of Riverstone,
26 miles lrom Sydney, on the Windsor and Rich-
mond Railway, having exceptional rail way facili-
ties, extensive works, excellent huteh stores, and
industries, church, Public school, &c.
The judicious pui-cbase of land in rising town-
ships forms the safest and most profitable invest-
ment for
PRESENT OCCUPATION,
or
LEGACY FOR THE CHILDREN.
Illustrated pamphlets, containing useful hints
to buyers, gardeners, housekeepers, and agricul-
turists generally, with plan of allotments, sent free
on application to
BOYD and KING,
96, Pitt-street, Sydney.
The auctioneers desire that sll purchasers per-
sonally inspect this property before buying, and
to enable them to do so, special railwuy arrange-
ments have been made.
The solicitor to thfii estate is Mr. J. WILLIAM-
SON, who will prepare transfers for purchaseis
free of charge.
FRIDAY, 11th JULY,
Day after the C.R J. Club’s Annual Raets.
Holmsten’s
FAMILY HOTEL,
VICTORIA-STREET, GRAFTON.
The Premier Hotel on the Clarence.
JOHN H. MUNRO has received instructions
from Mr. J. A. HOLMSTEN, to sell by public
auction, at his Rooms, the Colonnade, Oral ton.
On FRIDAY, Jlth July next
(the day after the C. R. J. Club’s Annual Races),
at 11 o’clock,
All those GRAND HOTEL PREMISES, so long
and favourably known as
Holmsten's Family Hotel,
situated in the business centre of the city, and
having 99 feet, frontage to Victoria-street, by a
depth of feet to Wharf-sti eet, being
bounded on the back by Victoria I.ane, and
containing 38)4 perches, more or less; beiDg
subdivisions 7 and 8 of section 2 of original al-
lotment 6 of section 3, city of Grafton, parish
of Great Marlow.
The Hotel premises are very substantially built
of BRICK (on stone foundations), Two Stories in
height, with Attics extra, and very HIGHLY
FINISHED. Containing a DrawiDg-room, i. 3 Bed-
rooms; large DiniDg Room, 43 x 17 Vi feet, with
folding doors; Bar Parlour, small Parlour, Hall (6
feet wide); extensive Cellars; and Balcony (12 feet
wide) round two sides; also. Verandah at hack; 4
Servants’ Rooms, Pantry, Kitchen, Laundry, Bath
Rooms, large Billiard Room, 2 large Commercial
Sample Rooms, large Yaid, Harness Room; sta-
bling, having 4 loose boxes 10 x 14, with extensive
loft accommodation; and every other convenience
for carrying on a first-class Hotel business.
The trade done at ibis House is probably the
largest on the Clarence, as it is situated right in
the centre of the traffic, and also close to the C.
and K. R. S. N. Company’s Wharf, where the ocean
steamers lie. It also commands the passenger
traffic by the river steamers—a very large trade
indeed—and is one of the oldest established Hoteis
in the district. The only reason the proprietor
has for disposing of it is that he has secured a com-
petency, and wishes to retire from business.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS’,
Ami the Terms will he
One-third, Cash; balance in equal amounts, at 1,2,
3, and 4 years' date, bearing 8 per cent, interest,
and secured upon the property.
Fuller particulars can be obtained upon applica-
tion to the Auctioneer, and anyone wishing to in-
spect will beshown over the premises, and afforded
the fullest information.
Remember—FßlDAY, 11th July.
JOHN 11. MUNRO, Auctioneer.
Graftou and Casino.
J3P“ DEST ENGLISH LEVERS.
mHE LIVERPOOL & LONDON
Watch Company
have IiEMOVED to those most
extensive premises at Corner of
Boyal -Arcade,
296 Pitt-st. Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH LEV EH WATCHES
Reduced to £3 10a.
Sent to nil parts of the colony Free of Charge.
Each watch warranted for five j ears, and kept
in repair free i f charge.
C. SIMMiLT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKET?.
Note the above Address.
DEAFNESS !—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively iniallible remedies i rescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Serior surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, lorw ß rded(on
receipt of stamps for reply! by T. B. Haunaford,
Auckland, New Zealand.
BRIEF MENTION.
G-avan Duffy is forming a new Irish party.
Alas, poor Ireland. 'Twas ever thug.
Shakespeare was married at 18. And
Briggy Young was spiced at 18,19,20, 21, 23, and so
on, up to the frisky fifties.
At the Melbourne City Court, a man was
charged with “ attempting to bribe the police.’’
Anyone failing in such a task can’t expect much
sympathy.
The lowest Chinese soldier, gets 6s. 2d. per
month, which is a lot of money to pay for a port-
able target fit to hold half an ounce of French lead
in Tonquin.
“ Use your knees! ” ories Major Barker to
his soldiers in the War Cry. It is, he doubtless
feels, as unnecessary to tell them to use their jaws
as to hold theml There is thought in this.
The Bourke funny man announces tha,t
Sybney Punch is dead. This reeking bit of wit
raises the dread that the mantle then dropped has
fluttered away west, and begins to fit oomfortable
like.
The Herberton Advertiser, referring to
the custom of young children bathing in a deep
local dam, urges parents “to caution their chil-
dren, as if one or more be drowned, it will be too
late.” Hew true 1
The other day, at Hill End, a miner and a
preacher had a fight. The miner “luffed” the
preacher right through the portals of his resi-
dence. Much sympathy was subsequently expres-
«ed—for the door.
Carcoar Mary is perfectly right in de-
nouncing the absurdity of the conduct of the
Sydney beak who let off a lot of drunks because it
was the Queen’s Birthday on which they had made
beasts of themselves.
In Newcastle: Magnate, in hotel parlour,
on Sunday afternoon, with lriends. —Mag. to Bar-
maid: “Four brandies.” Barmaid: “Can’t serve
you, sir; the bar is closed.” Mag.: ‘ Open it, in-
stantly ! I’m a magistrate /" Bar opened accord-
ingly.
Tons of Tpepper are sold which oontain
nothing but compositions most injurious to the
health, and on running over reams of peppery
paragraphs in our exchanges, we are not astonished
at the growing increase of insanity amongst pro-
vincial readers.
A piekpocket up Bourke way went into
his cell chuckling because he had robbed the
policeman who arrested him. As soon as he was
alone, he pulled the plunder out of his boot, and
found his own knife, tobacco, and a marked half-
crown he had when nabbed.
The Herald youth, alludes, \re the initial
representation of “Forget Me Not,” to the per-
formance of “Stephaine” (sic), and of another
character, who had soubriquet (sic). This solves
the secret, apparently, of why our rubbish-box
has been so long neglected.
Bobby Byrne’s oosts in his Ready libel
action amount to over £4OO. But he still smiles.
We will tell you why. The other day, the Clen
Innes Guardian described his journal as being
44 run on very much the same lines as The Bulle-
tin.” A little more glory would kill him.
Here is a legal point, which the lover of
cheap poultry ought to learn by heart: The new
Criminal Code expressly excludes birds from being
subleotB of larceny—so at least the Bega bench
have decided. If this view be right, a fellow can
beggar his neighbour of his roosters, without so
much as running a chicken hazard.
A Mrs. Sturgess, in Melbourne, has recently
palmed off a strange kid on , he f, hu b- B °“®
consideration, Mr. cl- came to the conclusion that
he had been rearing the hope and pride of a man in
another street. This conclusion was based, so tar
as we can gather, upon scientific grounds. Huxley
and Tyndall are to the fore even in the antipodes.
Fancyl
He was one of our squatter-kings, and
when a certain lournal published a brevity par.
whfoh said “It is true that a millionaire squatter
washes his own socks,” the insulted magnate
rushed down to the publisher’s office, hoisted his
heels upon the counter, and, tucking up his pants,
killed the slander stone dead on the spot, by most
conclusively proving that he never wore socks
at all. ,
When Morgan, the Panmure murderer,
to thescaffold it is alleged by Alfred that
he aDDeared ” dazed.” We miss, however, Alt. s
nioe P little expression of how “ the wretched man
entirelv failed to recognise his position. Not
much pity seems to have been expressed for Mr
Morgan even in religious circles. Hang it 1 it s
gettfng’hardly worth while to be a murderer in
these prosaic times! _ , ,
So Warren v. Webber has all ended in
remember dorter put lnuons°oa
se°nger a very belle 'Americaine, this, let
except thl oaVtein. You see funny things travel-
ling, besides the sea-serpent.
A New York beggar found himself adver-
this *iteun—it 'oouldnT; °have°been t
this thimr always happens “out West,” ortotho
son nf a VißMunt, who is eating damper in a hut
on D the Billybelungeroo Station. And our man is
just now about due once more.
We wonder what the Miss Baring who is
. , Y-V+vio monevto aid in the release of the
Cressweth aUeged to be Arthur Orton, is
Wo havean idea, somehow, that she dresses in
engine-room to boil our billy.
“That bad boy” who interviews grocers,
mat Daa o y „ pa „ insome of the Ameri-
can pIS is dead, since the Australian exchanges
brasses
wav where are the American screamers of our
youth? Echo, who was about to answer where,
is gone out for an emetic,
Herald leaVabout this par., if you only knew
More Sunday-school chat, and this time it
Ethel, set. 9. Oh, no, , »» mho womanly
to play with me sometimes also. t-Hlls* and
instinct breaks out very young in Surry Hills and
bv the time Ethel is 19 her mamma win waken up
to the real wisdom which is stowed away m the
above remark. There's nothing like a litue uevu
to please the women.
Two bank managers have lately been
testimonalised. One a Mr. Cantoj} of
branch of the A.J.*., who got three hundred ana
a coffee- set • and, another, Mr. Freeman oi ine
Oriental Bank, Goulburn. who only flralr goes
“address with photos.’ And f ormer goe
into a big billet, and the> other goesi outtof one. tt
(9 satisfactory to learn, however, and this goes ia
to level the thing, that at each presentation—from
the Rum —“several present testified to the high
appreciation in which the guest was held.” There
is almost poetry in this I
Because we will have the most stirring
topics of the day in our columns, and becaose we
have narrowly escaped colonial disruption through
the underground machinations of the Riverina
squatters who plotted revolution in Scott's Hotel,
we should fail in our duty to the Empire if we did
not keep a vigilant eye on new developments in
that seditious province. Says the Star, cautiously:
“ Rumour says that shortly a police station is to be
established in the premises lately occupied by Mr.
Leemon, late oaretaker of the bridge. This is cer-
tainly a step in the right direction.”
A foolish, Groulburnite objeots to
hoarded-out children being admitted to the public
schools, on the ground that most of them are the
progeny of very depraved parents. Now, the
fellow who entertains suoh a notion as that, is the
very one who, the opportunity being afforded him,
would kootoo to a royal bastard. We wonder if
he would go the length of advocating the removal
from high place—from the Supreme Court Bench,
from the Legislative Counoil, from the Commis-
sion of the Peace, etc—of that tidy long list of
men who are notoriously the progeny of very de-
praved parents.
The Corporation of St. Peter’s (Adelaide
S.A.), in the prosecution of a crusade against
brothels, discovered that a certain demi-mondaine
establishment, which was conducted on a very
grand scale, was regularly frequented by pro-
minent citizens. What did the saintly Corporation
do? Expose the prominent citizens or prosecute
the keeper of the house they freq uented ? Not so;
Simply asked them to shift the scene of their im-
moral pranks to some other looality. Extreme
measures must on no aooount be taken against
respectable leohers or gamblers—that is a doctrine
thoroughly well understood by people in autho-
rity.
When an Evening News man heard that
in New Zealand seven people had been poisoned by
whisky, he sm.led sardonically. He went round to
Punah's, and told Deeble he didn’t believe it. He
pointed out that the rumour was a libel on a whole-
CASTING REFLECTIONS.
VENKRABLE LADY (who has been looking on the wine when it was red) to herimage, in[?]
mirror: “WHAT D’YE MANE, YE DURTY ODLD OMADAUN, SHARIN’ YER FISRT AT
A DACENT WOMAN? G’LANO WID YEZ, OR OPLL SCRATCH THE UGLY EYES OUT
O’ THE DRUNKEN FACE O’ YE!” (Combat.)
some spirit, and suggested that he should refute It
first by practical experience, and next through the
medium of his valuable columns. Deeble sa’d he
would consult Punch; and, probably, when their
joint decision is known, we shall publish a second
edition. The chief suspense, however, neither is
with us nor our readers. It is centred, of course,
in the man who is anxious to make the experi-
ment.
It is satisfactory to learn that the deteo-
tives found no dynamite in the “City of Sydney,’
“ notwithstanding that two of them took up their
stations at the gangway, to watch the luggage.
No passenger, we understand, brought ashore a
paokage even labelled “ uitro-glycerine, with
care.” The D’s—four of them!—are on the alert,
however ; so revelations of a startling character
may shortly be expected. It took about 5000
police to catch three dynamiters at home; but we
have no doubt our little lot here will show a better
record. They have got p'enty of confidence, any-
how. And they look pretty standing outside the
theatre.
When Dean Faithful heard Genevieve
Ward in “ Forget Me Not,” he said to her, You
have preached me a better sermon than ever 1
heard in my lif a.” This comes of not having
fmvftilod If he could only have heard the
“Pastor” here, with the mouth like the Fish Itiyer
Caves, discoursing upon the atrocities of the
blood-thirsty who had put a lump of orange-
peel in his milk-jug, the Dean would perhaps have
paused ere he uttered those memorable words.
Hem! No. 3, Gadsby’s Collection That reminds
us, we haven’t heard much of the Pastor lately.
Thunder! Are there no more bloody Jesuits left to
annihilate ?
Says the Hamilton Spectator We
nrn always happy to pay for messages containing
news, but this P is y the first time in our experience
as journalists we have been called upon to pay for
news about himself fro m a prisoner under arrest
ton I where grew the timber that holds in from
nubile view that mighty brain? lent the par.
that reviles Tom worth a shilling, and was it out
of pity for you that he thought even the odour of
a gaol would be better in the paper than the old
monotonous flavour of the cemetery ?
The Liberal congratulates Mr. Cyril Havi
land that his efforts in the direction of the abolition
of barmaids are already bearing fruit, even though
in another colony. The little touch of mutual
admiration ” is a clear case of shouting before
being out of the wood. Barmaids are not yet
abolished. The Melbourne Royal Commission on
Employes in Shops, who suggest their abolition,
Dever even heard of Cyril Haviland. To credit
him, therefore, with effecting what basn t yet been
effected, and with having exerted influence on
people who have never so much as heard of either
him or his opinions, is (not to put too tine a point
of it) a whole lot too thin. Cyril is an authority on
negative photos of spirit babies; when men and
women are on the board, he « out of it.
Talk about high toue, why. up Roma way
(here is a certain Government offioah who keeps a
Bachelor’s Hall, and is so ’igh a»d 'aughty that he
never deigns to speak to any of his servants.
When he wants a ride, his little Kanaka page skips
to the stable with a note like this: “Mr. Robert
Grimes. Sir, I will require my horse ready com-
parisoned at 3 p.m. sharp.” And his latest epistle
to his kitchen slavey ran as follows: “ Please nave
for breakfast a grilled chop, an egg, and plenty of
toast. Lunch: Slice of ham, leg of a fowl, and
plenty of toast. Dinner: Beef, apple-pie, and
plenty of toast. More care must be given in
future to cleaning my mirror, and sweeping out
my room.” Bai Jauvel Roma’s not fit to hold a
prince like that Rumjungle Gully or Dirty
Swamp would be just the place to bury him in for
life.
The Monaro Mercury is in raptures over
a new work, which has just been issued to flil the
usual “long-felt want,” and is now gyrating
about the Southern districts. The Practical
Home Physician ” is the title, and after dilating
on the chaste and lovely-coloured engravings of
the tibia, fibula, pancreatic duct, mucuous mem
brane, &c., with which this interesting book is
filled, the Monaro messer takes care to explain
that the “ canvasser of the book, Mr. J. A. Curtis,
which is well bound and nicely printed, stays at
Mr. Cohen’s Cooma Hotel: he ought to have many
customers.” That’s so. And if the ‘.well-bound
Mr. Curtis can find a chapter in his Home I hy-
sioian” on tne proper treatment ot harmless
lunatics, he ought lto step across and read it over
to the friends of the man who slung the above
paragraph.
Split in the Church of England Temper-
ance Society. At last annual festival, Bishop
Barry, t.he inconsistent temperate, tried to sit upon
priest Mervyn Arctadall, the consistent intem-
perate, and the little teetotaller wouldn’t have if,
and, amid what the reporters term “ loud and con
tinued applause,” declared that if his mouth was
to be stopped there, he d be troubled if he d remain
on the Society’s platform; and then Manning, J,
came along with a little pot of oil, and strove to
Sour peace upon the troubled waters by enuncla-
ng the belief that the boss temperance man is the
fellow who can take his liquor without getting
into an unseemly state of mops and brooms, in
the Kast, they put an ass at the head of a oaravan,
to regulate the rate of march; so do the goody-
goody societies invariably place inconsistency and
intemperance, rant and twaddle upon the platfor'•>
to give the step—and then wonder that the procesh
doesn’t make headway.


The Referee.
SPOTTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Miller last week turned||out of bed for the
first time since his accident. The “Professor,”
whose leg has been set in plaster of Paris, yearns
for further glory in the athletic arena.
That straightest ot pullers, Clifford, has
had his boats, to the value of some £5O, burnt by
some malicious scoundrel A tenner subscribed
by the members of each of the rowing clubs would
help to set him up attain,.and show that straight
going is appreciated by our amateurs.
Victor, that most versatile of sports, who
appears open to tackle anything from Dinnie to
Sammy Craeknell, is making overtures to an
Indian wrestler, now in Victoria, named Hassen
Mahomet. Mahomet does not seem to have pro-
p let-ed by his colonial experience, and there
at pears some difficulty in settling terms, but no
dcubt be will set all straight when he learns how
wk stling matches are fixed up now-a-days.
"Voiing Dutchy haa bee
matched to fight W. Murph
In San Francisco,using glove
English sculler Elliott
has decided not to return t
the States, and has opened
pub. on the hanks of th
Tyne, England.
Clarence Whistler has
acknowledged that the wrest
ling match with Muldoon
over which there was such i
fuss, was a cut and drie
affair.
Sid. Edwards stood on
his head in a wager boat las
week, on the Tarra, and ha
challenged all-comers at the
mountebank business. Now
then, Ed. step along: this
something in your line.
It is stated Wallace
Ross will only row one race
in America this year, with
Courtney. He is to be in
London (Eng.), on Aug. 25
and will then sign a contract
to give rowing exhibitions at
Berlin, Vienna, and other
Continental cities.
At Wolverhampton
(Eng.), on April 16, Howell
the English bicyclist, started
at scratch in a mile handicap
and although defeated, the
the time showed that had he
been timed separately he
would have beaten bis own
record of 2min. 40 4-ssec.
A Yankee named Spell-
man has patented a machine
that should prove a regular
Silverton to our Canadian
visitor. It is a contrivance
for rowing races on a track
in-doors, and was recently
tried with success at Port-
land, U. 8., when Hamm, Con-
ley, and others pulled races.
Jhe charges made
against the Yankee flyer, L.
E. Myers, .have fallen
through, the National As-
sociation of Amateur Ath-
letes of America having “ re-
solved, that upon all the
charges made against L. E.
Myers and all the testimony
submitted in supportof these
charges, the opinion of the
committee is that L. E.
Myers has not violated the
definition of an amateur as
adopted by this National As-
sociation of Amateur Ath-
letes and is an amateur.”
Pedestrian Edwards has
been exhibiting his medals
and wardrobe, at Denver,
U.S. The local Tribune
winds up, after giving a de-
scription of the belt:—“ln
addition to the above Mr.
Edwards has several medals,
and carries the finest assorted
wardrobe of any pedestrian
in the country. He has al-
most numberless pairs of
trunks, and several of them
have been presented to him
by lady friends in Australia.”
Giddy Edwards! He has evi-
dently forgotten to inform
the Denverites he is very
much married in Australia.
Ladies proverbially go
by contraries, and the Manly
fair ones were no exception
to the rule when they decided
the Fairlight cricket match,
which eventuated last Satur-
day, should be held during
the “ Off ” season. Teams
were picked consisting of
he’s and she’s mixed up pro-
miscuous like, the sterner sex
agieeing to bat left-handed
only. The game progressed
pretty equally until one
gentleman started to bat
right-handed, when he was
at once ordered to change.
This he did; but as he hap-
pened to be left-handed, be
didn’t lose much by the
change, as he followed the
suit of the Permanent Artil-
lery, and bombarded the
Quarantine Station with the
first ball he received. The
hit fairly galvanised the op-
posing side, and the fair part
of it—if we were ÜBgabant
we might say unfair—insisted
on the much-talked of cricket
match being called a draw.
Thus ended the match of the
Manly season, but not the
festivities, which were kept
up till chanticleer—but, we
\hink we have seen this some-
w here before.
Dr. Carver recently wagered he could
shoot 1000 bats in 80 minutes; and more than ac-
complished the task by dropping-1003in 71 minutes.
The* bats were thrown into the air two at a time by
a negro attendant, the doctor standing at a dis-
tance of eighteen yards. He used two guns, in-
cluding a favourite weapon, which he calls the
‘•Old Widow,”
A writer from Rockhampton suggests that
Tom White, who is stated to be somewhere out
Port Douglas way, should be retained as coach for
the local rowing clubs. White was certainly a
good man in his day, and made his mark in the
archives of English aquatics. Besides winning
Doggett's coat and badge, he formed one of the
champion four at the Tnames National Regatta, in
1858. In ’59 he was beaten on the Tyne, by
Robert Chambers.
We have received a copy of the “ English,
American, and Australian Sporting Calendar,”
edited by James E. Tonkin, of Bathurst. Mr.
Tonkin touches on every class of sport from horse-
racing to cocking and ratting, and gives tables of
records which cannot but prove of interest to
sporting men of every description. That the
records are well up to date is proved by the fact
that the colonial pugilistic list winds up with the
recent unfortunate affair between Lawson and
Agar.
r T he »^? nlan Bhow > 0n the Albert Park
iiake, Melbourne, attracted some 10,000 spectators,
rnh u w . m were said to have paid for admission.
1 he champion rowed against the brothers Edwards,
, a Juggling—at which game, by the way,
r® j t° Play second fiddle to Sid Edwards—ane
rowed against an eight manned by Messrs Up-
rnai«r Tuckett. Thonemar, Champion, F. Watson.
, • Batson, Senior, and Ainley, who, of course,
beat him in a couple of spins.
The return match between the New Zea'
land and New South Wales footballers, played on
the Association Ground on Saturday last, resulted
m another easy win for the visitors. The Sydney
men made a fair show up to half-time, but after
that the Maoris ran over them, and at the finish
had scored 21 points to the home team’s 2. Fligg
and Oxley, who were for some unexplained reason
left out of the first match, made by far the best
show for their side on Saturday last.
Sutton, the “Englishman,” who appears
open to wager on anything, from a horse-race to a.
canine controversy, laid “ W. Neill ” £lOO to £7 he
could not kill two pigeons, sprung out of two
traps together, and win the Steeplechase at Wynd-
ham on Saturday week with Chippenham. The
taker of the odds killed the first bird, hit the
second hard-but not hard enough to keep it
Dynamite Scare.—No. 5.
A Suggestion to the Government.
SUBJECT EVERY PASSENGER FROM ’FRISCO TO THIS TEST, AND NO DYNAMITER WILL ESCAPE.
within bounds-and duly won the Steeplechase.
rr& second bird failing out of bounds, the
Englishman ” won the wager.
Sixteen members of the Sydney Bicycle
Club rode to Manly on Saturday, and found the
roads in fine condition. Even the hills up from
the North Shore Ferry were negotiable by most of
the riders. At the top, the Tricycle Club was left
behind, while a few Wanderers went on ahead,
lea at Manly 6 o’clock, and fourteen completed a
.Tolly journey back to Circular Quay before 9 p.m.
the luxurious rooms of the Sydney Bicycle Club,
over Paterson’s, are now furnished complete, and
His intended to have them formally opened with
a festivity.
In oommon with most Victorian papers,
the Melbourne Herald evidently cherishes the
sweet delusion that the race for the “ Cup ’ is the
most imposing spectacle on earth. Discussing the
probability of “Our Boys” running down to the
Derby, the Herald remarks: “It is well known
taat most of them have seen the Derby before, and
were not impressed with the sight.” It’s just this
sort of rot which misleads the native Melbour-
nean into enquiring superciliously whether the
Derby is anything like our Cup,” and helps to
engender a certain amount of prejudice between
theotherfor^bfowfflg.'- 1 eaCh getS annoyed with
Some short time back, it looked as if lighl
skiff pulling was doomed to di» out, but latterlj
it has taken a fresh lease of life. Messenger hat
just turned out another, which promises to be
even taster than Matterson’s little Clipper; and he
has just put the skin on another, intended, we
understand, for his own rowing*. Joe Donnelly
has also a craft of the same description well under
way. What we want to see now is tho pair-oar
racing: revived, and we have no doubt we are
joined in our wish by those who remember the
Greens, I unchandM‘Grath, Donnelly and Connors,
and others.
It has been found out in Fngland by Bir
George Chetwynd, the second husband of the
Marchioness of Hastings, that there is collusion
between jockeys and trainers. “ Fancy! ”
They are pretty smart at home, anyhow. And
bngland is the freer country. If anybody even
said, out here, there was collusion between the
bookmakers and scullers, what an extraordinary
storm of indignation there would be! When we
see the result of a boat-race, now, we never hint
at anythmg about collusion. All we do is to
whistle, ejaculate “Funny,” and wait until an-
other honest man says “ Very.”
At the New York Athletio Club Gymna-
sium, March 23, M. W. Ford made a successful
attempt to establish a new record at one-hand
f ? D r ce-vaulting. He cleared 6ft. 3%in„ and failed
at oft. o%ln. At the annual indoor entertainment
or the American Athletic Club, on March 19, the
same athlete, at standing hop, step, and jump,
without weights, covered 27ft. 4tn„ 28ft. sin., and
«.)ft. 2!>4in., beating the previous amateur record,
28ft., 3Jiin., made by himself on January 20,1884.
°n March 22, at Brooklyn, L. 1., on a board floor, in
a fifty-yard handicap run, Ford won his first trial
heat in 5 5-8 sec., his second trlaJ in 5f seo., and ran
the final, which he did not win, in 5 5-8 sec. The
finest previous record was 5 7-8 sec.
In his letter to the Australasian, Hanlan
attempts to pose as the injured party; but, as a
matter of fact, the boot is on the other foot.
Beach challenged him no less than four times to a
match; and, on the occasion of a meeting held by
Beach's friends, Hanlan’s representative put in an
appearance, without invitation, and tried a bit of
bluff by stating that he was ready there and then
to make a match, but, when he afterwards found
the Beach party meant business, he shuffled—yes,
that’s the word-shuffled out of it, and raised the
figure to £lOOO. Why Beach should allow the
visitor two-thirds of the steamer money is beyond
us. When Hanlan pulls Layoook just off a sick-
bed, rows in front of Bob Edwards, has a flutter
with an eight-oar orew, or goes through any such
show for a stated number of dollars, he is certainly
justified in making his own terms; but when he
£ or a g enu *n® match for the
aH k^ P Wh«f, P^S a £ h - h , as a righttoshar« and share
k„ t r a„ o n^j n Trickett held the championship,
meet Ranfan w ade furthe r over this globe to
anv the holt nf^hi^ ene^ er hfiard that he wanted
nnH fc be Canadian, out rowed him a fair
rlnvawSk 180 ? for the championship. In the
?uoh in i h 0 e championship was held in England,
such men as Chambers, Kelly, Renforth and
is t to^e^hn r nod 0 r t +o t^°r OWfor^200 or less : and ifc
ini that ™ P h»n j w th ? mterest of professional row-
mmnn li n Hanlan is beaten, another pheno-
menon may not spring up, who. should he hn
inclined to shuffle, may bluff off any man who may
£lOOO° d Go?nif be r t him ‘ but not able t 0 rais ”
beat Beach h„t y th Per, L orina P ceB i Hanlan should
since hn ii iofl champion has been training
river "fnJVtt al ls has , been “ head Gf the
river tor six years—rather a lengthy period for a
champion of any style of athletics Beach is a
comparatively untried man, so far as public ner
fr.3 CeS are concerned, but he hwtf venhto
HafflanbeYtaff**off Ctl ? n ip P r j, va te, and should
veiPifil oe at all off colour when he meets him
ih!n?£i™ ogether off the cards that the champion-
ship may once more come to Australia. P
The fourth Australia n
Eleven won the Derby match
with an Innings and 40 runs
to spare.
. The best part of the
football match, at Newcastle
between the New Zealanders
and locals, last Thursday, was
played during a heavy fall of
rain. The visitors won by
points to nil.
A fair number
sports” put in an appea
a»ce at Botany on Saturday
when Malone and Bym
contested a high jump, lo:
jump, and lfflyds spin ovi ■
ten hurdles, for a stated £
aside. Byrnes won the hig
jump with sft. 10in.; Malon
won the long jump with 21ft
lJtm., and the run by som
5 feet.
The previous best to W
G. George’s recent 51m.
for 10 miles was the America
Indian Deerfoot’s ” 61m. 26
In comparing the two pe
formances it must be remem
bered that the latter’s ten
mile record was made in
twelve-mile race, and that h
covered the two additiona
miles at a remarkable rate of
speed, his time for both eleve
miles and the full journe
being still the best recorded :
lh. 2m. Therefore, while
giving all due credit
George, whose time is th
fastest, Deerfoot’s • perform
ance may, under the ciroum
stances mentioned, be looked
upon equally as good, if no
better, than the amateur’
wonderful ten-miles in 61m
30s.
At New York, U. 8., on
£v Pr jL«’ Mike Cleary defeated
Bhernff, the Prussian, in lm
21b., being the shortest time
on record for a glove fight.
Sherriff was in very poor con-
dition, and had not recovered
* h e . eff ects of a bout
with Welch, his eyes beimr
still circled in black, the left
side of his face yet swollen,
and his limbs and body stiff
and sore. After a few harmless
exchanges Cleary managed
to plant a half-armed-right-
handed blow where it would
do the most good—on the
Fu the . raising
Sherriff from the floor and
then dropping him on the
broad of his back. He was
found to be perfectly sense-
less, and did not recover con-
sciousness until after Cleary
had been proclaimed the
winner, in just lm. 21s
Says the London (Eng.)
of recent date:
With the immense number
of bioyclists now existing,
any new invention tending to
lessen the dangers arising
from a fall on the present
style of machine will no doubt
be bailed with satisfaction
and considerable interest. If
a rider takes a header off the
ordinary two-wheeler, what-
ever injury he may sustain is
chiefly due to the fact of the
handle of the machine pre-
venting, his legs getting free,
and this has caused many
good rid ere to forsake the
bicycle for the tricyole. On
Saturday last we inspected
a new invention by Messrs.
Thompson and Spence, of
London, which entirely does
away with the danger above
referred to, the handles being
fixed on prolongations of the
lower extremity of the fork,
which passes downward, so
as to clear the pedals, then
upward on either side to the
same height as in an ordinary
machine. This leaves a per-
fectly open front, so that in
the event of the rider being
thrown forward he would be
able, with a fall of about 18
inches, to alight on his feet
without being in the slightest
degree impeded by the
machine. This important im-
provement will, no doubt, be
hailed with satisfaction by a
large number of bicyclists.
That a good pace may be got
on the new bicycle can T be
sathered from the fact of
ohn Keen on Saturday riding
one of 46 inches on the Crystal
Palace track a mile in 3m. 255.
The firm has also patented
a tricycle on the same lines.’’
The Galveston (Tex.) News of 25th Febru-
ary, says:—‘‘Miss Nellie Burke, the champion
long-dlstanoe lady rider, yesterday afternoon ful*
filled her promise to ride 100 miles in five hours at
Beach Park. There was a large audience in at-
tendance, the number being estimated at 3000. The
lady accomplished the arduous feat, and actually
rode 102 miles and 1073 ft. in 4h. 40min. 35sec..
making 361 turns of the track and 54 changes of
horses, using 13 animals in the run. Mias Burke,
at the dose of the race against time, did not ap-
pear to be in any sense exhausted, and last night
was refreshed to the extent that she was enabled
to attend the performance at the Opera House.
It is said that the record made by Miss Burke sur-
passes anything of the kipd that has ever been
attempted. It was a subject of general comment
after the raoe and during the evening!”
Says the British Medical, Journal : “ The
result, one day recently, of four football fights—
it is a gross misuse of language to call them
• games' was that two young men lost their
lives, and two sustained fractures of the leg, in
one instance apparently a severe compound frac-
ture; one of the deaths was said to have been due
to heart disease, the other was clearly caused by
fracture of the spine in the neck.” Coming nearer
home, i'i'> Maori orack, who is now on a visit to
us, hj- his collar-bone broken no less than
three t .. ; and Mr. James Brodie commenced


HE R SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
oure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken plaoe in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pro-
scribed ood liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
It on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain. Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
lnflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaints
eured by “Buohu-paiba. Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the .A.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS RACE AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL UPSTAIRS
T , ir ,„u o „ PEß s° a NA f. guaranteed welu vpp inted'bar
Luneheen and Smoking Loun*e. All Goods are Gnaranteed of the very best Quality and Description
E - D. TOLLEMACHE, General Kanager.
QTlxo ZE’SeSJLo.ToI© 33vLg , g'i.es I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
IST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIU Gt, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, Ac.
PRICE.
as. m.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, CHEMIST.
43 ERBKINE STREET.
Sold hr W. TT. SOUL, end ell Ctanmlrte.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE 8E&
STUDY economy;
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
eated
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
TUST O p ENED. per g.s. Valetta. 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades-
Mer?no!ind StripedColtonHo?^ l^®11 ’ 8 HOSIEttY ’ in aU the winter shado8 > consisting of
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
cholce stock to select from.
A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY— For the coming' season.
MILLINERY —For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
BTKAWb—In all new shapes.
an ri H^n V rlrj»S«f ra,ret * a flrB^°^aas French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
!hlo 0 £ n markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
siSsfi!£SS: COUBlBtia * of SUDBhade8 ’ Fana> PurBes>
Note Address— J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among: the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION,
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
the number seven,
10 t r o e n^ lteve
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
siESSSr
■NtfP
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, off
any machines made.
Our Prices ft® Lowest.
&r Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion e *° Yy customer.
Write to us,
OB
Call on us.
JaMESXWLA.R/TIN& COMPY.
389 GEORGE STREET, (Oopoaite Royal Hotel),
the season in New South Wales by breaking his
collar-bone, yet the authorities wink at a game
dangerous to life and limb, but step in and pre-
vent a scientific Bhow with the gloves, should they
think the play too rough, although at the worst
the result may be only a swollen nose or a black
eye, inferior in quality to the beauty brought
back from Newcastle by a prominent Wallaroo
man. xt is a case of straining at an Abigail and
swallowing a Lucas, with a vengeance.
With regard to recent aquatic events in
England, an anonymous correspondent wrote the
following to a New York paper:—“The match was
aflalr > to catch the friends and
bear. By losing his race to the
Putney lad, Elliott made the English champion’s
chances with Ross appear a hundredfold stronger.
It Bubear can play with Elliott, who won three or
if, r T? 00( l races last, year in the States, what show
will Ross have of catching Bubear with ten seconds
start ? Right you are, says the young sculler’s
friends, and now they are laying odds on their
man. It may be that lam wrong, and that Bubear
will beat Ross; but if your man is, as you say, ten
geoonds better than George W. Lee, whom Bubear
once refused to row on even terms, then am I Jus-
Krw instakingr on Ross being able to down
the Putney boy, and thereby empty the pookete of
his supporters.’ Ross and Elliott are warm friends,
and .taking into consideration Elliott’s perform-
ances in the States, it is not at all improbable that
jt was arranged Elliott was to lose to Bubear.
Now, we are going to give you a conun-
drum that occurred to us while at the football
match. Here it is: What is the hardest thing on
earth ? That is what we asked the man who sat
next to us; and what do you think he said ? Per-
haps you think he might have suggested a rook, or
a piece of iron, or the hearts of cruel parents.
Well, he didn’t. He turned round and quickly
said: “Do you see that Maori who is playing with
the New Zealand team? You do? Well, if he
should ever bunt you in the bread-basket with
that head of his, you’d begin to think that about
the hardest thing you knew of was to catch your
breath again. I played against that devil once,
and was just stooping down to collar the ball when
he came up behind me with his head down, and
knocked me 33 feet and sent the ball after me
through the goal-posts.” “Did you ever play
with him again ?” we enquired. “ Play with him
again I Did you ever see a man play twice with
the same mad bull ? I’ll give you the straight tip,
stranger. I didn’t. I’m one of those men who
know jolly well when I’ve got enough of a dam
good thing.”
The big six days’ go-as-you-please, at
Madison-square Garden, New York, came to a con-
clusion on May 3, Patrick Fitzgerald taking the
cake with 610 miles: and Charles Rowell proving
runner up with 602 miles, both men beating
Hazael’s previous best on record of 600 miles. The
winner walked on till 9 o’clock, but Peter Duryea,
Rowell’s backer, gave up the contest at 7 o’clock.
He attributed Rowell’s defeat to a badly sprained
left ankle, from which his man had been suffering
two days, and wanted to make another match with
Fitzgerald. He offered to let Fitzgerald name the
time, the amount to be over £lOOO a side. At the
finish, the scores of the other men were: Panchot
566 miles, Noremao 545 miles, Herty 539 miles, Elson
525 miles. Patrick Fitzgerald, the winner, was
born at Hill o’ Ligtuff, County Longford, Ireland,
December 5, 1846, stands sfft. lfiMin., and weighs
about list. 111 b. His best six-day performance
was 582 miles 55 yards, made in N.Y. City, Decem-
ber 26 to 31, 1881. Charles Rowell was born in
Chesterton, Eng., August 12,1853, stands sft. 6in.in
height, and weighs about 10 si. His best six-
day performance was 566 miles 63 yards, London,
Eng., November 1 to 6,1880; and best twenty-four-
hour record. 150 miles 395 yards, New York, Feb-
ruary 27 to 28,1882.
Donald Dinnie has given the Viotorians a
surfeit of “skite” with regard to the perform-
ances of Scotch athletes, and has drawn upon
himself the wrath of several correspondents in
the Melbourne Sportsman. One letter is wall to
the point, and worth retailing, so we give it in
extenso“ Sir, Some weeks have now elapsed
since Donald Dinnie stated in a letter which ap-
peared in your paper that Scotchmen could
always beat Englishmen at go-as-you-please
fighting, and anything, in fact, in the way of
athletics. I have been expeoting some abler pen
than mine to champion the Englishmen. As to
Dinnie’s quarrel with Blackburn, I have nothing
to say, only that the Cumberland style of wrest-
ling must have some good points when it brings a
man of Dinnie’s enormous strength and advan-
tage of three or four stone in weight, and six
inohes in height, down to a man of Blackburn’s
calibre. Now, about go-as-you-please contests.
There are no Scotchmen to be found who oan beat
Rowell, the champion of the world. Where is the
Scotchman that ever came near the feats of long-
endurance walking performed by Gale, the ancient
Briton ? There is no Scotchman to be found who
can come up to Hutchens, the champion sprinter of
the world; and George, the amateur long-distance
runner, whose performances are the best ever re-
corded, is an Englishman. Scotland never pro-
duced a Renforth, a Chambers, nor a Kelly. It
never sent forth a man who could come within
coo-ee of them in a boat. Was it ever recorded
that a Scotchman swam across the Channel as Cap-
tain Webb did? Brooks, of Oxford, cleared 6rt.
|in., and Davin 6ft. 2%in. in a high jump, both
hnglishmen, and the above are the two highest
Jumps recorded. Where is the Scotchman who had
the pluck to tackle Tom Sayers ? They have never
produced the men that could come up to Tom
bpring, King, or Mace. They have a slogger over
in America. Well, two Englishmen—and not very
Dig men, either—have been found with pluck
enough to have a shy at him. We are waiting to
hear of a Scotchman with a heart big enough for
the job. And last, but not least, our Miller is an
tinglishman—a native of Cheshire—and more than
a .'■hatch for Dinnie, I believe. You will oblige an
old reader of your paper by inserting the above,
as 1 have heard several of our colonial youths
making bets that Scotchmen have always taken
the lead in athletics, and 1 think the statement of
the self-styled champion wrestler of Great Britain
contradicting.—Yours, etc., Victorian.”
this is a staggerer for Donald; but to give him his
aue, he left out two Sootch specialities, at which
even Victorian ” could not foavil. Had the
°mwny Scot ” added burgoo - devouring and
'te to his list, he would have been well in
witn two events, anyhow.
George M. Robinson, whose wonderful
aumb-bell performances we gave In a recent issue,
P, photographer, and was a highly respected
member of the Olympic Club in San Francisco
pp;° re he made wor se than a fool of himself in his
wftoL* n the champion slogger. And just here
th„ C toll you of another member (dead now) of
w, c Olympic Club who was a wonderfully strong
man’ a^pr y clever sparrer. and a thorough gentle-
refer to Charles Bennett, a San Fran-
chemist, who for a number of years was the
athiff of . hls club, being a splendid all-round
wna uA nu mber of years ago, when Jem Mac©
arvfinn * is Pflme, he arrived in San Francisco,
srr^ OUB u to ,F leet Bennett, of whom he had heard
eaiiw™ , Mr ;, Bennett’s reply was charaoteristi-
rq o Tvs rai^: — No, Mr. Mace, while I respect you
«»“an,l don’t want to have anything to do with
Ev U LE, r . of ®?? ion - Finally, it was mooted about
8 friends that Mr. Bennett was afraid to
t n e rL hlt P; 4* la«t Mace challenged Mr. Bennett
!£. B ?ar hlm in a circus tent that was at the time
comnon on a va cant lot, and in which a circus
remK.a a ?v W - e u® rehearsing for the road. Bennett
at *? e was a gentleman, and had no idea
showman. He offered, however, to
larJo v.o?i e ’ f( i r a Bum °f money, in any one of the
the Rtatil 8 of San Francisco, the winner to divide
Mace raff am onBßt the public oharitiesof the city.
hold 6 objection that the hall would not
witness +'? t b of the people who would want to
‘‘exo»L>f he affair - and said it was only an
then rffTeras* the part of Bennett. Bennett
up and r »af d B P ar In the circus-tent no stakes
was to & a £^2?°“B sr donated to the charities. It
bard bin w ß a Ji rlen<l X l ? oUt with Boft gloves, and no
thousands 8 f& ven * he evening came, and several
affair* 1 Thnrf vPfP gathered to witness the
meeting fw “ ad been so much talk about the
in. Thl lte er yb° d 7 pald kiß dollars and went
minute iffi u OlB ad , not been to work half a
ioag-arn^r 4 dM 5« 5e landed the hottest kind of a
armer on Bennett e nose. Stung by this
o «fajtbi Bonnett watched his opportunity,
first thing Mace knew, something hit him
he went to grass fifteen feet
away. He didn t know what hit him at the time,
but we can tell him now that it was Bennett’s left
glove. Mace s front teeth were loosened, and
when he again came to the scratch he was so
groggy that Bennett relented, and taking Mace’s
hand quietly walked out of the ring. After this
Mace published a card to the effect that Bennett
was the best man he had ever mot. either with or
without the gloves. We would have told you this
long ago, only you wouldn’t have believed it
until you heard so much of John L. Sullivan’s
wonderful feats in “knocking out.” Bennett has
been dead a number of years, but those who knew
his prowess have often been sorry that he didn’t
live long enough to meet the present champion.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Corowa Fire Brigade “ ohivoo Engine
practice for four men : Beechworth Volunteer
(seoondteam), 1; Rutherglen(thirdteam),
17 sec., 3. Engine practice, N.S.W. conditions:
S 2? econ s te am), 36 sec., 1; Corowa (first
team), 35%5e0., 3. Engina practioe, Viotorian con-
dltions: Corowa (seoond team), 30 sec., 1; Ruther-
F* e ° (flrat team), 31)6 sec., 3. Engine and ladder
practioe: Corowa (firstteam), 35?48eG M 1; Corowa
(second team), 89 sec., 2. Officers’ engine practice:
Corowa, 16)4 sec., 1; Beechworth Volunteer, 01tj>
sec., 2. Ladder raoe : Won by T. Squires, of
Corowa. Hose reel practice for eight men: Beech-
worth Volunteer (first team), 40sec, 1; Chiltern,
43 sec., 2. Hose reel practice for four men: Beech-
worth No. 1 (third team), 26J4sec., 1; Beechworth
Volunteer (third team), 27 sec., 2. Hose and ladder
practice: Beechworth Volunteer (first team) 34 sec.,
I? Beechworth Volunteer (second team) 34%5ec.. 2.
.. .4.38,000 passed through thetotalisator during the
three days of the Adelaide Race Club meeting
From New Zealand wa learn that Mr. J. Marshall
has adopted the following names for his yearlings:
colt by Musket-Locket, “Thunderbolt;” the
colt by Musket—Perfume, “Musk;” and the colt
by Musket—Rosalie. “ Derringer.”.... The Candelo
Grand Handicap, 200 yards, fell to D. Grant, 11yds.
For the Flying Handicap, won by G. Robinson, no
fewer than 38 peds. sported silk.... Blackthorn has
been sold to Harbottle, an English visitor to Vic-
toria^... Billiard match on the tapis between Evans
an “rnZ come off in Melbourne next month.
...The Hon. W. Pearson has named his colt by
Goldsbrough from Powder, “Arsenal.” and the filly
by Goldsbrough from Maritana, “Danseuse.”...
Empress and the colt Perclval have been shipped
for India—Last week, Dr. Nash’s steeplechaser,
Darby the Blast, was staked at Wallsend Winter
meeting of the Tasmania Raoing Club on Wednes-
day week. Morven won the Hurdle Race, Sheet
Anohor the Elwick Handicap, Morven the Steeple-
chase, Prodigal the Flying Handicap, and Queen
annexed the Consolation Stakes.... At Parkes, on
Saturday, Mr. Metcalfe’s pony, Turk, defeated
Playboy: in a two mile match for £4O ; and Asens,
a local man. defeated Fletcher in a 100-yards spin
for £5O.
• • •
A new oourse, intended exclusively for
bicycle races, is being laid out at Lillie Bridge
Grounds, London. England. It is a quarter-mile
round, consists of two straights about 75 yards
long, and has *emi-cirou)ar ends, giving in the one
case a sweep of about 135 yards, and in the other
about 155 yards The path will be over 20ft.
broad....A. w. Frost, aged fifteen years, shows
the best development of any member of the Wells’
Gymnasium, Boston. Standing sft. in
height, his shoulder measurement is 42in., chest
38in., waist 30%in., thigh 22in., calf 14%in..
Teemer and Conley were to row at Puttman, U.S.,
on May 30,f0r £2OO aside. ..John Wisden, atone
time crack English crioketer, both with bat, and
ball, died at London, England, on April sth
Isaao Walton, a lineal descendant of Izaak Walton,
of angling fame, died April 14 in N.Y., at the
advanced age of eighty-three years.... The Gitana,
Mr. Weld’s American yacht, on April 15 won the
raoe for schooners of over thirty tons at the Nice
regatta, beating the English yaoot, Gladys, owned
by Mr. Collins—M. Baby recently tricycled 214
kilometers in twenty-four hours, riding from Pau
to Bayonne and back, in Frauce.... At New York,
an Englishman named Pearson ate sixty soft-toiled
eggs daily-half in the morning and half in the
afternoon—for six consecutive days, at John Ross’
restaurant.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We ehaU be glad to have this index patted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Coonamble June 20,21.
Liverpool June 21.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club June 21.
Coelab June 26,27.
Canterbury Park June 28.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
Goonciwindi August 18,19.
Tstteraall’s Club August
Hawkesbury August 21, 23.
„ COURSING.
Victoria Club June 19, 20,21.
8--A -Waterloo Cup June 19, 20,21.
N.S.W. Club. June 25, 26.
Victoria Waterloo Cup June 16,17,18.
N.Z. Waterloo Cup June 16,17.18.
N.S. Wales Club August 6,7, 8.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Grafton R.C. Regatta June 28.
ATHLETIC®.
Thistle Club Sports June 28.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Union Bports June 21.


F
ÜBNITURH SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY WHWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Serins’ street#, Sydney.
H
ALT, FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
snd
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALT, CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
w
Smoki
AfeBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
in# rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms, (Jixat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Yn IGHT-POTJXD BEDROOM SUITES—The
JCi Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing-table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Whatnots, from 80s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 38s; Chests Drawers, from «te; Wash-
stands, from 10s dd; Tables, from 7s 8d ; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s: Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s ftd. BRAD-
LeY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
5
£35
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed Bound
stromr. and durable* Triohord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free a* rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
.VERMANTEL MIRRORS,HandsomeFashion-
able designs in Black and Geld, wlta oiae
8. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
Shelves, 86s
finished in
OCCASIONifijlTABLES, elegantly 1
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
gMHIEFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective deeigM,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
AST OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
E
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborate!
Inspection invite-* <*
C
R A WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
y A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
ioes, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
_ LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, -
with swing GLASS and
marble top, 80s the pair.
eItENDI^G"DININ5"TABLE’, Trtth“patent
screw and two leaves; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH. GENT.’8 and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 6 feet long and up to 30 feet.
iELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
“ Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any Position, from
sitting to reclining and nice versa, at the win
the ocoupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically.
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that oan be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of tbe
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is supenw
to anything yet invented for the lawn, yerannsui
camp, seashore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash-stronj,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds
plete, and occupying only §or inches mthic
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLBY, NEWlun
and LAMB (only).
Ormolu.
f ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early jjj
and other designs, which can be , u P h °lfrementa
any materials to meet the taste and requir
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. --
TTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FUR*£
Jh TURE, Handsome and Massive,, in w
Walnut, ancf Mahogany. THE VERY REST
MOROCCO SKINS and Material for Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, aB
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated
new shipments. Bradley.Newton,andLag__
T3EDDING— All descriptions at
x> BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, U uo
nell-street. —-rjr
ASHSTAND8, with marbte, 2|s each. BRAu*
W
kimSTAJNiJH, wun ■
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Verandah
SOCIAL
Pursuing its progressive career, the North
wore blue and white Maltese crosses with the same
initials. Dancing began at 9, with polksi ana
waltz and by 10 o clock about IjO persons wcio
oonservatorj^wMMembel^h^
SSr*3SJ|S|
tho'iioor introduced the partners to each other
and to their places, and the hon. wo.kepta special
look out for any who might bu strangers, wu a
of'W ®of “«&.
away, an^^y^are^uro 1 that I ”Mr. F< Robey"endeared
himself sevemi wo e “d f0 be or appreciated by
lad under Mr. Ernest Nefidi. One ot the extras
Lved bv Mr. N. Montague was also capitally
fed Messrs. B. O. Holtermann D. O’Owmor, J.
Oarvan M’s P:. M. M’Mahon of the Point, tt.
S"of the Glebe Ball, and others, were.among
> crnpsts- Mr C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., sent a note
pressive of the grief that surged n tobosom at
t being able to come and twirl some of the
irth Shore sirens; and Mr. Edward Jttaman, u. ~
d be b cn n ne b would attracte'd much
ti(fe? for there were a several young men there
yered with more splendour than ever the To-
ato invincible is likely to sur roundh Character
mlpsa he choos;s to dress himselt in a onaracter
at mfght pass for either a Russian courier, or
ok to a cFrous. In other words, these young
bants had arrayed themselves m tbe nearest
alk) woB tAnd ctfnspkiu-
n b°oM
vet and other pSpto mSoh entertSinmSin?. They
. . vvifh mnnv RDS.DtrloBi CCltnC 8> P6tlto who
; r early as fodisclose “cardinal points ”of beauty.
hKise existence is usually matter of surmise A
lower Girl was tasty in pink and a Fruit Girl
mid have worn another flounce, lhe ianoy
“ XS£S ««w
nkpd narticularly well, in dark mauve sua
*■%£& ds
ore a io\ eiy edged with fine white lace:
Colour making it one o® the most noticeable in
-om^itt-streetw^re'an' exceedinglystyiish dreas
Sa jsssflsaaffls
tf«Bt°e?ea*b-stre« .»»«W
urgh, black witn fch ghore beautleB
?ere both in ivory white, the in. finsofled
E* Il.tr 8 ", “lliEfe
and gold, and very much so in the eyes of
heir fortunate partners. A renowned
tfSSfcf&Sffi rnagniflS’ fawn
•roobi.Wieskirtformed if .two rows of brcmd^bcur
SSffSais?
iSSHSSHS
nence; wore » came a handsome
?aBmlnienne, r Mi BB Thompson, in a beautiful toilet
tunic of black velvet with open laoe sleeves and
MBad-ed ged cnl lar,°falling away in f«m tto sh
kirt of pale blue, prettily gathered, ine xas
nanian lady was a decided success. The most
inique costume was warn by a young lady p^aidflt
a „ w f h S 25, «KK'WK?
rt^k?hard to be original in these days, and to most
ndfps this trying costume would have been very
Lazardous; butViss Annie Roberts looked like
the village belle stept out of some bewitch?
_p -ij Thpri there orea.ni dress or Dewitcp
m«r iimnlicfty worn by an English-born brunette.
ItVasof the lightest gossamer, drawn In cross
Kunir mid front over the shoulders to the
waist which was circled and sashed with Naples
blue ribbon ; and the airy skirt was in three em-
broidered flounces. As to tbo fabrio well, we 11
D ut it in this way— , „ .
When some defect of toilet gay
The ladies spy. , „
To hide the doubtful portion, they
To trimmings fly.
So, strategy must bo our rule,
And any time
We can’t tell tarlefan from tulle,
We fly to rhyme.
That fabric we may never know
(Nor face forget),
But it has caught our heart, and so,
x It must be net.
, * *
Perhaps it was only fancy, but it seemed
. na thpffirls at the Granville bazaar had redder
to ustheglrisat ine seemed) alBo> ttl(?y were
Anyhow, there was something different
in Granville bazaar from other ones. The room
was small, and so closely packed that it was difh-
-iz. *. n business. There were plenty of countri-
hod laces with browned cheeks and slightly open
fled laces, wibu u didn’t try to stare you
mouths, httle gir s tna twl * t ed their frocks
do^S, vnn looked at them: and substantial elderly
ladfes/short*of breath after getting up stairs-
’mnthftrlv uersons who Dandled a shilling
twice before risking itiu the dubious raflie. Gown
, nf the rcom were rows ot seats back to
mnstl vOccupied bythe motherly contingent,
and k by smafl children who demolished lollipops by
on nrmlication of the principles of suction, and
an app . . lingers abroad to the mortal
spread their ttUo y B h o v those seats were
watched 1 To give up one was to stand the rest of
so most of those who got one early
k*nt It for exactly that period. There was a good
£?]# nf hearty interest in the affair, stalls were
nicely arranged, and printed programmes for the
toTng didn’t'appear. b to
t&fSXSS wb“Hs ioKit of the
Working Men’s College, in a practical speech, and
in the evenings, mixed conoerts, Professor Barker,
the Burwood Snowflake Minstrels, and others
livened the bazaar till Saturday, when it closed.
* * *
A Sydney man asked to contribute to a
lady’s album did so thus :
A flying thought is scooting by,
Here goes to pin it;
Perchance it’s like a vacant eye—
There’s nothing in it.
But in this comer down it goes
At your desire,
’Tis this, that underneath the rose
There's oft a briar ;
The lovely woman is the rose
That gulls the sigher ;
The hoop that round her finger goes—
Well, that’s the briar.
* * *
A brilliaait banquet was in the Town
Hall vestibule on Monday evening by the Mayor
and Mayoress of Sydney, and it was, in one way,
a departure from the usual rule, inasmuch aa
it was graced by the presence of ladies. Guests
began to arrive very early, and after being pre-
sented to Mr. and Mrs. Hardie in the Mayors
room, they dispersed about the upstairs part of
the building, where the newly completed apart-
ments and offices were thrown open for inspection.
A constant stream of persons, the fairer ones
being in full evening toilette, passed up and down
the grand staircase. The new Council Chambers-
very similar in style to the Parliament chamber—
were greatly admired for their fine finish and
ornature. and ladies seemed to take a special
pleasure in occupying, for a few brief stolen mo-
ments, the cushioned seats on which henceforth
the city fathers will sit. while they hatch the
improvements of the city. There may be words
of wisdom, and floods of earnest, even if aitchless,
eloquence poured out there in years to come; but,
there will never be such gentle talk again in that
Doric-columned hall as there was on Monday night;
never again on those cushioned benohes will such
forms of beauty rest. The suite of offices were of
secondary interest, but the Mayor’s new room was
thought very handsome. After a time spent in
inspection, while the late comers were gathering
together, the company passed into the banquet at
half-past 7, filling both sides of three long tables
and a cross head, at which sat the Mayor and
Mayoress, Sir Alfred Stephen, Bir John Robertson,
ON THE SCENT.
LITTLE GIRL (thouahtfutly): “MAMMA, DEAR. HOW CAN YOU MANAGE TO MEASURE
GLOTH T HA T WAY? CAN YOU SMELL A YARD?”
the Hons. W. J. Trickett, Alexander Stuart and
Mrs. Stuart, G. K. Dibbs, H. B. Cohen, and others.
The banquet was served hot by the Compagnoni
Catering Co., under the supervision ot the manager,
Mr. E. D. Tollemacho; the tables being laid[with a
centre piece ot crimson velvet edged with gold
border and ferns down the entire length. The
menu* were elaborate productions of
nrinting. bearing in the centre a pioture of the
sown Hall by moonlight, and, among other de-
the Municipal motto, “I take, but I sur-
render.” The Young Australian band played and
sang from an up-stairs corridor while the banquet
proceeded, grao; having been duly pronounoed
by a voice which seemed to come from nobody
knew where, though the Town Clerk was strongly
suspected. All the dishes were eUhergoodor
wonderful, from the unassuming oysters on their
native plates, to the Tutti Frutu Ice whioh made
teeth chatter which never chattered before. About
5) o’clock, the toastmaster’s trumpetous voice was
heard, and the loyal toasts were successively pro-
posed by the Mayor. Mr. W. M Millau gave The
Ministry,” replied to by the Premier i and Mr. S E.
Lees gave “ The Parliament, but did not seem
comfortable, and after a rather meffPctive en--
deavour to impress upon everyone the great
utility of that important body, he made
a fresh start by addressing himself to the
“ladies and gentlemen who are not yet members
of Parliamentbut whether this was a satire
or a slip is an open point. No on© laughed. The
Hon. Alex. Stuart proposed the Corporation of
Sydney and Municipal Institutions, hoping that
ladies as well as their lords would appreciate the
improvements made in the streets. Even the
minds of Premiers are not always taenupwith
the things of the State, and no doubt the honor-
able Alexander has stood on the kerb like an
ordinary being, sometimes, and watched the
dainty boots ol Sydney maidenhood t«>u blously
wading through seas;ol mud. To this toast, a,
whole forest ot aldermen stood up in their frilled
shirt-fronts and lace neckties, and the Mayors of
Sydney and Newtown replied, 'then a toast, not
on the programme, came—of course, the Mayor,
g ven by Sir Alfred Stephen. For some time pre-
vious, that hon. gentleman, weighted with new
honours and the burden of years, had shown signs
of somnolenoy. It is alleged by those who record
thft history of great and good men that Homer
nodded and Nestor napped; andwhen
arrived, it was discovered that the Lieut.-Gover-
nor of New Suutii Wales and its dependencies was
-asleep! Having been awakened, however, by
Mrs. Roberts, Sir Alfred rose to the occasion, and
with a faoility gained by long experience, grace-
fully toasted the host of the night. Mr. D. O Con-
nor championed the “Ladies; and the Press,
honoured by the desultory clinking: of some forty
remaining glasses, dosed the mayoral banquet at
11 p.m. AO to the oompany—it included members
of Parliament, civil ofßoials, professionals, consuls,
and others; and fully half was of what the gallant
Sir Alfred designates “the graceful and better
sex.”
• • •
Complete arrangements are being made
for the comfort and convenience of guests at the
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball on the 3rd July.
Sale and Dare will deoorate the Exhibition; and
the catering has been undertaken by Mr. Thomas
Cripps. The popular Young Australian Band will
play for the dancers, and as the whole of the floor
was recently renovated and thoroughly smoothed,
dancers will find it a great improvement on pre-
vious years. The Mayor of Sydney and a large
number of influential city men have promised to
attend. Secretaries Murray and Blaekstoae again
desire to remind intending guests that the ball is
to be an evening dress one only (his year. Tickets
will be issued for spectators to view the brilliant
scene from the gallery.
* • *
The annual “ shivoo ” held by the drivers
and firemen in Gkmlburn came off on Saturday
night at Mandelson’s Hotel, where this solemn rite
has been oelebrated for years past. The affair was
very well got up, and the enginemen proved real,
genuine, Jovial fellows, and hospitable hosts. Pro-
ceedings commenced with grace, and though the
spread was, as Burns said, * T weel worth a graoe as
lang’s my airm,” that preliminary was out rather
short, and the dinner soon disposed of- Toasts
followed, and they, too, were mostly short, and
allowed time for a few songs. Mr. T. Spence was
chairman, and Messrs. Ingleton and Salmon were
vice-chairmen.
• • •
At the Royal Assembly Rooms, Cooma,
the bachelors of the district recently gave their
annual ball, fully 100 guests attending. Among
the strange faces were those of a young lady from
Melbourne, and of a young visitor from Sydney,
both of whom attracted much attention. There
were a few gentlemen more than ladies, and conse-
quently no wallflowers. Dancing began at 8.30, for
a programme of 21 dances and a few extras, and
finished about 6 a.m. The local string band gave
their best music- Decorations were set reund the
ball-room, and a splendid supper served by Mr.
Gracie, of the Royal Hotel. For the belle, a choioe
Iras hard between two “ sweet the
inuntry* who have just made their debut. while a
roung lady from the Snowy River, and the petite
laughter of a leading townsman, were also much
idmired. Dresses were noted for neatness, rather
ban costliness; and that worn by the wife of a
Undabyne squatter, entirely covered with pearl
leads, was extremely pretty. The toilet of a sister
Tom Billylingra was also attractive, and the dress
>f a Cooma lass, costly pink silk, was adorned with
lirds (dead ones). The palm for d moing was car-
ded off by the younger of two sisters from Kai-
iito. On the following evening a ohosen few were
nvited to Coobringdon by Mr. Ryrie, when a Phea-
sant eveniug was spent, and danoing kept up till
aarly morning. A benedicts Bail is now immi-
aent.
* * *
Mrs. M‘Williams reoently gave a ball to
some eighty guests at her residence, Ormsby, Mar-
rickville. The ballroom was tastefully hung with
flags and evergreens, and dancing to excellent
music commenced at 8.30 p.m. A programme of
twenty-four dances, to which five were added, was
gone through. Some very handsome toilettes were
worn. The dress of the hostess was of rich seal-
brown brocaded velvet and striped amber and
brown surah; her niece, a vivacious brunette from
Goulburn, was becomingly attired ir. pink satin
and brocht). Two fair sisters from Upper tort-
street danced admirably, and looked charming-
one in white velvet and fiame-eoloured silk, deco-
rated with tiny birds, the other in blue velvet body
with marabout feathers and cream lace skirt. A
local belle was admired in amber silk and Spanish
lace. A good dancer from Forbes-street wore car-
dinal plush and cream satin. A bewitching young
matron from Darlinghurst looked well in cream
corded silk and ostrich feathers. The stately sister
of a young doctor wore black tulle, profusely de-
corated with geraniums. A favourite partner from
Parramatta wore a skirt of Ardoise tulle of im-
mense circumference, with satin bodice of same
colour. These are only some flowers culled from
the bouquet gathered together by Mrs. M Wil-
liams. » • •
When Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann
gave her concert on Saturday afternoon, the Pro-
testant Hall was filled by as many people as oould
get into it, and ladies tormed by far the larger
proportion. Rich dresses were seen, but they were
mo®cly dark, and of velvet, Batin, or other winter
stuffs, the light dresses of the young lady pupils
(For continuation of Social, so® next page*)


showing up in pleasant relief. Numbers of well-
known musical people were present, including
most leading pianists. The programme was very
long, and it was therefore rather a pity it was not
commenced a little earlier than three o’clock. The
overture from “Figaro” was played by Madame
Kellermann and three of her pupils; then followed
waltz Pieces, duets, concertos, &0., by various
pupils, till No. 10 was reaohed. This was the Hop
Hop Galop, composed by Madame Kellermann
and played on four pianos. It is lively, and likely
to be liked. Three very small fairies, named Mary
Guilfovle, Elsie Stanley-Hall, and Bertha Russell,
eaoh played rather ambitious classical selections in
a way creditable to their own years and their
teacher s tuition. Miss Rose Samper (sliver medal-
list, 1888) gave a splendid rendering of Chopin’s
Grand Polonaise, op. 53. Madame Merz, Herr
Kuster. Mdlle. Gouet, and Miss James also assisted;
and although encores were specially tabooed, they
were deserved, and frequent applause was given
to the performers. It was half-past five when the
matinee ended, and the fashionable gathering dis-
persed.
* * *
Tbe Mayor of Sydney has been warmly
praised for the innovation at his banquet last
Monday—the presence of ladies. It might have
been the thought of their bright presence that
induced the two namesakes to end their feud. At
any rate, it is to their gentle and refining influence
man owes so much, and to their society and com-
panionship any polish or manner he may possess
is largely due. The Mayoress, who was attired in
black velvet and pink, received her guests in one
of the ante-rooms. There were numerous beauti-
ful toilettes to be seen, but space will only allow
of a few specially noticeable being mentioned.
Mrs. John Smith wore plain black velvet, set off
with white lace and a canary feather headdress;
Mrs. Sydney Buroekin, whose up-piled hair gave
her a bright and coquettish charm, pale mauve
broohe; Mrs. C. J. Roberts, a striped cream dress;
Mrs. J. Devlin, a magnificent salmon pink broche
oostume, with regal train; a tall, dark lady
looked well in cerise and cream satin, and her
lately married sister appeared in ivory embossed
ilk and maize roses. Miss Sophie Frank wore a
pretty pale-pink sleeveless silk, covered with lace
flounces; Miss Q. Eagar looked nice in black net
skirts enlivened with cardinal pompons on the
upper one; Miss Burdett Smith was well suited in
pale blue brocho with Elizabethan collar; Mrs.
Angus Cameron, palest blue broche, with straw
colour underskirt; Mrs. A. Stuart, black satin,
with white laoe cip and ooliar; Mrs. Evans, a bril-
liant cardinal satin costume. Most of the matrons
wore their hair dressed high on the top of the head,
but the juniors, as a rule, adhered to the classic
and becoming Greek knot. A blonde lady in blue
and silver was admired, and her sister in a gorgeous
robe of cardinal and old gold attracted many eyes.
Two young damsels from Burwood wore respec-
tively pink net, and blue nun’s veiling, eaoh dress
being a triumph of art. Black was greatly favoured
by both dowagers and their daughters; several
splendid flowered or embossed velvets were very
effective on tall and stately figures. Trained
dresses appear to be coming into vogue again;
several were seen on Monday evening.
Some of the Amerioans In this oity are
“ not speaking.” We don’t know fully why, and
don’t care to, and don’t want to take sides ; but
we think it’s a oity they should have any little
differences-especially when their country is so
much bigger and better than any other country
oreated up to date. Our only business is with their
little social outbreak on the Fourth ; for it seems
they are to have more festivities than usual.
There is to be a Picnic at the Sir Joseph Banks like
there was last year, for which Mr. C. C. Jones is
the secretary. There will also be the usual
Annual Ball, glorified by the presence of the
Consul and Vice-Consul, whloh is to be held at the
new Masonic Hall. Mr. M. S. Hill is hon. secretary,
and tickets will be earef ully circulated to ensure a
nioe company. Finally, there is a Masquerade Ball
arranged for in the Exhibition Building; and
although there is a prevalent idea that naughty
people sometimes go to mask balls, we understand
it will be quite the other way in this case. The
committee not only reserve tne right to identify
any masker and relieve the ball of his company if
they think fit, but have fixed the price of double
tickets at 305., and firmly determined to make the
thing above cavil.
ill
The second gathering of the Orange Mer-
cantile Quadrille Assembly was a greater success
than the previous oue, between 50 and 60 couples
being prosent. The music was a decided improve-
ment on the last, the dresses of the ladies were
stylish and costly, and the floor rather too slippery,
causing several spills. Break-up at one o'clock,
after about eighteen danoes. Two sisters from
Lord-street, one in pink and the other in blue,
divided the honour of belle; while two ladies in
olaret looked charmingly oonspiouous; a fair one
from Sale street, in black enlivened with cardinal,
was much in demand : and two friends, one in
pink and the other in black, from the same street,
looked nice. The wife of a local brewer, in white,
and her two oity guests, seemed to enjoy them-
selves thoroughly. The wife of a solicitor was
agreeable, as usual. The two daughters of leading
merchants—one from Duntryleague, in a hand-
some costume of white satin trimmed with crushed
strawberry; the other in a neat dress of black
satin—caused a flutter. A brunette in white llama,
and a stately fair one in white and satin bodice,
both from March-street, looked charming, and
their dancing was Al. A very neat and stylish
dress was of lavender, worn by a stranger; and a
fair one from Anson-street, also a stately brunette,
in white relieved with pink, appeared to advantage.
A vivacious one in blue, with her taller com-
panion in a handsome dress of the same colour,
evidently tried to outshine their companion, a
brunette in white with black velvet bodice, battle-
mented finish, which looked very tasty. A pair
looked nice in cream; as did also a blonde from
March-street, in pink tulle.
• • •
Seldom have there been so many interested
ladies at a football match as gathered at the Asso-
ciation Ground on Saturday. They might have
been better pleased had the N.S.W. men won, but
that did not prevent many a gentle voice from
giving admiring comments on the skiliul play of
the N.Z. victors. Once or twice there was a brief
exodus from the Stand, but most of the time the
fair onlookers remained in their seats, and there
was little to chronicle in the way of toilettes. But
a fine sunny afternoon was pleasantly passed; foot-
ball is livelier than oricket, at any rate, and the
Naval Brigade Band played popular airs. On Mon-
day next the New Zealand team are to be enter-
tained at a complimentary dinner by the Southern
Rugby Football Union at the Metropolitan Hotel. *
The fifth ajufKusH fancy dress ball in connec-
tion with Railway Cricket Club took place at
the Glebe Town Hall on Friday evening last, and
must be pronounced a decided success, everything
combining to make it such —viz., a fln« night, good
musio, and excellent catering. Some of the dresses
of the ladies were really pretty and effective, and
none more so than Maritana and a Gipsy Queen.
Dancing ended about 3 am. Messrs. Hoyle and
Neate, president and secretary of the club, ex-
erted themselves to make all pleasant.
• • •
This (Thursday) night the Owl ball in the
Town Hall is expected to be the best affair the
society has yet held. Both plain and fancy dresses
are permissible. Callaghan caters; and Mr. C.
Huenerbein, the Owls’ director, will see that there
is good music. The sale of tickets has already
ensured an attendance large enough to make the
thing a success. Dancing opens at 9 o’clock.
#* * #
The Narrandera ladies’ first hop of the
season took place on 3rd June, and was a big
success, about forty couples accepting their hos-
pitality. Belleship was divided between charmers
from Little Billabong and Billah respectively, who
caused no small flutter among the visiting back-
blockers But, as usual in country towns, the
bank mashers did more “cutting out” than the
stockmen To-morrow (Friday), the fourth
Bachelors’ Assembly at Nithsdale will bo held,
closing the first series. The reunions have, thanks
to oareful management, been successful in every
way. A second series commences in July An.
other social at Tattersall’s comes off also oh Friday,
when a capital programme is furnished, and the
last trams can be caught ...The Mayor of Mel-
bourne convened a meeting to devise a farewell
benefit concert to Miss Alice Rees.... A fortnightly
dance in Ballarat is that of the “ Old Fogies’ So-
ciety.” Chance for the gir ! s who would rather be
an old man’s darling than a young man's “ mash.”
....The Sydney Thistle Club are cogitating over
the idea of a ball Young mea of Balmain form-
ing a society to improve themselves. Time ..
At the Royal Society’s conversazione, on the 17th
June, the decision is not to admit ladies, as it is
impossible to find room for them. The scientific
gentleman, after a careful study of the develop-
ment of ladies’ en-wire-onments, do not see their
HANLAN’S LATEST CHALLENGE.
way to any other decision until the fashions
change A reoent wedding of much interest at
Bega, was that of Miss Ellen Kirby to Mr. Tom
Bateman, both of well-known families n the dis-
trict, and there was a big social gathering On
30th May the Bachelor’s Winter Party Association
gave their first < inderella at Newcistle. About
100 present in the Protestant Hall, Hardy’s band,
and plenty of pleasure—Lawn tennis flourishes
at Corowa, but the locals were beaten lately by
both Beeohworth and Bohemian teams At Mur-
rurundi, too, the lo' al silver-tails struggle with
this genteel game till they shed their buttons;
and yet they were beaten by a Gunnedah quartette
in the presence of a large gathering of their
best girls. It was very bitter Haydonton
bachelors recently gave the ladies a ball in their
School of Hearts At Appin, the young rien
break the winter with quadrille parties, but the
local editor, who always gets invited, never dares
to say who is “ the belle,” because all the girls
have big brothers, and he might “get hurt.” As
every gentleman on the committee is descended
from either Brian Boru or the great O'Neil, tbe
editor’s prudence is, perhaps, natural. Something
might ’Appin to him A grand charity ball was
held at Coonabarabran, when about 100 locals and
visitors merged in the Mechanics’ Institute. Mid-
night supper vanished, as few people out of Coona-
baraorau could make it go. The ladies provided
it. Dancers dispersed at daylight. The Con-
valescent Home ball was held at Brisbane a few
nights ago, very successfully A ball at Nyngan
last week in Dalton’s building netted about two
score pounds for the local Convent On June
2nd the Bowral Club was opened with a supper,
graced by the presence of iauies. A comfortable
room with fire, newspapers, and games, available
for 6d. a week Carlton Bicycle Club (V.) will
hold a plain and fancy dress ball on Independence
Day Both Inverell and Glen Innes have decided
not to invite Members of Parliament, other than
the district representatives, to the railway opening
festivities Last week, Dr. Beaney, famous for
his diamonds and in other ways, and president of
thA Fitzroy Bowling Club, gave a banquet to
fiWHy 200 gentleman in the Athemeum, Mel-
bourne. Mr. E. Hanlan was present, and of course
toasted. Prize! were then presented. Toasts of
“Ladies” and “Press” were promoted to the
middle of the list.... Ballarat Liedertafel had a big
ball, about 400 there, the Bociety providing its own
music, and i-lso giving some vocal’dance airs—
Last Thursday Miss A. A. Mountain was married
at Petersham to Mr. D. M. Kirkaldie of the Rail-
way Department. The bride looked nice in a fine
ivory white dress trimmed with chinelle, and
six bridesmaids followed her, viz., Misses Mountain,
Hogg, Howard and Walker, in pink and cream
respectively. Wedding breakfast served by Bau-
mann in a marquee at “ Ingleside,” and the newly
joined pair left in the express for Melbourne.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall). .June 12.
Masonic Ball (Parramatta) June 13.
Petersham Social June 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) June 13.
Comp. Dinner to N.Z. Footballers (Metrop.
Hotel) June 16.
Signora Fabris’Concert June IT.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)...June 20.
Scandinavian Ball (Tattersall's Hall) June 20.
Cyclists’ Union Sports June 21.
Bydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) June 27.
Burwood Private Assembly June 27.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition) July 3.
American Celel ration July 4.
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms)..July 11.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Squib ”: Have written to you.
•‘Fred”: Very good, but contributors of social
Items must give names.
*‘ Lad ”: Brief as you can, please.
‘‘W.A.L. We cannot enter into the little teapot
tempests of country townships’ society.
“Maude”: Many thanks. It will be obvious to
you why we had to curtail; to avoid repeti-
tion.
How’s the intelligent comp, getting on?
Oh, he's nice and hunky, thank you, and just at
the present date appears to be dreaming’ the" happy
hours away, and occasionally uncorking bottles up
at Dal by, for, in a recent Heuald from that
favoured city, we read:—“Lady Colin Campbell
was one of the loveliest bridges of the year when
she was married in July, 1881.” That was making
the bride ‘gee ” along with a venganoe.
Last week, we received the following
telegram from Georgetown:—“Bam the Tracker
will pull Hanlan, the champion, for five
hundred a side and the championship of the
world, in dug-outs, on the Etheridge River; the
race to be three miles with a turn, under the rules
of the right of the road. Will allow hundred ex-
penses. Man and money ready Folly’s Hotel George-
town. Early reply will oblige. Please give this pub-
licity. Tracker’s backers anxious. William
Kelly, Kelly’s Hotel.” We at once communicated
with Hanlan’srepresentative,who promised to wire
the champion and let us kno whis decision at the first
possible moment. Hanlan may urge that the dug-
out is not a best and best boat, and so give his
sable challenger the go-by; but, should he see fit
to measure propellers with Sammy the Tracker,
who can foresee but that the Etheridge may prove
a dangerous rival to the Nepean for tne proud dis-
tinction of champion course of Australia. Wo at
once despatched our special artist to the proposed
scone of action, with the result of the masterly
sketch in this issue.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully deoorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60i Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Mr. DkCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adv-ser and Mining Titles,
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class ef Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
gaefcage. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P 0
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
colours, &c., &c. by return post.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— The question on Saturday
was “ Where shall we go ?” To the football match,
the Cbarbonnet-Kellerman Audit, or to the Gar-
dens, to hear the band from the Nelson ? For
various reasons we chose the latter, though we
had to pacify Edith, for not going to the Audit, by
premising to go with her to the second one, whieu
was to take place on Tuesday night. So Ned took
us te Baumann's, and got us some cream kisses,
and all sorts of nice things. He (Ned) declared
the cream kisses were nearly as delicious as the
real article itself, and when he said it he looked
straight at Edith, as if she would be more inter-
ested in the remark than anyone else. Poor
Edith blushed furiously, so we drew our own con-
clusions ; so, perhaps, you will be able to draw
yours. And, oh ! it's quite true that Linda Fitz-
S sis engaged to Mr. P e, and won't they
make a handsome pair? What a combination of
wealth and beauty, to be sure 1 But, about the
Gardens and the band, it was really lovely to sit
on the soft grassy slopes and listen to the “Poet
and Peasant,” and “Dream Faces.” Eye and ear
were alike gratified, for some of the costumes were
very nice indeed. A stylish pair, the one in ruby
velvet and the other in dark green, promenaded
past us time after time. The crinolines might have
been a little less, but they weren’t. Another ruby
velvet was elaborately trimmed with deep cream
laoe; but I thought it almost a pity to cover so
much of the beautiful velvet, which to my mind
looks best with but little trimming. Theie were
dozens of black fur tippets, which I never can per-
suade myself to admire. Black fur always looks
so depressingly sombre. But a golden brown one,
worn with a brown cloth dress, was lovely. It was
that shade of brown which glistens in tnesun, and
is wonderfully rich looking. And 1 saw through the
trees a charming russet brown—the bodice of
velvet and jupe of ottoman cloth—brown straw
hat, and a mass of pale brown feathers. A green
cloth costume had the skirt completely covered
with narrow bands of velvet, which were put on
crosswise. It looked heavy but decidedly stylish.
Jabots are being worn larger than ever, and when
made to form a nice contrast to the dress material,
are very dressy. For instance, on Saturday there
was a rich olaret ottoman silk dress with plain
skirt, and a jabot of old gold brocaded satin.
Bather light material for the season, was it not ?
but the effect was very striking. The bonnet
was claret straw with old gold tips. Sweetly
pretty was a real old-fashioned royal blue
cashmere dress. It was plainly but fashiona-
bly made, and without any trimming. A
coquettish white straw jockey bonnet, trimmed
with velvet to match the dress, and long blue
gloves completed the costume. Conspicuous was
a myrtle-green costume with very long pale prim-
rose gloves reaching past the elbow. It looked so
comical in the distance, almost like a short-sleeved
dress with bare arms of a sallow complexion.
When it came nearer to us, however, we saw the
wearer was very pretty, and you know, dear, a
pretty girl can wear almost anything and be for-
given. When we left the Gardens, we sauntered
round to the Art Gallery, but could get no further
that the “ Widower;” for, somehow, alter looking
at that picture, we couldn’t see the others very
clearly. In broad daylight it is touching enough,
but in the gloaming it is inexpressively sad. It is
altogether too real.
We went to see Miss Genevieve Ward in “Forgot
Me Not” on Monday night, and there is no mis-
take—she can act. bhe has also a fine figure and
pretty arms and hands, and some of her Worth
costumes were very fine. At first she appears in a
dinner dress, the skirt being of crimson satin
richly studded with bugles; bodice ol black satin
and lace, from which is taken a handsome lace
train. Long yellow gloves meet the short sleeves,
and crimson roses are on the left shoulder. A
walking costume of olive green and pale blue
was very effective. The upper dress was of
green satin, and the skirt of pale blue. The
large ooliar of rich biscuit-coloured lace was
fastened by a tasteful bunch of white flowers,
dark hat with pale blue flumes. But her evening
dress was best of all, and almost baffles my weak
powers of description. As far as 1 could make out
the skirt was a beautiful salmon-coloured merveil-
leux satin. Each pleat was trimmed with spark-
ling gold passementerie. The corsage of red
brown velvet was cut low and sleeveless, and fitted
perfectly to the figure. A small plastron of the
salmon satin was a happy contrast to the velvet.
The train was simply a wonder. A blue white
ground, most handsomely embossed with velvet in
a large pine-like pattern, the colour of the velvet
varying from the deep brown of the bodice to
paler tints. The folds of this train fell with a
charming grace, which was admired by us all. Miss
Maggie Knight looked her best in a trained dress
of black lace and satin, with just a pure white
camellia at the termination of the V-shaped
bodice. Whether it was that it stood out in strong
relief against Miss Ward's gorgeous costumes, or
whether the perfect simplicity just happened to
suit Miss Knight’s style of beauty, I could not
make out. I only know that it was very charming.
The circle at the Royal looks ever so gay, lately
A magnificent pearl satin dress had garlands of
pink roses completely covering the front width,
and the same round the low bodice. Pearls in the
hair and round the neck, harmonised with the
dress wonderfully well. Feathers are much in
vogue for dress trimmings, but awfully ex-
pensive. There was a pale blue satin and broch6
and beautiful blue tips were used for forming a
kind of bertha, and also for looping up the side
drapery. A deep rose-coloured broctni admirably
became a dark lady, who wore her hair very high
and fastened with silver ornaments. Now, this
dress I know you will like. A pale heliotrope
satin jupe and low-necked sleeveless black velvet
bodice; on the left shoulder a lovely mass of helio-
trope feathers sweeping slightly towards the front
The feathers, being the sole ornament, were most
effective ; but 1 felt sorry for them when the
wearer threw over her shoulders a heavy quilted
opera cloak. Just imagine how it must have
crushed them 1 Two sisters in black velvet Swiss
bodices over soft white muslin, and handsomely
trimmed with gold lace, looked quite uncommon.
I wonder if. Rad cliff e, the flautist, is ever coming
to Sydney I Mouths back, enormous posters were
to be seen everywhere, announcing his approach,
and our hearts rejoiced. But now they are
smeared and torn (the posters, I mean), and have
had to take a back seat (dreadfully vulgar, isn’t it
dear?) in favour of Mrs. Anna Potts, Riggs, Gene!
vieve Ward, and others—and yet he cometh not.
'Y ell ‘ llte 18 full of disappointments, and my
faith in posters is dreadfully shaken.
you will not scold very much for writing you
a short letter this time, I will give you a long
account of the Owl Club Ball in my next. This
pleasurable affair is to be held in the Town Hall
to-morrow night. So now good-bye.
Your loving
MAD.
BULGING BUSTLES.
WRITTEN IN A HURRY.
BY L.L.
Woman's fickle—always changing,
Loveliness must have its way;
In the field of fashions ranging,
Fancies change her every day.
Nothing now must be closeflttUg;
On a bouncing wiry oage
Every beauty now is sitting,
Crinolette is all the rage.
Next we’ll have them fiat as pancakes,
Nature’s contour only show
To the man who put a scan takes,
And seeks not to further know.
Ladies, drop the horrid fashion.
Do a cynio’s whim indulge,
Something else pray spend your cash en,
Don’t put on suoh awful bulge.
What the female form divine is
Best is shown in Grecian dress,
That will show where beauty s line is.
Leaving not so muoh to guess.
But if you must have your bustle,
Don’t expend your guineas two—
Avoid the one with restless rustle,
And see if a threepenny bus’ll do.


Giticura
&
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
•4T
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
ThISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tiong, Itohing and Burning Tortures, Balt
n neum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Bkin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Boap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood>
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
•psj^a^fidoj
auOilQ M3IJV
MOUSTACHE and WHISZEB3.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
| will do it on either bald head or
bare face, Forces heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 to 4 toeeks and never
fails, 20,0CX) young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
8 pkte. J Ho injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid . sent under cover, free from observation.
fAddrese, Frank Douglas Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,N.3. W »
Copyrighted.
Tackett U. M.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Purl
fler, Dluretio and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUBE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the SMn.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautlfler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -9asy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflera
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the oolonies. Price,
Cutioura, §0 cents per bex, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 26 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prp pared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
MATRIMONIAL— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering’ by
simply sendinga stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. w., Box 766 G.P.0., Bydney.
Dr. HOFF—“The Skin fn
Health and Disease,”
3s. 6d., all booksellers.
L. BRTTCK, Publisher, Sydney.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
it)**
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BT THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
m~ all the latest music in stock.
IN. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES,
Here’s that horrid, disgusting poah man
again!—and, of course, just as usual, his wife and
family are starving. Hang his wife and family!
The -aw—Guv’ment shouldn't allow th’ beggah to
have any wife and family. This time the trouble
is in London; and at a monster meeting held over
there to devise some scheme for the relief of the
East-end purlieus, the audacious working man, on
being told that emigration was the sole panacea
f er all his ills, flatly replied that he didn’t want to
emigrate, and, what was more, he’d see the aristo-
cracy “domn’d” before he would. The State-
directed Emigration Association bossed the meet-
ing, and proposed that the State should undertake
to find work for the unemployed in cultivating the
land in the British colonies. And yet one ot the
London journals, speaking of the crowds assem-
bled, says “ they were an emaciated and sickly lot
of human beings, totally unfitted for fa rough
colonial life, and who, very likely, if they had work
offered them, would prefer to lead an easy, indolent
kind of life, picking up here and there j ust sufficient
to keep them alive.” During the progress of this
meeting a Mr. tioyd observed “There are 300,000,000
kcree of vacant land in Canada.” “ Millions of ice-
bergs, y’mean,” yelled the ungrateful and grum-
bling fifteen hundred present. “ What about the
land here ?” and then one of the most dariDg of the
lot scrambled up on the platform and declared
that “if gentlemen of sporting proclivities would
give up tne land of which they were ‘fraudulently
Possessed,’ work could be found for a large num-
ber of the unemployed at home.” There was just
n eoupfon of truth about this statement, too, for
It fi a Henry George statistical fact that, “in Eng-
land. there is more land lying idle in sporting
grounds, game preserves, and landlords’ parks,
than the old kingdom of Belgium, which supports
in happiness and prosperity 6,000,000 people, and
sends large food exports to London. An income of
$175,000,000 a-year is received by 8142 landlords as
rent on 45,500,000 acres of land.” However, this
speaker’s chat was received Iwlth tumultuous ap-
plause, and, emboldened by the cheers, the speaker
continued, that “ in view of the industrial depres-
sion now prevailing in the United States, in Aus-
tralia, and in New Zealand, the meeting declared
against State-aided emigration as no remedy for
the depression amongst the unemployed at the
East-end of London, and called for some reason-
able scheme of home colonisation and State em-
ployment of labour at home, which should at once
be set on foot, so that the unemployed, who were
ready and willing to work, might not, with their
wives and children, be left destitute or forced into
pauperism.” This looks as if the Australian
colonics do not monopolise exactly all the “ work-
ing-man trouble” just at present, and clearly
Bhows that British statesmen must devise some
other means of relief for their starving poor than
exile—for “these be parlous times,” and once
Hodge takes the bis teeth there is no
telling how far he will bolt, or what damage he
will do whilst on his frantic journey.
But a lew short yeirs ago the greatest liv-
ing persecutor of the human race was universally
acknowledged to be the Assurance Company fiend,
who button-holed his victim at every turn and
insisted on assuring his life under table 8., in order
that he. the victim, might soon be enabled to die
and leave his delighted spouse a few thousand
pounds, to facilitate her chances of catching on
to a new husband. Now, however, the champion
torturer is admitted to be the patent-medicine
almanac compiler, and as a specimen of his devilry,
we quote the following tale. A few days ago, a
certain Wesleyan clergyman was taken suddenly
111, and before night it was seriously feared that
every moment would bo his next. Shortly before
12 o’clock the sick man’s watchers were horror-
stricken to find a rope with half a brick attached,
coming down the chimney, and in a few seconds
after, a tall gaunt - looking wild-eyed man de-
scended by the help of this rope, and walking over
to the dying man’s bedside, said—“Er-cuse the
abruptness of my intrusion, sir, but hearing you
were pretty far along on the road to glory, I
thought it vould be extremely injudicious, even
cruel, on my part to postpone this visit any longer.
My name is Dodger Rufus Autilochus Dodger, and
I am the sole editor and publisher of those charm-
ing little volumes which so truthfully, and I flatter
myself I may also say eloquently, put forward the
undoubted efficacy of that world-renowned, life-
restoring mixture, Professor Hugo von Schlager’s
Concentrated Essence of Gemmatious Gee-
bung, 2s. 6d. per bottle, and be surd that you
get the genuine article.” Here the new oomer
took a chair and hoisted his heels on the sick-
man’s pillow, and lighting a ten-for-a-shilling cigar,
continued : “Now, why I cailed on you to-night,
oldman, is this. Try a weed? No. That’s O.K. Then.
Y’see th’ fact is, our almanao game has been done
t’ rags. We want t’ strike a totally new patch
altogether, and I rather guess I’ve roped th’ right
idea. Here it 's. You’re about to scoot off t’th’
Golden Shoah, an’ join th’ Hallerberlooyue
band, and wear wings instead of flannel-
shirts, an’ all that. Very well. My notion
is for you to give me the order to publish a hand-
some 12mo. book of your life and labours, and on
every second page I could work in some regular
ring-tail old snorts of testimonials from the count-
less millions who have been dragged from the
howling abyss of hell’s own despair by the miracu-
lous efficacy of Professor Hugo von Sohlager's
Concentrated Essence of Gemmatious Geebung,
2s. 6d. per bottle, and do not be imposed upon by
the spurious imitations of any mean, despicable,
low-down imitators. Ain’t y’ got a spittoon?
Never mind. Don’t rise. Now, y’ see, we'll
work it this way.- I’ll write your life
to start with. Of course, I don’t know
anything at all about it, except that you
were apparently born, and died, but I’ve got
a lot of old trash at home, such as ‘Lives of
celebrated Highwaymen,’ ‘Fox’s Book of the
Early Martyrs,” ‘ Diary of a Drunkard,’ ‘Mar-
garet Catchpole,’ and such stuff, and I’ll chip a
page out of ono, and a funny yarn out of another,
and draw on the martyrs for the drivel, and then
we ll stick gobs of advertisements in the daily
papers, such as ‘Life of a Lover of the Loard !
Startling disclosures ! He is tempted by Satan, but
cutsoff the Serpent’s Tail !’ Take it home to your
Wife ! Frisky Frolicks at a Love Feast I Sarah
Coobibbidy's garter falls out of a Parson’s Pocket!
No respectable family should be without a calf-
bound edition. Sixty editions ordered in advance
of publication ’ * Catch on to th’ idea, now, my
gay old grasshopper, don’t yer? It’ll get your
name up bigger than a divoroe-court scandal, an’
not cost you a Dlarstid cent.,and, besides, you’ll con-
fer an immortal boon on the suffering world at large
by your widespread testimony to the marvellous
cures effected by one bottle of Professor Hugo
Von Schlager’s Concentrated Es why, bust me
vride open, if this d—d ole mule hasn’t gone and died.
Never mind, I'll charge the widow for professional
services rendered.” Then the long man skipped,
and even the corpse seemed relieved.
Here we are again. Same old drunk as
usual. This time, however, there are a couple of
incidents in connection with the recent “ tear ”
which are well worth recording. Last Sunday
night week, the sylph-like form of Lady Munro
was seen sailing down to the Temperance Hall,
Melbourne, to attend a meeting of prayer and
praise which was held by the gallant Salvation
Army. It appears that the last time this giddy
young representative of the Dudley family toed
the Police Court scratch in order to explain why
she went hallooing and raising Cain around town,
and subsequently wound up her amusement by
splitting a policeman’s things from Dan to Beer-
sheeba, the P.M., Mr. Call, was so touched by the
sight of helpless beauty in distress, that he im-
ploringly asked, “ Cannot something be done for
this poor young woman ?” Something was done.
First of all, her ladyship “done” the court
officials to the extent of a guinea, and for the rest
of the day jov reigned supreme, and the star of
the Dudleys shone out as bright and clear as a
brass tack in an old hair trunk. Next morning
brought repentance, and the customary longing
for soda-with-a-dark-bottom. Then a Salvation
Capting came along with both, and made a con-
quest. The hitherto untameable Dudley was
touched at last, and, when she mounted the plat-
form at the Temperance Hall on the following
Sunday night, the members of the Harmy were
jubilant; the new convert’s case was pointed out
as evidence of the good work the tambourine-
thumpers were doing, and the hallerlooyers that
rent the air were as loud asaLlmburger cheese or a
whole park of field artillery, On the Tuesday fol-
lowing, however, the frail beauty met a man who
was not a Gospel-grinder by a long way, and the
result was that when she got to the Temperance
powwow that night she wanted to sit on the Chair-
man's knee and sing “ You may kiss me and caress
me, and I won’t tell my Ma,” upon which the dis-
gusted Majah shouted “Git orf, you wicked wo-
man, or I’ll hit you over the head with something:”
and then he pushed her away, and was about to
start “The gate's ajar,” when the infuriated Dud-
ley gave him a jar with the ohair that knooked the
Salvation hero clean over the ropes and out on the
top of the big drum. After this her ladyship
grabbed the water-bottle and went for the oelestial
choir in a style that ruffled a great deal of the
angelic soprano’s religious fervour and calico
skirts; but order was at last restored, and the fair
Munro was carted off to the exterior darkness,
where there was much gnashing of teeth and ex-
cited language. Shortly after this, a well-known
Scottish divine came along, and seeing how the cat
jumped, thoughtfully handed her ladyship a tract,
and then gave her a blood-curdling lecture. When
the reverend divine was through, the great Munro
quietly told him to keep his tract, and then per-
tinently enquired how it was possible to be vir-
tuous on an empty stomach. The worthy parson,
who is evidently not a bad sort, admitted the force
of this reasoning, and taking the New Magdalen
into a popular restaurant, he treated her to the
best or everything. Just as the worthy pair
had settled down to work on the poultry, however,
her ladyship, having rapped a passing waiter over
the ear with her gingham to attract nis attention,
leant over and whispered something into his capa-
cious eaT-hole. A few seconds after this, the
garfon returned, smiling all over his face like a
baked pig, and carefully rubbing the seal-dust
off the mouth of a splendid pint bottle of Moet
and Chandon’s Gold-top fizz. This was coming it
just a trifle too strong for the meenister, and he
flatly declared he would not pay for “ gold-top ”
liquors, no matter what consequences might
folio iv. That, of course, was playing right into
the Dudley’s hands, as the place was now
full, and, so standing up, her ladyship asked the
assembled crowd what they thought of a masher
who asked a lady to dine with him, and then tried
to shirk out of paying for what she ordered.
“Look at him,” screamed the Munro, “isn’t he a
nice old rooster to go doing the lah-di-dah, and
then try to run me off on a three-bob tuck-out,
and a bottle of ginger ale to wash it down with
Isn’t he a jammy old .” That closed the case
for the Crown. The distracted meenister clutched
his hat, gave the waiter two sovs., and without
waiting for his change dashed out and had a
vapour bath, fully determined to let all titled
Magdalens go to the d—l their own way for the
future. Her ladyship polished off the parson’s
dinner and her own, drank up the fizz, and is now
prepared to stand another conversion on the same
liberal terms as she received from the Scotch
parson.
This is the truthful tale of Smith, Brown,
Jones, and Robinson. The first three-named
jokers wore “ damping the enemy ” round at Diok
Thatcher's whisky-mill, the other day, when Smith
observed, ‘H)h, by the Holy Frog, Brown, old man,
our friend Jones here said one of the smartest
things the other day that I have ever heard, and
I’m a remarkably early riser, too. Y’ see, Jones
had been out to a lodge-night shivoo, and himself
and the boys had a high old time, you bet. Goin’
home, however, Jones tripped over the back of
his head, and fell down a cellar; and when they
picked him up, he looked like a bill-stioker’s wall
after a heavy thunder-storm had played upon it.
Next morning, I met him on the tram, and when
he told me all about how the battle raged on the
previous night, I said, ‘ Blow it all, Jones, how did
y’come to fall down the cellar?’ And then sez
Jones, sez he, ‘ Notwithstanding.' See th’ joke,
Brown? The reason he fell down was certainly
‘ not with standing.’ Wasn’t it bully ? By thunder I
I think I’ll stick it in th’ Boolyteen.” Then the
worthy trio hoisted In some more cold pizun, and
skipped away to business. Next day, Brown,
Jones, and Robinson ran together at Bass Hodge’s
Academy of Aquafortis, and as they blew the
creamy froth all over their clothes, Brown ex-
claimed. “ Jumpin’ Jezabel, Robinson 1 Smith
told me a yarn yesterday about this hoary
headed old vagabond, Jones, here, that id make an
oyster laugh at its own funeral. Lemme see—
how’s this it wont? Oh, ah, got it now. Jones
was on the Jamberoo the other night, and as he
was going home he landed on his back bosom at
the bottom of a six-foot cellar. Next day, Smith
met the old ’un on the cars, and sez he-sez Smith,
you know— 1 Hang it all, Jones, how did you come
to fall over that way ?' And what d’ye think this
old gorilla said? Why he yelled out ‘Notwith-
standing.’ Wasn’t that good for Jones ? The rea-
son he fell down was, of course, not with standing ”
“Crucified Cassarl” roared Robinson, “that lays
over anything I ever heard before. Why, jam it
all, Jones, you’re a born humourist. All you want
is a red cover and a couple of gross of libel writs
against you to be the boss comic paper of the
colony. Set ’em up again, my bloomin' saxophone
splutterer, an’ we’ll drink t’ Jones, th’ Artemus
Ward of all Australia.” The following day, Mrs.
Jones noticed that her old man wore on extremely
pensive look, and seemed to be completely off his
kadoova balance. At breakfast he emptied the
milk jug over his steak in mistake for the ket-
chup; at dinner he put the mustard in his tea;
and at night he spent ten minutes trying to light
the bath-room tap which he fully believed was the
gas jet, and in short he carried on so absurdly al-
together that Mrs. Jones slipped out and slept with
the servant girl for safety. Next morning, how-
ever, Jones was found dancing round the house
like a Cooktown Kanaka with six Inches of rum
behind his “ pinny,” and catching sight of his
terror-stricken wife he grabbed her round the
neck and screamed, “ Hoo-ray, ole girl! I’ve got it
now—wasn’t it damn strange I couldn’t see th’
thing before. It’s all round th’ town! Fellers
yelling about it at every corner 1 Bulletin
people looking for me everywhere. Wanter gi'
me fifty pouns a week to sling jokes for ’em.
Why don’t you laugh, too ? ” “Git away; you bald-
headed old ass,” shouted Mrs. Jones “if anybody s
lookin’ for you, it’s th’ perleeoe, or the lunatio
asylum people.” “No, taint my love,” said Jones.
“ Hold on till y’ hear th’ yarn. Remember th’ ether
night that I fell down th’ cellar an’ mashed all my
face about ? Well, next day, Smith and me were
goln’ into town, an’ sez Bmitb t’ me when I told
him about tli' spill.” “ How the mischief did y’
manage t’ fall down a cellar, anyway?” And dye
know what I said t' Smith,then? Why,l said ‘Never-
theless” —that’s the joke: ain’t it a hummer ?
Don’t it make y’ feel fit t’ run outside and kick
yerself with laughing?” “No, it don’t,” replied
the disgusted wife; “I don’t see any joke in the
thiogatall.” “Of course y’don’t,” yelled Jones,
as he did a fandango round the room once more:
“of course y’ don’t see it now. It'll take three
days before y’ can. I didn’t see it myself when I
said it, and I didn’t when Smith told Brown, or
Brown told Robinson either, although we all
screamed again over it, but the three days are up
this morning, an’ now I’ve just struck the Joe
Miller in all its glory. Don’t forget what I said—
the reason I fell down the cellar was Nevertheless —
fimme me boots, quick ; there goes old
t’Gogerty—l’ll dash right out an’ tell him the fun,
toe. And you come to the front gate and see him
split into ohips when I say it was Nevertheless that
did the deed.” But M’Gogertv didn’t split any
more than a bowl of soup would, and now Jones is
worrying round to find Smith and ask if the word
shouldn’t be Now-a-days, or None-such. And as
yet Jones is absent from the Boolyteen.
Wells’ “ ough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Two or three colds in succession will often
establish the seeds of Consumption in the system,
converting what was originally a simple, curable
affection, into one generally fatal. While ordinary
prudence therefore, makes it the business of every
one to take care of a cold until it is got rid of,
intelligent experience presents a remedy in Dr.
Jayne’s Expectorant, thoroughly adapted to re-
move speedily all Coughs and Colds, and equally
effective in the primary stages of Consumption,
Asthma and Bronchitis. To be had of all Druggists
and Store-keepers; and wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a yoang lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion ? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady In one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by whioh the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflio-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of i f , and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
rese's Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul breath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is aji
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
fold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
BRIDGETS BURIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dead man opened .hys ohapless jaws,
And groaned three eldritch groans,
As from out of hys mou th, to the northe and the
gouthe, . , , „ „ «
He spat out hys own tlngh-bones.
We don’t know that fc>he above poetry has
„ sort of especial connection with, or relevance
*o what we’re going to tell you, but we found it
in'lngoldsby, and thought it s uch singularly felici-
tous verse to come from a clergyman's pen that it
would more fitly serve to introduce a solemn story
of death than the more trivial, not to say giddy,
rhvmes of Watts and Wesley. ‘.There is a breadth
«nd grandeur of conception-a B ULLETiNish grasp
—about this, that we regret to ray is deplorably
absent from the work of many of the other religi-
ous poets. These singers of the h arp and crown
foreshow no higher hope than a mystic spiritual
deathlessness—a state of winged »md enduring
pcatacy—an immortal intensity of bliss, before
which the human mind cowers appalled and
blinded. The seers of the Church sing* of a shining
eternity of Life in crystal mansions-t >f waltzing
round the Lamb tor ever on strictly tt imperance
drinks-of singing Hosannahs in the high est all day
and all night (but there’s no niglrt there)*
for ever and ever, with no chance of any-
thing with a body in it. The joy of such a
Paradise is too strong-it is as going up from the
midnight to a bright room. No one would stay
there who had been much about New South Wales
-particularly Hay or Albury way. The o bange
wouldn’t be gradual enough. They would t>e for
getting back: they would choose rather annihila-
tion than a beerless futurity with no visible off-
end to it: they would lift up their voices, and .sing
with Longfellow—
“ Rest—rest! O give me rest and peace
The thought of joy that cannot cease
Has something in it like despair,
A weight I am too weak to bear.
They would be for ever trying to get at Peter, to
“send the billy out somewhere, for God’s sake/’
They would continually worrit him by offering to
swap new grease-proof crowns for his old one, if
he'd go; they would offer to take the gate, and be
very "careful about Mudgee people while he was
away. No-the Heaven of Toplady, and the sweet
singers of Moody and Sankey, is not the place for
a p >ople already goaded to insanity by the Sunday,
closing clause. We are descendants of the British
nation, and as angels we wouldn’t go back on ou r
traditions, nor strike one blooming harp without
stimulants at regular intervals. The glory o
England was built up on a foundation of Beer.
The Spanish Armada was defied by soldiers who
habitually drank Beer in large quantities. Shak
speare lived on (and died of) Sack, and who would
like to meet him and not be able to say “ got a
mouth on you. Bill ? ” How happily did poor old
Gordon hit off the Briton in “ Ashtaroth.” This is
the quatrain he puts in Lucifer’s mouth when
speaking of the English soldier, Thurston:—
“This knave is a thorough bred-Saxon! He
thinks , ~
With pleasure, of nothing but blows and strong
drinks, , .
In Hell he would hardly go thirsty, if given
An inkling of any good liquors in Heaven.
* * *
In 1856 there lived at Yackandandah—but
hold on. We’ll come to that directly; but j ust now
we’ve struck a lead of speculation, suggested by
Ingoldsby’s beautiful lines, that we’re going to
follow until it dips. Admitting (which, of course*
everyone will do,) that Heaven, as sung by the
Christian poets, is too vast and far-advanced,
and generally thin, to be ever much used
by colonials; and admitting (which, of course,
everyone will do) that the dead must pass the
time somehow, what a splendid opening for in-
dulging in wholesome fun, do the lines above
quoted disclose ! While the prophets and
dreamers have been away exploring the skies for
likely-looking country for the soul, Ingoldsby has
supplied a long-felt want by pointing out a cheer,
ful and exhilarating game for the body, which in
these athletic days will probably be largely availed
of. What could be much nicer for a lot of corpses,
than to sit up in their graves and fraternise with
each other, and back their different fancies at
bone-blowiDg ? Imagine an olden churchyard at
midnight, with the moon low in the west, and the
screech-owl and bat abroad I Twelve would toll
from the mossed belfry, and the hilarious Remains
would shake themselves together and toe the mark.
Of course, politicians, from the peculiar formation
of their mouths, and their long earthly practice at
giving vent to opinions and things, would be
placed at scratch. The thigh bones would be care-
fully chosen, and those of Press men always prefer,
red on account of their thinness and peculiar value
as projectiles. Thus things would come square, and
reporters could win a handsome competence
through hiring out their femurs to the competi-
tors at so much a blow, they being debarred by
their profession when in the flesh, from competing.
Bush-missionaries’ femurs would be at a discount,
owing to abnormal enlargement at the lower ends,
caused by persistent “flopping;” Chief Secre-
taries’ thigh-bones would be considered too
spongy and unreliable ; and Bishops’ wouldn’t
bo considered for a moment on account
of their excessive bulk and solidity. There
would be no reason, that we are aware 01, to con-
fine the spitting to tho “ northe and southe,” as in
the case Ingoldsby mentions, but there would need
to be well-defined rules, and a watchful longstop
appointed lest any of the bones should bo lost.
The bookmaking, also, should be under strict dis-
cipline. No totalisator or Fancy Fayre distribu-
tion should be allowed within the graveyard under
any pretext, and no corpse should be allowed to
bet its head on any event. The betting should be
confined strictly to the game, and no wagers as to
the result of the General Judgment should be
allowed. At the conclusion of each match, every
bone should be returned to its proper skeleton,
and all wagers paid, and everything put square
and tidy, in case Gabriel should blow before next
meet. Any skeleton found fighting, or in other
than a sober condition should be turhed out into
the street, and [Say! What are you giving us ?
The story, man, the story!—Ed. 8.l
•' 9 9
In the year 1854, there lived in the vaults
of St. Denis [Hold on, there: you said Yack-
andandah!— Ed. B.] Ah—yes! an elderly man from
foreign parts, called O’Donahoo. (We’re not sure,
now, whether it was in Yackandandah or Wo-
donga, but it was in Victoria somewhere.) O’Don-
ahoo was a very big man, and lived in a bark hut
up the hill side with his wife, Bridget, who
will cut an important figure in this narrative.
Gold was to be got pretty handy in those
days, and O’Donahoo got plenty of it, but
continued to live in the old hut up on
the hill-side, in an apparent state of gaunt and
haggard peed, Neither he nor Bridget eycr had
enough clothing on to render an Egyptian Mummy
presentable, and O’Donahoo never went out save
to fossick by himself, or bring home a bit of tucker
from the township. He was a puzzle to every-
body. He had been heard to say “ Nabooklish,”
also “ the curse o’ Jarses an ye,” and he was con-
sequently half-suspected of being Irish. But then
he never attended the sacrifice of the Mass, so
people couldn’t make up their minds. But they
found out this way O’Doaohoo was suffering from
toothache, and in that there came upon him a dim
recollection that he'd somewhere heard that it
wasn’t a bad line to keep the teeth dean, so after
much consideration (for, barring a religious editor,
he was the meanest cuss on earth) he sallied forth
to buy a tooth-brush. He went into the chemist's
shop—there was one just started a canvas affair—
and, in his barbarous jargon, asked for one, right
in frent of all the boys. But the unhappy youth
behind the oounter thought he said hatr-brush so he
he asked briskly and jocularly, “ Certainly, sir,
will you have a soft one, or one that'll take all the
hair off V' There was a roar and a rush, and, as
Swinburne sayeth, “ Rent flesh fell every way, and
blood flew, and fieroe fragments of no more a
man! ” Then the boys saw what part of tho world
O'Donahoo was from. It is singular how these
little national traits are perpetuated and in our
opinion.—[Are you going to tell this yarn or not ?
Ed. B.]
* • •
Well, one day Bridget fell ill, and dread-
ing the trouble of an inquest more than for any
other reason, O’Donahoo got a doctor for her,
under whose care she promptly died. Then the
old boy deoi ■•ed to save money on the funeral. He
was too poor, he said, to have an undertaker with
a black suit on, and hearses, and plumes, and
things, so he set to, after getting the doctor’s cer-
tificate, to bury her out behind the hut. For a
coffin he got the beef-barrel out of the hut, and
having carefully put the two last pieces of
salt junk out on a slab to dry, he jammed Bridget
into it clown fashion, and with her head and feet
sticking out, put it on a wheelbarrow and started
along the hillside to the grave. But the night was
dark, and he tripped over a rock, and Bridget went
down the hill at the rate of twelve thousand re-
volutions per minute into the river. O’Donahoo
was puzzled—he would have given it best at once,
but he was afraid the Inspector of Nuisances would
be after him to burn the body next day. [An In-
spector of Nuisances in tbsse times! Preposter-
ous!-Ed. B.] Who’s telling this yarn, anyway?
So he went down and groped about for a while,
and thicn decided it was tb.e will of the Lord, and
gave It up. In the meantime, the exercise in the
fresh uir had revived Bridget, who wasn’t dead at
all, amd she drifted down the Murray towards
Adelaide. But. in attempting to pass Albury, she
was seized by Ringwood on behalf of the N.S.W.
Customs as foreign goods; but after apologising
and explaining the peculiarities of the case, and
promising never to offend again in a similar
manner, she was sent back to Donahoo, who re-
ceived her with joy, as he had paved four shillings’
worth of tucker by her absence and gained a beef-
cask by her return (for she pulled up the river in
it again). And they all lived happily for ever
afterwards, and O’Donahoo is now Mayor of—
somewhere in Victoria. [We are disappointed in
this story—there’s no moral whatever to it, and we
oon’t think it has evemthenegative merit of truth.
-Ed. B ]
The Bad and Worthless
are newer imitated or counterfeited. This is es
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, befit and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All suoh pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in irpitatiqqg or
counterfeits.
The reporter of the Melbourne D.T. was in
the right spot for news lately. He was up near
the head of Collins-street., and must have had his
eyes open, for he noticed a man stagger and fall
heavily off the footway. He acted the good
Samaritan, of course, and then went down to his
office and wrote up the incident. This was a
genuine, first-hand incident. It had not appeared
“elsewhere,” and he laid himself out to do it in
irreproachable English. He therefore says that
“the individual fell on his face in the water
channel.” That is graphically described. One
almost sees the individual achieving tho incident.
Thus: He comes down Colline-street, staggers on
the footway, reels over the water channel, sees his
face down there looking up at him, and forthwith
“falls on to it.” Must have been that way. Can’t
see how else he could do it.
What troubles Ballarat now is that its
straight-legged young women can’t get the young
men to dance. Ballarat has got excessively high-
toned since Bishop Thornton brought out the
charitable offerings which the episcopal purring
drew from soft-hearted strangers. It has quitted
begging for a while, and pressure is being em-
ployed to drive the energy from the hollowed
palms down into the legs. It is well to observe a
change to anything, and the mammas in low
drosses, who go about sigbing because the young
men don’t cotton to this particular change, merit a
little sympathy. But, still, the young men who
deoline to dance are not to be too severely oen-
sured. As a rule, their legs are very thin and
crooked, and except they were really fond of a
girl, they wouldn’t be expected to spend as much
time dressing and padding as would remove the
risk of an accident in the ball-room. Now, if the
mammas would start praying, their daughters
would get on better. Men don’t want shapely legs
for praying. All they want for praying is plenty
of mouth. That’s just into the hands of the young
men of Ballarat. Wny not try that for a change ?
As it is, mammas, in their indignation, threaten
that they will not buy expensive ball-drosses for
the incoming season. Which makes it appear that
the young mon referred to are drapers. But this
is hardly fair. Before adopting so extreme a
course they ought to try how praying would take
as a social amusement.
This is what a slaughterman told a Balla-
rat scribe, the other day:—“There is not much
harm in a flukey sheep, but the pneumonia must
be bad for the customers, I should think. We
have got used to a little fluke in sheep, and it don’t
make much difference in it. You should see the
cattle with the pneumonia, though. I have seen a
warm carcase, when the cow has dropped dead
from pleuro in the yard, dragged on to the
slaughtering floor and dressed. Of course the
lungs ere not allowed to Jie round; they could be
notic. a by the inspector. Not much. We rip
them up, tear out the skin lining the inside of the
chest, wipe it over with a damp rag, and I tell you
it wants a smart man to see then that the animal
had the pneumonia. Why, I have known a couple
of buckets of matter taken out of the lungs of one
animal which was slaughtered and sent into the
market. We don’t fool round with the stuff, I can
tell you, and it soon goes out of sight. Pneumonia
isn’t much, though; the Cumberland disease,
blackleg, is the thing to make meat look nasty. It
makes the animals’ blood look like tar, the flesh
dark, but they say all the ‘badness ’ in it comes out
in the cooking. If people want to know some-
thing of how much pneumonia and blackleg there
is among oattle, they have only to go to the abat-
toirs at the right time. The inspector is there,
perhaps, half a day, but he don't see anything
wrong going on, of course. When he goes away
and, perhaps, is snug in bed, the ‘sick ’uns’ are
attended to, and no time lost about it, either ?”
Splendid legend: splendid lie. This im-
mortal phrase of Samuel Clemens applies particu-
larly to a story wo got from America, the land of
fearless fictions, of a West Virginia mountaineer
who came down the other week to the old city of
Staunton to “replenish his empty pocket-book by
selling two of his best slaves. He had never
heard of the abolitionists, never heard of Daniel
Webster or Henry Clay, or Wendell Phillips, never
heard of the war of Secession; never heard of
anything about anything except hoe-cakes and
tobacco, in fact. When he found that the faoe of
things had changed since his last descent from the
mountains, he turned his back on the city and
made for home, taking his two slaves with him.
And yet this story, marvellous as it is, might not
be a lie. We have met men in the bush who have
lived a still more secluded life, and were im-
measurably more ignorant of the outside world
than the West Virginia mountaineer. There is,
for instance, a poundkeeper in Queanbeyan who
has never seen a irailway—at least, he had never
seen a railway when we saw him last—and thinks
it a sort of shoot down which passengers are fired
by a steam catapult. And yet ne is happy. Then,
we know hundreds who have never seen the sea,
and refuse to believe that it is bigger than the
Darling at flood time. We have known men who
had no idea who God is, and others—but these
lived in the very remote bush—who had never
even heard of Henniker Heaton. 80 that we are
pot going to give in to America, even in ignorance.
Talking of brotherly love, oy the way, we
wonder what the .iaynyil Dan’s npoodiug angel
thinks of this item, and how many taukPnls of nis
crystal tears it would take to blot out the account
and give the culprit a clean sheet to start on.
Down Bouth. there hangs out a certain member of
the Fourth Estate, who is the proud possessor of a
small potato patch, a brindle cow, and a rough but
honest sort or a brother. We mention the brother
last—that being the position he holds in the affec-
tions of his oulchawed, high-toned relation. This
Orson-like brother also rejoices in the possession
of a cow called Poley, and he is furthermore
blessed by enjoying the privilege of living next
door to the bloated pressman. Unfertunately for
Orson, however, his particular cow seems to have
but a very shady resp?ot for the principles of
meum and tuum, and in the silent hours, when all
Nature is steeped in slumber sweet, Rosy kicks a
?ap in the editor’s fence, and then trots into hi*
avourite spuds, and has quite a rosy old time
until morning. This, of course, makes the potato
proprietor as mad as a bob-tail bull in the fly
season; and for the past three months he hag en-
deavoured to scare the soul out of the beggar next
door and his cow, by printing scathing philippics
about “ ruffianly miscreants who recognise neither
the sacred laws of God, nor man,” and throwing out
fierce, blood-curdling threats of the avenger’s
flashing steel, and the local “pound," all of which
had about as much effect on Poley’s innocent
owner and herself, as a bread pill would have on
one of the mummied Pharoahs. Last Saturday
morning, however, our indignant knight of the
paste-pot and shears determined to put an end to
this kind of thing for ever, and summoning the
whole staff, sot to work, and before night dug a
pit about 4ft. wide and 10ft. deep, Just inside his
potato-patch enclosure. Then he retired to roost,
chuckling as he went over the fun he was about to
have with Poley. Next morning, sure enough,
there was a broken-legged oow flopping around in
the ditch, and bellowing like a double-barrelled
fog-horn in a young typhoon. Five minutes later,
the delighted journalist was pounding away at his
neighbour's door like a Crusader crank at the gates
of Ascalon. “ Your sanguinary cow’s broke its
neck in my yard,” shouted the gleeful editor
“ Hell I ” roared the other fellow. And these were
the first words the brothers had spoken to eaoh
other for thirteen years. Round ran the worthy
pair to the pit, and it was then discovered that ft
was the cunning journalist’s own oow that had
fallen in, and Poley was as safe and sound as the
Bank of England. It took the editor and all bis
staff ten hours to haul the brute out, and now the
two brothers love one another worse than ever.
“Oh, i cannot bear to think of those
dreadful things,” said one woman in her delicate,
gauzy laoes. “What others have to endure, you
might at least bear to think of,” said the other
softly. Before us is a little book written by
Ellice Hopkins, London, 1884, containing some of
these dreadful things. They are so dreadful that
we are sure all right-thinking persons and respect-
able journals would never dream of dragging
them to sight. With pious propriety would they
cover them up—suppress even the mention of
them—for they are tfuogs that comfortable society
cares not for its thoughts to dwell upon. Just so.
That is the reason Eliioe Hopkins has written ;
beoauso, what others have to bear, “ respectable ”
people might at least endure to think of. It is
through the unctuous purism that deliberately
shuts out of sight everything vulgar and disagree-
able that “God’s England (as Milton called her) is
in danger of beooming tho land of child-harlots."
This is new and startling. But it is a deduction
from the evidence of the police specially gleaned
for a committee of Parliament. Ten thousand
children are reckoned to be growing up in brothel
houses ; and it is an indicative fact that a London
penitentiary which, 20 years ago, was only for bad
women, was opened 10 years ago to grown girls,
and the admissions have since bad to be extended
to girls as young as 0 and 10. In ono week, three
child-girls were dealt with who had reached the
depths of physioal vice; one at 12, another 9.
and the third, at the age of nine, was a mother!
This latter case was the subject of special cor-
respondence between the Home Secretary and
district police. The streets of ©very large town
are never void of “ the strange woman " at night;
but never before has attention been so pointedly
directed to the way thousands of children go, even
before reaching their teens. Living amid vice,
hearing, seeing, talking, almost breathing it, is it
any wonder which way they go ? The law against
seduction in England scops at the age of 13, while
it is a physiological fact that 16 is the most danger-
ous age of girlhood, and more girls go wrong at
that time than any other. Girls on the Continent
are protected by the law up to 21; but in England
beyond 13, only when possessed of property. The
working girl is supposed to take care of herself.
Hence it Is that children live, year after year, in
the one single room, where grown women oarry
on woman’s lowest trade. This is unchecked by
State interference, and G. R. Sims has broadly
asserted that there can be no evil surer to spread
crime than this utter destruction of innooence in
the young. This, then, is why Ellice Hopkins
writes, with a barbarous disregard of the feelings
of right-thinking people, on the great moral ques-
tion. It is the ignoring of these things, by “ a sky-
high Christianity, with its bead in the clouds, and
its feet in the intolerable mud,” that has really
caused their spread. And if any are answerable
for the lost young lives, it is those who cultivate
a determined ignorance of every subject that isn’t
“ nice.” Ecclesiastical organizations have been so
busy “saving souls, that they have inadvertently
overlooked men and women!


The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
/steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in’
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
‘ Hops ’’ in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Heps on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
Enjoy Life.— What a truly beautiful world we
live in I We can desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per cent, of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, [Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symDtoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its wonderful effect. Sold by all Druggists
at 3s. 6d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 6d. Try it.
ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS :
CHAPILES DOB and 00.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
\gg~ TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
6; i lii v! 3
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That witn the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name , “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
DE
ASTHMA.GOUGH. BRONCHITIS
I
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard aaninnt fraudulent imitations,
se- Uaii each bo.r beats the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., SiV Oxford-street, Ltonixm,”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The monkeys are gradually wcrki> g their
way up to the ’•missing link” point. The signal-
man at Wltenhage, South Africa, has lost both his
legs, and trained a naboou to do his duties. The
signalman, mounted ou a tro ly, is perambulated
along hy Jatko, w >o, directed by his master, puts
down the lover, squints over his shoulder to see
if the right signal is set, and then watches with all
the gravity ot a judge tne c >tning train. Perhaps,
if we had a few baboon officials in our liailway
department, there might be t*-ss smashes.
A smart man down South did a shrewd
deal in the dog-line the other day. He sold a
mongrel he had to a traveller at a good figure, on
the guarantee that he was one of the best carrying
dogs this side of the line Alter the bargain was
struck and the coin planked down, the buyer inci-
dentally remarked, ”Oh, by the way, whatd' es he
carry best?” The seller grinned as h® drily re-
plied, " Faith, theD, I think about the test and
only thing he can carry is a tnoighty big pack of
fleas.” And then he dodged a junk of road-metal,
and scooted with his dog-money to the nearest
Bhanty.
An English paper asserts that belief in
witchcraft has by mo means died out in England.
It constantly receives letters, mainly from Somer-
setshire, from parties averring that they are
“witched,” and that, though they have tried all
sorts of charms, such as t urning herbs in i heir
bedroom, nailing a nail in the footprint of the
person who is supposed to taavu witched tnem,
drawing the blood of the witch with a pin, &0.,
they can’t exorcise the “ crittur.” Hence, tney
seek advice from the omniscient editor, who ap-
peals to the parsons to tackle the evil. As, how-
ever, they’ll only shift them from one style of
demonology into another, we don’t see this advice
will achieve much good.
Another injustice to the worrukin’ mahn.
The other morning, Mrs. William Parks, of PJatts-
burg, Wallsend, gladdened the heart of her lord
by presenting him with three small Parks (two
boys and one girl). All are very much alive, and
three new perambulator manufactories are now
being erected in that thriving township. We
venture to think that a few more patriotic ladies
like Mrs. P. would do more to reduce that
Immigration vote than ttie mouthiDgs of all the
Hyde Park howlers put together. When Sir
Hercules reigned, an event like that of Plattsburg
generally easod his purse of a “tenner.” Gussy,
however, would be more interested in a two-
headed chick, or a clutch of thirty-six long eared,
bob-tailed Brahma-Pootras. Every man has his
cwn particular taste.
We don’t know more of Mr. Prendergast
than what we have read about him in the papers,
but if his only fault be that of anxiety to sow
dissatisfaction in the hearts of bis fellow men—
whether they be immigrants at the Barracks or
Darling Pointers simmering in their own grease -
why, then, we would bid him go on and prosper as
a preacher of dissatisfaction. Dissatisfaction is
th® mother of reform, just a* scepticism is the
mother of progress, J ust as scepticism is an
abomination to the ignorant, because it disturbs
their lazy and complacent minds, because it trou-
bles their cherished superstitions, because it im-
poses on them the fatigue of inquiry, so dissatis-
faction is an abominatton to those wno batten on
the social inequalities of the slatut quo, and for the
same reasons If dissatisfaction-sower Prender-
gast is to be kont out of the hiring-room, fair plav
demands that Messrs. Pangloss and Candide should
not be admitted.
The Rev. A. J. Wade sawed air in the
Coburg (Vic.) Public Hall, and among a lot of
declarations of the splendidly assertive kind, as-
sured the audience of his competence to pose as
an authority on tho Drink question, ia the follow-
ing words: “ 1 nave never known the taste ot in-
toxicating drink, and I'll never stop while I have
breath waging war against it.” The construction
here is not very happy. If the first sentence be a
statement of iact, it indicates that the Kev. Wade
is inordinately rash in undertaking to wage war
while he has breath. It is evident that ho doesn’t
know wh«t he is waging about. When rclorined
drunkards inveigh against liquor the objec-
tion that they took too muca of it t aturally
enough suggests itself. But when men who
don’t know anything at all about it inveigh
against it, a still more fats l objection is
evoked. The only apostle who dtssrves the ear of
the court, is the man who has tasted and smelled
alcohol, hut, who has not been a drunkard But
he can't bro got to go on the platform. jjC can
U)#kjp an honest living without that.
This is a tale from the far North, that
happy land of explorers, alligators, snaik-juice
and bush apostles, and it concerns a popular
Native Police official who, on being removed to
another district had his aesthetic soul blasted with
the usual illuminated address and a “puss” of
thirty soverigns. That night, a crowd of his boon
companions and well-wishers in general, gathered
together in the best room of the “Sundowner’s
Rest,” and the grog doings that followed have
never been equalled since the night that King
Balthazar “gif a barty.” Asa natural sequence,
the caboodle of the revelleis (including the testi-
monial recipient) were sprawled on the floor
before midnight, and there they slept the sleep of
the just and properly corned till morning. The
grey-eyed morn was smiling on tbe frowning
ight, cberkering the eastern clouds with streaks
of lignt, and th« refreshing soda, with a stick in it,
vas at a premium, when the company awoke, not
only to the beauties of the coming day, but also
to the solemn fact that some one bad run the rule
over the lot and cased them of everytbing worth
chitting. The " Native ” himself, not only lost his
presentation bag and its contents, but £2O of his
■ »lary besides, and the only thing left, to console
him for his loss was the shattered wreck of tin
“loominaytid testimonial.”
' few days ago a fine fat wild turkey took
a stroll along the Narrabri reoreation ground, and
was quietly admiring the surrounding scenery
when the alarm was given, and a gallant band of
the town sports started off to resist the boid in-
truder. Nineteen shots were fired at a range of
about 20 yards, and after each shot, the stranger
gracefully bowed his acknowledgments, and
begun to hump himself around in a style that
plainly showed he mistook these hostile proceed-
ings tor a spontaneous ovation, got up in honour
of his visit. \ council of war was then heii.and
it was finally decided to telegraph to a neighbour-
ing township lor a loan of its brass band, to scare
rhe feathered desperadooff; but as the musicians
refused to risk their lives, another firing party was
organised, and sallied out to shift the enemy.
I’orty rounds were then fired, and it was seriously
feared that if the deadly warfare were carried on
much longer, a new sky would soon be required
for the whole of the Northern district. More am-
munition was sent for, and the sickening carnage
was about to begin again, when a one-armei
Irishman, who swears he carried a pike iu ’9B,
walked up and broke the biped’s hind leg with a
brick-bat, after which it was run down and lodged
in the looal look-up. We expeot great thiDgs from
OLD GENTLEMAN: “AND WHO REIGNED AFTER SAUL?”
GOOD BOY: “DAVID.”
O. G.: “AND WHO CAME AFTER DAVID?”
G. B.: “SOLOMON”
O. G.: “AND WHO CAME AFTER SOLOMON?”
SHARP LITTLE GIRL: “OH, PLEASE, SIR, THE QUEEN OF SHEBA.”
our Northern sharp-shooters, when the cannons
boom, and the sabres clash, and the trumpet calls
“to arms.” Especially if the enemy stands half a
mihi to the right or left of the spot where the
sharp-shooters aim at.
“ What are we doing for our black brud-
ders ?" is a State conundrum which receives 8om«
extremely miscellaneous sorts of answers. In this
colony, we give our blacking-bottle relative a
gorgeous blanket once a year, and this blanker,
generally meets all his requirements for about
half-an-hour, after which the Government brand
is hacked out, the two untarnished pieces sewn
together, and the whole traded off for a ginger-
beer bottle of three-star snaik-juice. Up North,
the nigger affords a pleasing change to the mono-
tony of potting kangaroos and alligators, and the
news or a darkies’ camp being pitched near a
sporting town prodnees as much excitement as
the sudden arrival of a buffalo herd would cause
to a tribe of half-starved Comanche Indian braves.
They do quite a deal for their black brudders up
there—at a range of 500 yards. Down South, it
would appear that the most strenuous efforts are
now being made to prevent the ink-bottle blood
of the lords of the soil from drying up altogether;
for, from recent official returns, we And that out
of 85 inmates of the Lake Hindwiarsh co-called
“Aboriginal ” Mission Station, no less than 70 aro
half-castes. Various scientific theories, such as
the Java earthquake dust, the unusual number of
snots on the sun, the return of the gresn potato
bug plague, &c., have been put forward to account
for this unseemly bleaching on the part of the de-
scendant* of Chanaan; but the most probable ex-
planation is that of a young Croajingolong gio,
who, on being asked why her latest addition to the
census was a sort of mealey-brown, replied, “Oh,
me bin eat it too much pfiour long a Mass’r Char-
ley’s station.” And now Berry, across the border,
Is getting full up of this “ pflour’’-eating business,
and in his latest official utterance he says that
in the future none but pure undiluted blßcks,
warranted not to fade, will be received on these
Mission runs, and he will at once take steps to
work the half-castes now on them out into the
worid, and provide employment for tbein. “ Out
into the world ” is good, but, so far as past experi-
ence goes, nil we have ever done for our saddle-
coloured.and charcoallbrudders is to work them out j
of the world, which is quite a different style of pro-
ceeding altogether.
“Low sensationalism, by tap-room touts,”
i« the awfully blasphemous stylo in which tne
Orange Liberal, alludes to the telegraph tiles
and “our own correspondents” ot the kvax
Ooze, and the cause of the trouble is simply this.
A few evenings back, a startling “wire” in the
veracious journal alluded to announced that a dis-
graceful street fight took place in Orange between
two beastly-intoxicated young girls, and “the
origin of the fight was that one o f the girls charged
the other with having kept company with a police-
man to whom the girl was engaged to be married.”
As this was the first intimation of the battle that
the people of Orange received, the whole town-
ship was at once thrown into a state of intense
excitement, and there wassome talk of decorating
the mimbers av th’ foorce with fowls' plumage
! and tar, and riding them round the town on a rail
j amidst a gorgeous display of Celestial fireworks.
It was soon discovered, however, that the whole
story was an infamous and filthy fabrication,
started by one of those brilliant geniuses who are
ever willing to do gratuitous we k for the enter-
prising proprietors of the Nooze, in the hopes of
one day being honoured with the glorious title of
“our own correspondent.” When the truth of
this was established, it was suggested that the
j attentions of the men w'th the tar and feathers
| be turned to the gutter-raker who sent the “wire;”
| but the good sense of the majority of the insulted
; pointed out that nothing could make the origi-
I nator of the libel more despicable than he
! naturally was. and so they agreed with the
i Libekal, that “after all, this was about the exact
style of information that might be expected from
a person who finds it easier to hover about tap-
rooms for inspiration as to current events, rather
than to cake a tour through the district for the
purpose of reporting upon the evidences of mate-
rial advancement in every direction apparent,
whether in agricultural, mining, or commercial
pursuits.” ADd so the matter ended with a part-
ing shot, which said, “It is a poor travelling re-
porter that cannot afford to pay for what he eats
and drinks in any district which he may have to
visit, and a poor journal that has to resort to such
services.” Such a scathing rebuke would cause
even a Damley Island mummy to squirm, and
could only be deserved by one journal, and by
one scribblerthe Even Ooze and its Orange cor-
respondent.
Whatever may be said about the proceed-
ings of our representatives in the Council Cham-
bers, we are pleased to hear that their “ carryings-
on ” in the refreshment-room are such as we have
a right to expect from an intelligent and decorous
body of gentlemen. We remember the days when
the doings iD the stomach-solacing department of
our Legislative Assembly would bring a blush of
shame to the bronzed cheek of a Kent-street
forty ’or a tinned sardine. At the time we
speak of, one of the most irrepressible members ot
the House was a lineal descendant of “ a rale owld
King av Munster,” and for the present we’ll
suppose his name was Fogarty. Fogarty, by the
way, had an unbounded respect and admiration
for Fogarty, and whenever he let off one of his
bombastic orations, he would shake hands with
himself for the rest of the sitting, and go hopping
around on the fish for compliments. One Eight,
he made a terriiic two-hour speech on the Land
Bill, during the course of which he ripped into the
reigning Government of the time in a style calcu-
lated to up-end of every member present.
Then he skipped off to the refresh, and took his
seat by the side of senator Noseblossom, who had
been very much i’ th’ sun that day, and who was
sobering up ou a plate of oysters. “ Tryer plashe
f laters, Fogarty ?” said the tired politician. “No,”
replied Fogarty; “but I’ll jine ye in a cup av
kartee. So the one supped and the other scooped,
until finally the compliment-tlsher enquired, “Oi
say, Misthur Noseblossom, did y’ hear that oi jhist
made wan av th’ gratest spaches thathez iver been
made since th’ days av Wmtwirth?” “Well, I
dunno ’bout zhat,” said the oyster-punisher, “ but
I heard a f’ler ud 'ere jes now sbav you wash tnak-
in’ er b fool ’f yerself as us.hil.” “O, oi thank
y „ fu J r ~I er iuapertints, y dhirty, low basthe,”
yelled Fogarty; “shure it earves me i - oight fur
demamin’ meself be tarkin’ t’ th’ loikes av you,
so it does ” And then the insulted patriot tur ed
his back to old Noseblossom, and started a brisk
conversation with another member who was
sampling a plate of “sandwidges.” All this time
the hon. member for Rumjungie was falling asleep
over his bivalvular victims, and muttering away
to himself, “Y’know, Fogarty, yer too hot—too
fernally hot allergether. F’ler mush keep cool, ’f
wantsh (hie) shucksheed Parl’mint.” And so he
gabbled on, until at last he so thoroughly con-
vinced himself that Fogarty required cooling that
he got; hold of a large chili-vinegar bottle, and,
Staggering to his feet, poured the whole contents
over the bald head of Fogarty, just as that gentle-
man was in the middle of a glowiog description of
how the country would boom if he was only
elected Premier. Head, beard, shirl, and every
other visible part of the gifted senator were
drenched, as ha sprang to his feet, and, putting
himself in a Slogger Sullivan attitude, yelled:
Put up yer hands, y' dhrunkin son av a brewery,
or Oi’H athrike y’ whare y’ are. Howiy St.
Path rick! t’ think Oi’d live t’see th’dav Oi’d be
pickled loike asanguiuary ister by a fpiler wid a
nose loiko a hilpd lobstir. PueUoooo! take bun
away, some wan, or, be Jabers, Oi’ll—Oi’ll- Oi’ll
ate ’im /” So they took him away, and, next nignt
the insulted and insulter were found quietly plav*
ing a friendly game of “ Nap.” together for threel
penny pools. It is, indeed, a matter for congratu-
lation to find that such scenes as tho above are
never—well, hardly ever—to be seen in these days
A Lament for the Victorian Har-loafers.
The word has gone forth, and the restaurant
glory
Must fade, by and bye, to a decorous gloom,
Wboß, no more shall lovers—both youthful anc
hoary—
By Hebe's soft glances be lured to their doom.
The coy, charming creatures, who smile as the
servo us,
Or blush in response to an amorous leer,
Must go, giving place to stern barmen (preserv
us !),
Wno’ll grunt a reply as we order our boor.
Those fairies that hold us enthralled with the!
beauty,
The while whisky bottle and bitters they passed
And weaned married men from tho missus anc
duty,
Will soon be but visions and dreams of the past
Instead of gold tre3Bep, and trinkets, and rustle
Of flounces and skirts, at the back of the ba*\
Bushy whiskers, and waistcoats, and shirt-sleeves
and bustle,
Will loom through tho smoke of our soothing
cigar.
Alas for the clorks ! bringing roses in bunches,
To gladden the hearts of the maids they admire
And whisp'ring false vows as they swallow their
lunches—
Too soon will the days nf bar-courtship expire
The limp Civil servant, whoso figure so slender
Is wont for support on the counter to lean,
Wbfie he pesters poor Hebe with jokes that offend
her,
Will die when “the deaha ” disappear from the
scene.
The bald city swell who now drops in sedately
Through snug private door, for a “sherry ’’and
spoon,
Will miss the last p irt of the business—oh,greatly I
The barmaid to Mm is a blessing and boon :
For, pressing her palm as he tenders his shilling,
He lives, for the moment, his youth o’er again—
While she, like a good-hearted damsel’s unwilling
His dream to dispel, be it never so vain.
The flash, florid “bookie ’’ (“ fly ” bird of ill omen)
The “hactor”—clean - shaved, and with big
bottled nose—
Who love to give barmaids some fancy cognomen.
And pass rude remarks on their figures and
clothes,
Will find themselves robbed of such pet recrea-
tions
When Hebe returns to her pa and her ma—
(Still the pros , you can bet, won’t decline invita-
tions
To drink though there be but a man at the bar).
Yes, tho word has gone forth from tho Royal Com-
mission,
That Hebe, dear girl I must be banished for aye.
So, ’spite of our sorrow, we ll bow in submission,
And strive to bestifle our sobs as we say—
“ Good-bye to the old happy hours that have seen
us
Fall weak, vrilliDg victims to Cupid's keen
darts
When the worship of Bacchus was worship of
Venus,
And taking our “lotion" meant losing our
hearts.”


THE
GNO
3?lsL,:Ea.©_
! n
THE
Migrnon
3?X-A-IfcT©
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Mig:non
PI^UO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
IVligrnon
ZEPI-^-ILT©
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
W ilmer
P’l-A.lfcT©
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS I
One of the LARGEST and BEFT-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED 1
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH 1
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
Wilmer
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“ WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAIN I
CURES ALL PAIN.
Tbo best known remedy for RHEUMATISM
Jf. TJRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACfE!
RAINS, BRUISES, DURNS. SCALP 1, Ac nud
*aken internally cures DIARRHOEA, PYSEe; , Y\
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other i.uttm*. achee
and pains. .
Price, 2/" Sold Everywhere,
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop l or,
MELBOURNE AND o'-DNEY,
PAINT
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Nrr.
voup and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgis,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effect" it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 365. a case.
Sold everywhere. Sole Proprietors. MARSHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.S.. Manufacturing Chemists,
104 aud 10. Market-street, near Hyde Park,
Svdnev. w R.—All imitation* illegal. TAKE NO
SUBSTITUTE,
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. HAYES.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agente.
//Tv\
hot Water baths
HAIR DRbSSING'&WICM/iKINC: ES'TAB.tISHMENT
x 137, 139 K 14) OXFORD\S‘. N
HALF HOUDA Y Fl/FF Y FHUFSOAY
ROWLANDS QDONTO is (he best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; 6ucli How-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Hedwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLAND*’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Howlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 30. Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Hetail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
QIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STRUCT.
fcOLlte
BLEND
TRADE
-li
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ST 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80Le"aGENT
for
BROOMFIELD B
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Hr - MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERBANGING S !
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, M.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
881 GEORGE BTREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nisbes. Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
53b'
£
K\
M
I
ff
$
%
§1:
m
m
'O
C 5
SS2
NVALUA
SUFfEHI
Vi
\'V-
TO
ion
u
vs
WE
”'^o!
teSLissl
•
ADAPTED FOR THE
Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOH FHESENTATIOW PLATE.
cS
m
c
o
0^
5^
H 53
awe
QVOUj^
£
339*541 Q€oft66 5T
•naaaaaai
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taabo and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
[Registered.]
J.
JRADE
MATUC
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-sfreat, Sydney.
*** 2s. Gd. per lb.
Our TEAS ars
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength i
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
an>l excellence.
Henochsberg y
Manager.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Iggr Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersraithing, Blaeksraithing
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVB.” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATBK-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8&9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
■WillamcLOxe’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY. —-
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, ’is"*now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance,
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.


WeakNerveusMeir
Whose debility, exhausted'
powers, premature decoy
and failure t« perform life’s
duties properly aro caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,,
will find a, perfect ar.d lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE IWARSTON BOLUS.
.Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
JVervons Jieblllty and
_ Physical Decay isumformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney
J. TURN EH ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS :
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
rW° Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrank, and a perfect ht
guatanteed.
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U. .A.
MASON BROTHERS,
S'-Vt*
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MB.J/V <N SONS’
Kdinbuign Pale 4 -e.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
&T TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only award*)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Char. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
R
OBEBT BUTCHER
(Late William Long),
&
c o
lar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, BYDNBT'
Country Orders reoeiv© prom-pt attention.
PIG-HUNTING.
A REMEMBRANCE.
The other day a man was attacked and
killed by wild pigs at Walroa, New Zealand. And
this just reminds us of the first time we ever went
pig-hunting. It was near Blenheim, N.Z., and
amongst the party of four was an explorer, a
bushman, and the wildest tame Irishman that had
ever been sent out from home. “ Pwhat the divil
do yees want wid the guns an’ dogs ? ” Of course
we told him that they were quite necessary for the
business of catching and killing wild pigs. “ Be-
forra,” said Pat, “ I can catch and howld any
loomin’ pig that ever wore brussels. Pat had
never seen a wild pig, and so the rest or the party
exchanged winks all round, and said nothing.
Finally we reaohed a patoh of the ti-tree through
which the pigs had worn trails large enough to
admit of their passage. It was a dead moral cer-
tainty-20 to 1 offered, with no takers-that there
were pigs in that patoh of scrub. So we stationed
Fat at one of the holes and sent the dog's in at the
other side. Pat’s last remark was “Bejaysus, 111
howld any bloomin’ pig that pokes his nose out av
this hole/’ There he st od. like a wioket-keeper
waiting for a ball. He hadn’t long to wait. Out
rushed an old boar with tusks on him six inohes
long, and, dashing between the Irishman s legs,
threw him twenty feet away. Quicker than a cat
Pat was on his feet again and shinning up a gum-
tree like a ’possum with a boy after it. Of course
the pig didn’t olimb up after Patrick, but when
it had gone far enough away and been killed,
Pat came down. “ Why didn’t you hold him,
Pat?” we asked. “Howld the divil 1“ said Pat.
Shure It’s not a pig at all; it’s a rhinoceros. It
was our time to laugh then, but Pat s turn oame
in the course of the day. We had wandered half a
mile away from the rest of the party, botanlslng,
or because the flask was too small to share all
round, or something, when a hog about the size ox
an elephant hove in sight. We seized our rifle,
took deliberate aim, and flred in one time and two
motions. Down dropped the monster of the
jungle, and, dropping our smoking rifle where wo
stood, we rushed up to Btab him in the gills and
let the claret out of him. We were just bending
over to get in our bloody work, when the con-
founded pig opened Its left eye and winked at us
just onoe. Then he got up on his feet, and the
next thing we knew we were at the bottom of the
hill bruised and bleeding, and altogether out of
sorts with our paternal ancestors for bringing us
into the world at all if they hadn’t any more brains
to spare than they had put into our head. When
we regained our feet, to our consternation we
found that the ferocious brute had gone and laid
dowa beside our gun. Then we scolded our parents
still more; and even tb© thought that ther© must
bo one fool in every family didn’t console us for
the thought that in our haste and excitement we
had negleoted to re-load our rifle and take it with
us. We waited around there until dusk for that pig
to die. The boys kept “ cooeing ” for us every
once in a while, but we said nothing. Yes we did,
too. We said a prayer for the repose of that pig s
sou', and hoped that it would soon go' to it. But
the contrary scamp wouldn’t do it. Night came
on. and we knew our friends were getting anxious.
What if they should go home and leave us alone in
the wilderness with that pig. Still we wouldn t
“ cooey ’’ back. Not for a bucketful of champagne.
By and bye, a little sense came to us. We dou t
know whore we got It from, but suspect we must
have absorbed it from the pig. At any rate, he
knew more than we did in the outset, and had held
his own remarkably well. But, as we were saying,
a little sense came to us, and we went and out a
bundle of flax. Then we tied the stalks together
and made a rope about sixty feet long. New Zea-
land flax, you know, is stronger than the lye tnat
some of our exchanges are in the habit of washing
their rollers with. Anyway, we made a slip nooze
on one end of this rope and crawled cautiously up
behind the sleeping pig. It was a moment suoh as
we had not experienced since we one time asked a
parson for his daughter. We didn t get the
daughter, but if you’ll wait a little you’ll find out
that we got the pig. By means of a long forked
stick, that we had sense enough by this time to out,
we managed to slip that noose over one of the
pig’s hind legs. Then we went back to a fern tree
about twenty yards away, and began yanking on
the rope. At first the pig only grunted and shook
his tall, as much as to say, “Uoway, fly, don t
bodder me.” Pretty soon he got annoyed and
turned round to see what was the matter
with himself, anyhow. Naturally, his eye fol-
lowed down along the line until he saw us.
Then he began telling us that.f we didn t let go of
bis leg and climb that tree % d see about ft, or
words to that effect. HeJC&ed so fast that he
frothed at the mouth. Andw*n he came upon us.
Hastily drawing home the nne for about twenty
feet we made a lightning half-hitch, and lit out.
Our enemy followed, until he got away past the
tree, and all at once came to a halt. That s what
they call stringhalt in pigs, we believe. At any
rate, he came to a halt, and we made a wide detour
to get our gun. We knew that the pig couldn t
get within twenty feet of us, and chuckled at the
thought that we would leisurely load the weapon
and fill him so full of bullets that his hide would
look like a sieve for cleaning corn. To our dis-
may, when we arot back to about the place we had
left our rifle, there lay another pig, with our rifle
in front of him. Now. we’li leave it you if that
wasn’t disoouraging. However, we went baokto
the flax patch and cut a fresh lot of flax. We
made another rope, and a longer one, for we bad
to utilize'a tree in a different direction from the
other one, and it stood further away. As we were
making the second rope, we began to think that
we’d have to chain up all the pigs in Blenheim be-
fore we could get at that gun. We managed to
fasten the noose around this monster’s leg without
accident, and hurriedly slipped away for fear the
savage barking of the other brute would wake
him up. Finally, we began to pull on the line. Not
a sound. We braced ourself against the tree, and
yanked until we bit the end of our liver off be-
tween our front teeth. Then a night-mare thought
flashed across us. The pig was dead. He was the
one we had shot at, and we had tied his brother up
in mistake. A little investigation showed that our
suspicions were corroet. Then we walked boldly
up, loaded our rifle, and murdered the brother in
cold blood. The boys were around us in a few
seconds, and then Pat had his revenge., “ Bejaysus,
Misther,” said he, “ye musht be a foine marks-
man, when ye have to l ie a pig up to a three before
ye oan shoot him at all.”
In referring to a second edition of the
Woolloomooloo outrage, brought off in a suburb
of the “Queen City of the South,” the Melbourne
D.T. specially deplores the fact that it happened on
a Sunday. Says the Presbyterian organ “ But
three weeks before, the Bay of Rest had been
desecrated by the brutal murder of a woman in
the same neighbourhood. Last Sunday saw the
inhabitants horror-stricken over an even more re-
volting occurrence.” That par. gives one the im-
pression that thn D.T. regards murder as playing
quite a second fiddle to “desecration of the Saw-
bawth,” and that the man who pioks on the first
day of the week for disposing of his missus throws
away his last chance of redemption. A popular
« nigger ” ditty used to tell us
“ Never get born on a Friday—
Choose some other day if you can.”
And we remember being deeply impressed with
the advice. We weuld, in our turn, like to warn
ruffians in general against the danger of allowing
their victims to be killed on a Sunday, and suggest
to them the propriety of “choosing some other
day if they can.’ —
SAWBAWTH DESECRATION.
If murder and outrage must needs be committed,
At least there is certainly one day
When crimes of that nature should no t be per-
mitted _ , ,
(Of course, we’re referring to Sunday)—
So when rascals fall foul of some creature ill-
fated,
They will please bear in mind Mrs. Grundy,
And take oare that the Sawbawth is not desecrated
(Let them put off the murder till Monday)*
For a neat little send-off in the way of an
obituary notice, a recent ad. in the Tam worth
Nfwr takes the lead. Full ' articulars of the de-
ceased are first giveD, and then the trouble buret9
Pale-blue silk is employed for this youthful
toilette, the skirt being ornamented with flowers
made by the sewing-machine, and sewn on a
long plain robine, cut out in long Vandyke points
below, and patterned with the flowers just men-
tioned, completed by a kilting set under and
rising on one side to the skirt-band gives _ the
skirt trimming. The scarf drapery is joined
below by plain pleated breadths extending to
the hem of the skirt; a fichu bertha, crossed in
front, of stuff and laoe. four inches wide, finishes
the bodice, with lace sleeves.
forth as follows:—“ Blessed are the dead which die
In the Lord. What Majesty is there in the Chris-
tian’s desth! What a priory in her hope! As the
rivers roll the smoothest the nearer they approach
A dark-red satin petticoat shines through the
airy Chantilly lace of which this charming toi-
lette is made. The flounces are about fourteen
inches deep, the skirt being finished below with
a silk balayeuse. For the hind drapery, tailing
down in a short draped point, a lace scarf is
employed. An apron trimming, composed of a
pleated satin stripe, and caught together, as seen,
with bows and feathers, ornaments the front of
the skirt from the peak to the lowest flounce, the
bodice being finished to correspond.
the ocean; as the rose smells the sweetest when
dying; as the sun appears the most glorious when
Betting; so it is with the Christian. Armidale,
Gunnedah, and Inverell papers please copy.” Bar-
ring tho time-honoured, but for all that,
bad grammar of the “ which,” we venture to think
the above knocks Alfred’s charnel-house poet
completely over the ropes in the first round, but
we fail to see why Armidal®, Gunnedah, and In-
verell should receive special mention. There are
Christians (of a certain kind) even at Bourke, nod
Burra-burramatugery. Not many, we admit, but
I still there are some; and it seems hard that they
are not invited to roll as smooth and smell as
sweet, and set as glorious as those on the M Intyre
and Namoi.
The Rum must have kissed the baby with
a little extra emotion prior to inditing that famous
par. anent “the infamous system of employing
barmaids.” “It is so frightfully destructive of
human virtue, so desolating, even when existing
in the smallest dimensions, th«t it must be totally
abolished.” It is this kind of excited tomfoolery,
clamouring for legislative paternalism, that does
such a lot of harm. Human virtue wouldn’t be
appreciably increased by legal enactments com-
pelling publicans to employ ugly-mugged old
men in lieu of fascinating Hebes. The reform
that is needed must come from within, not irom
without. Parliament these next ten years or
more would be far more wisely employed in re-
pealing old laws than in enacting new ones. Aor®
than half the evils that threaten human virtue am
the direct result of hypocritical legis ation.


notch whiskey!
*** THE PREMIER whiskey is
t HOM and CAMERON’S
THOM AND CAMERON’S
QHALITY UNSURPASSED
daly
m - BROTHERS,
*"* f ° r N-S,W ' and Queensland,
*“<• • o>ilu. U.66llBieLllvl?
and Q-ENwb 8 * nd SCOTCH WHISKIEi
MERCHANDISE,
ge Street, Sydney
W//?e Irish Whiskey
Wit,
rn CO -’ S DUBLIN WHISKEY
18 unsurpassed.
amond on label, cork and capßule.
Brothers,
fot N.S.W. and Queensland-
cs*.
3T
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT l 8 no t the clearness
or condition alone ( in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this bran' j j n public estima-
tion. Common bitter a , ude beers are made very-
fine, but no other brr nc j baa the same mellow
vinous character, trn fullness
and the great kcepir
DOG ALE. Consun
on the palate,
,a qualities of the BULL-
- ierg ar e therefore cautioned
against traders wh for the sake of an extra
profit represent tb G com mon beers referred to
as equal in qualit +_ bULL-DOG. CATTELL
IEOT6EEI| n oi’ A*»t. : WOOD
PEAPES and SHAW
I) tel * RESPECTI’tiLLY INVITE INSPECTIC 0E THEIR
SEASON",* GOODS,
, as follows I
Qnc * Children s Winter Ulsters, U o/mans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
'°R-CUt
„ I 2 S" a f d TAILOR-MAD Hi ULSTERS,
S ' 8( 3- to 4 guineas
ft . a MrK(u eaa
Doltnn r ° n ' a Ulsters, from ss. 6d. to 90S.
??' Bhaped Ulster's, New Cloths
R UiS JAc KETS, In NEW FaNW MATE-
FUI ALINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
L£ DIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
_ and ULSTERS, from 12s. 6d. each
R eal and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
' iraided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Broeatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SH&W:
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard TV *reed Clothing.
IP\i4^k ave now ' open for 1 ,he Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
READY-MADE CLOTTS JING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
or the various classes o£ ;><oq(Js enumerated below.
OVERCOATS, cut ia NG,
455, DALIAN CLOTH, 25a, 305.,
S ®ft3 BED %: LSTEHS ’ LINED 303.,
0(r& ed S ) St°oS K o OVERCOATS *
"clS? 'vear ovo ton T,° vercoatB - fuitab'.e for
VYt-\ . -*JVGF UrcoQ QmU jo . CAn *ti
*» CUT, FIT, STYL
Ib e Su r m!!,? lor C°od I-lonost
aro
~ and
V aluo
s ARE as FOLLOWS:.—
],?»cy ' 3da '> 505., 03s. the SUIT..
f o5s Er ° c k Coots a (^ VeBt ’ 5 ° 3 -
Bet san West of England Br oadcloth),
'•.iSfeS ft;;each
sC ®
Sofe Celticpian SSI P GOWNS, in Felt,
’ Ir °«i 30s. to gig ol ’ Sootch Snicker, Quilted
macintosh waterproof clothing.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPES. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 535. Gd.
“ STANDARD ” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. Gd ; the
Suffolk, 13s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS _
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES. 7s. 6d , Bs. Gd.
Os. Gd, 10s. 6d., 11s. Gd., 12s. Gd.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Bant Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape *
Fitted Dress ug Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
am!
#®IIGE STKET (IT
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
"'Wolff <sa Son’s
x, h pknci^s.
ro: tti all Stationers & Storekeep 3rs throughout tlie colonies.
tw PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
■A.re iTo-w Ojperx.
HOTEL,
otner of KING and CAfiTLEREAGH STREETS.
> ATit E&cCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
Ba H. UP-BTAIRS.
SSPM
☆
OqO\
am
liygi
.
T HE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG .
TOBACCO.
& SDKS
*1
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, ’therefore their Twist and
_ s^a nd TIRST in the; f imation of judges of Tobacco.
<lUeror > Sir Roger (thkok tinst), ‘Cut R.C. Raiby, Oriental Mixture.
\TBL,-cONWEROR and EARXrY BIRD hold a high position.
'h l Tob ap „
- u °odt
' of P l *** Oisrars, sadal • 'ot«K oonlrts’ Sundries.
” TOBACCO ‘HYDE PARK. SYDNEY'
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Taling’s Old Premises).
THP4 BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
' rill be found to contain a superior assort.
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chin, aware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Rolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solxo Bazaar
352 George Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T IDIAWS SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
I 1 drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
~v charges strictly moderate
MARSHAII BROTHERS
SURGEo\ DE "' S 106 MARKET ST E.
all denial operations performed
WITH SKILL.
The practii io of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
parried on bv •'.be aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
grf-enwbll point.
j. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
TTTRRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
ri lies Greer paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained fit a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniticient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
•o’clock.
P. KIRB T,
From the late Mr. James CURTIS,
T3’ m.a.ertsulrer,
84 i WUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
F 7NERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
vn-1 lr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. Jam Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager . tor over ten GO) years.
PREMIER
New Tfobacco Factory.
PREMIER 1 rOBAOtIO, free from Adulteration
and pos ;essing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TO! JACCO. , . . „
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by w NORRIE.
FaO S;;YmIENI?sSEBT, STDNET.
'l*
R BU RC IS inh
TAILOR. I/U
ISO
*
■Ht'al’' i^-nvA Li#',
B u s=* c, /! j s«\. 7
N I' 1 !
rs*
mitY BITKGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
' I f r om 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
fhoroui rhly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
Svdner. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forward to any part of the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital • • • •
Reserve Fund £132,000
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq. _ _
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Roileston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: , _
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms,
Bills discounted daily. ,
Bills negotiated and advances made agamst Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CYUEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality f. ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARJt S in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
jggr C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W.
H. jAriell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Hour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4,14, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK —Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
-^^ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an 1
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn staellera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WALNUT
Wood,
so. &0. &0.
hebble white & CO.,
116 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALTNG & CO.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
A CURE GUARANTEED.
NERvi
TREATMENT
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use ol' alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old ago, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 6s.
box; or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 365., the purchaser will receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia,


Q-olcL T OTxrellery - *
(REGISTERED.)
/
30s. EACO-
- Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attende^^
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
3DIS
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER, *,§s
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, (COLLARS, TIES, aad HOSIERY. *
plain figures, arid at VERY LOW PRICES. k in both 0tlO! ’. nß i,
J*" Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stoc choo se
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYD BgC ftipTl o] *’
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hay«* rk “ '
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Streep
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a “pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. Cr. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
6T GEORGE STREET WEfIT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
' w
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished On application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
£ ( ck, Station , and General Com-
mission Agents,
1M and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S STLVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilboy’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
Tire K KM * CJO., Sole Agents,
3W Oeorge-stroot, Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MH. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney,
22®"“ Teeth painlessly extracted hy Laughing Gas,
JEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloro form.
XXIG-G-X EPS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained l first honours
at every Dairy Show Exbi’ oition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUST RALIA :
A. G. CHURCh WOOD,
147 YORK STiREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE W A.REHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARE; STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large i assortment of
Drawing, Difiing, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quali fcy and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every descripti on of
Literature, Law , Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery r -
Kngltfth Papers und lHa«cazln«ai received by
every lai.
roVAf, ARCADE. 40« GW* 'IVGF «T.. SYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
iipKN£
RK
Mffl
tUnOtJ
It ia of the htmost impunauce that concerns of
each bottle should bo carefully compared, as largo
quantities are toeing imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LOItNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EUR
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
93T THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The O) y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
*ar Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
rake no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
s Tobacco Ci., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An t oku be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse.
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public «gainst tmrtouH n.nd worthless
GO.)
EE I’' 1 ’'
BLAKE’S l«* FB ° g
STEAM F-O^
H. P. GREGORY
17 PITT STB
SYDNEY.
rrfl#
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR 1
and have In Stock and to W
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCUR A
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS g
DEEP-WELL-SINKING POM. - -'ll
T,
SEND FOR PRICES AND ADD
CATALOGUES FORWARDS-
[A CARD
H. W. CO
Author of “ Modern Treatment
Queen’s Hospital, B.ranoK ha
I®*" Patients treated by —-
ippf
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
&
PAy^r*
Wee: 330 Georgy.
STORES: MIEEER
Pr 1 " -
E. ROWLANDS,
LATIS ROWLANDS & LEWIS, . -
Manufacturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigor*
BALLAFIAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY. &Ct
« Ritter'S*
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
