

non flotiEti k son,
A
A.
ME POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
e °Hy Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
ALI our goods, and give our customers the euel beneeit arising therefrom.
%hony
he
HORDERN AND SONS
>
CE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY,
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
OJce , WI1TT!EIB G-OODS
mhrmmmJl NX NX mJmm nUi N mi dnM ■■■■ w ■Mr Nnr
in the Australian Colonies.
Haymarket, is celebrated for the Best and Cheapest Boots, Clothing, Overcoats, Mantles,
V an *ets, Flannels, Linens, Calicoes, Woollens, Merinos, and all kinds of Dress Goods.
v ls n w FURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOWWARE, of the best English manufacture.
THE VERY BEST VALUE EOR THE LEAST POSSIBLE OUTLAY.
„ HORDERN AND SONS,
Emporium, friajmarket, Only,
' A -T PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The BUlletin NEW SERIES


V H 0 ro.h r f H j C
STOCK.
WvPC FU LFU
. %
\
&
'}
T\
> ?•_.
tf
vCAMERAS,
r .CARDS,CHEMICALS. (/'FN
i afrits tnp —•;
W JOHNS UN RcSON3 '
nit r.silver an d c hlor gold? 1
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. Xi. SUMMEEFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
* And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
HSf Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades •
a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Mermo, and Striped Cotton Hose. 81
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWS—In all new shapes.
J&- Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in
Note Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets. ' ■
W. W. CATEH, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
WATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
J3T" Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great suosass
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged. ’ * * sucsess
We have
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
TFT.
19 3 and
TFT.
195 PITT STREET.
l£eeslian,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway &c
Superior Accommodation for families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class W nes and So rits
xne most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar In the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up. uuegrams
M. A. BROWN & GO.p
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Comer of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole Agents for Heidsieok & Co., Reims.
C. B. Si OD I HI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
• + ?l W ? SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrehed Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All Broods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re!
ceived. All work and repairs executed equS to
any European workmanship. qusu to
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
donifof BOBNB ’ alS ° Angel ® Bor -
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO-
W, MACHINERY, mi HIM 010
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGl Al,t
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF - .
Engineers* Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery* ,
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal and
Vertical Fixed.
“lil
MACHINERY.
BOILERS.
Vertical and H.<
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
'WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. '
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-poww
English and American Agricultural Implements
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse
Hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, J- niCT
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
COACH Builders’ Sundries. —Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishing®* •
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. jz0( j, Ce
Large Stoeks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvam
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
and
Builders’ Ironmongery. ,
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpente
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
307 Georgs Street, Sydney-
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
\
GENERAL CARRIERS.
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE s
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W,
Goulburn
Yaas
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundrfc
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathoal
Hay
Wbstbrn District, N.B.W.J
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.j
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uratla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOUTHHRN AND SOUTH-WHBTBRN LlNl:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Teulba
Cambooya
Cisttral Lnm:
Rookhampton
Bogantungas
Emerald
CapeUa
Comet
Northbrn Luni: "
Townaville
Charters Towers
Ravenawoob Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
Foster's Bug! e
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
r^c
V.rJt 5 -
='■
;«!
72
m
m
E*S
GU
ran
m
i
- .
S3
.3-
’Saa
■mt
j£~>
szm
V% a-'A't-S V JfS-VJfi.
The BUST ALB and
t,jj0
g-jQljT
SOU. BY ALL
Yirgoe, Son, & Ch 9 ?
AGENTS*
&er THE NEW SOUTH fit
INVESTMENT COMPAQ
capital, vL
Allow Interest as follows flffi f?
on fixed deposits for peri&V"^
and UPWARDS for shorter v jo tlJ0f 4 W
CENT, on sums from £1 T° 0& ce , fan »l c
Branch, Payable on Deman •
L V . WARE IiA
5*
MS"
rfSm
f» v
Y> OAK'S HEAT)
Arthur Guinness an Iri 0 pe P* 0
cannot be exceUed. im
3ATTELL & GO., » c ' ie


THE
BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 59.—New Serie
SATURDAY. JUNE 28. 1884.
Prioe—od.
Political Systems.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 28, 1884.
A benevolent despotism is probably the
highest ideal of human Government. It has
the most magnificent authority and sanc-
tion. The regulation of the universe is con-
ceive 1 to be arranged on that principle.
Nothing more perfect can be conceived
Supreme control exercised by the Being in
whom is concentrated the perfection of
wisdom, of benevolence, and of power, is
control disposed to the best imaginable
advantage. No reasonably-regulated mind
could revolt at obedience to authority so
vested. There would be the disposition to
rule for th s general benefit, the sagacity to
know by vhat laws to effect that object,
and tho power to give effect to those laws.
All theological systems, which have secured
the recognition and assent of civilized or
partly civilized communities, have bem
essentially monarchical. A Supreme Ruler
has tnen the central figure in each. And no
attempts to organize national institutions on
a different basis have os yet had a success
which can be regarded as either complete or
permanent. At the same time it is clear
that, with the development and diffusion of
intelligence, there has been a growing dis-
position of mankind to assert universal
equality* and to give practical effect to the
theory upon which that assertion is founded.
Considered in the abstract, the republican
system is probably introvertible.
* * *
The argument from divinity is assuredly
untenable. The submission which is due to
the mandates of a God, cannot be hypothe-
cated for the decrees of a man, no matter
what his parentage. It has from the re-
motest antiquity been the trick of monarebs
to claim a divine sanction for their supre-
macy. Far back, when fhe inhabitants of
this planet can only be distinguished as sav-
age tribis, on an intellectual level little dif-
ferent from that occupied by the Zulus cr
Kanakas of to-day, the magicians and medi-
cine men, whos. natural astuteness had
prompted them to the inspiration that the
easiest way to obtain influence was by work-
ing upon the superstition of their duller
fellows, habitually leagued themselves
with the strongest and most enterprising
and declared his pre-eminence to be sanc-
tioned by divine revelation. The case of
Saul will readily suggest itself in this con-
nection. A little later, as intelligence de-
veloped somewhat, we have secular chiefs
who recognised the inoonvenient strength
ef the priestly position, and astutely
appropriated, instead of combating, their
pretensions. Thus came into existence a
series of rulers who olaimed not merely to
be supported by Divine sanction, but to be
themselves divine ; or, as times varied, to be
at onoe King and High Priest—lmperator and
Pontifex Maximus. This proved a most con-
venient Action, inasmuch as not the least
dangerous amidst the risks whioh mon-
archs ran, were the intrigues of the priestly
oaste —Intrigues which cost more than one
Hebrew monarch his throne and his life,
and which at all times and amidst all races,
have been formidable. The fiction, indeed,
has been recognised as so extraordinarily
efficaoious for securing perpetuity of rule,
that in two of the nations which have
thrown off the pretensions of the Pope—a
potentate who himself claimed to be mon-
arch among kings, as well as representative
of the Almighty, as witness the triple
erown whioh encircles his mitre-the pre-
tence of sacerdotal supremacy has been pre-
served. The Queen of Great Britain and the
Czar of Russia are each titular head of the
Church reoognised in their respective do-
minions. Put in a plain way, Victoria is
the Pope of Great Britain, and Alexander,
the Pope of Russia. The expansion of in-
telligence, and the invariable concomitant
of that expansion—variety of thought—have
in England reduced the regal pretensions to
divine authority and functions to an insig-
BRIGADIER-GENERAL MACIVER,
SOLDIER OF FORTUNE, IN THE UNIFORM OF THE SERVIAS CAVALEY.
niflcant shadow. But how these pretensions
really operated, when maintained in their
integrity, can be observed by the example
of Russia, where disloyalty is a form of ir-
religion, and dissent is a species of disloyalty
punished by the secular arms often with as
much severity as actual revolt.
* * *
The influence of this liotion is extraor-
dinarily pertinacious. Given an individual
in possession of regal state, hosts of pane-
gyrists labour to convince their fellow-
subjects that divine graces sanctify that
individual. Now, this is demonstrably ab-
surd. It is opposed by a system of polities
diametrically antagonistic. The republican
ideal strives to-day for general acceptance,
and proposes sundry hypotheses as a basis
of demonstration. But neither is the re-
publican theory, as popularly taught, sound
in its positions. The English colonists of
America were the first in modern times to
endeavour to formulate the republican
principles; and in one of the primary axioms
they attempted to lay down, they blundered
so badly as to approaoh the region of bur-
lesque. The would-be axiom that all men
are born free and equal, is totally untenable;
and has, during nearly a century, provoked
derision in the charter of a nation whioh
more than any other of Caucasian origin
countenanced the institution of domestio
slavery. But, apart from that, it is contrary
to fact and demonstrable experience. Men
are not —the faot is witnin everyone’s obser-
vation — born equal. Providence has so
variously endowed mankind with native
gifts of physical power, of intellectual
vigour, of the inspiration whioh is, aooord-
ing to its degree, rated as talent or as genius,
that equality is as foreign to human birth-
right as is uniformity of features or of ex-
pression. Here, therefore, is, instead of
divine sanction for republicanism, in the
sense of equal authority and equal claims to
participate in the functions of organised
government, an apparent sanction for pre-
ferential grades and stations.
* * *
But at this stage we are brought to a
point of discordance. Natural aptitudes and
mundane positions are not related. There
is no mutual relation that the human intel-
lect can recognise. And, further, there is no
plan which can be conceived, in the present
condition of human intelligence, by whioh
the harmony can be established. Monarohs,
nobles, priests, commoners, and plebeians are
all of one strain, quality, and pattern, when
taken in the aggregate. No caste Is endowed
with a monopoly of any natural talent or
virtue. The gifts of personal beauty, and of
mental and moral qualities, are distributed
with apparently undistinguishing imparti-
ality amidst all sorts and conditions of men.
And—although this is not so clearly estab-
lished—there is no plan even of perpetuating
in one line qualities once recognised and ap-
preciated. The influence of heredity is
limited and variable in human beings, al-
though tolerably general and reliable in the
brutes. It has been the exception, for
example, for a virtuous monaroh to trans-
mit his qualities to his son or to his remoter
descendants. The highest type of a benevo-
lent Sovereign known to history is, probably,
the Roman Emperor, Antoninus; and his
son and successor was Commodus, on® of the
most horrible tyrants and brutal monsters
that afflioted a nation or disgraoed
humanity. But the rule is so universally
recognised, and is established by so compre-
hensive a crowd of examples of everyday
occurrence, that it scarcely requires demon-
strating.
• • •
The idea that monarchy should be here-
ditary is consequently shown to be devoid
of any sanction derivable from continuity
of qualities through successive generations.
The god-like man, who is endowed with tho
gifts which indicate him as the proper
ruler of his generation, is at all times
just as likely to be born in the manger,
in the peasant’s hovel, in the slum, or
in the burgher’s shabby habitation, as in
the mansion or the palaoe. The real trouble
is that there is no faoility for recognising
him. There is no stamp on the brow of
genius, of benevolence, or of greatness, by
which it may be recognised by the dull eyes
of present-day humanity. That there is no
stamp, absolutely, is more than we would
choose to assert. There are some eyes whioh
can reoognise possessor's of these qualities,
even now. And as the human race pro-
gresses, and the spirit achieves supremacy
over the flesh—should such be the tendency
of development—it may be that signs now
invisible to the many may become obvious
to all. But that is a remote and too abstruse
speculation. The fact remains that com-
monly, to-day, men born with the qualities
whioh tit them for the role of benevolent
despots suffer such contraction from early
conditions and adverse circumstances, or are
so depressed and held back by sooial aarange-
ments, that they are lost to their generation
while paltry beings, laden with original dis-
abilities and hampered by pettiness Qf §,QIU»


The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. od.;
quarter, 6s. od.—ln advance.
Thh Advertising Baths are 6s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. od. per
inoh. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser
tions, 10 per cent.: For 20 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
MS, El, a co:s
If ■■•■ in;
BRIAN BORU
T> RIAN BORU WHISKY is manufactured from
the fl a eat Irish Grain. When well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported ia
enormous quantities to all parte of the world.
Australian ooLßumers will find this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Whisky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENT,
THE LAMiVERHIUIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
53?"“ This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. do
Brandy in case and bulk, * and ***.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass’s Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY. .
Melbourne Office : 25 Fiinders-street East.
Adelaide Office; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
[E Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
mr PURE R U.M,
Extra Strong,
60. PER IMPERIAL Q UA,R T.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Sejiartoent,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea._
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
0 L Y N E L I ill” WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Ba. od. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney ,
are born in the purple, and live to curse
nations with perversity, arrogance, dull
stolidity, or active predatoriness.
• • •
The ideal perfection of political and social
conditions would be attained when the
readiest opportunity was afforded for men
to range themselves in the order of their
native aptitudes when born “ monarchs
among men,” so much talked of, might be
monarchs in fact, and “nature’s noblemen ”
constitute a true body of Peers. Suoh a
condition of affairs is reasonably to be
ranked among dreams of the Utopian kind.
But it cannot be evil work which tends
towards facilitating that condition, be the
end ever so remote. And all that operates to
obstruot progress towards the realization of
that ideal, or an approximation to it, must
be mischievous work. The existing structure
of society is not good. The Creator who
looked down upon mankind in the days of
Noah, and lamented the perversion of His
work, could scarcely have then witnessed a
more pitiful spectacle than the world pre-
sents to day.
• • •
Between republics and monarchies, as at
present existing, there is, in fact, very little
to choose. There are, indeed, despotic mon-
archies, suoh as that which prevails in
Russia, which are atrocities. But, between
the constitutional rule which obtains in
Great Britain, and, to a limited extent, in
some other European countries, and repub-
lics suoh as exist in Franoe, the United
States, Mexico, and some South American
territories, there is not a great distinction.
The toiler in the United States is not greatly j
better off than the toiler in England. The
sole advantage he can trace to the political
institutions of his republic are that he is not
affronted by the caste arrogances which
flout most Englishmen at every turn.
* * *
Monarchy is not necessarily oppressive to
a people. This faot is beginning to receive
recognition, and we think it cannot be too
strongly insisted on, or too frequently and
plainly dinned into the ears—first of Sove-
reigns, and secondly of the plebs. It is essen-
tial that Sovereigns should learn to appre-
ciate this truth. Their usefulness, and,
indeed, their very existenoe is being en-
dangered by their failure to recognise
the significance of this philosophy. The
native tendency of the ordinary or aver-
age mind of to-day is to regard a
Sovereign with reverence and affection,
just as love for the Divine Ruler of
the world is a natural instinot. The
monarch’s functions are Messianio. He is
the shepherd, and his people his flock. Love
and confidence are the bonds of mutual
affection. All over the world, people orave
for a benignant ruler. Nowhere do they
pretend that without a chief ruler society
oan be organised. No matter what
name they give the chief, he is the
head of the people. President is only
Emperor writ small, and the difference is
merely that an Emperor has wider power to
follow his own impulses. It is because-
these impulses have more often been mis-
chievous than beneficial, that any nation has
abolished the monarchical succession, and
sought, first, to ohoose the born-monarch
from among the whole people, and, seoondly,
to limit his power by checks designed only
to keep him from turning to evil.
* * *
Men have begun to peroeive, in fact, that the
kingly caste is no longer the worst enemy of
mankind; and that it is piutooraoy which
has to be dreaded and combated. The mis-
take of present-day royalty is that it has not
perceived the situation; and that, in lieu of
fulfilling its functions, and being the pro-
tector and champion of the flook, it has
drifted into an alliance with the wolves.
A people’s king, who would lead the nation
to sooial reform, and turn away from the
arroganoes of rank and the graapingness of
privilege and monopoly, would instil fresh
vitality into the English crown. Conceive a
Sovereign who disdained show, studied sim-
plicity of life and surroundings, discoun-
tenanced by his example luxury and pro-
digality, and undertook in downright earnest
to countenance on behalf of the many a
reform of the social system, by the operation
of which the few are wallowing in unearned
superfluity and the multitude are wearing
out their lives in anxious struggles for sub-
sistence, and a fearful proportion in absolute
misery—what a concentration of affection
would be his! But when a Sovereign ob-
viously reserves all sympathy for the plun-
dering class, and emulates their methods by
screwing out of the people every penny
whioh oan be decently extorted—in allow-
ance for this, pension for that, salary for this
other—the fate of monarchy is made to
hinge on to the fate of plutocracy—a totally
unnecessary condition.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Spider and Ply.
The gentle assault by a usurer in Adelaide, upon
a prepossessing young customer, should be some
sort of warning. This incident is only one of a
series. Complaints have been made public before
now, even in this city, of the amatory demeanour
of members of the “shent per shent” profo a sion
in the bourse of business. The Adelaide capital-
ist’s exposure was mainly due to the youth and
inexperience of the perpetrator. The prepossess-
ing young woman had merely entered the estab-
lishment to make some enquiries ; probably, pre-
liminary to negociating a loan for herself or
her parents. The person in charge was son
to the proprietor, and with the rashness
and inexperience of youth so precipitated matters
as not merely to foil his own designs, but actually
to expose himself to legal proceedings. The
Bench, however, proved indulgent, and a “fiver’ 1
settled the trouble. But suppose, in lieu of a hot
and hasty youth, a cool-headed, calculating sen-
sualist had been in charge. The prepossessing
girl would have been treated with the most grati-
fying politeness, and if the “ securitish” had been
anything like good, she or her parent would have
been gratified with the loan desired. The kind-
ness of the lender would have been such as to
induce carelessness in compliance with the letter
of the contract as to repayment, and an ap-
peal to his indulgence would then have
become necessary. How at suoh a crisis,
when he was apparently disposed to show
himself the very impersonation of good-nature
and forbearanoe, and when his displeasure
would involve, if not ruin, the most serious loss
and trouble, how could the prepossessing young
girl exhibit too severe and provoking a prudery,
| were the kind usurer then to put his arm round
her waist, draw her gently into another room, and
kiss her ? The matter is only worth calling atten-
tion to for one reason. Parents should be careful,
when misfortune may drive them to the use-er’s
den, to transact their business in person; and if
they have a daughter, to keep the “ prepossessing
young girl ” in the background. So long as usury
is part of the splendid institutions of the social
organization, to desire any alteration in which is
a monstrous folly and unforgiveable offence, so
long will the prepossessing wives of spendthrifts,
and daughters of unfortunate widows, be objects
of consideration to libidinous money-lenders.
Out o’ Work.
Fou some time past the papers have been full of
the Unemployed. We have watched their pro-
cessions, and heard the speeches at the Statue
and elsewhere. We also notice that the Govern-
ment has invented work for them at five shilling's
a day. Now, this paper is the last in the world t
speak hard of poor fellows who do not know
where to get the means of earning bread ; and w
look forward to some far-off d ly when the desir
to do honest work will be satisfied by som
rational distribution of the fruits of our comrno
heritage, the earth—whioh, even to project
these days,is to raise the old Cave Age howl of ‘‘com
munism,” “ anarchy,” &e. Nobody knows bette
than we do through what throes civilised man wil
go before there can be a recognition of the hop
that, though riches are now such spoils as come to
to the victor, in what Walter Bagkhot calls an
“ Age of Contest," yet, that this age is still a rudi
mentary one. If there is any hope for humanity
it is in seeing progress wipe out poverty. The
poor are always with us; but it is a hope we cherish
that, when we are long enough forgotten, a genera
tion will come, taught by our penalties and frantic
efforts, that the poor needn’t be so poor when the
rich can get so rich. That hope is humbly enough
stated, anyhow; but, In view of the tierce selflsh
ness that now ranges from the chaffering over
box of matches to the grab for St. Peter’s chair
possibly it might be even moro humbly stated
Our present method of providing for unemployed
men is fitful, pauperising, and, of course, expen-
sively inefficient. But, whatever the ways are, we
are trying to do something, by such blundering
methods as occur. All the more furious, then, docs
every spectator feel when publio brotherliness is
turnod to an opportunity of profit for scoundrels
to the obstruction of a needed relief. Howling
vagabonds make the speeches; loafing scoundrels,
and a few poor hungry fellows, make up the
crowd. There is no mistaking the men who
are there, eager to work, but bolplees, anc
the Sydney soum eager for idleness work-
ing hard so as to do nothing. When the big
procession filed up Hunter-street, the gabblers
were in front, the hard-up men scattered here
and there, and the whole sprinkled with noisy
vagabonds, whose sour and villainous faces we
have noted for many a day hanging round the
wharves, or standing at opposite sides of a street,
whistling their thievish hints when a country
yokel or a tipsy civilian heaves in sight. “Five
bob a day ain’t no good to me,” says he. Should
think not. As long as there’s a watch to grab, a
drunkard, or a till, or a clothes-line to rob—what’s
five bob? We know what it means to an immi-
grant labourer. It is beef, and white bread, and
some shillings to spare, where it used to be pota-
toes, long and bitter hours in a cold climate, and a
Saturday night with a pound of steak between ten,
and twopence for old age solemnly dropped into
an old tea-pot. Some speakers at these meetings
are kmvm to b 9 idle scamps, equally ready to
speak on damnation or Tichborne, provided
there’s something “in it.” They speak intelligibly
enough to impose on the needy ignorant, and to
raise the beastly grin o f approval from their fellow,
loafers in the crowd. Five shillings a day is not
enough in ordinary times; but if it’s a mere matter
of “living,” a man who cannot live on five
shillings a day is not fit to live. Plenty of
professional men in Sydney, who are not at a 1
chargeable with meanness, live on less ; and
these, not amongst the disappointed, but the suc-
cessful ones. What their families have, and must
have, according to the fashion of the time, is
another affair. But, any man who has known the
roughing of early days, or present straitened
circumstances, knows that to live on live shillings
a day is a feat that can be done without tears, and
with immortal pluck and hope for better days. Of
course, we shall continue our efforts to alleviate
the distress of the unemployed; but how can we
weed out the vagabonds who check our charity,
and from its pickings lind ways afterwards to
plunder us? How to close the mouths of idle
agitators, and thieving loafers, and get to hear the
true cry of distress when it comes ? According to
a man’s humour, he will swoar, or pray a bit, over
this sifting of the wheat and tares. We shall vary
the tune this time, and not recommend either of
those two, or the natural suggestion of throttling
and drowning all idlers whatever. Just for a
change, we will throw it out as a Plain English
question for a man to ask his neighbour—What
shall we do with them ?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor ncm-de-
vlwne cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“A.T.E.” (Bundaberg): A and B play C
and Dat euchre. B deals, D passes, A rocs alone.
C also goes alone, and takes three tricks, thus
euchreing A. How many points taken ? Two. C
gains nothing by going alone. A, by going alone,
blocks the way to four. An old player—at certain
stages of the game -will often go alone with a
wretched hand for the very purpose of keeping
his opponents from running out with a lone hand.
“Freethinker”: The meaning of recidiviste
was given some time back “W.M.” (Grafton):
For all-round incomprehensibility your letter runs
a dead-heat with the Revelations. Spelling is one
of your ttrongest points. The man who writes
suxedded ” must come to the front in a youDg
country like this “Mime”: Good, but un-
equal. Will see—“ Native Rose”: We may
use—“R.B.” (Wyong Creek): The verses show
the presence of the poetic faculty. But they
are full of false quantities. Your par. in re
M’Elhone is of slender merit.... “ Nemo ”: Cannot
understand yeur note, so suppose it must be very
funny. Husband your resources. Too muck
humour is apt to clog “Bad Pen”: So you
think it wrong that we should be severe on
a clergyman, who “ reared amidst the proud sur-
roundings of an old and aristocratic Scotch family,
or who associated, in early days, as a brother in
arms in a crack regiment,” scorns to come down
to the level of ordinary men and women. But
Christ knew nothing of aristocracy or crack regi-
ments, and surely it is not too much to expect a
little humility in one of His professed followers ?
....“T.8.”: “Neither sense nor respectability is
found where infidel toleration isjadmitted.” That’s
what you say of the Balmain Literary and Debat-
ing Society. Now, suppose you went to India,
Turkey, or China, “sense and respectability”
would be absent .from the debating society in
which you were allowed to hold forth. For,
you see, you would be an infidel there. If
your faith cannot stand a little probing it is
not of much account. You and your kind, by pre-
suming to cripple legitimate speculation, have
kept poor Progress in swaddling clothes for mil-
lenniums. Drop us a line now and then. Will be
always glad to hear from you ...“ W. P. Auld
Will see to it. Too crowded this week “Refor-
mation”: The action of our legislators in re the
the social evil is inexplicable. It is regulation, not
suppression, that is required. The latter is im-
possible. It has been tried times out of number
with the same dreary resulc-failure. The con-
tinental nations are far ahead of us in the matter.
“ Wegg ” (Cooma): We’ve framed your letter—
as a curiosity. In the ages to come, someone
might find out what it means ...” Fanana”: Name
or nom dc plume is necessary. Your item may be
dished up “ Wm. S.” (Euston): All the quacks
who advertise cures for the complaints you allude
to are vermin, for the destruction of which a sum
should be placed on the Estimates. Their carriages
and fine houses result from the fears of the ignor-
ant. Avoid them “ G.L.”: It is doubtful
whether the dirty thing is sufficiently important.
The more you touch it the more malodorous it be-
comes. ...“ W.L’B.” (Melb.): Under consideration...
“ F.S.”: You are the man, sir, we have been hang-
ing about street corners, and looking out for, for
years. There is humour, doubtless, in—we quote
you—“ The charge preferred against you by Mrs.
Flannigan, of maltreating her goattho only
fault about that portion of your communication
being that, perhaps, there is too much humour in
it for this paper. We aspire, you see, to a policy
of m■'deration—even in humour! Besides, since
your copy d«als exclusively with the “ Official
correspondence of the Loo Loo Islands,” though
of enthralling interest to us, might, perhaps, be
so in a lesser degree with the grovellers or so
who buy the paper weekly. But you are funny,
even in your grammar. Look: “Mr. Groggum
might have met the head of some department, or
a Minister, and became suddenly ill,” &c. We
don’t say “Go and die,” because we feel that
would be a discourteous suggestion to one so
talented. You might, however, with advantage,
go as near to it as you may find convenient
“ W. J. C.” (Gundagai): We regret it is out of our
power to publish those little loeal items you speak
of. Sam doute they are coruscating with wit, and
sparkling with humour, and would scintillate like
gems in a journal which is, itself, a scintillation.
What chiefly militates against their insertion, dear
boy, is not because ‘they are, so far as we can
judge, either too highly spiced .or strongly sea-
soned, but because—er—because you have for-
gotten to send them “Molasses”: What’s all
this about a P.M., who had a big family and a
straggle (sic) to make both ends meet, and'about a
store-keeper who looked squarily (sic) in theP.M.’s
face. Goto!—
We are aweary of this bosh;
Your spelling is like that of “Janary;”
It you’d avoid avoid our new “ galosh.”
Be blowed! and get thee to a tannery.
“Parnassus”: You have evidently made a
mistake in yeur title “ Roman Loves.” It is a mis-
nomer. It should have been “ Rum and cloves
“Capias”: Couldn’t yo i make it a little longer
than three sheets of foolscap ? But, if not, make
the drayman say “Zounds! a little oftener. We
are fond of “Zounds!”; also of “ Bv my hali-
datne!” and “Gadzooks!” “J.M.”: Your story
of the commercial traveller who endeavoured to
gain tho affeotions of a barmaid with a shilling’s
worth of apples, and gained only a black eye from
the landlady, is too funny for us to print. It.
would be more than our lives are worth to make
our readers laugh as that story would make them.
Send us something milder. Send us a mad dog.
... “ Garrowen” (Ipswich): Too hot “ W.H.H.”:
Not original —“A. J.” (Burrowa): “Do we pay
for items like yours?” Why, certainly—when we
put them in.
The Public Instruction Act says, inter alia :
‘‘Provided also, that the religious instruction to
be so given shall in every case be the religious in-
struction authorised by the church to which the
olergyman or other religious teacher may belong.”
But how if the Church authorities to which the
clergyman or other religious teacher belongs are
at Jogger heads as to points of discipline or articles
of belief ? Is one set of Eastern Synod Presbyters
to be permitted to preach the necessity of a gospel
of expulsion; and another crowd to lecture on the
art of calling one s dear brothers in Christ liars,
schismatics and nearly impostors ? or how if a
school teacher were to find, one day, a Zachary
Barry laying it down, that a fellow who wore a
hair-shirt, or dated his correspondence “The
Vigil of St. Basil,” or “The Eve of St. Gengulfus,”
etc., was an infernal jackass; and, the next, a
Thomas a Kemmis inoculating the young idea
with a faith in copes cassocks and saints’ days—
how then ? Is the Minister of Instruction to de-
cide for the Churches on points wherein the
Churches disagree ? Is his oflice to be converted
into a sort of Court of Arches ? Here is a big
diificuity. The only way to solve it is to so alter
the Act as to forbid the parson, as a parson, to
enter the Public School at all.


The Royal Exchange Hotfl.
About six months ago, Mr. J. D. Young, who, for
a great many years was the landlord of the Three
Crowns Hotel, Church Hill, succeeded to the ten-
ancy of the well-known Koyal Exchange Hotd,
corner of King and George/streets. Mr. Yount',
who is known to possess rnoie than usual energy,
determined that, having the grandest position m
the city, he would also have the premier
hotel, and with what result an inspection of
these commodious premises will show. The
building has bren thoroughly renovated and
repaired, from garret to cellar, at a cost of over
£2000; and of this sum, £550 was alone spent in
paint and paper. The house now contains three
bars—two threepenny, and one sixpenny or pii-
vate bar. The threepenny bars are situated, one
in King-street, the other corner King and George
streets, and are similarly fitted and decorated.
The whole of the back walls behind the counters
are covered with large high mirrors, mounted
in black and gold bracket frames, the brackets
containing fiowers, statues, etc. The Private Bar
is in George-street, and for richness of decoration,
originality of design, and general appearance, is
unrivalled in Australia. Back of the bar are two
magnificent bevelled Venetian mirrers in elabor-
ate black and gold frames, arched tops. Between
these two mirrors is a smaller one in a ruby plush
frame which adds tT the air of richness. The
ceiling is of a light blue tint, with golden
stars, and every portion of this magnificent
saloon is in perfect taste. Overhead is the
most spacious, best-lighted, and most com-
fortable billiard-room in Sydney, containing six
tables—three being perfectly new, and all by the
trst ma kers. The large dining-room is thoroughly
re-modelled, and each department is perfectly
complete. In the bar, corner of George and King-
streets, Mr. Young has, at considerable troublo
and expense, collected portraits of all tnb
greatest notabilities in the world of sport and fancy.
The whole ©f the alterations and improvements
were designed and supervised by Mr. Young, and
that gentleman has, without doubt, succeeded in
providing a long-felt want in Sydney, viz., a first-
class hotel. It may be mentioned that Mr. Young
has secured a ten years’ lease of the premises, a,t,
a yearly rental of £sooo.■*
Stanley, reminds us of a bill we saw in Rochester,
?rier to slaying the inevitable hare to keep a
amtly of 17 from starving! It—we mean the
poster ran in the following terms:—“Shy-
look, or|the Wicked Jew.” Droll, eh?....0h, yes;
the Polks are off to Honolulu. Their business
manager remains behind to disguise the Americans
on the night of the 4th, in trunks and spangles.
We might recommend the Consul to go as Lord
Chesterfield (our little wheeze); while tho Vice, if
he cannot procure (our unimportant gag !) the
eostume—there is one at the Royal—of a mole,
should be able to successfully disguise himself as
mole-ar
Little rumour comes this way.
Which we don't believe at all;
“ Bust up ” entre . ... .
And her hubby
But we don’t credit, Princess, dear,
A single word of what we hear.
.... What’s beoome of Josh Piokersgill, by the way
(too frequent, this!), whose " well-known elo-
quenoe” was to make a moral panorama “go”
without the aid of either a snake-box or a comic
singer ? When last we heard of him, he was with
Donald Dinnle, but since this he seems to have
faded. Yet, we feel sure that Josh will turn up
again, if not with an Italian opera company, at any
rate lending the aid of his “well-known elo-
quence ”to the Stilts. The Melbourne boys ought
to stick to Josh, anyhow. When he was a wine-
merohant, they all drank enough of his sherry,
daily, to, as Minnie Bymperson says, “convince
them that they were mortal.” Josh has had lots of
benefits, yet we don’t believe he is worth much
over a million. They all seem to get hard-up in
the “perfesh.” Look at poor Freddy Marshall,
after all the money he earned here, left in his
affliction without a cent! We could point out
dozens of them, all in the same predicament. It’s
astonishing, if you only watch it, how soon the
talent come down from “ Othello ” to “ Slocum’s
Dog.” If. however, Josh will send us a line tell-
ing us where he is, he shall have a par., even
if his show consist only of a musioal cat-fight,
and the cats are made of india - rubber
Poor Fred. Mervin’s voice has again gone to a
S ionic without him, and he has been superseded
y Frank Leslie, at the Alhambra, in his part of
General Ollendorf in “The Beggar Student.”
Fred, contemplates coming out here again; so
does J. B. Howe.
And you can guess the fair Louise
Will come, if she comes pick-a-back ;
Perchance now wafted by the breeze,
This sample comes of Bric-a-brac.
Tis meet that Miss P. should return
With Arthur, her last new hub who is.
’Tis natural she to coo should turn
Once more in this fair land of “ cooees.”
Oh, and this naturally brings us—for Louise is
almost a circus—to the intelligence that Cole is in
Baltimore, and that his new piano is a guccis de
gteam.... And just as you are about to take your
eyes off this, and surreptitiously clutch a third
egg before pa comes down, let us tell you of
Colonel Mapleson, who made £15,000 in 13 nights on
the Pacific Blope with opera: of Grattan Riggs, who
goes to Brisbane; of Barnum's offer of £4OO a week
to Sir Castro—Bir O. won't accept as yet, but he is
expected to be much influenced by a certain cele-
brated aotress with whom he formerly resided d la
the late Charles Reade, and who will, it is rumour-
ed, Castroil on the troubled waters Thunder!
we were nearly forgetting it. The item is from
N.Z., and has hardly had time to recover from its
sea-sickness. A oertain lady singer allied to the
Musgroveantroupe “shunted” a “masher” who
§rew too formidable a rival for the party in the
and, and he wrote her: “False one, I come to
gaze on you for the last time.” This note she
sent back with the corner turned up, and these
words scratched in lead pencil: “Mytrubbles. ...
How old faces turn up. H. J. Whittington is
marißging the 41 Fun oq the Bristol n Co. for Mr.
John Sheridan, whose representative got the
theatre from Wybert Reeve, who leased it from
John Bennett. Mr. G. A. Coleman is; “ business
manager ” for Wybert Reeve, so we do not think
it is any good of our applying for a billet. The
first time we saw Whit, was in Adelaide, where he
had the Fatima Mystery, and ended. Bluebeard-
like, by wedding her: an event which was much
talked about at tho time. Then we lost sight of
the noble H. J.; when we at length, once more,
alighted upon him looking after the front of a
oircus-tent. Later on, we encountered him with
Jimmy South; and now he has raaised himself to
his present position. Well, we congratulate him;
though things happen a bit cross. Whats the
srood of our importing the Musioal Mice ana a
wooden-legged Hamlet, if-but it’s no use of cry-
ing over spilt milk. As H. J. Byron says in one of
his comedies, “ it only makes it the more watery.
And all this gotsip makes us die to tell a joke
about Coleman, Wybert s business manager.
George went undisguised to a costume-ball In
Auckland, and was making frantic efforts to in-
duoe his partner to unmask](masking was optional)
in an ante-room. After some little persuasion,
she yielded. “Now, sir,” said the lady, who dis-
closed a very pretty face, “ now, I have taken off
my mask, take off your nose.”
One of the very latest official utteranoes
of Cardinal Newman runs as follows:—“ What I
have ever said, and do say now, is that if the
Established Church was removed, a powerful
AhotAcle to the spread of unbelief in England
would be with it. This I said in a letter,
as it happens, only last night.” But the worthy
Cardinal will require to say it to-night, and to-
morrow night, and several other nights after,
before the “‘Established ” wakes up to a sense of
what he’s saying.
There are always two sides to a question.
This is the other side with reference to the Rowing
Association affairs. Although Mr. Martin and the
other members of the late crew paid the train
fares to Melbourne, it was agreed that as soon as
the Association were in funds, the crew were to be
recouped. This amount, therefore, must be con-
sidered as a liability on the books of the Associa-
tion. Mr. Martin is perfectly aware of the ar-
rangement. It is well known in rowing circles
that certain members of the M.R.C. (not rowing
men o? oarsmen), which Club has withdrawn from
the Association, are endeavouring to break it
The trouble arose in this way. Hi one of the
raoes for the Krug Cup, the then captain
of the M.R.C. was umpire, when a competi-
tor (a 9.R.8. souller) passed, so it was said,
inside the mile beacon, in contravention of the
rules. The second man, a member of the M R.U,
protested, but the umpire, whose duty it was to
watoh the race and deeide protects, said he did not
see any competitor pass inside a beacon. The
matter was taken up by the * h w°T}*p
pressure, and some of the members of ( the M.K.O.
endeavoured to set aside the umpire s decision,
but were unsuccessful. It seems strange that the
club which made SJch a disturbance some time
ago about a judge’s decision being reviewed, en-
deavoured to do the same to a muoh higher
official, and, not getting their own way, they re-
signed. The funds during the present year hare
been oare f »Uy managed, but the same cannot
be said of last year s management, when
money was frittered away. Those who now are
loudest in their condemnation of the AMOciation
had the management of its * rß
retired when they succeeded in getting it into
troubled waters, in the early part of the year the
present committee made friendly overturns to the
M.R.C. to induce them to rejoin and place the
struct the Association co mrct their
views; but as the committee had, of
power to agree to this request, the negotiations fell
through. Some ef the M.R.C. Committee stated
that the management of the Association must e
left to three delegates each from the S.R.C. and
M.R.C., and only one each from the other clubs.
The latter, which are junior clubs, and supporters
of the Association, would under this arrangement
have been badly treated, and the committee are to
be congratulated for not listening to ® uc [' ® ,R r v °'
lt is as well that the whole truth should be
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— There is one trait the Sydney
people possesses which I admire exceedingly, and
that is their inability to forget an old favourite.
The applause that greeted Bignora Fabris on her
appearance at her benefit concert, last week, was
unstinted and prolonged. Really, we have no
singer resident in Sydney to equal the Signora in
her own particular style; in fact, we are decidedly
weak in good vocalists. Mrs. Riley sings a ballad
charmingly, but then she so seldom appears in
public now ; and Mrs. Spencer, although pos-
sessing a pleasant and cultivated voice, is always
inclined to sing just a little too sharp. It is so
slight a defect, however, that by the majority it is
unnoticed; and I got into dire disgrace, the other
night, for hinting at such a thing. The lady had
just sung “ Softly Sighs ” very nicely, indeed, when
someone remarked, “ Wasn’t that splendid 1” I re-
plied, “ Yes, it was, excepting that it was a shade
sharp towards the finish.” With scowls and frowns
I was asked “what I meant;” “how could I «ay
such a thing ?” and I was even accused of being ill-
tempered, till at last I was fain to turn coward
and falter out that perhaps I was mistaken, and
that it must have been the instruments that were
flat instead of the voice sharp. This part conces-
sion succeeded in stilling the angry voices better
THTS? WHY THIS IS A PORTRAIT OF THE CORRESPONDENT OF THE SHROUD, WHO
WROTE THAT WITH A RUB OF PHENYLE, HE COULD SIT AND SMILE SWEETLY
IN THE MIDDLE OF A CROWD OF MOSQUITOS THICK ENOUGH TO FLY AWAY WITH
HIM.
than I had hoped, for I am always loth to give
people credit for being as stupid as they really are.
But, dear me, what enemies one makes by being
too frank, sometimes 1 I know there are some ot
Mrs. Spencer’s champions who will never forgive
me; and it’s really too bad, for I like the lady and
also her singing* when it is not too sharp there
now, that will do.
The Misses de Fontaine, whom, I believe, Signora
Fabris is training for the operatic stage, took pro-
minent parts at this concert. The elder one has a
sweet voice, and sings with taste, but force is
lacking. Miss B de Fontaine essayed Una
Voce, "and although her runs and intervals were
correct enough, it could hardly be considered a
finished performance. The young ladies both
possess that which will go a long way towards en-
suring sucoess —confidence. 1 like girls to have
high ambitions, and I hope, with all my heart, to
see some day the Misses ae Fontaine in opera ; but
at the same time, if they are as sensible as I think
they are. they must be aware that they have years
of hard work before them yet. Of Sign ora
Fabris was encored for her “ Valse Song, and of
course she gave the “Flower Girl,” or Orange
Girl,” I forget which. Madame Kellermann was
welcomed as warmly as ever, and played quite in
her old brilliant style, ome complained that her
selections were too trivial, but you just try Dors
oher Enfant,” and see what you think o< it. As
for the “Hop! Hop! Galop”-well,itis quite natural
that Madame should choose to play her own cqm-
position, in order to popularise it; for it certainly
could never be heard to so great advantage as
when played by herself. Showers of bouquets
fell at her feet when she rose from the piano, and
an encore tvas demanded. Miss Peate sang Thee
only I love” very nicely; but, as the programme
was unusually long, Miss Watt’s solo was spoilt by
the noise made by people rising to leave the ball.
It was hardly fair to the young lady to put her
solo at the end of the second part, when everybody
was tired and disinclined to give a patient hearing.
Mr. Harrison has a nice tenor voice, and took the
duet part with Miss do Fontaine in the Miserere.
Mr. M’Lean conducted, and 1 heard Mr. Hodge s
mellow-toaed clarionet in the orchestra.
If Signora Fabris had any idea beforehand that
during the concert her pupils intended to present
her with an address and a purse of sovereigns, she
is the most perfect actress I ever saw. She was
quite “ taken aback," and couldn t find words
enough in the English language to express her
thanks. She looked her own handsome self in a
cardinal figured velvet top skirt, over a petticoat
of satin to match; her gloves pink, and beauti-
fully embroidered on the backs and up the arm.
Mrs. Speucer had on a pale«blut> satin with rich lace
flounces, and taken from the right shoulder across
to the left hip a beautiful spray of pink flowers.
Miss de Fontaine wore a most peculiar loosely
flowing robe of some white soft material—cash-
mere, I think. The train was very long, and
seemed to be just a little troublesome to the
wearer. Her sister looked nice in pale-blue satiß,
with short sleeves. Madame Kellermann, in black
velvet, with black feather trimming, looked very
piquant. Edith was in raptures with an old gold
satin under-dress, covered with small black lace
flounces. The low bodice was of black lace, from
which emerged a nock of snowy whiteness, and a
head of black hair cut quite short. I liked better
a white satin with gold fringe and zone. The hair
was dressed high, the coil of plaits being just a
little to one side, and interlaced with strings of
gold beads. A curly-haired blonde wore cream
veiling, with a large cerise silk jabot. The con-
cert was decidedly fashionable, and had the pro-
gramme been shorter bylone-third, or encores pro-
hibited, there would be no fault to And whatever;
but it must be admitted that 10.50 is too late for a
concert to conclude.
I was amused at your surprise at our hardihood
in going to the Minstrels, but of course you don’t
know that the old prejudice against the Academy
of Music is fast dying out. Indeed, at present, it
is one of the most popular places of amusement in
Sydney. I don’t know that I should be adhering
to the strict truth if I said it was a fashionable
resort, for I do not recollect ever seeing either
Lord and Lady Loftus or Garden Honey amongst
the audience. The latter is a literary gentleman
and an acknowledged leader of fashion, and that’s
his nom de plume. But I don’t believe fashion-
able people go to theatres a® much for amusement
as for the reason that it is fashionable to go, and
they little know how much they miss by ignoring
the Minstrels. Why, the singing alone is worth
listening to, and the Girards go through the most
marvellous feats. It is almost impossible to be-
lieve they are made of anything but India-rubber,
they are so supple. And if Sam Keenan opens his
mouth (such a mouth) and says nothing we are
bound to laugh, and the other corner man (Horace
Bent) is just as funny. So you see, my dear, it is
worth while being unfashionable occasionally, for
such an entertainment. And oh 1 you don’t know
how funny it is to go to a place of amusement and
feel warm and comfortable all the time, and the
Minstrels aren’t the least bit affronted that we
don t go in full dress.
Before I forget, I must tell you about a dress I
saw at the Gaiety the other night, and which quite
took my fancy. It was worn by Miss Hynes, who
takes the part of one of Widow O’Brien’s two
daughters in “ Fun on the Bristol. The founda-
tion oi the dress was a beautiful bronze satin. The
long loose jabot of deep, cream-flgured net, and
the same material was used for draping the front
of the skirt. Bands of the satin were takon across
and served to hold the graceful drapings. It was
one of the most novel and effective conceptions I
have seen for some time, and I am certain you,
too, would admire it.
Flower borderings for pocket-handkerchiefs
are now quite the rage. I have seen them
worked in both silk and thread equally effectively.
You must not forget, however, when perfuming it,
use the scent peculiar to the flower on your
mouchoir —rather faddish, is it not? But it is one
of the demands of fashion, so I suppose it s all
right. The shop windows are nearly all resplen-
dent just now with ball costumes, and, from what
I can judge, deep primrose and sea-green are the
favourite colours. I saw a very striKlng dress ot
black grenadine, made with a long train and low
bodice. The whole of the dress was covered with
tinv bunches of minute crimson flowers, which
stood out well against the black ground. Evi-
dently some one else admired it, too; for when we
went to have another view of it, it was gone; and
if ever I see anyone wearing it, I shall feel quite
spiteful, for I wanted it so much myself. I
shouldn’t be surprised if it is worn at the American
ball next week. Shall I send you some of these
new gloves, which are so beautifully embroidered
in gold and silver thread and also silk ? They are
really lovely, but fearfully expensive, so I warn
you. Let me know in your next.
Your loving
MAR
Young Tom Spurgeon and Bishop Luck
are en route for Europe. In taking farewell of
his N.Z. congregation, Spurgeon announced that
he had bagged £12,800 for the purpose of building
a new Tabernacle in Europe, which is highly satis-
factory, for if there is one thing more than another
that Australia wants it is to export clergymen
with hatf uiB of sovereigns to be used for the salva-
tion of the benighted people of Inland- tmfn
comes us to do this. We have more money than
we want; all the people of Oceania are holy and
happy, and a few thousands sent home now might
do no end of good. There is a bit of a hitoh, how-
ever, that makes us feel humble. There is a
further sum of £l5OO needed to complete the
Tabernacle, and we haven’t that amount handy.
Some of our readers interested in Tabernacles
might possibly spare us that, amount for the credit
of Australian literature and religious en'husiasm,
Brigadier-General Maclver.
We give, in our front page, a full-length portra t
of the remarkable soldier of fortune whose name
heads this paragraph. The story of General Mac-
Iver’s career reads like a romance of the time of
the Thirty Years’ War. We have already, in variou g
issues, published episodes of the General’s adven-
tures, and have not now space to amplify at any
length. The narrative, complete in the main out-
lines, has been published in a handy volume, by
Messrs. George Robertson and Co., of this city, and
to that book we refer our readers, with the assui'
ance that they will ilud it reading of the liveliest
and most exciting kind. General Maclver’s latest
enterprise —an expedition to New Guinta
—has particular interest for Australians. Lord
Derby, as Secretary of State for the Colo-
nies, declined to sanction the project, but
General Maclver, accustomed, perhaps, to con-
vert a repulse into a victory, refused to
regard the check as final, and has addressed
himself to the Colonial Governments and peo-
ple for the countenance denied him in England.
Thus far, his campaign here has not been un-
attended with difficulties. Some time after his
arrival in Melbourne, General MacTver was intro
duced to the War Minister of that formidable
Cabbagr-garden, and, the subject of his proposed
expedition naturally coming under discussion,
was, by Mr. Sargood, invited to interview the
Premier. By telegraph, the public here has
already been made aware that the interview, al-
though not productive of definite results with re-
gard to the projected expedition, led to a some-
what fiery controversy between Mr. Service and
the General. The latter resented Mr. Service 8
action in communicating what purported to be an
account of tho interview, to the Melbourne press,
and, moreover, challenged the aocuracy of the
aocount so conveyed General Maclver's letter was
of a peremptory nature, and was couched in the
following terms:— „
“ George Hotel, St. Kilda,
“ June 21,1884.
“ Sir,—l read with astonishment in the metro-
politan evening press of this date, reports refer-
ring to an interview I had with you during the
forenoon respecting my proposed scheme for the
exploration of New Guinea. At the outset, I may
be permitted to state that those reports are
utterly erroneous. The facts were that I simply
asked you, as the head of the Victorian Govern-
ment, if you would be drsirous of co-operating
with the Governments of N.S Wales, Queensland,
South Australia, and Tasmania in exploring New
Guinea. I most emphatically dcDy that I made
any proposition to * annex ’ or * colonise ’ New
Guinea; n< ither did the words ‘syndicate’ and
‘ seizure ’ escape my lips during the whole of oifr
interview. I beg to remind you that, when
you requested me to furnish you with my scheme
in writing, I informed vou that I could not comply
with your request until after my arrival in Sydney.
Now, considering that no member of the Press was
present at our interview, I can arrive at no other
conclusion than that the aforesaid erroneous state-
ment s were supplied to the evening Press represen-
tatives either by you or your secretary (who was
present during the greater portion of tho inter-
view) for the purpose of endeavouring to throw
cold water on my project, whilst at the same time
you were airing your own vanity in the eyes of
the Australian public.
“ Moreover, if the statements were borne out by
fact, you have been guilty of a gross breach of
etiquette in communicating the result of a pri-
vate interview of a delicate and diplomatic
character to reporters of the public journals. It
was only at the instigation of your colleague, the
Minister of Defence, that I waited on you at all—
a fact which I now very much regret.
“ With regard to your request that I should
convey my scheme in writing for your perusal. I
most respectfully decline the honour.—l have, &c.’’
ft is almost needless to state that the outcome has
been a rupture of the most complete description
between the enterprising soldier and the Govern-
ment of Victoria. General Maclver now addresses
himself to our own Government, but, meanwhile,
proposes to deliver a series of descriptive lectures
based on experiences and incidents relating to bis
remarkable and varied career.
A writer in the lulawabha Mercury pro-
pounds the following’ oonnundrum: “Is the
Archbishop of Canterbury sincere in denouncing
the drink traffic, at tho same time being a publican
himself, and drawing as much revenue from it aa
would support 1000 families in luxury ? ” We are
going to give it up—not because we can’t answer
Ft, but became we might be considered irreverent
if we did.
The Rev. Dr. Ellis denounces immorality.
Good. He incidentally tells us that the Scotch are
the most immoral nation in Europe, True. He
urges his flock to stricter attention to religious
duties if they wish to resist temptations to im-
purity. Here he is wrong and illogical. Tho
Scotoh are immoral because they are scrupulous
in their religious duties. Justin proportion as
clerical authority is admitted are superstition and
immorality advanced. Priestcraft (whatever its
denomination) engenders debasement, and Scotch
Presbyterianism is but priestcraft writ very large
indeed. When religion is sufficiently powerful in
a country to secure the enactment or restrictive
legislation, true liberty is doomed, and where that
is doomed, immorality is bound to increase. When
the tyranny of the Scotch Kirk (established or dis-
established) ceases, Scotch immorality will de-
crease. Dr. Ellis told his hearers a statistical fact
when he mentioned tho comparative enormity of
Scotch immorality, but he forgot to point tl o
moral; nay, he did worse, he employed the fact
pharisaically, and then, having thus blunted the
moral, perverted it to serve a sectarian end.


Personal
Items
A man named Brady has shot a seleetor
called Guy dir Pearce, near Tam worth. There
seems to be something' in a name, after all.
It is said of Little Great Chief Justioe Way
that, when a change is required iu the kitchen, he
never advertises for a “plain” cook. It seems
that—[ Ed. R]
William Sheppard, son of Judge Sheppard,
of Queensland, has won what under the old con-
ditions of things would have been termed the
Cambridge Senior Wranglcrsbip. Granny calls
this ‘ Australian Honour for Cambridge;” should
it not be Cambridge Honour for an Australian ?
Cyril Haviland announces in the Liberal
that he has had conferred upon him the "sectarial
duties’ of the Liberal Ass'cation. Cyril must
be something even if it’s nothing. We don’t hear,
by the way, much about the spirits now. and alike
the pen of “ Dam ” and the harp of “ Philip Dale ”
are silent. -
Among the most imposing features of the
opening ceremony of the Victorian Parliament
were the features of Peter Lalor, set off by his
Speaker’s wig. Everyone gazed upon him with
awe, except Gaunsonand little Mirams; but, then,
nothing short of an earthquake could appal their
etout hearts.
Poor old Mick Christie stepped out the
other day at Bundanba, Queensland. Exactly 44
years ago, Mick first struck Queensland soil (it
was Moreton Bay then), and George Thorn, the
elder, was his first boss. Since theD, Mick stuck
to the Ipswich district, and rarely missed a day’s
work. He was a real “ collar worker,” and he died
In harness, having burst a blood - vessel whilst
ploughing. Ploughing at the age of 78, proves
there was genuine stuff in Miok Christie,
“ Gimmycuppacoughyannanoisterpatty, ” exclaimed
the youth, wearily throwing himself into a chair at
one of the marble-topped tables. His deeply sunken
eyes, and pale wan features, spoke but too elo-
quently of a life inured to disappointment and
pastry.
The youug lady, to whom the mystic language with
which our story opens was addressed, sprang from
his side like a startled fawn, and in a much shorter
time than it has taken to draw the above illustra-
tions, had returned, and placed on the table before
him, a cup of ooffee and an oyster paU (or patty.)
Feverishly removing the top crust
“At »last!” he shrieked, and fell forward on his chest,
burying his face in the sugar-basin. It was, alas! too
true. He had drawn an oyster! and the shock had
well-nigh extinguished his young life.
A gentle hand was laid upon his shoulder, and when he
feebly opened his eyes, at last, he dimly saw a ticket
with “6d.” traced upon it in a delicate feminine hand,
while a winning voice, said, “ It shall not oecur again.”
The Lottery of Life.
Mr. W. F. Darley, Q.C., LL.D., an Irish
County Court Judge, has just compromised a
a Breach of Promise suit for £lO,OOO, brought
against him by a Miss Carpenter, by paying £l5OO.
Mr. W. F. Darley is, we believe, brother to our
own “ Wholesome Fun,” and seems to have been
enjoying some of that article.
Hanby and Christie, who mutually “sum-
moned” one another to the Newcastle Police
Court for “laDgwidge,” have made it up.—
H. of Christie now’s as fond
As ever mortal can be;
While Christie this quite goes beyond
In eulogising Hanby.
We learn by a magazine that Trollope
made £70,000 by his pen; Disraeli, £80,000; and Sir
Walter Scott, £150,000. It breaks off here, just as
we were gasping to hear something about the
earnings of the Leichhardt alderman, his name-
sake. wo hear that Lewis is now engaged upon a
poetic work, entitled “Bone Manure: a Reflec-
tion.”
Mr. Mirams, of the Victorian Parliament,
spoke four hours at a stretch last week. His
height is about four feet eleven, including aboard
of about one foot. When big M'Kean, who is six
feet three, was once jibed at for not replying to a
fierce attack of the little man, he looked across at
him and explained that he had no desire to look
down on any man.
In Saturday’s News we read of the de-
cease of “Alfred Bennett.” On going rouud in sack-
cloth and ashes, however, we were somewhat re-
lieved to behold that distinguished journalist re-
monstrating with the dramatical cricket for put-
ing too much flour in the paste-pot. Alf. takes a
lot of killing. That is principally because he
hardly ever reads his own papers.
Anglioan Bishop of Melbourne will pro-
bably be elected Chancellor of Melbourne Univer-
sity. ’Twill be a huge mistake if he be elected—
a step backwards. When the universities of the
mother country, in obedience to the Zeitgeist, are
gradually purging themselves of the clerical ele-
ment, the new university of a young colony should
not be found selecting a church dignitary for its
head.
Mr. George Zearns, of Philadelphia, has the
awkward habit of going about with tame snakes
in his pockets. He also occasionally goes on the
booze. One evening lately, he entered the Jewish
Synagogue in a state of "beer, and, rushing up to the
pulpit, placed one of his ophidians around the
rabbi’s neok, with the.r emark, “ Take this to heaven
with you.” The rabbi. In a spasm of blue funk, con-
signed George to heaven’s antipodes, as, clamber*
ing over the pulpit, he sought to join in the
general stampede from the Synagogue. Mr.
Zearns says nary rabbi illustrated exodus so prac-
tically beiore.
O yez! o yez! Be it made known to
the learned Solons of this colony that in winding
up the Ready v. Figabo trouble, the other day, Sir
Charles Lilley, Chief Justice of Queensland,said:—
“ It has beoome natural for us to look every morn-
ing to the newspaper to lead our thoughts, and we
look to those who are practised in the profession
of journalism to assist us in forming opinions
Fair comment has therefore come to be regarded
as the privilege of the journalist, and that
privilege should not be unreasonably restricted.”
Good again, Sir Charles. “It doth appear you are
a worthy Judge.”
Caligraphically judged, Bishop Barry is
a second Horace Greeley. The other day he
wrote: “Singleness of heart is born of benevo-
lence.” This is how they setit up : “ Single miss,
my heart is forlorn! be not dense.” And, of the
concluding period of the third par. all that the
combined efforts of the office could knock out of
it was: Flapjack huffs Klopstick nose-bags the
fashion.” The correction was as under : “ I track
enough obstacles daily born of religions that do
not adopt solely moral suasion.” The right rev.
Doctor’s own “ comp.” has, however, been wired
for. II en Stait temps!
Manchester has arrove, and Authority has
commenced to grovel. The Bouth Australian
Police Force have been inspected by his Grace,
who has deigned to express his satisfaction at the
men and horses! It would be better, considering
that the noble Duke is out here on little games in-
tent, if the police were instructed to keep an eye
on him and his movements, than that he should be
invited to cast a ducal eye upon the police; espe-
cially as ho possesses no status to warrant any
official in parading constables or other public
servants for his inspection. But little Peterswald
always “loved a lord.”
W. H.L. Bailey, of the Gundagai Herald,
is suing the Cootamundra Herald for £3OO
damages for libel. In the issue in which we learn
this, there appears a letter signed “ Barney
O’Leary,” in which the writer advocates the estab-
lishment of a debating club in Gundagai. He
says : “ An ab.e journalist like yourself, sir,
must notice the crude attempts of our younsr men
at writing or speaking in public,” Besides being
a journalist, W.H.L. is an auctioneer. Could this
screed have emanated from the “ highly respected
and popular oitizen ” who rounds up the purchasers
with a bell ? Well, well! Bailey is always in some-
thing. We saw him once in a buoket.
A smart young artist has got at Victoria
Reg 1 . D.F., etc., with his picture of the worry at
Tel-el-Kebir, in which he has represented Con-
naught as the foremost figure in the fray, with an
up-Guards-and-at’em sort of look on his clas-
sic phiz, performing prodigies of valour with
an ancestral claymore. It would be a deli-
cate compliment to Her Majesty to present her
with a companion picture (by the same artful
hand) of her royal uncle, the “ First what-was-it of
Europe,” heading the British cavalry, as, at Water-
loo, on the “ loud Sabbath ” of “ onsets of despair,”
upon the surging columns of the French, its
squadrons swept and charged and overthrew.
One of the most admired pictures in the
present Grosvenor Gallerv exhibition is a portrait
of Lord Lytton, by G. F. Watts. Watts—an old
man now—was the first husband of the fair Ellen
Terry, who, we are bound to admit, was alone re-
sponsible for the snapping of the nuptial tie.
And, now we think of it, Ellen has been drawing a
salary of £3OO a week during the Irving engage-
ment in America. It would be interesting to
know how much Charles Kelly, her present hus-
band, will get out of that. He ought to get some-
thing, because, for a jealous man (Ellen always
said he was abominably jealous), he has been bear-
ing his long separation from his wife with Christian
fortitude.
A distinguished visitor will soon arrive
among us. He oomes from Newcastle, and his
name is James Mitchell, and he is over a hundred
years of age. When the progenitors of some of
our first families used to sell vegetables in the
market and hawk fish, James Mitchell owned a
great part of the present Cii cular Quay. He sold
this property for two bottles of rum. This is a
clear proof of the wisdom of taking rum at all
times. The men who bought that property from
James Mitchell, and thought they had cheated him,
have probably been in a brimstone bath for the
last forty years, while he is over a hundred years
of age, and still able to empty his pewter like a
man. Talk to us of temperance after this 1
Granny’s own Parisian “Stella” says (the
italics are ours):—“The recent ceremony of the
unveiling of the statue of Gambetta has naturally
brought the name of the alreadu nearly forgotten
“ tribune ” again before the public, with a new
batch of anecdotes and commentaries, the majority
of the latter being the reverse of complimentary.
Gambetta nearly forgotten! It may suit the Con-
servative Granny to endorse that idea, but what
are the facts ? Out of his death-bed has arisen
victory for his ideas. As has been well said, “ the
Ferry Ministry is the Gambetta Ministry with-
out Gambetta. ’ When he is forgotten, “ Stella’s ”
monarchial friends may perhaps have a show, but
for that they will have to wait ad Grcecas Kalendas,
or thereabouts. If Gambetta is nearly forgotten
Jn so short a space, it’s a cold look-out for the
memory of Leopold.
The great legal star of Ten terfleld is William
Oliver—familiarly known as “ Lawyer Bill.” He
has an office in a pub. called the Telegraph Hotel,
and contrives to blend gin and jurisprudence in a
most successful manner. Nothing is done, we may
tell you, in Tenterfleld without either a drink or a
fl g“t. What reminded us of Bill was a letter of his
which appears in the current issue of the Tenter-
field Star. It seems to be about “local option.”
Here, anyhow, is a bit of it:-“And now with
Moderation lam done. With regard to ‘ Obser-
ver s letter, I would like to know why he has not
given some facts to prove more houses (except one
mentioned in his letter) are not necessary.” It is
easy to see from this that not even Temora was
able to shake all William's native dignity out of
If Bill wasn’t so successful as a lawyer, we
should be disposed to regret the fact that he had
not been brought up as a writer—hem! as a sign-
writer.
-The late Duke of Buccleuch, during the
f rea , rs , of his iife > was the owner of
460,000 acres of land distributed over seven Scotch
and five English countier, from which he derived
a rental of £340,000. But now that he has pegged
out for the streets of shining gold, he just occupies
the same space on this old earth of ours as the
meanest labourer that ever earned a crust under
his Grace.” He was the type of the Juggernaut
of landlordism, a stpunoh upholder of effete feu-
dalism, and an obstructionist of the first rank. At
the time of the schism in the Scotch Church, he
obtained a certain amount of notoriety bv sternly
refusing to sell to the authorities of 'he Free
Church any of his land as sites for c*®pels or
manses, and at a later period he formed an alliance
with the Marquis of Salisbury and the Duke of
Northumberland in offering every possioie ob-
struction to the construction of the Thames em-
bankment.
One good point about Police Magistrate
Lukin, of Gymple, is that when he has anything to
say he lets it right out in a style that there’s no
mistaking. A few days ago, an important gold-
stealing case was in full blast, and as one of the
witnesses seemed to be rather backward in coming
forward with what he knew, the P.M. put the
matter t® hltn straight in this style: “ Look here,
H—, if you are determined on perjuring yourself,
do it up to the hilt at once, and have no half
measures. I don’t believe you are telling the
truth, and I don’t believe there is a man in the
Court who thinks you are, either; and I hope that
all the mining managers on the field will be careful
in employing auy man who goes into that box an
unwilling witness. Such men should be tabooed.”
And then poor H— sat down on a log for three
days, trying to figure up what that would be worth
to him if it had appeared In the columns of a
thoroughly sound and reliable journal.
Louis Schaefer, an old theatrical manager,
and somewhat of a Bob Ingersoli disciple, once
took a big rise out of a Methodist man in Ohio. A
new Methodist Church was started there, and the
Minister took occasion, in his opening service to
fire a red-hot charge at theatres, d enouncing their
doors as the very “ portals of hell.” Next morn-
ing, old Schaefer interviewed the church trustees,
handed them his cheque for 50 dollars, and three
notes each for a similar sum, which he promised
to hand over for the benefit of the church out of
the first year's receipts from Ibis Opera House.
“Send these on to your pastor,” said Schaefer,
“ and see if he will accept them.” Of course, the
pastor froze on to the coin with a good Christian
grip. And then the waggish manager smiled
cheerfully, as he said, “Ah, tell your pious priest, I
justjwanted to know if money right out of ‘the
portals of hell ’ was good enough for the Method-
ists. I knew, if it wasn’t, it was good enough for
me.”
The morganatic marriage of the Grand
Duke of Hesse, widower of the Princess Alice with
Madame Kolomine, the recently divorced wife of
a Russian Secretary of Legation, has justly en-
raged tho Queen and all the Royal family. It had
been so generally known that had the Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill become law in England—in order
to effect which the full influence or the Court had,
on several occasion, been exerted; even the Prince
of Wales and his brothers attending the House of
Lords to vote for the Bill—the Grand Duke would
have married Princess Beatrice, his late wife’s
sister, that the affront was almost unprecedented.
But it was made doubly outrageous by the circum-
stance, that the Grand Duke’s second marriage
was actually contracted on the very day that his
daughter by the late Princess Alice was wedded
to Prince Louis, of Battenberg, in Queen Victoria’s
presence. The two ceremonies took place within
a few hours of each other. No wonder that the
Queen hurried home.
In the palmy days of the Berry Adminis-
tration, Deakin, the present Solicitor-General, was
a mild-spoken teetotal youth, writing feeble
articles on the Age staff, and attending radical
meetings as a hanger-on to Berry and Major Smith.
The latter warrior, in those days, was Berry’s right-
hand man, wielding, as he did, that fierce demo-
cracy of which Ballarat was the centre, the
Couuiek the written organ, aud having the con-
trol of fourteen or fifteen seats. It was owing to
this organisation that Campbell, the present Post-
master-General, could never get into the Assembly.
Now, oh gall and oh Spurzheim; oh, the shortness
of human gratitude, and oh horror! The Major,
who now heads the Opposition, has been openly
flouted by his old comrade, and publicly ridiculed
t»y the youthful Deakin. “The hon. member,”
says Alf., “ dogged Mr.' Berry’s footsteps whilst he
was forming his Cabinet, and was ready to sleep in
a gutter so as to be on hand in case he was called
upon to put on the crown of office.”
Mr. Btuart Cumberland, the “thought-
reader,” whose extraordinary successes have at-
tracted so much notice in England, is now in Paris,
where, in an interview with a reporter, he re-
marked:—“My best subject is the one who can
concentrate his thoughts most pointedly upon the
hidden object under pro less of perception. Ladies,
as a rule, are not goad subjects, because they lack
this power of concentration. Ihave convinced manv
subjects in all parts of the world. In Austria I
found the Prince Imperial an excellent subject
In America Mr. Ward Beecher is one of my best
recollections. Among English notabilities I have
been singularly successful with the Marquis of
Lome and Monsignor Capel. I have been oon-
soious of this faculty of thought-reading for about
iccrycars-, I was breakfasting with the Dean of
Lichfield when the subject of thought-reading
came up. It suddenly flashed across my mind that
1 had the power of perception. I asked the Dean
to think of an object, and I immediately discovered
it. Since then I have developed the faculty by
practice, but it must have been, to a certain ex-
tent, innate.”
Says the Melbourne correspondent of the
Daily Telegraph, in Friday’s issue:— “As an
item of fashionable intelligence, it may bo men-
tioned that Mrs. Catherine Cook, the mother of
Lady Euston, has been sent to gaol for the fiftieth
time for habitual drunkenness and disorderliness
Years ago, Mrs. Cook lived in Geelong with her
two daughters, one of whom, Kate Cook .
Joined a travelling circus. Whilst touring around’
Adelaide, Captain Fitzroy, who then held a Govern-
ment appointment in that city, was smitten with
the charms of the fair circus rider, and in a mo-
ment of weakness, that he has ever since regretted
became her husband.” As usual, the Rum is all
out in its information. Tom Euston married Kate
Cook in May, 1871, in Worcester (Eng.), and not in
Adelaide. He left for the colonies in 1875, and as
he had lived with her for six months before and
for four years after marriage, surely the delirious
correspondent can hardly say that he married her
in a moment of weakness that he has ever since
regretted. Lastly, Kate Cook’s true name was
Catherine Walsh, so the probabilities are that the
bibulous old crone who has been sent to gaol for
the fiftieth time has not the honour (?) of being the
mother-in-law of a real live duke in future.
Professor Kirkland, of the Melbourne
University, has been “suspended from his office
for three weeks.” The poor Professor was hauled
up before the Council for being screwed “ while
on duty as chairman of the board of examiners,” a
soft impeachment which he resolutely denied.
Purves, even, was engaged to demonstrate to the
Council that a Professor couldn’t be drunk so long
as he could stick on his chair, and Professor M Coy,
who had assisted at the examination in question,
described the learned chairman as having been
merely in a highly nervous state, and a condition
of profsund sorrow. The M‘Coy, apparently, is to
be congratulated upon having had but very slight
experience of “profound sorrow,” because an-
other gentleman, Mr. Newberry reckoned up the
chairman's symptoms as being those of a man
“offensively drunk.” Amid the haze of contra-
diction, however, one little fact shines bright and
clear. When the board of examiners (perceiving
that the unfortunate Professor was in one of the
two states—drink or sorrow) feelingly suggested
an adjournment, that dignitary hiccupped “I will
be d dif 1 will adjourn.” This hasty remark
cost the man of science his three weeks’ exile, but
a 9 the recess is now on, the University students
will not suffer an actual loss of the Professors
presence.
OH!
“Mr. Tom Slattery wants tp raise the
salaries of the Ministers to £2500 per annum.”—
Now, what’s the game ? we ask it flat—
We’ve done with bosh and flattery;
What makes you once more “ come the Pat ”
In Parliament, Tom Slattery ?
No more of this I it causes a
Stern world to but deride you;
You mind, when last at Burrowa,
How they turned out and “guyed ” you.
If you go on—now mark us, sir—
And try for these “increases,”
When next you go to Burrowa
They’ll send you back in pieces.
’Tis by the slenderest of hairs,
You know you hold your seat, you;
Why, but for breviaries and pray’rs,
E’en Henniker could beat you.
The dial’s hand now points to two,
We’re not used to this lateness;
Well, just you understand that you
Were never made for orcatness!
[We mean, of course, greatness political.— Ed. B ]


v.nav:
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
8$
5s
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
T\IBHGURINQ HUMOUS, Humiliating l Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
dheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura a nd Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blond, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enasmia, Pya?mia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Ctitiotjra Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child's.
R. Towns <& Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICUKA KESOLVJENT, the New Blood Purl -
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poiaonou*
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jolly for external uoe), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -9asy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.B.A.
AFTEfI QEFORC
MM
Copyrighted. “
HOtTSTA:a3 tad WSICSESS.
Dtnjd'a Heard F-lixtr did thin, and
! will Uo it on cither bald head or
bare /are. foicet henry Mon*,
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
faila, 2.),(XX) young men already
HfißiTvH&H Wear full beard a, having need 1 to
3 pkta. J\'o injury, enaily applied, certain in e/feet. + ..........
each, 3 for .H*. Ud.,po»t paid, amt under cover, free from observation.
'Addreat, Frank Douglas, / vie Agent, Box 730, G.H.0., Sydney,/f.S. W •
Copyrighted.
JPuckets Is. 6a.
UMBR
LLAS
RE-C QVEmd
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Hare your U mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts«
Parasols made to match cos-
turner. Renalra neatly «ze-
ante*
nr
TV *
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BT THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
W ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Emanuel Geibel, the most popular lyrical
poet of Germany, was buried at Lilbeck, his native
town, on April 12th. Born in 1815: educate at Bonn
and Berlin: in ’52 appointed Professor of ./Esthetics
at Munich. Here Geibel was soon looked up to as
a prominent member of the Munich School of
Poets, became the friend of Paul Heyse, and was
decorated with the Order of Maximilian. After
the political events of 1866, Geibel thought it wiser
to lay down his professorship, and return to his
native town. Here he fixed his home, and King
William of Prussia allowed him a liberal pension.
Contrary to the common opinion that lyrical poets
can in this work-a-day world hardly meet with
success, Geibel represents in his career the strange
example of the 100th edition of his poems having
been prepared by his publisher, Cotta, and destined
to be given as a present to the venerable old
minstrel by his grandson on Easter-day. They
only could lay the costly volume, as a token of
admiration and love, on the coffin of the deceased.
Geibel also contributed to the literature of his
country fine epic poems—“ The Heath of Tiberius ”
and “ Sigurd’s Brauti'ahrt,” and also wrote a
number of dramas, which give proof of the noet’s
vast knowledge and brilliant mastery of language.
Among the last works which the dying genius
produced, was the drama, “ Echtes Gold wird im
Feuer,” 1882.
This is the tale they tell of Dr. Newman
Hall, of London Dr. Hall is, as is well known in
religious circles, the author of a tract entitled
“Come to Jesus,” the circulation of which by the
Tract Society has been simply enormous, the
copies printed tunning up beyond the hundreds of
thousands into the six ciphers. Some very severe
criticisms had been passed upon him on account
of nis words or conduct, and he became greatly
excited over them, and replied, or rather wrote a
reply replete with sarcasm and bitterness, and
carried it to Dr. Binney, of London, since dead,
for suggestions and approval. The nettled ur.
Newman read it himself, and whenever he came to
any passage which happened to be part cularly
bitter, he rubbed it in with an emphasis that would
make even a mummy squeal. When he had done,
he said, “ Well, Dr. Binney, how do you like that
lot ?” “ Oh,” was the cautious reply, “ 1 think it is
remarkably well written, but there are some ex-
tremely sharp and biting things in it here and
there. By the way, Hall, have you fixed up a title
for it yet?” “No, I have not,” replied Dr. Hall;
“perhaps you can assist me?” Then Dr. Binney
said, slowly and deliberately, “ While you were
reading those hard hits, the thought occurred to
me that this would be a capital title, ‘Go to the
Devil,’ by the author of ‘ Come to Jesus.’ ” That
bust Dr. Hall to pieces, and his Philippic found the
fire-place.
The lodgers of the Melbourne Benevolent
Asylum have such a vast amount of attention paid
to their immortal souls (what with card-playing
and chewing, and one thing and another, being
prohibited by the committee) that they can’t
reasonably expect much trouble to be taken with
their dead bodies. If they do, they'll be jolly
well disappointed when they die, that's all. Now,
there was poor old Mrs. Bourke. She breathed her
last in this Benevolent institution at five o'clock
one morning. It was rather an awkward time to
select for going off; still she was duly removed to
the mortuary, to await the doctor’s visit, and, as
old Mrs. Holder, who paid in her cheoks three
days previously, was also in the mortuary, Mrs. B.
was carefully deposited beside her. Soon after
that, the overseer sent the carpenter into the
mortuary with instructions to clean it out, and
what does this gentleman do but pop Mrs. Bourke
into the coffin intended for Mrs. Holder, with the
result that the former was buried a few hours
later. So, when the doctor and Mrs. B.’s daughter
came to see how the poor old girl was getting on,
they found her gone entirely, and the other aged
lady reigning in her st°ad. The too zealous carpen-
ter explained his little error by stating that he
thought “ this one more dressed for the coffin than
the other one,” so it was owing to the extravag-
ance of her final toilette that poor Mrs. Bourke was
laid in someone else’s resting-place—unwept and
nncertiflcated.
W. Davies, of Goulburn, who, as a Judge
of the Supreme Court declares, ran a colourable
imitation of Eno’s Fruit Salt, is a very holy Wes-
leyan— ergo, the Judge must be wrong. The good
man evidently thought he had the best authority
for doing what he did, for is it not written “ I sent
you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour:
other men laboured, and ye are entered unto their
labours”? Moreover, it is open to question
whether there’s an atom of fruit in a ton of “ fruit
salt”—hence, if Eno’s condiment be a delusive pre-
paration, he can’t expect an honest jury to award
him damages against a fellow who imitates the
deception. But, when would a holy man imitate
a deception ? Here we are in a dice as vicious as
that about Epaminondes the Cretau, who said that
all Cretans were liars. Of course, in a community
like Sydney, any such assumptions as these follow-
ing ne /er wouldjgo down: (1) That Eno’s Fruit Salt
ig a delusive preparation—so far as the existence of
fruit in it is concerned: (2) That Davies and Co.’s salt
is a delusive imitation of a delusive preparation;
(3) that the vendingof either preparation is a saline
pretty close to the wind, and somewhat of the
nature of an “ a salt ” with intent upon the public
confidence. By the way, somebody—we presume
Davies and Co.—has sent us three bottles of the
“Australian Fruit Salt, or Grape Powder.” We
presume that a puff was expected. We have not,
however, been unwell enough since the receipt of
the package to give the article a fair trial, so we
lent it to a man over the way, who suffers from a
shaking palsy, and he informs us that three dos°s
cured him of his neighbour’s black dog, and that
he realized a pennv each for the bottles. Wo don’t
think it right to feed black dogs on fruit salts.
There’s been a burst-up over the way.
Hooke and Joseph, of Tamworth, are at it
again. It’s another case of Pott and—Slurk. The
trouble now is that Hooke was let in to the Quir-
indl enquiry, while Joseph was left in the—well-
cold. Joseph accuses H. of “obscenity, which
■would disgrace Holywell-street,” while Hooke
seems to insinuate that, politically, Joseph s coat
very much resembles that of his ancestor (and
namesake), who played it one day upon his bre-
thren in a way w e despise. Hooke has, on the whole,
done his work very well, and Joseph, in abusing
him, may be said to put himself somewhat in the
position of the fox who lost his tail. Only the first
part ot the evidence, however, is published—Mr.
Hooke having been “requested” by the Premier
to discontinue the publication of details which
most certainly are not of a pleasantly odorous
nature. This postponing the printing of evidence
In important cases has gone too far. We have seen
it done at the instance of an “eccentric ” coroner,
and also by the command of a benchful of ignorant
and muddled J.P.’s. Fancy the London dailies hold-
ing over late and important intelligence at the will
of a number of Dogber/ries and Verges! With re-
gard to the evidence itself, it only gcei further to
prove that the population of our country districts
is in a very rosy case indeed. If what they say
about the girl is true, she is fully qualified, even
at present (she is 151), to consort with many dis-
tinguished peeresses, and to be—like bmaugle’s
Jewess—“much coveted by the nobility and
srentry of England and Wales.” One thing in par-
ticular about this case strikes us rather forcibly.
If this girl is punished for asouming a virtue when
she had it not, how about the lady-respondents in
the divorce cases? We think, anyhow, she ought
to get a bit of a rest, before the dogs of the law
are let loose upon her again. She has been
already trie!, impritojed, reviled, and pelted; the
lynch-pio nas been several times surreptitiously
abstracted from her father’s cart, and things have
been made generally uncomfortable for her. We,
so far as she is concerned, only advise moderation.
We don’t command it. We must wait till we edit
a paper in Campbelltown before we can come the
majestic.
There was a meeting of Scotchmen held in
Sydney a little while ago to celebrate the cen-
tenary of the birth of the poet Tannahill. Uis
poems were much applauded, and many toasts
were drunk to his memory. But who was Tanna-
hill ? He was a Paisley weaver who wrote songs,
some of which are not inferior to many of Burns’.
Lise Burns, too, he got more applause after ho was
dead than while he lived. “Jessie, the flower o’
Dumblane,” is one of Tannahlll's songs. He was
was never in Dumblane, or he would have seen
that the sun does not set “o’er the lofty Ben
Lomond,” looking at it from the town at least.
But that Is of small consequence. He had that
sympathy with the doings of nature, waich is such
a strong feature of the Scotch character and a
tenderness particularly his own. Here is one of
his little songs, which is a good example of these
qualities:—
“ The midges dance aboon the burn,
The dews begin to fa’,
The pairtricks doon the rushy holm
Set up their e’ening ca’;
Now loud and clear the blackbird's song
Rings through the briery shaw,
While flitting gay, the swallows play
Around the castle wa’.
“ Beneath the golden gloamin’ sky
The mavis mends her lay.
The redbreast pours his sweetest strains
To charm the llng’ring day;
While weary yeldrins seem to wail
Their little nestlings torn,
The merry wren, frae den to den,
Gaes jinking through the thorn.
“ The roso3 fauld their silkin leaves,
The foxglove shuts its bell,
The honeysuckle and the birk
Shed fragrance through the dell;
Let others crowd the giddy court
Of mirth and revelry,
The simple joys that nature yields
Are dearer far to me.”
There is mvre real understanding of, and tender
love for, that which men call nature in these three
verses than in whole cantos of poets who are
praised while Robert Tannahill is hardly remem-
bered. Vet his sweetheart—who subsequently
married a person of the name of Pinkerton—
frequently expressed her fears that “ Rob. would
write a song about her.” She need not have
feared much. Of such poor material as she must
have been were the Lauras and Fornarinas that
painter and poet have made immortal. The Scotch
are a curious race. They are all poetically inclined
after the fifth glass of toddy. Very few of them
caro much for the Muses the next morning, though.
Vet some of the most beautiful songs in our
language —if dialects be included —we owe to
them. Still it is, to say the least, a singular if not
characteristic circumstance that a number of
Scotchmen should meet together to drink to the
memory of the man whom tbeir forefathers al-
lowed to commit suicide through want in the full
prime of his powers. Tannahill was only 30 years
of age when he drowned himself In a well. So
that, if he did not live well, he died well. Eheu!
* * *
Janies Henry Wolstencroft, a cooper, 22
years of age, was found hanging in the cooper’s
shop of Messrs. Gaskell, Deacpn, and Co’s chemical
works, Windes. He was to have been married the
sime day, but mistook the particular style of
noose. Let us hope that of the two evils he chose
the lesser Stipendiary Woore Jives at Rungen-
dore, though the locus in quo of his official duties
is Queanbeyan. Result: woorey and vexation of
spirit to the lieges at Queanbeyan. Cohen should
see to this—The Victorian Government, after due
inquiry, has found it necessary to severely censure
H. Lenard, J.P., for taking a prominent and un-
Siemly part in a pot-house brawl. A severe cen-
sure! One would have thought the dirtv kick-out
with a curt “supersedeas,” would have been about
the right thing; hut, possibly, this pot-house
brawler has political influence Booth on Barry,
In the Melbourne Snufflebuster, is not a whit
too hard on the Primate, who deserves all the cen-
sure he gets for his Inconsistency. Booth is con-
sistent, anyway. He damns St. Boniface and
adores St. Lucre— straight. Barry can’t even sit
straight on the fence, hut must needs one niglit
patronise Booth and the next Bung. This he and
his friends call comprehensiveness; but, in reality,
’tis inconsistency George Sawkins, whom we
knew as Bandmann’s agent, is lecturing on Sun-
days, at Wallsend, upon “ Freethought ” It is
reported that he not unfrequently receives a coal
reception... Mr. T. M. Dalveen has announced his
intention of contesting West Macquarie. 1c takes
a lot of dead cats to choke olf some pe0p1e...."1
like Sir John as a friend,” said Luscombe; anu, as
the tears trickled down his venerable beard, the
old veteran moved for the door, and muttered
“ What have 1 done ?”
* * *
Dr. Fog suoceeds the late Bishop Marten-
sen in the Primacy of the Danish National Church.
Fog I what a perfect name for a bishop ...Emily
Rogers, who died in April at Lowell, Mass., U.S.,
aved 72, was a lineal descendant of the Rogers
whom Mary Tudor auto da fe d for the glory of
God... Moncure Conway, back once more at the
South Place Chapel, Finsbury, has been delivering
a discourse on “Sinless Sundays,” and sending
round the hat on behalf of the National Sunday
League. If Moncure’s blessed discourses are as
dry at Finsbury as what they were over here, the
pubs, ought to do a roaring trade when they open,
at one o’clock. Fearfully thirsty orations—Mon-
cure’s Of Senator Edmunds, “ a bundle of tech-
nicalities,” who was one of the candidates for
nomination to the U.S. Presidentship of the Re-
publican Convention, it has been said : “He
can see a flyspeck on a mountain of barn-
yard manure live miles away, but be can't
see the pile of manure or the barn ”
Piccolomini, who created the part of Violetta in
“ La Traviata,” and was for a few seasons the idol
of the European public, is in extreme penHry.
She was probably the most natural of the great
prime donne of the last half century. Never, per-
haps, was songstress of whom it could be more
truly said she was as sweet as evening Philomel
Joseph Dion is teaching Patti billiards...To© “well-
known lady ” who offered to subscribe £5OOO
towards an expedition to relieve Gordon at Khar-
toum is Baroness Burdett-Coutts Rowell, th
“ ped.,” declares that h© lost his last match
through temperance training. From this we infer
it takes grog to add a spur to this Rowell Dr.
Richard Jordon Gatling, the inventor of the
famous Gatling gun, is now sixty-six years of age.
He is a tall, broad-shouldered, white-whiskered
man, with a kindly face, bright blue eyes, anu a
pleasant voice.
The Test' of Actual Trial, Thiß is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6cl. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trifling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &0., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-sized bottles 3s. 6d. Sold
by all druggists.
JONES.
The name is not uncommon, oh,
That everybody owns;
You’ll say, when it is writ below,
You’ve often heard of Jones;
You will see him in the lobby,
But will never hear his tones—
For silence is his hobby,
He’s most oyster-like, is Jones!
When we say that he is oyster-like,
We wish to cause no ruction;
He’s all the oyster’s poesy,
And a fair share of its suction.
His atmosphere is Pomm’ry sec,
Stuffed turkey, devilled bones;
So you will hear, without surprise,
Most popular is Jones.
You’ll see him at the Metrop., where
All shake him by the hand;
There is no man that’s so “dear-boyed ”
In all this sunny land I
Some voters, p’rhaps, may—thunder, though,
We won’t be easting stones,
For when elected we should take
Our seat right next to Jones.


Professional Directory.
nrTIgCOCKS’ FEDERAL MTNSTRELS and Spe-
VI I cialty Union, Sydney aud Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Iliscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
i. mm got
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Majeroni, supported by one of the best companies
in the colonies. See future advertisements.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
'Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
England’s greatest AdtresF,
MISS GENEVIEVK WARD,
and the Popular London Actor,
MR. W. VERNON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
the original play, in three acts, by F. C. Grove and
Herman Merivale,
FORGET ME NOT !
FORGET ME NOT!
FORGET ME NOT !
FORGET MB NOT !
GRAND PIANO from NICHOLSON'S.
PRICE 3 AS USUAL.
'Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
AIETY THEATRE.
VJT Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
STARTLING FACT. YET TRUE.
The largest receipts ever known in the Gaiety,
liave been taken to witness the Greatest Irish
Comedian that has ever visited Australia,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
in his unrivalled and wonderful impersonation of
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN,
In the greatest of all successes,
“ fun ON THE BRISTOL,”
Which has scored an unparalleled success.
Hundreds turned away nightly.
And which will be repeated (arrangements by Mr.
Reeve with Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove), THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
To prevent disappointment and crush, Reserved
Seats at Nicholson’s, 326 George-street.
No Free List. Prices as usual. Doors open at 7.15.
Manager for “Fun on the Bristol” Company, H.
J. Whittington. Representative of John F.
Sheridan, W. Hughes. Business Manager for Mr.
Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
O
P E R A HOUSE
Lessee Hignor Majeroni.
JENNIE LEE.
FAREWELL SEASON,
COMMENCING
SA.TTTHDA.TT, July 5.
JO! JO! JO!
LIDDY, Manager for Combination.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Evening Fashionable and Popular resort,
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, every Evening, at 8.
The most successful, amusing and refined Enter-
tainment in the Citv.
Tremendous success of the local absurdity, called
A TRIP TO MANLY.
Admission—Fauteuils, 45.; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
A N C I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 261
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
O U R T H OF JULY.
me. 188*.
The American Citizens will celebrate the 108th An-
Aniversary of American Independence during
the day with their
ANNUAL PICNIC at SIR .JOSEPH BANKS PA-
VILION, BOTANY, JULY 4th.
COMMITTEE:
E. K. Lambert
J. T. Jay
Gen. W. T. Bennett
J. A. Murray
A. I>. Ludlow
A. IlemBbard
J. M. Fisher
a. Gonese
P. Cool
; W. N. Tuttle
J. C. Beeler
W. H. H. Lane
Seaforth Proctor
P. W Forster.
TICKETS :
J. W. Butcher
T. T. Brown
E. T. Lane
ft. W. Gibson
E. Wilkinson
A. Leroy
Gentlemen .. .. .. ..£llO
Ladies .. .. .. .. 012 ti
to be had at American Novelty Co., Pitt-street;
American Studio, 310 George-street ; Forster's
Hotel, Castlereagh-stioet ; and Gardiner and
Cool’s, 80 Market-street.
carriages start from American Studio, 310
George-street, at 10 a.m.
Only a limited number of Tickets will be sold.
CHAS. C. JONES, Hon. Srcretary.
In the Evening there will be a
Grand Masquerade Ball,
at the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park.
It is the intention to make this the grandest ball
ever given in Sydney, no pains being spared to
ensure success.
Newest music, superb decorations and appoint-
ments, novel chromatic effects never before pro-
duced in Australia, including calcium light,
waltzes and quadrilles, grand march and pageant,
Columbia’s Reception.
Refreshments by Mr. Thomas Cripps. Decora-
tions by Messrs. Sale and Dare.
Music—Koptf and Austin’s Celebrated Orehes'ra,
under the personal direction of Professor Kopff.
COMMITTEE:
C. Von Berein
Frank K. Kron
E. W. Clarke
A. D. Ludlow
A. Lerov
Gen. W. T. Bennett
J. T. Brown
John Sears
W. H. H. Lane
J. W. Butcher
M. C. Spears
P. Cool
W. N. Tuttle
s. Genese
J. M. Fisher
C. Jones.
Double Tickets
Gentlemen ..
Ladies
Admission to Gallery
. 31s
To be had of members of committee, at A.
Huenerbein’s, Palintr and Co’s., Lloyd and Col-
lins s, John Sands's, Turner and Henderson’s,
Tuttle and Co’s., Anthony Hordern and Sons’, and
of EDWARD T. LANE, Hod. Secretary,
6, Bligh-street.
Tickets not transferable.
No Improper person will be admitted.
COSTUMES and MASKS for ladies and gentle-
men, including the wardrobe of the Theatre
Royal, can be had on hire, or made to order, at 98,
Eb/.abeth-street, first floor.
DEAFNESS l—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford,
Auckland, New Zealand.
Medicated Vapour Baths
34oCrownS!Sydney
-OPPOSITE RESERVOIR-
. FOR BAD LEGS,CONSTITUTIONAL
SKIN&BLOOD DISEASES Etc.
RELIABLE TESTIMONY,
To Mr. Cooper, 340, Crown-street —After maDy
years’ intense suffering and failure of various
treatments. I am happy to certify that under your
care for 10 weeks 1 am perfectly cured, and I
strongly recommend anyone afHicted with skin
disease to avail thems3lves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge, Commercial Hotel,
King-street.
To Mr, Cooper.—l wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get n© relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
Qeorge-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—For years I have been suffering
with pains all over my body, ~nd for two years my
hands were broken out aDd sore. I could not
sleep; I consulted our best doctors, but got no
relief, until I wa9 persuaded to try you. lam now
quite well, and 1 have not had ache or pain since.
Thomas Smith, 75, Albion-street, Redfern.
Witness: Rev. Thos, Curtis.
Space will not permit me publishing further, or
I could fill a newspaper with voluntary testimony
from people living among us.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Bteamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYB.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direot (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maekay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONO
BARKABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEIJRA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
V 4. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
2JIOURTH OF JULY ANNUAL BALL.
NEW MASONIC HALL, Cattlereagh-street.
COMMITTEE.
Chas. Kahlo, U.S. Consul
Wm. Fleming
E. A. Little
Dr. Geo. M. Slate, Vice-Consul
Frank Coffee
Dr. J. C. Harrison
E. D. Tollemache
E. B. Clifford
M. S. Hill.
Tickets limited, and procurable only from|Chas.
Kahlo, hon. treasurer. 40, Hunter-street, and
from Members of the Committee.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 706 G.P.0., Sydney.
BICYCLES! TRICYCLES! BICYCLES!
The Sparkbrook National Tricycle,
with patent differential gearing, undoubtedly the easiest hill-climber in the
market..
The Sparkbrook Bicycle,
BALL BEARINGS, PRICE FROM 10 GUINEAS.
IST" BaYLISS THOMAS, & CO.’S EXCELSIOR 13-GUINEA BICYCLE,
as ridden by Mr. A. Edward from Sydney to Melbourne.
Agent: C. W. BENNETT, 68 King-st., Sydney.
Wholesale Importers : TOZER & CO., 229 Clarence street. Price Lists on application.
LOCH-DHU V.O. Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide: . '
The
GRANTHAM
ESTATE.
RIVEKSTONE
TOWNSHIP
PEOPLE’S
£5
Allotments,
Payable
ss.
Per Month.
H-rO r» l
rH **
m
\
5n
on
ucK
iti\ en
nd
*- o
%
>
1
5^
<^r
r**
■e>>-
*%
r*
iT<
i ".
W)lY<
v_
?2.
TOWN
BLOCK
FOR
£5.
Send for Illus-
trated Pamphlet
of the
GRANTHAM
ESTATE,
RIVER STONB.
BOYD
A.<D
KING,
PROPIBIY
AUCTIONEIB&
ge >
SYDNEY.


The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument!
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
I®” NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
£2 4
£2 10
£2 17
£3
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
W hy, from the OKI ENTAL GOLD COMPAQ Y
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference*
» §££ of Prices, as follows, and note that
BENT POST FKKE '
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., and 13s. 6d
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites. 35., 4s„ ss. per set
v ery latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per Bet
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. oaoh
Gent s handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d.,
88., and 10s. each
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s,
each
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
and 128. 6d. each
Gent’s very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
„ 2°s , 265.. 275. 6d„ and 30s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 80s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d., 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
?cd 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
1-8.6 d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
los. to 3os. ; Ladies’ very best American 18-carat
rolled gold Chatalaines. 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. Bd., Bs. 6d., 10e., 155., and 20s.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Q t No. 2.
same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells
„ No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
8S“ These watches are made specially to ou
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; thi
movements are of the highest finish, and jewellec
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
_ No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert
A written warrantry for three years’ aceurat
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Bffver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert .. .. V ..
, ■ * No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto. in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
ana ., ... iit £lO 10
ra^i“ port , ou r watches direct from the manu
facturers, and give our customers the advantag
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per ceni
as compared with prices when wholesale middle
men s profits have to be charged. Thus we ca
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £
Sy ! ney establishments ; and, as compare
70,Ue..?bm s 'f§to°llo° Ur "'* tohes w,mld M
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe. —if the articles do ne
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them a
once and send them back. If this is done withh
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first pos
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, w
will return the money, deducting only the trill
on postage. You can keep any on,
article and return the rest, and w© will return th,
m ?ney for the articles not kept. Every watcl
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by i
written warrantry for two years. Remittances t
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George -st., Sydney, op. Marketi
£4 10
£5 6
£4 10
£5 5
£3 3
£4 15
£5 5
£5 6
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—'* Forget-Me-Not ” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—" Fun on the Bristol ” lb.
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
“ Fun on the Bristol ” continues to crowd
the Gaiety. In fact, scores of p3ople have to be
turned away nearly every night, and the conse-
quence is that Sheridan and Hughes are happy,
while Dick Whittington, who manages for Wil-
liamson and Co., has grown prouder than the
father of triplets. After seeing the play for the
first time, we ceased to wonder why it proved
rather a failure in Melbourne. There are lots of
play goers who wouldn’t believe this if anybody
but us were to tell them about it; but is is a fact,
nevertheless, that a play like “ Fun on the Bristol”
never looks well on a big stage and in a big theatre.
When the management put it on, down in Mel-
bourne, they either forgot, or for reasons that
seemed good to them, ignored this idea. They put
it on at the Theatre Royal, and the result was that
the piece was fairly lost in the place. Mr. William-
son, of the triumvirate, went over and saw it. He
knew what was wrong at once, and so he brought
it over here and put it on at the bright little
Gaiety, where it is a pronounced success. But you
want to know why the play draws so. Well, that
is due simply to the fact thatitis so full of fun and
good music that the people can’t help liking it. It
is nonsense of the lightest kind from beginning to
end, and that is what a comedy-loving crowd want
to patron's o . If you go there and criticise it as a
work of art, you’ll either laugh yourself out of the
idea, or else go away disappointed; but it should
not be so criticised, for the management distinctly
announce that it is a “ nonsensical, whimsical, far-
cical, comedy-odity absurdity,” and they give you
the worth of your money for that kind of stuff.
* * *
Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien is the most
laughable absurdity we remember to have seen
put on the boards. Mrs. O’Brien is an ignorant
dame, who, through a couple of lucky matrimonial
speculations, has become rich. She is a bit of a
wit in her way, and so full of Irish eccentricities
that a potato would leap out of the ground if it
happened to get an eye on her. We ivent into his
dressing-room the other night to see him making-
up, and when the transformation was completed,
he looked so much like a woman that it was all our
character was worth to be caught alone with her
in a place like that. Sheridan has long been noted
for the cleverness of his make-ups, but his Widow
O’Brien eclipses anything be over did before; and
we don’t know a man to-day who could imitate it,
although there tis another company playing the
piece in England just now.
m m 9
he part of John Waffles alias Count
juonaggio is taken by Mr. E. C. Dunbar. Waffles
pretends to be an Italian Count, who makes iove
to the rich Mrs. O’Brien, and offers to exchange
his title for her gold. The giddy old thing is
highly delighted with this proposition; but before
the knot can be tied, the Count is arrested on a
charge of bigamy, and marched off to gaol to face
three indignant wives, whom he married in as
many different Countries. «‘f course, this is un-
pleasant for the muoh-married Waffles, who looks
about as sick over it as the new barmaid who
finally discovered that she had been making love
to the boots under the mistaken impression that
he was a squatter with no end of coin for kid
gloves, gold bracelets, and the like. Mr. Dunbar
also assumed the role of a Troubadour, and played
a musette solo that took immensely with the audi-
ence.
9 9 9
Mr. J. A. Meade took the part of Captain
Cranbury, and we wantel to transfix him with a
crow - bar and sell him to a hard-ware store for
interfering in the love affairs of his son, a young
man of twenty-two, who was so bashful that he
couldn’t look at his own portrait without blush-
ing. Willie Freear’s Thomas Cranbury was a
clever bit of acting, but, like all other characters
of the kind, it was necessarily overdrawn. Harry
Sullivan’s laughing song made the audience roar
with laughter, but Harry don’t know any more
about how to play a negro character than a cat
does about hatching chickens.
** * *
We are always wanting to know some-
thing, and so we’re always asking questions. The
other day we asked Sam Keenan how it was pos-
sible for him to fall around the way he does with-
out breaking his bones or getting corns all over
him. "Ohl” said the "Koloured Krank,” “that’s
all trick-falling. I always ease the fall with my
hands, but this is done so quickly that the audience
nover detect it. The fall Ido in that ‘Koloured
Krank ’ act is the only one in which I do not use
my hands. I fall on the muscles of my back,
below the shoulder blades, and it doesn’t hurt a
bit. But don’t you try it unless you’ve got a
mighty soft place to alight. I tried to teach it to a
fellow over in Adelaide. I told him how, and he
said he knew he could do it. Well, we came on to
do a double song and dance, and my pupil leaped
into the air and came down plump on his head. It
drove his neck away down his throat like, and
knocked him senseless. To blind the audience, I
said : There, I knew I’d give him one to do that
would settle him at last. Then I carried him off
the stage, with the people applauding, but it was
over two hours before the fellow came to again.
He’s never tried it since and isn’t likely to, for one
experience of the kind is usually enough for a
man.” Years ago Keenan was steward of a sailing
vessel in the Atlantic coaßt-trade of America.
* * *
Moynham’s eccentric double-joint solo is
still a favourite number on the programme, and
if you were to see him wrap his legs around the
letters of his name your tongue might learn to pro-
nounce it as he does.
** * *
We went to see “Forget Me Not,” the
other night, again, and enjoyed it more than ever.
If you want to see it, you must go before Satur-
day night, for on that evening the bill will be
changed to “ The Queen’s Favourite, ’ which is
said to bs one of Miss Ward’s strongest impersona-
tions. We like Mr, Vernon better the more we
see of him. Off the stage he looks like the por-
traits of him that you have seen hung up around
town. As Sir Horace Welby, however, you
wouldn’t know him. The stage is such a deceptive
concern after all. We told you last week that Miss
Ward was taller than Mr. Vernon. We thought
at the time that we were telling you the truth,
and we were not the only one who thought so.
•<ut we were mistaken. When we visited Miss
Ward the other dav our attention was called to the
statement. Then the little aotress stood up at the
baok of the actor, and she was half-a-head shorter
by the watch. On the stage Mr. Vernon looks to
be a very short man ; while Miss Ward appears
extremely tall in comparison. We don’t know
why this delusion appears so real, but we do know
that Vernon is a big man, while Miss Ward is only
a little woman. For want of a better explanation
we’ll have to accept her own :“ It must be,the train
I wear ” And this reminds us that nearly every
great tragedienne we have known was, or is, a little
woman. Mary Anderson isn’t much bigger than
a pound of soap. Madame Bernhardt has to wear
a brick in her hat to keep the wind from blow-
ing her away. Charlotte Cushman could be
li»d up in an ordinary handkerchief and thrown
over a barn. Susan Denin, who played Claude
Melnotteso capitally, used to get vexed every time
she saw a yard-stick. Ristori looked as though she
had been sawed off some time or other, And it is
the same way with the prirna donnas we have
known. Patti is a little bundle of whims and
oddities. Emma Abbott always has to dodge the
housemaid for fear of beiDg swept into the dust-
pan. Miss Nightingale, whom Barnum intro-
duced to America a good many years ago, and
who is now leading a quiet life in London, wasn't
much bigger than a canary bird. Madame Geistter
is a captivating little woman, who talks as well as
sings, with the voice of an angel. Christine Nils-
son is about the size of Genevieve W ard, and very
much like her in manner and style. There is no
gush nor any “ frills” about either, and you can’t
*>elp admiring the simplicity of their ways. Yes,
and Mrs. Langtry isn’t big, except about the feet;
and Signora Majeroni—well, we’il have to draw
the line at the Signora, for she is tall. She is a
woman that any ordinary man can look up to.
But perhaps you would like to know something
about the play. ,
* • *
We told you the first time we saw it
that there wasn’t much plot in the piece, and
there isn't. You can see from the beginning how
the business will end, and that virtue is sure to
scoop the pool. Stephanie (Miss Genevieve Ward)
is so witty and bright that you can’t help admiring
her. She is one of those women that you occa-
sionally read about in novels, but whom you have
never seen perhaps on the stage or off of it. she
has no heart, but she plays the dickens with those
of all the men who come anywhere near her, and
wants to break up families and things, until she is
frightened away from Rome by catching a glimpse
of the man who cut her husband’s throat and
wanted to pay the same little attention to herself.
When she staggers out of the house of the Ver-
neys, where she has been an unwelcome guest,
you wonder why Sir Horace (Mr. Vernon) don’t
provide the wretched woman an escort on such a
night as that, and you can’t help speculating as to
what is to become of her in the future. But she
has been nothing but a ganibler after all, and only
u«ed a secret she possessed for the purpose of
regaining her lost social standing.
* * *
Mr. George Leitch’s impersonation of
Prince Malleotti is a finished piece of acting, but
the character is so absurd that you can’t imagine
it to be that of an Italian Prince. If we had him,
we should stand him up in our garden to scare the
chickens away from the currant bushes; and if he
didn’t do his work well, we should pelt him with
tomatoes and things until his coat should resemble
the one Joseph wore down into Egypt. Charlie
Fenton plays Barrato, the murderous Corsican, in
such a way that you would imagine him to have
been born in Alaska, or somewhere else about
15,000 miles away from the birth-place of Napoleon
Bonaparte
• • •
Maggie Knight, as Alice Verney, aroused a
good aeal of the latent sympathy we keep stowed
away beneath our waistcoat. It,always wakes up
when we see a pretty woman in ti-ouble, and
Maggie was in trouble enough for a whole dozen.
Maggie is always in misery of some kind or other
when you see her on the stage, but off it she looks
as bright and cheerful as a glowing grate on a
misty day. And this reminds us that nearly all the
“ misery ” artistes we have known were cheerful
in priv ate life. Mary Anderson laughs and chats,
and smokes cigarettes, until you would think hor
the j oiliest woman on top of ground; Charlotte
Cushman used to growl a good deil when things
didn’t go right between her and the General;
Signora Majeroni is simple-mannered, but as plea-
sant as a “ raise ” of two guineas a week in your
salary. And so on through the list, which is too
long to run it out just now. The great tragedians
we have known, however, have not been that way.
Laurence Barrett, who has just taken London by
storm is Hamlet, off the stage as well as on; he is
always dyspeptic and austere, aud scolds away like
a setting hen. The elder Booth was inclined to
growl around the house in high dudgeon, and
yet he could be happy enough at a dinner-
party. Edwin Booth quarrels with his wife, and
is at times crosser than a Cinnamon bear with
its tail in a trap. John M’Cullough could be plea-
sant in company when he wanted to be, but he will
never be hanged for good temper in domestic
circles.
• • •
The Opera House has been rejuvenated by
Signor Majeroni, who is now the sole lessee and
manager of that favourite place of amusement.
On Saturday evening, the 38th instant, Signora
Majeroni appears in “Marie Antoinette.” The
play will run for six nights only, after which
Jennie Lee begins a season of “ Little Jo.”
** * *
Where do vou think Frank Towers, the
illustrious father of Rosa, is now? In liquor?
No, sirs—in Hamilton, which was in Victoria at
latest dates. You remember Frank? Had a
moustache, and spoke English after persuasion.
He had a lease of the Gaiety for a wi ile the
Christmas before last, and brought out a panto-
mime which produced enough applause to build a
brick warehouse. It was too much glory. And
then Rosa seceded. So Frank is now the great
head of the Towers and Beverley Comedy Com-
pany. At the last place they played at, the local
paper said “the audience made up in enthusiasm
what it wanted in numbers.” We know what this
means. But the hospitals in Victoria are all excel-
lent.
** * *
Mr. J. P. West is announced as being a
member of the London Comedy Company, in Mel-
bourne. How times change! It’s not long ago
since J.P. belonged to the Tambo tragedy troupe.
We see, too, that the Empsons are at Bourke. That
reminds us that when we wore little frilled drawers
and a blue tunic, we used sometimes to be naughty,
having a tendency to guy the story of Joseph and
his brethren, and to grow sceptical on the subject
of Moses. On those occasions, father (who ob-
jected to the cane) would say, “If you’re not
good, sir, I’ll take you to see the Empsons." And
we were always good directly. This seems to have
got mixed, somehow. To jog along, you can
wager-if you have anything you don’t mind
losing—that; Appleton was recently playing—mark
this—the part of Rip in Planquette’s new opera, at
Wellington, with Dunping’s company. After this,
wonders won’t cease for a while. In England, the
country was sceured for a first-class opera-bouffo
singer who could act; and they found Fred. Leslie.
Well, now, Mr. Appleton—but, stay! You can do
lots of things in Wellington whioh you can’t do in
Sydney, and vice versa. And, look here! It may,
if not save your lives, at least improve your edu-
cation :—The gifted Rum interviewer recently
makes Miss G. Ward (we can’t afford “ Genevieve”
every time) talk about Sydney Grundy's play,
“ Mannon,” in which she is shortly to appear. We
will stake anything the writer’s worth, and (what
would probably be of more importance to him) a
herring in, that there is no such play. Miss Gene-
vieve Ward, for that reason, has not played in
“Mannon.” “Which the poor girl never did.”
•* # *
You ask for more, of course. Then learn
that the Mudgee A.G., in noticing the Marian
Willis Company, says, of Keogh: “Mr. Keogh, as
Dr. Ludwig, was happy. He had a character of his
liking; so much so, that thb audience were amused
to the highest ditch.” (sic). Now, which is the mis-
print—the “highest" or the “ditch?” Our little
innocence! 1 “ J,F.” isa man whose heart is evident-
ly in his profession!! If he have any enemies, it is
the insurance companies on the occasions when he
enacts the Scotch parson in the “ Relief of Luck-
now.” And would you know that Arthur Elliot,
the successor to the mystic “Brick” in the fair
Louise Pomeroy’s affections, “ charmed ” all on
board the Zealandia on her recent trip to ’Frisco.
The company weren’t charmed, dow we come to
think of it; either because they were not on
board, or, as the Auckland Observer grimly
states, because they were“disoanded with startling
suddenness." King’s Mammoth Party of Lady and
Gentlemen Entertainers soem to be gradually dis-
banding themselves. Amy Fraser’s foot has caused
the usual trouble to the pavement-inspector, and
Parlarto gave it best and went to Bourke with
M’Lean’s party a fortnight ago. The rest, including
the fascinating, but rather embarrassing, Lolo de
Glorian, were last heard of in Tamworth. Imme-
diately the agent arrived in Sydney, he went into
a friend's back-yard and called for the axe. With
the aid of that implement and a borrowed bradawl,
he successfully levelled them. There is a lot in
one’s appearance when you belong to the "per-
fesh,” especially since Irving has elevated the
stage, and there is a great lot more in the appear-
ance of an agent. Some agents are all appearance.
Just a thirty-five bob suit, and a masher cadic,
with nothiog particular inside. Directly a man
becomes connected with a show, he seems to be-
come afflicted with a mania for light-green ties,
brass rings, and Nubian blacking. You can
“nose ” him a street off, if only from the scent of
his bear’s grease; and, as he surreptitiously polishes
his brazen watch-guard on his coat-tail, he stands
forth confessed—the miscreant “a-head.” What
next? Oh, yes! Fancy! R. S. Smythe has re-
signed his position with Miss G. Ward, and is
“ running Alec. Mayne, an elocutionist.” We used
to be proud before, and would boss nothing under
the “ Eccentric Stilts.” Now bring along your
educated wombat.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
I Manager Abbey, of the Metropolitan Opera
House, New York, took a “ benefit,” the other
night, and the seats were sold by auction. The
boxes were sold first, Mr. Theodore Moso, of
Wallack’s Theatre, paying $2lOO for first choice.
Mr. Moss then gave the box back, and it was sold
again to the artists of the Metropolitan Opera
House for $2OOO. Madame Patti paid $lOOO for the
next box, and Col. Mapleson, Abbey’s rival, paid
$250 for another box. Altogether the seats and
boxes brought $15,000, a great portion of it being
paid in by Mr. Abbey’s rivals in business. There is
something genuine about the ring of those $15,000.
Sam Genese is arranging a benefit for Ricardi,
who has been ill for nearly six months. William-
son and Co. have donated the use of the Theatre
Royal. At this writing the date for the
“benefit” has not been formally announced
Little Jimmy M’Mahon, the irrepressible little
rooster, who left here seven years ago to pilot
Soott-Siddons around the world, has justreturned
to tho colonies, and is now making arrangements
for the production in Sydney of Mr. Henry
Irving’s grand spectacle of “Romeo and Juliet,” the
scenery and effects of which are reputed to have
cost £12,000 The machinery and mechanioal
effects of which Mr. M’Mahon has secured a lease,
with the right to present the spectacular produc-
tion throughout the colonies, together with the
magnificent costumes originally used, are now in
Melbourne. A stage manager and mechanical
staff —the same that manipulated the remarkably
successful representation in England—are now on
their way to Australia. Miss Fanny Reid, an
English actress of repute, has come out to
take charge of the part of Juliet, and the billet of
Romeo has been offered to us. We’re not going to
accept it, however, as the salary offered is only
£lO per week. We might just mention in this
connection that Miss Reid is the daughter of the
Governor of Bombay. And now you would like
to know what M’Mahon did with Scott-Siddons.
Well, he left her over In Switzerland, living quietly
on her means. She has gone out of public life,
only giving an occasional reading, when the invi-
tation to do so comes from some high quarter. Her
husband is still in the asylum at South Yarra So
far as wo can judge. Miss De Grey does not seem
to have “caught on” in Adelaide. She is very
pretty, and all that, but they seem to say she isn't
Rosalind. Thus the captious critic of the L.Y.G.,
who cribs our little " dramatical cricket ” joke,
with all the nonchalance in life. He talks, too,
about “ Litheridge ” Cunard, by which he proba-
bly means Litherland. He is funny, rather, when
unconscious. Read: “Then there was (sic) Mr.
Patterson as William, and Messrs. Lingham and
Poulton in various parts.” And this brings us to
the fact that Ristori’snew rival in “Medea” is a
Madame Marina, a circumstance which at once
suggests that Dr. Francis’s “ Fun ” party (what-
ever that may be) has been showing at Cootamun-
dra; and also that Tom Buckley, May Vivian, J.
W. Dodge, and Dave Gardner have got a Hibei ni-
con at the Melbourne Victorieral. There ought to
be millions in this show 1 Pity all our money was
invested in Oriental Bank shares. In one breath,
too, we can chronicle the return of Irving to the
Lyceum from “Murker;” and mention that Mac-
cullum is in the realms of King Thadeus Yes;
and —confound it I We are to have some more
“Jo”—this time at the Opera House. We see
that, in Brisbane, Jennie Lee advertises Tom
Taylor’s “Ticket-of-Leave-Man” under the title of
“ Sam.” Her adaptation is so bad that it is the only
instance on record of our being unwilling to
“stand Sami” No, “Snaggy;” we can’t, really...
It is easy to see the ByroD family are impervious
to the f ascinations of the Jernle, and can’t even
be seduced into taking the Christmas Number,
even though it represent aa Australian maiden,
known by her native dress of blue sateen, a yellow
hat, green shoes, and that badge of aristocracy,
the red shawl. It must be something of this.
Here’s Alfred at the unfortunate author of “Our
Boys” again. He writes, with reference to a dra-
matio entertainment at Darlinghurst Hall: “An
orchestra, consisting of strings, cornet, and piano,
supplied some very nice music. The company
performed F. J. (sic) Byron’s company (sic) in three
acts, * A Hundred Thousand Pounds,’ and per-
formed it very cleverly—in fact, in a style superior
to that which usually distinguishes amateur per-
formances.” Well, H. J. Byron’s dead; but, still,
we know him as the author of “ £100,000.” Our
acquaintance with “ F. J. Byron ” is limited to our
knowledge of the last brilliant flight of Alfred’s.
As his (F.J.B.’s) “company” is in “three aots,”
and it has only been played once, we suppose wo
shall see the remainder of the porformance, if not
at the morgue, at least in a saw-pit. And we are
reminded by the word saw-pit—we don’t know
why—of a letter we have received from a lady (a
professional, evidently) who only appears to have
got as far towards Sydney, at present, as Coorna.
This young person’s composition has many pecu-
liarities. She paints in small J’sforl’s, ana dots
them; and there is an eccentricity about her spell-
ing which seems to point to the fact that she has,
from an early age, sacrificed the acquisition of the
“three R.’s ’’ to the cultivation of the mangle.
Our correspondent considers she is slitrhtly “per-
sonel" (sic); which is perfectly correct, since she
advises us to “ go round the corner and do the dis-
appering (sic) trick with a long sleever, and charge
the differance (sic) to me.” She holds that “ cer-
tain uninteJligable (sic) sympathys ” (sic) exist be-
tween persons; of the veracity of which state-
ment we have but little doubt. If, however, we
are to take our correspondent’s English and
extreme delicacy of thought as a criterion, we
should say that the most likely party who would
entertain “ unintelligable sympathys ” for her
would be a well-greased Patagonian. We do not
allude to the editor of tho Cooma Something,
from whom our correspondent seems to have
copied or derived some of her style. We have no
wish to pluck from the Hottentot crown its
brightest, its most scintillating gem.... Will no
one sharpen our little axe 't Blue-tail-Fly Barlow
has been showing in Gympie, and this after we
have bedewed countless steamer-decks with our
tears on wishing him farewell for ever. This is
unkind of Billy I But we have sobbed upon his
neck and put in a good word for him with the
providore for the last time. And here we see
Vernon Reid, Beatrice Lome, Templeton, and
Lambert, calling themselves “The Royal Opera
Company!” And they have, apparently, taken in
old Bourcioault, of the Mineh, up there, for he
slaps on the confiture with a soup-ladle. Why, by
the way, is Arthur Leslie B. not dead ? Is it
natural that a man with no hair on his head should
be allowed to pervade the earth, attired in a brown
velvet coat !and lavender pants, all these years ?
And in a land, too, where quartz is plentiful, and
where you are only liable to be sued for killing an
editor by an intoxicated butoher. But, listen:—
FADED.
What’s become of Mary Jane ?
Many could not solve the riddle;
Now the mystery is plain—
Wedded she’s the second fiddle.
. . .Just a minute. Arabi Pasha was getting a bit
restless at Ceylon, but directly he heard that
Pomeroy didn’t purpose playing there he picked
up amazingly, and is now as much himself again
as a party who doesn't know, with any degree of
certainty, how long he is going to continue to be
ornamented by a head, may expect to be. This
almost closes us up, for you don't want to hear,
we suppose, that Stanley’s kids cave been at it in
Newcastle —“ Les Cloches de Corneville, or the
Miser and his Gold,” nothing less; and that the
Pollard lot are scattered about the Northern (Q.)
diggings. Talking of the sub-title adopted by
(Continued on page 5.)


PEPPER AND SALT.
Once we had an ambition to be a priest.
Now we think we would prefer to be a blind man
on a good stand. In the rich city ot New 5 ork
there is not a priest with more than £ICO a year
And in Sydney, while one Roman Catholic digni-
tary struggles along upon an income of £5OOO a
year, his two curates revel in luxury and a black
suit every five years on £65 and £75 per annum re-
spectively. This is the way to pay piety. At any
rate, it is the way to make it disinterested. The
aristocratic class of Roman Catholic clerics are
careful never to allow their inferiors to be tempted
from their vows of poverty.
* * *
It’s impossible to read Bishop
remarks about the employment of barmaids with-
out being a bit upset. There’s a melancholy fas-
cination about his narrative of how “he went
about the country a good deal, and was frequently
obliged to sleep in public-houses. [Many’s the
time we’ve done tho same —on the floor.] The
partitions were so thin that he could not help over-
hearing remarks which were disgusting to any
decent man, and he would ask what must they be
and how deteriorating must they fee to women and
gdrls.” We’ve had a little experience of thin par-
titions ourselves where ladles were concerned-
young ladies—and have found it quite as trying as
the poor Bishop did. And—Just like him, too—we
Personal Service.
MUDGER TAYLOR GETS THE UGLIEST BAILTFF HE CAN PROCURE TO SERVE HIS WRIT ON THE SPEAKER.
hever thought to put our heads under the bed-
clothes. There’s a wonderful sameness about
human nature.
* * m
Tamworth is just sobering up after a good
old religious burst. Two Italian padres, Fathers
O’Neil and Hegarty by name, have just come suc-
cessfully out of a big tussle with Slogger Satan,
who was badly beaten, after a fortnight's fight.
The urgent necessity for the people of Tamworth
having their busted souls repaired and tipped
with copper on the sides that wear out first, was
most earnestly pointed out by the two divines; and
If the local editors are not emulating Archie
Forbes, many of the crowds who thronged in to
he cobbled were Agnostics, Jews, and Calithum-
pians. This is not by any means consoling. If a
Jew ever gets into heaven, the first thing
he’ll do will be to start a pawn-shop.
He must either do that, or die of melan-
choly madness. And once the “spout” starts
business, the Christians will crowd up like flies
round a sugar-cask, and they’ll pawn their wings,
and harps, and procession regalia, until they
haven’t another dump, and then they’ll b 9 sold up
for rent and evicted over the garden wall. We
trust Father O’Neil was as well pleased with the
of his mission as we are; but if he was, he
might have been less sax-castic on his audience.
What we allude to now is a withering little cut he
dealt out when (according to the Observer) “he
made special reference to persons bringing dogs
to church, and asked them to discontinue such a
practice. The sermon on Friday evening, he f aid,
would be specially for grown-up people, although,
of course, young people were not to stop away.”
Rough on the dogs, wasn’t it?
• * •
WHERE TO GO FOR IT.
Says the Bligh Watchman A man
| came into this office the other day, and showed us
j a ‘fiver,’ the result being that the staff had to
knock off work, invalided with headt’.ches.”
This is the kind of gentle wit.
That, like the rays of the noonday sun,
Would warm the heart and cheer the soul,
And praises call from “ Wholesome Fun I”
He, self-appointed, on our wit,
Sato, as you know, on judgment high;
Now, when he wants the real thing,
Old Wholesome Fun may go to Bligh.
* * *
Bishop Moorhouse, holding forth to Gra-
ham Berry on behalf of the Morality Society,
glorified the “cloth” and stroked down the
“huoper suckles ” as only a Bishop can. Said he
—“They knew that a man might offend against
the Jaws of purity, and excellent men in the high-
est positions had done so. [Let us stop for one
moment to cough.] He had known clergyman
who had done so, but whose repentance had been
sincere, and whose after life had been little hurt
by what had occurred.” Oh, certainly! a parson's
repentance is always sincere, of course—being
brought up to the business, he is able to turn out
the genuine article; yet we must remark, gently,
to the Bishop, that some of the clerics put off their
tribulation till pretty late in life, and let a good
deal “ occur ” first. As regards men in the highest
positions (who, according to the Bishop’s theory,
apparently, must be excellent), well, they cm do
anything. We’re striving to attain a loity sphere
ourselves, so as to be “little hurt by what has
occurred,” at one time or another. For the pre-
sent, we’re in a shocking bad way. Now then, alj
together—to any suitable hymn time.—
“God save Ireland,” said the Hokitika
murderer, O’Donoghue, while the hangman was
busy tying his cravat in a jaunty knot invented by
the late lamented Marwood before he died. We
have no doubt God will, after this—but not for tho
Irish. Not while the assassin is allowed to disgrace
by his prayers and partizanship a noble and
honourable cause. Of course, we do not mean by
this any reflection on tho character of the late Mr.
O’Donoghue. On the contrary, weshould be sorry
to assert that he has not at present considerable
influence in Heaven. If some of those we knew—
upon whose monuments the fact of their good
fellowship with God Almighty is distinctly stated
—go to Heaven, we see no reason why O’Donoghue
shouldn't.
George Augustus Sala, who is going to
coming out here some time or other on a pilgrimage
to the place where Alfred Bennett was born, says
that “the happiest marriages are those in which
the bride, when she comes to the altar-rails, has, in
the way of the world’s goods, precisely what she
stands upright in, and no more.” The charming
gossiper means by this, no doubt, the happiest
marriage—for the bride. We wonder if he would
have said so if he had seen some of the things we
have seen. A good while ago we went to the wed-
ding of a pressman. There were plenty of whisky
and plenty of genius at the gathering, and one of
the poets of this city, who was present, wrote an
epithalamium, and, after handiDg it to the bride-
groom, slid out softly to escape the applause.
He was subsequently discovered curled up in a
coal-box. But that by the way. The bride, though
pretty as a picture, had only what Sala says con-
stitut es happiness in marriage—just what she stood
upright in. She did not go out the morning after
the marriige. Her husband had got up early, and
the bridal dress was gone. He came home that
night speaking between a bubble and a babble.
Then, for the fir't. time, she understood the myste-
rious connection between the press and the pawn-
shop. Yet, after all—and this proves Sala to be an
excellent observerof human nature—the marriage
wa" happy. The bride of that memorable morning
is now doing good business with a mangle, and the
husband is dead. What more joy would you have
in this vale of tears ?
A lecture was given in Bombaia, some
nights ago, on “ the manners and customs of ttif
Maories.” Says the local paper:—“ The lecturer,
spoke highly of the New Zealanders and their
great sense of honour, as also explained thelf
manners and customs. At the time of whioh h©
spoke they were cannibals, and the description of
the way they butchered those that unfortunately
fell into their hands showed plainly their savage
nature.” This is a delightful bull. If they had
eaten him, we suppose he would have compli*
mented them upon their fine sense of hospitality
and referred with pride to their good taste.
*
A good deal of this paragraph we have
borrowed. It is refreshing and novel to be able to
borrow anything now-a-days. The rival of Air*
fred'B obituary poet as a humourist is a certain
Senhor Carolino, the author of an Anglo-Portu-
guese phrase-book, which he elsgantly entitles
“English as she is spoke.” The work was reoeived
such shouts of rapture by the philologists of
Europe, that the Senhor quickly published " Her
Seconds Part.” In the preface he says, with grace-
ful frankness, “We were increasing this second
edition with a phraseology, and some familiar
letters, anecdotes, idiotisms, and proverbs;” and
he finishes, “ We expect, then, who the little book
(for the care what we wrote him, and for het
typographical correction) that may be worth th<>
acceptance of the studious persons, and especially
of the Youth, at which we dedicate him parfcicu*
iarly.” The Senhor seems to have struck a Pacto
lean patch of “idiotisms,” judging: by tbeexampltf
he gives. For instance, among the familiar
phrases he has one or two specimens, such as: “He
laughs at my nose. He jest by me. He has me
take out my hairs. He does me some kicks. He
do the devil at four.” We should say these wer e
familiar phrases—familiar enough for a vestry
meeting or a Town Council. The ingenious author
of this useful volume must have had rather an un«
happy experience when he was learning English.
But he is not content with merely giving hta
readers csHoquialisms. He goes deeper. He let*
them into the secrets of the British cuitive, and
posts them up in ichthyology with the same breath.
Thus under the heading “ For the Table ” are
“some groceries, some crumbs;” and among “ eat-
ings ” are “ some wigs, a dainty dishes, a mutton
shoulder, hog fat.” Described as fishes and shell-
fishes, are hedgehog and wolf. No man need re-
main in ignorance of common facts after that.
Then there are instructions “ For to ride a horse.
Here the Senhor shows his native acuteness. The
first sentence which he to be said by the hirer
to the livery stable keeper is “ Here is a horse wbe
have a bad looks. Give me another; I will no*
that. He not sail know to march; be is pursy; be
is foundered.” The Senhor eugbt to be editing
the Evening News. Alfred and he would be
kindred spirits in regard to their original views
about English. But tb 1 ? Senhor would probably
kill Alfred in a week for calling a mutton pie “»
dainty disheß.”
DISTINCTIONS.
If a parson’s a little bit giddy,
(Which some of ’em are rather gay),
And persuades any servant or “ widdy ”
To vi6it the vestry (to pray);
Oh! Society passes its sentence—
Pronouncing the victim “mere dirt;”
But the parson goes in for repentance,
And is, really, “not very much hurt.”
Or, it may be, some demoiselle bloomiDg,
Who warbles out hymns in the choir,
WiDS bis heart with her ways unassuming,
Arad fills him with holy desire;
Well, if ever she gets into troubles,
And has reason the parson to curse—
He packs up his Bible and doubles,
And is, really, “ but little the worse.”
And, likewise, with men of position—
Yes, everywhere under the sun-
They always are full of contrition
For anything naughty they’ve done.
And—e’en as with clergymen holy—
Small sins never matter to them ;
But, let people whose status is lowly.
Do ditto, and they go to ’hem 1
Let us, we will say, for example,
Be tempted by impulse too strong,
On our good resolutions to trample—
Oh, then, don’t the world make a songl
If a bishop but hears of our story,
He holds up his hands in amaze—
We are shut out for ever frori glory,
And damned for the rest of our days.


It was a wise saying of somebody that a
man never knows he is alive till he is dead, but we
forget who said it. And a man may never know
that he is married till he is had up for wife deser-
tion. Such was the case of a man who was brought
before the Bulli Police Court last week. The local
Dogberry arrested and locked him up on a war-
rant for deserting his wife and child. When he
came into the court every eye looked loathing at
him—every lip curled with scorn. And he was the
wrong man. His name was Burke, and the name
of the other man was Anderson. To be imprisoned
lor leaving the wife of another man is an ex-
perience that only falls to the lot of the fortunate
few. The many mostly get into trouble for not
deserting the wives of other men. What do you
think ?
* * *
The case of the Kanaka in Queensland is
a sad one, according to Avhat a man writes about it
from Bundaberg. He says: “ The Kanaka is to be
pitied, ag he is badly used by his master: he only
In Peril.
receives 23. Gd. per week, and when he dies he has
to bury himself at a cost of £3.”!! Think of this.
He has to work exactly twenty-four weeks before
he can afford to die, and then he has to pay his
wages for the privilege of dying! There never
was any such tyranny in the Slave States of
America. If he died after he had been working
(say) twenty-three weeks, his master would be
justified in suing his corpse for the half-crown
short! Besides this, ho has to bury himself! A
dead Kanaka digging his own grave under the
light of the malignant moon would, wo should say,
be a sight worth seeing. According to what the
man from Bundaberg says, it is quite a common
one. We wonder why some Kanaka does not take
it into his skull before burying himself to go and
knock in his master's head with a hatchet! What
could be done to him if ho did ? It would hardly
be worth while to hang a dead man.
• • •
We always like to please the pious. There-
fore we are calmly glad to present them with this
little item of an illustration—which they may use
for the confounding of scorners—of the value of
the work achieved by those who go out to convert
the heathen. At Darlington Point, a short time
ago, a blackfellow, who bore the rather genial
name of Bobby Sparks, and wbo was a pupil of
the Warangesda Mission, was brought up before
the Bench to give evidence against a publican
who had supplied him with liquor. The Bench
was sceptical about the precise amount of Bobby’s
spiritual enlightenment, so, before taking the
oath, ho was asked what his religion was. He
promptly replied, “ Murrumbidgee.” This ought
to be a settler for those who scoff at Bible Societies
and bush missionaries. It has settled us, anyhow.
We admit, with regret, that we have, on occasions
when our levity got the better of our judgment,
treated these things with less reverence than we
now see they deserve. But, never again.
* * *
Spelling-bees are fashionable in Coota-
mundra, just now. The contestants develop
surprisingly original ideas of orthography. Most of
them spell by ear, and are very hard of hearing at
that. But the joke was when two journalists from
another town, who were there on a visit, went to
the spelling-bee and were crushed with a word of
two syllables. It was absurd, anyhow, to expect a
country journalist to be ab'e to spell. Every man
to his trade. The rural editor has enough to do in
hunting up subscribers, without wasting his time
in learning English. If he knows enough to be
able to read the label on a whisky-bottle he is satis-
fied.
• * *
There are some festive spirits up in Port
Darwin. Even the beat of that ante-room of
Hades is not enough to take the hilariousucss out
of them. The Honorable J. L. Pa sons was lately
appointed Government Bosident there. One of
the wags proposed to welcome him, on his arrival,
with a pot of insect powder and a bottle of fever
mixture. Then to march in triumph with him t
the Town Hail, and present him with the keys
and freedom of the city. We do not believe there
is a key in the place—except the key of the lockup,
in which the local force shuts itself up wheu there
i! any disturbance in the town. But there is
plenty of freedom—and ease, for that matter.
“General average fun,” says the proposer cheer-
fully, “ follows after this for pome days, until a
start is made for Melville Island, where Mr. Parsons
will perform the daring and unparalleled feat of
milking wild buffaloes. ’ We think it would have
been kind and generous to have presented Mr-
Parsons with a coffin at once. He will soon need
it if the joker who proposed this little entertain-
ment lor his benefit is a type of the rest of the
population.
* ■ •
Cremation is becoming popular out here.
A man in a Northern town oame home the other
night and threw his wife in the fire. She had no
supper-beer for him. But she was rescued. Which
seems a pity. Here is the place to state a brilliant
idea of our own with regard to cremation. It is
this. Why should dead bodies be wasted ? There
is a certain amount of gas in every body. How
would it do to establish a gas-works in connection
with a general cremating furnace ? When Dan
O'Connor dies—if ho ever does die—his revered
remains alone would furnish enough gas to supply
the whole community till—well till Buchanan
went to the oven. It is the only chance we will
ever have of getting light from either of them
Borne people, however, favour private crema-
tion. It is a beautiful and pathetic pre-
judice, and our idea applies to it also. Every
man might just as well have his own little
gas manufactory attached to his family oven, lhe
transformation of his relatives into gas would
afford a pleasing relaxation to any man of feeling.
We should then hear each father of a frugal
family saying to his eldest daughter, as the shades
of night began to fall, “ Liza Jane ”—or whatever
her name might be-“it's getting dark; turn on
your Aunt Matilda.” And, maybe, In the morn-
ing, the mother would find her husband beating
Tommy with a batten, and want to know why.
“ Why?” would be the enraged rejoinder of every
father in the land, “ because the young scoundrel
went to bed, and left his Uncle Jim flaring away
the whole night. There won’t be anything of him
left in a week, if this kind of extravagance i
allowed to go on. Take that I ” Is it not a pretty
notion ?
* * *
More food for the scorner. A Dunedin
divine wrote to his Bishop lately, tendering his
resignation. The Bishop replied, and said that, as
he had heard that he (the divine) was about to turn
barrister, he would publicly degrade him. To this
the clergyman answered that he considered it more
honourable to resign his present calling before
taking up another than to do as the Bishop did—
speculate in land, mix up in the conduct of a
pottery, and bargain over an annuity, and yet
continue to draw a salary from the Church. The
Bishop makes light of this accusation, as well he
might, and states his intention of carrying out his
threat. Why should he not ? It is one thing for a
Bishop to increase his revenue by worldly trafflc f
but quite another thing for a common Clergyman
to try to do so. A Bishop must have a palaco and
a state carriage with well-matched bays, or how
will he resemble the Apostles ? It is a well-known
fact that the Apostle Peter, the first Bishop of the
Church, used to keep a superb and luxurious
chariot, with the cross-keys emblazoned on the
panels, and would never go out without two
charioteers—one to drive and the other to smack
people out of the way with a stockwhip. Also
that Linus, and Cletur, and Clement, and the rest
gave the best dinners in Home and would never
sit down to table uuless there was a peacock at
either end and a turbot stuffed with indulgences
in the middle And yet this foolish elergyman of
Dunedin upbraids hig Bishop lor engaging in
speculations that wi 1 enabL Dim to keep ud a
style worthy of his position as a successor of the
Apostles. We have no sympathy with this radi-
calism in the Courch It is a i evil sign of evil
times ahead Why, if this spirit of revolt is al-
lowed to spread, we shall soon have people who
will consider learning and piety more iec> ssary
qualifications for a Bishop than gout and con-
gestion of the liver! We do hope this embrvo
Savonarola of Dunedin will be dealt with as he
deserves. If we were the Bishop we think we
should curse him with a candle, a book, and a bell
- and a Chinese cracker.


HE R SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inver ell, December 10, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, whioh
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her r,o inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who ajjain prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
ft on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and nas been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
BRIEF MENTION .
Cremation is one ot to-day’s burning ques-
tions.
Motto for the N.S..W. Fire Brigade: Bear
and for Bear.
Adelong has now a* “literary institute.”
Yet it starved its barber.
A contemporary says there is a split in the
teototal camp. A soda splint, we suppose.
The noblest king of tibem all: Wor-king.
This has hitherto been an “ unemployed ” pun.
The biggest thief out is the party who
lately “ took the sense of a meeting.’ He carried
it home on his watch-key.
Diphtheria can be oarried about by fewls.
So a great medical authority s ays. We print this
as a hint to the Shroud staff.
The Shroud, in a late issue, has an article
headed “The Digestion of Spo'Uges.” This is a
neat way of rebuking the stall.
The Liberal is going ahea<d with a rush.
£7 10b. in gold and silver taken in one week. What
will they do with all this treasure ?
A site has been purchased for* a lock-up at
Mount Victoria. The next thing to get there is a
local paper. Or, why the lock-up ?
The local paper says that the committee
of the Tam worth hospital are at tlieir wits’ end.
It didn't take them long to get them.
Mr. Dibbs says that tenders will soon be
oalled for the doubling of the line f roim Parramatta
to Penrith. Mr. Dibbs lives at Penrith.
The motto of the Tingha Banner is,
‘Stand for the truth, and ’tis enough.” So it is
enough—to get you into gaol. Wes hould know.
“ Black snow,” says the editor of the
Campbklltown Herald, “has fallen near Stock-
helm.” For this intelligence of Stockholm—tar I
A country editor down South asks what
natural oyster beds are. They are Iffie eye-sockets
of a Rum reporter the morning after a Press
picnic.
There is a skeleton in every closet. This
is what the Rum reporter said when the remains of
a fowl were found in his hat as he was leaving a
public banquet.
A Southern editor is suing a rival editor
for £lOOO damages. Injury to character is the
assigned cause. Fancy a country editor having a
character worth £1000!
A statist states that there are twenty-eight
blind clergymen in the Church of England. He
must be tens of thousands out in his calculation.
Why, in Sydney alone .
The Duke of Manchester thinks that the
Northern Territory has a great future before it.
Of course it has—all eternity. It doesn’t take a
ghost from the other world to tell us this.
The Louth Liberal announces the assas-
sination of Colonel Burdekia (sic) in St. Peters-
burg. We expeot, next, that editor will chronicle
the plottings of Garden Honey in Mosoow.
An exchange says: “ There is a great de-
mand for Australian mutton in Ireland.” So we
should think. And a great demand for porridge
and nettle soup there, too. And shot-guns.
That’s how people differ. The inhabitants
of Wellington, N.Z., are asking Government to
erect an asylum for the aged and infirm of that
city. We don’t. The Legislative Council is suffi-
cient for us.
Little Bailey, of Gundagai, says that any-
thing would be more profitable “than representing
coal-heavers in Parliament.” This is the way a
man goes back on his order when he becomes
bloated with success.
“ Funny how much more Henniker Heaton
seems to be appreciated at home than out here,”
said one man to another. “ Perhaps that is the
secret of England’s greatness, England’s glory,”
was the dry rejoinder.
There is a family in Japan, none of whose
members has failed to attain the age of 100 years
since the foundation of the family in 730 a.d. So
an exchange says. We will bet a good deal there
were no poets in that family.
Sir Henry Parkes suggests that colonial
peers should be created. And a Hay cabman re-
fused to carry the hangman when he stopped there
on the way to hang Cordini. Plain people will
soon have to leave this country.
A band of the unemployed, to the number
of 113, were drafted out to itooKwood last week.
There must be quite a crowd of unemployed out
there just now—below ground and above. But
those below are the best off. They can do without
beer.
Says the correspondent of a Bombala
paperlt is a great pity that Washington Irvine
ever wrote his tale of Sleepy Hollow.” We think
so too! But who was Washington Irvine? Bom-
bala is a great place for literature—and pigs.
Chiefly pigs.
There was an exhibition in Maryborough
(Q.), lately. Tne Wide Bay News says, with re-
gard to it': “Of the exhibits in the shed, we may
say that a great number of them were conspicuous
by their absence.” So was something in the head
of the editor.
Perhaps the most ignominious death on
/ecord was that of John Sinclair, who was choked
over in Canterbury, N.Z., the other day, by a piece
of boarding-house beef. That would not nave
occurred to him if he had lived in Bligh-street.
He would have been choked by a boot-heel.
The editor of the Camden Times— in one
of the weakest of his weak moments, we should
suppose—savs that he has been appointed agent
for a musioal instrument which plays 300 tunes.
It is sad to think that such a bright and gifted
being will come so soon to a dark and bloody end.
A man was lately brought up at the Gee-
long (Vic.) Court on a charge of something or
other. The Bench asked him what he had to say
for himself. After a few moments of apparently
profound self-analysis, he tersely replied, “H .”
His presence of mind did not save him. He got a
week.
“Sir George Innes,” says, the Rum, “told
a jury yesterday that ‘ one of the most beautiful
sights on God’s earth was t) see a horse-race.’”
why, it was only last race-day we told the Missus
that one of the most beautiful sights on God’s
eartli was to see Sir George Innes. Fancy! “ How
the time flies!”
The Ulladulla and Milton Times is an enter-
prising journal. Its editor displays a determina-
tion to supply his readers with the latest informa-
tion or die, which would do credit te a tombstone.
He is now printing, in continuous parts, a full ac-
count of the siege and fall of Jerusalem. He has
just heard of it.
There was a row at a Salvation Army
meeting held at Launceston the other day. One
man hit another over tbe head. The local paper
called the quarrel “ an altercation over a hat.”
After the hat had gone round, we suppose. The
officers of the Salvation Army will soon be as bad
as churchwardens.
The people sent by the Melbourne Age to
New (Guinea on the second expedition are the
right so r t of explorers. They were not long since
attacked by cannibals, but escaped. We mean the
cannibals escaoed. And very lucky they would
think themselves if they knew as much about Mel-
bourne reporters as we do.
After carefully examining a block ad. in
ihe Gunnedah Advertiser, we have come to the
unalterable conclusion that it is a comparative
waste of time for an editor to draw a pioture on a
pine paling with a clothes-peg, and engrave it
with his toe-nail. Especially when you can get
Is. 6d. a yard for breaking road-metal.
The latest proposal of “Canawl” M‘Coll,
of Victoria, surpasses even himself. It is to lay a
pipe two feet in diameter on stilts, and carry it
across country from one of the rivers—the Gnul-
burn, Lodden, or Murray—to the arid places where
■water is unknown. There is a good deal in the
j idea. A good deal of water— and whisky.
The Redfbiin Times says that a youth was
fined there lately for furious riding. Also, that his
horse shied at a piece of paper and then bolted.
But not that the piece of paper was the Redfern
Times. One look at that journal would frighten
Ihe boldest horse. And this makes us wonder how
the editor can keep his presence of mind when it
comes out.
In a report of the monthly meeting of the
Manning Biver Farmers’ Association the local
paper says : “ The President presided.” What
originals they must be up there! We should have
thought it the correct thing for tho doorkeeper’s
son to preside, while the President plaved jack-
stones. But our knowledge of etiquette never
was very extensive.
WE DO.
“ With all our faults, wolove our House of Lords,”
So says the Echo, and the Echo knows—
Famed for its mastery of mealy words,
Its knock-kneed verses, and its spineless prose.
We love our House of Lords—no House to chaff
at!
We love our little Echo, too—to laugh at!
The sarsaparilla cause is evidently hum-
ming along up North, for although time was when
the natives of Roma were scarcely ever thoroughly
“ off it,” still they are now reckoned to be amongst
the soberest stock in Queensland. “Drunks ” are
unknown amongst the Romans. At least, we pre-
sume so, for during the month of May the fines for
drunkenness in Roma only amounted to £53 03. 6d.
For one in loco parentis to make a twelve-
year-old lad (indentured to him from the Destitute
Asylum) sleep in the open field in winter weather
and only to warm him with the bullock-whip, as
was done by a Wallaroo farmer, was to carry out
far too literally the boarding-out system; as we
trust the South Australian authorities will en-
deavour to make clear to the simple-minded
agriculturist.
This is from the Camden Times “ Young
Man: 4 1 saw a beastly thing in The Bulletin, the
other day!’ Old Man: 4 Aha! I’m not surprised
at that. What was it?’ Young Man: ‘A dead
pup I’ The old man parts without a smile.” We
are grieved at this. If the editor of the Camden
Times chooses to bury his progeny in our paper,
we think ho should have tho common decency to
keep the fact to himself.
Dr. Marriott, Dean of Bathurst, escaped a
terrible fate on Friday last. He had a cough mix-
ture and a lotion by his bedside, and, having
rubbed the oough mixture carefully into his chest,
he swallowed the lotion. Probably he didn’t know
it was loaded. Anyhow, he was on the high road
to eternity before ten minutes had elapsed, and it
took the united exertions of two physicians to save
the Dean from going to Heaven.
IT WASN’T THE WATER, BUT THE HAIRDRESSER TOLD SUCH A LONG STORY THAT
THE HAIR HAD TIME TO GROW.
“ I saw him,” said a witness, “ pull the
child out of hig wife’s arms by the throat, and
strike it with yreat violence several times.” The
child’s age is—seven—and ho had been stealing
apples ? This is a gentleman named Barratt,
who is now in limbo. Now, this is just the sort
of alluring party who will be the first to make a
complaint, with tears in his eyes, to the Governor,
that he does not get enough sugar in his hominy.
“Weep not for me, my husband dea I '*
I am not dead, but sleeping here; my hand you
know, my grave you see, prepare yourself to iollow
me. Thus from her grave-stone, per favour of
Alf., the late deceased spouse of a Newtown
resident. To whom we would recommend the
widower to reply Your band I know—yes—no
mistake! Often I felt its weight, God w ot! If you
but sleep, you may awake; so follow yon I’d rather
not.”
According to Dr. Anna Potts, the great
trouble to-day is “ V* hat to eat and how to eat it.”
Mr. Stonebroke, of “statue” notoriety, however,
declares that the greatest difficulty with him is
Where to get It.” Let Dr. Anna troop along
with a clothes-basket full of victuals, and the
statoo o-raytor ” promises to go through the lot
like a buzz-saw through a boiled carrot, or a Civil
Service clerk of a sportive turn through his
month’s salary.
Since the iate Cincinnati excitement
boomed, hundreds of American newspapers have
been carefully explaining to their readers how to
manage mobs. If they’re after an agitator who
wants a guinea a day for himself and six-and-six
for the “ worrikum mahn,” the simplest way to
cheok the mob is to rap the agitator over the head
with a prop, and then throw him down a well.
Paste that in you hat, Mr. Wright—it’ll save you a
world of trouble.
A writer for the Forbes and Parkes
Gazette— magnificent avocation!—excuses himself
tor having nothing to say by this euphuistic expres-
sion-” I can usually depend upon my imagination,
if nothing whatever crops up.” Nothing “crop-
ped up ” that week. Why did he not say frankly
at once that the bottle was empty and credit was a
vision of the past ? But you can never get a
country scribe to tell the truth. If he did, he
would cease to write.
One of the most popular and fiercely-
fought-over public-house debating society topics
is the all-absorbing topics of beer and whisky.
Even Dickens v. Thackery has had to go down be-
fore Tooth v. Jameson, but the trouble was finally
settled by one of our convivial German mutual
improvement associations the other night, the
verdict being that “ Vhisky makes you kill some-
podys else; mit beer you only kills yourself.”
Draw more of that “ Tooth.”
Times are hard among crowned heads just
how. The Queen has not made the present of an
Indian shawl, which she usually makes when any
female members of her family marry, to Princess
v ictoria. The least Her Majesty might have done
would have been to have given the poor Princess
the ticket, so that she might have taken the shawl
out herseif. But our most gracious Sovereign is
getting economical, lately—except with Bibles.
These are distributed with the usual royal pro-
fusion.
The Nooze says that a man was found
hanging in a cooper’s shop the other day. Then it
adds, pensively, “ He has since been in a despond-
ing state of mind.” Wo can guess why he was
desponding. It was because, before he shuffled off
—or, rather, tm— his coil, he did not go around and
pelt Alfred to death with pies. He must have
been innocent to think there were pies enough in
existence to kill Alfred—too innocent for this
world. So, perhaps, it is just as well that he is now
in another.
This is not so bad. There is a man in an
up-country township (let us say) who is the Brillat
Savarira of the place. Like all clever men, he likes
his liquor. But he never drinks now. And for
what reason, think you ? Well, because he says
the last time he got drunk and fought the force
the Judge gave him twelve months, instead of
three, as the gaol was, just then, short of cooks!
Some of our bush missionary friends had better
beware of this Judge. The gaol may be also short
of preachers 1
The Rev. James Chalmers has discovered
the tribe from which the Daily Telegraph staff
is recruited. They live in New Guinea, and a
native who had seen them says they have ears ‘‘so
long and broad as to serve for the purpose of a
pair of blankets.” The reverend gentleman has
written an acoount of them for the Mail It is a
beautiful illustration of the truth of the Darwin-
ian doctrine of the adaptation of animals to their
environment. No wonder the Telegraph staff
can sleep out.
Sometimes we make mistakes through
having too muoh regard for the feelings of feeble
creatures. We made a mistake of this kind last
week. We represented a Bum interviewer being
stopped at the office-door of a distinguished visitor,
whom he had come to annoy. The Rum now says
that we were wrong. So we were. The inter-
viewer was not stopped at the room-door. He did
not get so far. They seized him at the hall-door
and chained him up in the cellar while they sent
for a policeman.
That boy from Burrowa’s on the shoot
again. “There are more persons in the public
service of the country coming from the honorable
member’s electorate,” yelled Mr. Slattery at Mr.
Burns, a few nights back, “than come from any
three electorates adjoining the one I represent.
This, however, maybe the fault of the electorates.
Perhaps they can’t raise the super-superior kind of
stuff of which our public servants are made—or
perhaps their representatives don’t know how to
properly work the oracle.
It will not be for want of piling up appall-
ing statistics that the temperance party will fail.
The latest information they have been at the pains
of procuring for the benefit of those who have a
weakness for the cup that oheers and frequently
inebriates, is that sixty thousand people die an-
nually through drink in the United Kingdom.
But this does not appal the cheery toper. On the
contrary, it rather exhilarates him. So that there
must be sixty thousand very fortunate corpses in
the United Kingdom every year.
The editor who holds the destinies of Coo-
nabarabran within the hollow of his hand has a
pretty wit, though parlous bitter. This is the
manner in which he speaks of the animals that
prance in the stage-coach up there:—“ The horses
that draw the ,'coach from Gunnedah to here are
that poor they can walk out of their collars like a
i grasshopper through an iron hoop.” But they
could never walk out of his office, if they went in
—never alive. Not while the editorial stomach has
to be stayed with charcoal and glue.
Councillor Lyons, of Adelaide, “regretted
to have to say as the result of the investigations
made by the Corporation that it transpired that
the [giddy] house is frequented by members of
Parliament and other dignitaries of the Church and
State.” This statement has caused unbounded in-
dignation amongst the wives of all the members of
Parliament and all the dignitaries of the Church
and State; but while they “wool” their hubs.in
lirivate, in public they go about moaningly ejacu-
ating, “Which the poor things never did.
We are rejoiced to see that the Bligh
Watchman has made it up with its subscriber
again. It seems that he “ sometimes became dis-
satisfied with it on account of something which
has slipped into its columns :” but it is all right
now. So we may look forward shortly to a three-
column letter on the “ Culpable inactivity of the
Beadle,” prefaced by the editorial note—“lt is,
with peculiar pleasure that we give insertion to
the following communication frotn our esteemed
townsman and subscriber,” etc. Nothing like it I
The town clerk of Balranald embezzled
the funds, and then, on the approach of the Mayor
and the constabulary, shot himself. Sympathy is
now with the clerk, since “ it is against the princi-
ples of English j ustice for a man to have no chance
of defending himself.” His worship says he is
very sorry, and will be happy to atone for his im-
prudence, either by subscribing to the Church
fund, building a drinking-fountain, or entertain-
ing the Council at dinner. In well-informed
circles, it is thought probable that the last of
these offers will be accepted.
The B.M. Herald quotes this lucid piece
of information for its readers:—“Dr. Richards
now thinks that the virulent poison which he has
discovered in the choleraic alvine discharges may
be one of the ptomaines or cadaveric alkaloids.”
Thanks! We are now at rest. We were afraid Dr.
Richards might imagine it to be a zymotic
entomoza of the terrible zoocalyptic species. But,
as it is, it io nothing. Our association with de-
ceased persons is so limited that we have no fear,
worth speaking of, of a cadaveric alkaloid, But
if we wrote the obituary poetry for the News, we
should tremble. •
There is a death mark on the brow of thq
Rum. It has commenced to joke. Read this, and
then go out and dance upon your grandmother:—
“ The addition of a * tack ’ by the Assembly. . .
The mode of attack was objected to by Mr. Suttor,
who afterwards made a * tack ’ . . which led
to a tax upon the patience of members, and to
attacks upon each other.” This is a cruel crusher.
We thought we could pass our little joke now and
then, but this shows us how much we were out of
it. The man who made these grisly puns is, we
hope, dead by this time. But still, why should wq
blame him? Hunger will drive a man to any.
thing.
Whatever doubt there may be of the
genuine success of the temperance cause in Sydney,
there can be no doubt of its success in Brewarrina.
An apostle up there called upon every person of
influence in the town, from the magistrate to the
stray-dog-slayer, with the result that when a
meeting was called to establish a Good Templar
Lodge there was an enthusiastic gathering of six,
including the apostle and the doorkeeper land a
member of the force who badjcome to keep the ex-,
citement within due bounds. This is the kind of
zeal we like to hear of. The local editor was not
asked. The apostle probably deemed it waste of
time. So would we, if we were the editor.
There have been inquiries at several hotels
lately about a party nicknamed “ Goosey.” A
gentleman with a fine sunset glow lingering about
nis nose walks into a bar, and has a modest,
quencher. » He is conversational, and, while he
imbibes, inquires casually of the party who serves
him, “ Has Goosey tieen here to-day ?” “ Goosey ?”
replies the poison dispenser. “ Goosey ?” Who’s
he? Don't know him.’' “ What ! you don’t know
Goosey ?” the customer rejoins, in an astonished
tone, drinking off his “ tot.” “ Why I thought
everybody knew Goosey. He’s a bandy-legged
chap. Walks like this”—and he waddles to the
door and out, and forgets to come back and pay
for that drink.
So! The French Government is sending
presents of cannon to the King of Abyssinia. ThS
Is the cheerful monarch who cuts off the hands
and feet of such of his Mussulman subjects as will
not turn Christians. The missionaries call him a
murderous maniao. A thousand years ago, more
or less, King Oiaf of Norway gave his subjects a
choice between the cross and the sword. He
waded to Heaven in blood, was canonised, and is
now, presumably, talking over theological ques-
tions with the late Bishop Barker of blessed
memory. This is the difference time makes. And
yet they say Christianity cannot change. His
Majesty of Abyssinia will have a high and holy
old time making pot shots at the heads of the un-
regenerate when those cannon arrive.
The book-worms of Coonabarabran are
having a gorgeous feast just now. Ten pounds
were lately expended in the “latest novels,” by
the trustees of the Library. “ Peregrine Pickle ”
and “Tom Jones” have, we understand, caused an
immense sensation, while “The Mysteries of
Udolpho ” has caused the hair of the whole Coona-
barabran reading public to bristle like lightening-
rods on a gun-powder magazine. In course of
time, we suppose Miss Burney, Maria Edgeworth,
and Hannah; More will become familiar, and
Lawrence Sterne a household word in Coonabara-
bran. And about the year 2000, the people of that
painfully intellectual district will be reading with
shouts of fury the works of Harold Stephen. But
it will be too late to kill him then. They might
take it out on Sir Alfred, who will probably be in
the prime of his vigour then.
The Sydney money-lenders charge £3 in-
terest on a £lO loan for fourteen weeks, a Dill of sale
on the borrower's furniture being their security.
Yet, when one of these Bhylocks dies, thus the
Herald : “ It is with deep regret that we have to
chronicle the untimely decease ofiMr. Melchisedeck
Sholomonsh, who passed petcerully away at hia
princely residence in Nebuchadnezzar-terrace, last
evening. The deceased gentleman was well-known
as a financial agent and money-broker, and was
highly respected amongst all classes. [!!] The
ceremony according to the Jewish rites was most
impressive,” &o. They’d never think of an honest
poke-down like this:—
Suffering earth, thank God, is rid
Of one more of you, grasping fellows;
Pile up the sulphur, imps below,
And Clootie, “ wade in ” at the bellows.
Skinny Men— “Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Bydney,
General Agents.
From Thomas Baker, Sydney, New South
Wales.—“ After suffering tivo years with indi-
gestion and dyspepsia, I at last feel myself free
from pain and all the other disagreeable effects. I
used In all eleven bottles of Bristol's Pills, and
three bottles of Bristol’s Sarsaparilla.”
Although many are predisposed to lung
trouble from birth, yet even such may escape Con-
sumption or other Pulmonary or Bronchial di-
sease, if due care and watchfulness be observed,
and all exciting causes are promptly treated as
they arise. It is in these cases Dr. Jayne’s Expec-
torant exercises its most benefloial effects, and
has produced the largest proportion of its cures.
Besides promptly removing Coughs and Colds,
which, when left to themselves, are the immediate
causes of tuberculous development, this standard
remedy allays any inflammation which may exist,
and by promoting easy expectoration, cleanses the
lungs of the substances which clog them up, and
which rapidly destroy when suffered to remain.
To be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers; and
wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
The People Want Proop. There is no
medioine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its success
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Byrup
for severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afHioted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effect before
buying the regular size at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one (hat uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Byrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of so-called Con-
sumption which doctors had gjven up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World.


Clergymen, Lawyers, Editors, Bankers
and Ladies need Hop Bitters dally, for nerve foroe.
Read,
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, row.tit s, 'ints
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jaek-mbb:rs. pvatei
put by “Rough on Rais." Mosjs, ilpsi .* lo„
Sydney, Oeneral Agents.
No medicine is half so good for a great
varietj of family complaints, as Aybr's Pills.
They are oasy to take, etfeoiive to oure, aud are
cheap and handy.
Mr. DeCopbcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be oonaulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ter Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Political
Points
The Prince of Wales has once more given
proof of his earnest concern for suffering human-
ity. H.R.H. has consented to become a patron of
the temporary Home for Lost and Starving Dogs.
The Prince’s time will now be fully occupied in
connection with this institution and his duties as
a member of the commission to “inquire into”
the condition of the London poor. It will beoome
quite a common thing to meet H.R H. trudging
along with a hungry orphan tucked under each
arm, and a lost and starving ;dog howling
at the end of a string.
In the course of proceedings in the Queen’s
Bench Court lately, the powers of a !udge with
respect to granting an infunction, were discussed.
Counsel said a judge could grant an injunction
anywhere; and it was said that Vice-Chancellor
Shadwell granted several whilst in the shooting-
fleld. Baron Huddlestone thereupon remarked
that it was said that he granted one whilst bathing
in the river Thames. He (Baron Huddleston) had
granted one upon Brighton pier to prevent the
carrying off of a ward in ohancery. He was vaca-
tion judge, and they followed him down there.
“ The last Administration, of which I was
myself the head, existed for more than four
fears. I recollect mentioning the fact to M. de
reycinet, who, with a desponding smile, ex-
pressed his fear that his would not last longer than
that number of months.” Thus Sirenry, who, we
much fear, mistook for a desponding smile a sub-
dued guffaw at the extreme odorousness of the
bumptious Australian’s implied comparison, be-
cause, after all, Australian politics is mere vestry
work by the side of such haute politique as that
which, in these troublous days, demands the
energies of a French Premier.
The acquisition of those “sacred rights of
property ’’ of which we hear so much when
nationalisation of the land of England is mooted,
still proceeds in one of the familiar old ways.
Thus:—” The common of Limpsfleld, one of those
special beauties of Surrey which have been so won-
derfully preserved from railways, has been again
encroached on by the brother of the Lord of the
Manor, Mr. Arthur Leveson-Gower. Some years
avo this gentleman bought some cottage property
adjoining the common. To enlarge the garden in
connection with his new purchase, he pulled down
an old wall and took in a slice of the common. He
proposes to sell at least part of this property on
the Bth of May; but, still further to enhance its
value, he has moved the railings further, then
substituted a fence and hedge, and put posts and
chains beyond, putting up at the same time a
notice that ‘ these posts and chains belong to the
owner of the adjacent property, and are erected
by him for the preservation of this tennis-lawn,
and do not constitute an enclosure.’ ” Comment-
ing on this, Lloyd’s Weekly says:—“The modesty
of putting up this fence, which is not an enclo-
sure, would be amusing but for the outrage upon
public right that is indicated by it. A poor old
woman, picking up sticks on a common, may be
sent to prison if she infringe the rights of the
Lord of the Manor by a hair's breadth; but the
Lord and his family, it seems, can steal the
common with impunity.”
“ We certainly do consider it” (says a
London paper) “ to be exceedingly indiscreet for
a young man, especially a Prince, to get married,
when his fiancee is poor, and he has no home to
offer her, no money to provide one, or is incapable
of earning enough to keep one. Prince Louis is a
mere adventurer, and, excepting that he has been
a great favourite of the Prince of Wales, on ac-
count of his being considered a little ‘fast’ and
‘wild,’ has absolutely no claim upon us for a
single penny. As soon as it was announced that
Prince Louis had been betrothed to the Princess
Victoria of Hesse, the Queen appointed him to a
lieutenancy in the navy. It does not require a
conjuror to find out how these things are managed
in this country, or to tell the true reason for
Battenberg’s appointment. It means that very
shortly he will be made a captain, and ultimately,
admiral, with thousands a year. This is what every
English officer and citizen has a right to protest
against. Why should so many of these poor Ger-
man Princes be pensioned on this country ? We
have already the Duke of Teck, Prince Christian,
Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar, Prince Leiningen,
Count Gleichen, the husband of Princess Frederica
of Hanover, and many more besides. It is curious
how the masculine members of the Royal Family
seem to hanker after military display. If their
talents in military strategy were only equal to the
love of appearing in a uniform which was be-
queathed them by a fat Georgius Rex, we should
really have a race of great generals.”
The late Lord Torrington, whose high-
minded devotion in hoi ling his hat for the late
Prince Consort to be sick into when crossing the
Channel was lately recorded with admiration by
one of those journals whose lick-spittle proclivities
do so muoh to bring royalty into contempt, was
early in his career a colonial Governor. Ceylon
was the happy land which enjoyed his direction,
and he was not long in displaying bis qualifi-
cations. A native rising, stimulated to some
extent by religious fanaticism, took place, and
was easily quelled. An able Governor would
have seized the occasion to show that, while
England is strong, she is also merciful, i he
late Lord TorriDgton, however, in order to
smooth matters over and conciliate the natives to
the rule of a God-fearing and civilised community,
promptly executed four native priests. In order
to make a more striking example of these poor
creatures, who really, when all was said and done,
merely wished to strike a blow for what they
thought was right and true, Lord Torrington
hanged them in their robes. As might have been
expected, a cry was raised through the whole of
Europe at the gratuitous insult thus inflicted on a
virtually defenceless race, and the Governor, so
intense was the storm, had to be instantly recalled.
But, curiously enough, instead of being told by the
Court that he had done wrong, Lord Torrington
was made a permanent Lord-in-Waiting, with a
salary of £7OO a-year I But his permanent appoint-
ment was. we believe, not immediate. He earned
it by the characteristic trait of offering his hat to
be spewed in bv a Prince.
We recently contrasted, in a leading
article, the system of Malthus, by which the advo-
cates of monopoly defend their position, with the
propositions of Henry George. A correspondent
of Vanity Fair puts the Malthusian argument
with so much brutal frankness that his remarks
are well worth quoting. Here goes:-”I should
therefore liketo say a word or two, lest, amid the
sobbings of compassion the calmer voice of reason
should be drowned. We have heard a great ueal
lately of the sufferings of the poorer class of arti-
zansi and more especially of the miserable condi-
tion of the houses in which they dwell. The evil
is spoken of by enthusiasts as a crime for which
Society is responsible. I admit the evil; but I
maintain that it is one fn-r which there is no
remedy. No doubt the working man would be
healthier, and his lot in life be brighter, if the
Government supplied him with a house in Bel-
gravia or Mayfair, a yacht, a moor in Scotland,
and a box at the opera for his missis. But the
working man is, unluckily, so proliflo that, if the
whole of the fashionable parts of London were 1
handed over to "him, he would soon demand
more accommodation. I don’t object to the
working man in moderation ; but if he chooses
to fly in the face of Malthus, he must take
the consequences. As the artizan population
increases, the demand for artizans ; lodgings
naturally increases with it, and as the demand in-
creases the price goes up. Whom is the artizan to
thank for it. ? His parents, in the first place, who
are responsible for his existence, and himself, in
the next, for having originated a family which he
had no adequate means of providing for. Marry-
ing and having children are ox pensive amusements
intended only for people who can afford them, and
a feeling that it is one’s duty to marry and multi-
Sly is one of the penalties with which Nature has
andicapped the possession of wealth. Among the
upper classes, before two people marry, they con-
sider whether they can afford it. If they cannot,
they remain single. Perdita bestows her mangled
heart upon a lover with a balanoe at his bankers,
and Florizel looks out for an heiress. Not so, how-
ever, the working man. He listens to nothing but
the prompting of his too chivalrous passion and
the insidious whispers of romance. He marries
the Barah he adores without pausing to reflect how
he is going to maintain her. They fly together to
the slimy slum whioh, had they kept asunder, they
need never have inhabited. They have a family of
six children on an income of twenty-five shillings a
week, and then—well, then they fight and drink
and squabble, and como howling to me to defray
the family expenses.”
The following, which is from a leading
article by the San Francisco Wasp, may be read
in connection with our own “ leader” in this issue,
whioh Indeed was written before we chanced upon
this passage. It bears testimony to the fact to
whioh we have direoted attention, that monarchi-
cal institutions are not inherently injurious to
human happiness and good government. They
are only injurious when they ally themselves with
plutocratic orders and arlstooratio castes which
are bent upon a universal system of plunder by
law:—“lt is likely that within the next decade we
shall have in this favoured land the high privilege
of seeing an armed insurrection against the estab-
lished ©rder of things. We have not here sufficient
spaoe to point out the various indications that
seem to point to such an event: the incredulous
reader is at liberty to disbelieve in their existence
if he like, and attribute our prediction to the
spirit of inspirational prophecy. Certain basic
facts and phenomena, however, may here be
stated. In the first place the unwise and discom-
fortable majority is learning its power; the news-
papers which flatter it have taken the pains to
calculate its numerical strength and publish the
results daily all the year round. It begins to dawn
upon old Hardhand that he is*an exceedingly
multitudinous person. At the same time, such is
the incredible greed of the intelligent minority
that has hitherto controlled by sheer force of
superior brains, and such the unparalleled corrup-
tion of the office-holders, that the ‘will of the
people’ is everywhere and all the time thwarted
of its aims and mocked by the destruction of its
every hope. The millionaire clas3—a new despot-
ism in this country—working through vast con-
spiracies known as corporations, aims at nothing
less than the absolute ownership of every power
and department of government. Where it does
not succeed in imposing its own legislation, it
stands with open saok behiau the judical bench to
pervert the laws already made. The growth of
this monstrous modern tyranny, the corporation,
is without a parallel in the history of usurpation.
The rude pressure of its hand is upon everything.
In California alone we have three men who, by the
mere power of gold, have for years held nearly a
million of their fellow men in a bondage that is
slavery in everything but the name. Every strug-
gle against them has resulted in new disaster and
a bolder defiance. A few months ago the whole
people rose against them with that weapoD that is
poetioally said to ‘execute a freeman's will,’ the
ballot, and the whom people has again been
worsted. To expect a continuance of the contest
with this paper weapon—to believe that popular
faith in its efficacy can survive an Indefinite suc-
cession of defeats, is to be a fool. It is clear that
this cannot go on. We do not counsel violence;
wc only predict it. Our tastes and interests are all
in favour of peace and the legal righting of wrong.
But with Mr. Stanford occupying every judicial
bench, with Mr. Huntington as chairman of every
legislative body, with Mr. Crocker s fat figure
overflowing every editorial stool, to whom, to
what oan we hope successfully to appeal ? Under
these hard conditions it must be a wiser head than
ours that oan suggest a peaceable and legal remedy
which has not been a hundred times discredited by
failure. The situation in California is not excep-
tional. The entire body of the American people is
blindly groping for an untried remedy where every
fieacerul remedy has been tried—dumbly flinging
ts hands about to grasp the columns supporting
the social fabric. As certainly as this giant shall
be subjected to further outrage, the edifice will be
tumbled about our ears in hideous and irreparable
ruin. In Massachusetts is a man fitted by nature
for the awful work of purification by extirpation
—Ben Butler. He has already gathered about him
a formidable following of discontent. Green-
backers without money, labour champions who do
not work, anti-monopolists of lurid speech, trades-
unionists—all the social and political canaille that
forms the comb of every great wave rising against
the sand-founded works of civilization to ’lick the
whole labour flat,’ are being pushed to the front of
the flood tide. In Butler s Cave of Adullam the
growlers and kickers are in session, pooling their
grievances and whetting their arms. They are a
ad lot, God knows; but God knows how to use
them for the fulfilment of His plans. They are
good enough to open the battle with and take the
first bullets.”
* * v
The new South Australian Cabinet: J.
Colton, Chief Secretary (Premier 1876-1877; Trea-
surer, Bouoant Cabinet, 1873-1876; Works, Strang-
way Cabinot, 1868-1870); Attorney-General, C. C.
Kingston; Treasurer, Bill Bid Rounsevell; Lands,
Jenkin Coles; Works, Tom Playford (Lands,
Morgan and Boucant Cabinets); Justice and Edu
oation, ft. C. Baker (Attorney-General, Hart
Cabinet, 1871) Granny made Burns, M.P., say
(re A. G. Taylor v. the Speaker): “ About ten years
ago a case on all fours with the present one
occurred. It was a case brought against the then
Sneaker, Sir Charles Nicholson, by Sir James
Martin, then Mr. Martin. He brought the action
against the Speaker, in his official oapacity, for
what he considered an illegal interpretation of the
law.” It is thirty-eight years since Sir C. Nichol-
son was elected Speaker of the first Legislative
Counoil in succession to Alex.Macloay; and thirty-
five years since “ Mr.” Martin left the Council at
the instance of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
* * *
New Belgian Ministry olerieal to the
spinal marrow. We predict a terrible reaction
before long. Fr&re-Orban’s Administration was
formed June, 1878, on the resignation of the
Malou Cabinet. In 1879, when the o'erioal elec-
tioneering sucoesses were considerable in some of
the provinces, theie were serious riots in Brussels
and Antwerp.
Remarkable Signs of the
Times.
SOME GREAT COMMERCIAL ENTER-
PRISES.
THE FUTURE-OF SYDNEY.
No one possessed of ordinary intelligence can
contemplate the evidences of progress and com-
mercial importance which abound in this, the
oldest city of Australasia, without being forcibly
reminded of the rapid advance which has been,
and is being, made in all that tends to a nation's
greatness. To the stranger, this thought, will
occur most readily, no doubt. But it must also in-
trude itself upon the mind of the oldest resident,
who has grown with the growth of the place. And
with equal certainty the thought will expand till
the mind is lost in speculation upon the possibili-
ties of the future. What will the city of Sydney
be when another twenty years shall have passed
away, and when little school children of to-day
shall be men and women, fighting the battle of life
and taking part in the work of preparing for a
future beyond them ? Speculating upon this in the
light of past and present experience, and assisted
by the knowledge of what science is doing for the
world, it is not difficult to believe that a brilliant
future is before the metropolis of this country.
Mr. Stuart was within the mark when, at the
Mayoral banquet, he stated that Sydney ranked
among
THE GREAT CITIES OF THE WORLD.
On every hand we see evidences of the fact. We
have a large settled population, with institutions
that would do credit to any of the great trade
centres of the world. Our public buildings are
silent witnesses—we except the Parliament build-
ings, which occasionally give forth much sound—
of the country’s resources; and the buildings de-
voted to commerce furnish yet stronger proof of
its progressive character, even at a period of de-
pression which has been induced by causes beyond
human oontrol.
In every direction may be seen the massive edi-
fices of business firms, wholesale and retail, in
which the mysteries and intricacies of a variety of
trades are working, with due regard to the law of
supply and demand; and at various points may be
seen now buildings springing up, or being en-
larged, as the requirements of increasing business
render necessary.
One of the most remarkable places of business in
Sydney at the present time is to be seen in
THE HABMARKET.
The reporter refers to the Palace Emporium. To
this gigantic establishment, which will shortly be
much enlarged, a visit was made one day last
week, by kind permission of the firm. The re-
porter ’’nterviewed Mr. S. Hordern, the only repre-
sentative at present in Sydney; Mr. J. Lumsden,
the financial manager; and Mr. May, the general
manager—to whose courtesy he is indebted for a
thorough inspection of the premises, and somo
valuable information concerning the business of
the firm.
The reporter was ushered into Mr. Hordern’s
office, on the second floor, and has to acknowledge
the kindness of his reception. Mr. Hordern, who
as stated, is the only member of the firm at pre-
sent in Sydney, takes an active part in the manage-
ment of all branches of the extensive business—
indeed, it may be said, that everything connected
with the establishment passes under his immediate
supervision. To be fitted for such an enormous
task, requires special abilities; for although Mr.
Hordern may not be seen very much, he is cogni-
sant of everything that transpires, and those quali-
ties he undoubtedly possesses. He has rare talents
for organising, and few men could be found to do
as muoh in a given time in disposing of the numer-
ous demands mrde upon him by his own employes
and the public. To the old and young, it is the
same. He is courteous to all, and yet quick in
aotion, and just In his decisions. In a word, bis
superior business qualities and genial disposition
have gained for him general respect and popu-
larity. But to proceed. In the first place, and be-
fore proceeding to a description of the Emporium,
it may be of interest to give a short history of the
firm, as there are, doubtless, thousands of persons
in the colony to whom it will form profitable in-
formation und encouragement.
FIFTY YEARS AGO
Mr. Anthony Hordern, grandfather of the present
firm, founded the business which to-day has at-
tained such gigantic proportions that almost every
year the necessity arises for the extension of pre-
mises commensurate with the increasing business
cf the House* Mr. Hordern was a scion of a
family celebrated for the financial abilities of its
members, and, as the oldest banking establishment
in Wolverhampton, the house of Alexander Hor-
dern—the great-grandfather of the present firm-
had a European reputation. Mr. Hordern, the
founder of the firm imm» diately referred to here,
first started business, rather more than fifty years
ago, in King-street, and, with a degree of pre-
science which proved a very important factor in
the progress of his fortunes, he soon became
keenly alive to the growing importance of his
adopted country, and the surplus profits of his
business were invested in town lots, both in Sydney
and Melbourne, which was then an integral part of
New South Wales. He prospered signally. His
eldest son, also named Anthony, was the founder
of the establishment with which we have at pre-
sent to do, and in whose style of doing business
may be.discovered the secret of his
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS.
Somo time previous to his death, which occurred
ten years ago, his two sons, Mr. Anthony—the
third of his name, so far as Australia is concerned,
and who is now in Europe connected with the
Western Australian railway scheme and Mr.
Samuel Hordern, were admitted members of the
firm, which then assumed, and has ever since
traded under, the style of “Anthony Hordern and
Sons.”
In stating that the head of the firm was at pre-
sent in England, where he has just successfully
completed his railway scheme, we omitted to men-
tion that Mr. Curtin, one of the most trusted em-
ployes of Messrs. Hordern and Sons, is now also in
England; that gentleman having been appointed
to take charge of the firm’s office in London, over
which iv»r. Anthony Hordern has hitherto been
presiding.
A WORD IN SEASON.
Before he left. Mr. Curtin had tried St. Jacobs
Oil in his household, and found it so beneficial
that he at once wrote to the local agents a letter
testifying thereto, the which testimonial was en-
dorsed by the firm, and bears their signatures. “ I
oheerfully add my testimony,” writes Mr. Curtin,
“ to the good effects derivable from the use of at.
Jacobs Oil, as demonstrated in my own household.
Some few weeks ago my wife suffered severely
from pains in the head. She applied the oii with
excellent results; and has since recommended it
to a friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in
which case the result was equally beneficial. It
has been used by members of my family, and its
action has satisfied my most sanguine expecta-
tions. I consider it a most valuable preparation to
have by you for any household accident. I re-
commend it confidently to my friends, and am
thoroughly satisfied it‘conquers pain.’”
THE PALACE.
But to proceed. The main entrances are in
George and Gipps streets, the latter being the
principal one, and presenting a bold and handsome
front, although the magnitude of the premises
cannot be discerned from the exterior view.
Passing through the spacious doorway, with
large mirrors on either side, and under a pretty
arch of antique design, a brilliant and a busy scene
at once meets the eyes of the delighted and won-
der-stricken spectator. The large space is divided
into avenues by the counters and show-cases. The
latter present a study in themselves, and were
originally used at the
GARDEN PALACE EXHIBITION.
The oases contain a great variety of articles -
from richest materials in dress and ornaments for
the body to useful articles of domestic economy.
These elegant exhibition cases not unnaturally
reminded the reporter that St, Jacobs Oil bad re-
ceived two gold medal awards at the Calcutta and
Christchurch Exhibitions respectively—the only
patent medicine so distinguished.
The effect of this great show-room upon the
beholder is very pleasing. The sight is more like
a fancy fair than anything else, except for the
undoubted “solidity” of some of the depart-
ments, and whioh strike their eye as they wander
round the busy scene.
THE GRAND STAIRCASE,
witb two bronze figures at the base, is a conspicu-
ous feature. But before we get to th«t we have to
pass by a number of the beautiful show cases,
sime containing perfumery, others plated-ware in
elegant designs, including some handsome lines
frum the M« rilen Britannia Company, Connecti-
cut; and others again exhibiting ravishing orna-
ments for adults, and maddening effects in the toy
department for children.
MILLINERY AND FANCY DEPARTMENT.
Like that on the ground floor, this department is
a sight worth the looking at. It is devoted to
millinery, ladies’ underclothing, parasols, flowers,
feathers, and costumes, each of the departments
or branches, being separate, and presided over by
a number of lady assistants, as the requirements
of the trade render necessary. The financial part
of each department is kept entirely distinct here,
as in all other branches of the Emporium; the
which fact, coupled with the other fact of the
trade being conducted on strictly “ cash ” princi-
ples throughout, accounts for the wonderful regu-
larity, ease, and smoothness with which this vast
commercial institution is carried on.
OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
From this point we enter at the Gipps-street end,
the boot and shoe department, where an immense
trade is done, male and female assistants being
constantly in attendance. This department alone
turns over £lOO.OOO a year.
Next come the hat and travelling requisites
branches, and the men’s, youths’ and boys’ depart-
ments—the latter a spacious room, with a gallery,
and handso.aely fitted up.
Then there is the bedstead and bedding ware-
house, aud the furniture branch, which is one of
the most attractive in the Palace. It consists of
two large rooms on the second floor, and here they
have suites of furniture from jtlOor £l4 up to £BO.
A special feature in connection with this depart-
ment is the sale of handsomely-framed oleographs
of local soenery, for which, since the idea was first
introduced, there has been a great and continually
increasing demand.
GENERAL.
Proceeding to the basement, we cnl or the reserve
house, where tons of goods of enormous value are
stacked. In this vicinity, we pass through the
earthenware, glassware, and ironmongery depart-
ment, aud thence take a look at the carpet ware-
house. Presently we find ourselves in Parker-
street. on the opposite side of the immense range
of buildings.
In the limited apace at his disposal, it would be
impossible for the reporter to give an adequate
idea of the extent or the business done by the
firm. But there is sufficient in the material thus
far presented to show that the Palace Emporium is
justly entitled to be considered a wonderful estab-
lishment, and that the proprietors are equally en-
titled to their wide-spread reputation for enter-
prise. Further, it may be stated that the business
represents annually
NEARLY ONE MILLION POUNDS,
And yet it is found necessary to greatly enlarge
tne premises. With this object, additional ground
has been purchased adjoining the present build-
ings (a temporary addition has already been made),
and upon this ground substantial buildings—nine
stories high—are to be ereoted, so as to form a
part of the present structure, which will also be
built up so as to make the entire block of build-
ings nine stories in height-the highest in Sydney.
And there will thus be three immense frontages—
to George-street, Gipps-street, and Parker-street.
THE RAILWAY KING.
Speaking of Mr. Anthony Hordern, who may be
styled a railway king-in the language of our
American cousins—that gentleman will soon he
amongst us again, and will no doubt be heartily
received in Sydney.
And this again reminded the reporter, when
speaking on the subject, of Mr. Curtin, who has
gone to take charge of the home branch. Refer-
ring to the important office Mr. Curtin holds, and
being curiously reminded of what that gentleman
had said re St. Jacobs Oil, the reporter asked Mr.
May, the manager, whether he had heard the
medicine spoken well of. To which Mr. May re-
plied that he had heard the oil highly lauded as a
remedial agent in all cases of rheumatics, neural-
gia, &e.
And thus it is, that wherever and whenever St.
Jacobs Oil is used by the afflicted, it invariably
commands respect. A simple, cheap, and effective
remedy, it rests on its own merits, and its general
success is the best possible proof of its marvellous
power.
In the matter of admiration for the un-
paid magistracy, we Hatter ourselves that we can
concede many points to all comers and then win
hands down, so to speak. For the country J.P.’s,
especially, our admiration amounts almost to
reverence. Not only on the bench do they uphold
thestern dignity of the law, but with praiseworthy
solicitude they rebuke the frivolous and reprimand
the rowdy, when occasion demands it, in the street
or the market-place, in the highway or the byway
Apropos, we would a li tie tale unfold of the re-
pressive influence of a member of the great unpaid
in an inland town. It happened up Bourke way
several months ago—we’re not particular to a few
—that asportive shepherd from the pastoral region
known as the Paroo came into the township
to enjoy himself after a couple of years of
jumbuck herding. He had a good cheque, which
ne was bent on melting in the most approved stylo
by religiously filling his tank with the fighting rum
retailed in that section, and enjoying Mmself in the
free and-easy style peculiar to back-blockers. Fun ?
Ho had heaps of it. Sometimes he would have the
bark taken off his nose, and an ear permanently
damaged, and next time the fellow who shared iu
his revelry would appear with an injured lip, his
eye in a sling, and sufficient gore stains on h s
raiment to lead to the conclusion that a civil war
had been going op in the neighbourhood. And
this rural swain from the Paroo was accompanied
by a dog, an unlovely animal, with heavy jaws,
prominent teeth, and a general forbidding appear-
ance—a rough-and-ready sort of mongrel, of ag
gressive aspect, that would rather look up a row
any day than lie round in front of a butcher’s shop
for a chance to steal a hunk of beef-a dog with
chawed ears like a map of Scotland, aDd gnarled
legs, and a tail a good deal out of joint. Well, thii
gentle shepherd and his dog would saunter
leisurely down the main street of the town for re-
creation, and the canine was rapidly gaining fame
by the artistic manner in which ho bowled over
the stoutest of his local compeers. The fair fame
of the town was at stake, and the possessors of
what were hitherto considered good, tough, fight-
ing dogs turned gieen with envy at the
sight of this distinguished old warrior. At
length human nature could bear it no longer
and one day as the lively pair were on parade as
usual, a local J.F. happened to pass just as the
uncanny brute was growling defiantly at the
butcher's poodle. Then the majesty of the law
asserted it6elf, and the J.P., in dignified tones and
vigorous Anfcl )-Saxon, addressed the back*
blocker: “Now, look here, my fine fellow, you'd
better clear out of this township; you ve had a
pretty lively time here lately, aDd, by , if you
come before me on the bench, i ll give you three
months straight! No doubt you tbinu your—-
dog can fight, but I’ll find a dog that’ll chaw hla
head off in five minutes; aud then I’ll belt the
stuffiDg out of you after. So I’d advise the
pair of you to get back to the Paroo in mighty
quick time cr there'll be trouble.” And the man
from the hack-blocks took the hint and wandered,
muttering inverted blessings on what he termed
a one-horse town and its lack of appreciation of
rough-and-tumble fighting capacity,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index vested up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
spofti/hg events in general .l
RACING.
Cool ah J.C June 26,27-
Blackall tt.C June 26, 27-
Canterbury Park June 28.
Penrith July 5.
Newcastle. ■ • J uly 5*
Clarence River J.C .July 9,10.
Townsville J.C .. - July 10,11.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
Thargominda J.C July 18,19.
Walgett R.C July 29, 30.
Goonoiwindi August 18,19.
Hawkesbury August 21,23.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20,21.
COURSING.
N.B.W. Club ...June 26.
Victoria Waterloo Cup June 16,17,18.
N.Z. Waterloo Cup June 16,17,18.
N.B. Wales Club -..August 6, 7,8.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Grafton R.C. Regatta ..June 28.
M.R.C. Opening of Branch, Parramatta
River... June 28.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Sackville Reach July 24.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River. July 24.
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R.... August a.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River ....August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Ulawarra Lake.. August 27.
ATHLETICS.
Thistle Club Sports Agricultural Grounds. .June 28.
All-Comers Handicap, Tingha.. . —July 4.
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap (£300) September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Spring Meeting.... Sept. 6.
CYCLING.
Wanderers’ B.C. Race Meeting July 17.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
N. Union Race Meeting ............. August 30.
BFORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A Yankee paper says Slade has not yet
found bis forte. Dunn beat Slade In a Cumberla d
wrestling match, at ’Frisco, with (he greatest ease.
On 16th June, Mr. F. M’Evoy, at the Mel-
bourne Gnu Club grounds, killed 38 pigeons out or
44- and annexed £5O from F.Sutton, “the English-
man,” who laid the “shootlst” a level half century
he could not kill 38 out of 50.
At Melbourne, on Friday, Mr. F. M‘Evoy
killed ten out of eleven birds, and won the Mel-
bourne Gun Club Cup. Mr. M’Evoy has wou three
competitions out of seven that have taken place
for the trophy, which now becomes his property.
The West Bourlce Plato meeting of the
Victorian Coursing Club was brought to a conclu-
sion on Friday last, when Mr. Wiggin’s Western
Duchess won the Plate; Mr. J. T. Taylor’s Maud
won the Clive Stakes ; and the Rupertswood
Stakes were carried off by Mr. W. M Gulloeh a
Madonna.
At the Adelaide Waterloo Cup meeting,
concluded on Friday last, Mr. Pritchard’s Lady, by
Tumbler—Alice, beat Mr. Johns' Jubilee, by Sbove-
along—Fly, and won the Waterloo Cup; and the
linal course for the Plate resulted in Messrs. Nibble
and Mallen’s Melancholy Jacques beating Mr.
Billin’s Cloud.
Says a telegram from Yass “ Charles
Jenkins, junior, essayed to shoot 15 birds out of 26
for a wager of £25, with one barrel, one ounce of
shot, 100 yards’ boundary, and 25 yards' rise; but
he failed to win, having only killed 11 out of 22. ’
The birds must have been trimmers, as Charley is
little inferior, if any, to his younger brother,
Richard, who did so well at the Yass handicaps.
The prize money for the last two days’
meet ot the Queensland Turf Club, amounted to
£B7O. Out of this, horses bred at the Grange and
sold by Mr. Kent sinco his proprietary won £620.
A syndicate is being formed in Melbourne to buy
the best four of the Grange yearlings. A cool
thousand has been offered and refused lor Le
Grand’s yearling sister, who bids fair to keep up
the family prestige.
Peate, who, it will be remembered, visited
the colony with Lillywhite’s last team of pro-
fessionals, gave our boys their patent groats in
the match against the North of England. During
his trip through the colonies, he was very success-
ful with the ball, many of our crack batsmen pro-
nouncinir him to be the best bowler they had
faeed. He will accompany the team of profes-
sionals who are coming out next season.
The racing bioyclists, on Saturday last,
were labelled on the back with a large number,
and It struck us that if any old-time convict could
have risen out of his long sleep and paid a visit to
the Association Ground, he would grumblingly
have remarked that the only recreation in the wheel
line that lifers were allowed in his day, was tne
treadmill. And the mistake would have been ex-
cusable, for the bike men looked nothing, if not
like a gang of yellow boys.
At the Nelson (N.Z.) Races, a piebald geld-
ing named Toby started for the back race, ridden
by a remarkably liliputian jockey. During the
running, the Faddle slipped round, but the young-
ster managed to wriggle out of the pigskin and
right himself, and riding th« piebald bare-backed
mi the strain ht, won hands down, with the saddle
banking against the horse’s hind legs. Toby paid
a dividend of £lO in the totaiisator, but the Otago
Witness sayeth not if the youngster received any-
thing more substantial than oheera for his plucky
riding.
An “ 111-used Horse ” is the heading of a
card issued by Mr. W. Gannon, giving the per-
formances of Sweet William. Considering that
out of »> starts the horso has only placed one win
to his credit—the Brunswick Stakes, V.R.C. meet-
ing March, 'B2—six seconds, and six thirds, it is not
surmising that the owner is beginning to wonder
unon what line such crushers have been placed
unon Sweet Billy. We have seldom m fesed putting
a trifle on the son of Yattendon ou'rselves, but
that has nothing to do with our sympathy. Ob,
dear no 1
Next Saturday is the day fixed upon by
the Mercantile Rowing Club for the formal open-
ing of their good-looking and substac tiui branch
t>remises at mandeville, Parramatta 1 liver. The
M R.C. has certainly made wonderful sti ides during
its eight years’ existence, and unless the elder
body on the opposite fide of the Quay ' raise some
fresh blood, the Merk have a good show of making
a clean sweep of the principal rowing ratces during
the coming season Steamers will leav b the Club
House, Dawes Point, at 2 p m. to conv< iy visitors
to the branch premises, which overlook lone of the
loveliest views on the Parramatta.
The victory of the Osborne C.C. over the
Orientals, thus securing the otedman C up, proves
the right of the former club to the tltl« j of cham-
pion of the juniors—they also having beeu the
winners of the previous Cup, the final match for
which was between the same two clutbs. Much
growling was indulged in by the supporters of the
Orientals as to |the fairness of Cowoher’i » delivery:
but as he has been allowed to bowl f or his club
right through the past two seasons, the complaint
comes a little 111-timed. If there is an y doubt as
to his bowling fairly, the matter should have been
settled at the beginning of the season, tfud not at
the flfllsh.
With colours flying, and with the gruff
order of the skipper to “ castoff there,” the Annie,
on Sunday morniDg last, started from Manly pier
with a score of as jolly fishermen as ever told a lie
about the weight of a ochnapper, and a good time
was looked forward to when the happy fishing
grounds were reached. Man propssed. but a
heavy south-east roll disposed of the bold fisher-
men, ten a side, busily engaged burleying a school
of schnapper ; and some hour afterwards, the
Annie steamed into harbour with a score of limp
objects on board, eager to seek a sequestered spot
in Middle Harbour where they could quietly suffer
a recovery.
There is nothing like cheek— except more
cheek. To be a good local preacher requires a lot
of it. To make any success as a temperance
lecturer requires some. But to be a prosperous
sweep-promoter needs most of all. A party of the
MAT MATTERSON, THE COMING SCULLER.
name of Pteele—W. B. Steele—who is getting up a
Queensland sweep on the next Melbourne cup, is
fully supplied with It. He calls his sweep the
“City of the Plains Consultation;” and after a
gorgeous description of the fortunes to be made
by taking a chance In It, he winds up with this
naive statement—“the sweep will close on Sep-
tember 30, punctually, to enable the promoter to
proceed to Melbourne.” We should bo sorry to
hint that the promoter will not, go to Melbourne
when ho collects the money. We should regret to
insinuate that he would not go further.
Mr. A. Lee, of the Wanderers 8.C., took
19 minute 535 seconds for his five miles on Saturday,
hut ho whs never asked to rac® till the beginning
of the last lap, when he went away as if his oppo-
nents were standing still. Mr. Lee rides in beauti-
ful form, and, as there is no knowing what he
might do under the best conditions, it really seems
a pity we have not an asphalte track to try what
AT OUR BOARDING HOUSE.
LANDLADY (to Jones, who is troublesome about his victuals): “INDEED, MR. JONES, WITH
PROVISIONS OF ALL KINDS AT SUCH PRICES, I FIND THE UTMOST DIFFICULTY
IN MAKING TWO ENDS MEET."
MR. JONES: “THEN MAKE ONE END VEGETABLES!”
ho is made of in the matter of times. The differ-
ence oetweon grass and asphalte tracks cannot be
better shown than by the celebrated Dr. Mortis
times for ten miles:-Asphalte, 29 minutes 54
seconds; grass, 34 minutes seconds. And,
talking about, grounds, does it not seem time the
bicyclists and athletes generally, who now muster
so strongly, went in lor a ground of their own?
Were the thing worked up iu the right quarter, no
doubt the Government would grant a site for such
an object, wo should like to see athletic and
football clubs take the matter up.
There was great excitement in Bungendore
lately, says a local paper. Great excitement in
Bungendore means either a funeral or the arrival
bv coach of a stranger who offers to shout for all
hands. The entire population turns out on such
The entire population is something
larger than that of a light-house, and something
smaller than the population of London. But the
excitement on this occasion wasoaused by a pria«-
ttght. There was a surging multitude of nearly
thirty spectators assembled to see it. After two
rounds were fought, a couple of constables went
into the ring and arrested the combatants and the
seconds. The vast multitude pulled the collars of
their coats over their ears to hide their faces and
vanished. And the heroes of the ring were hauled
off. Four terrible desperadoes they must have
been who were arrested by two constables. We
have a suspicion that they were some of the un-
employed who were sent down that way lately.
But that was the end of the great excitement at
Bungendore.
The town of Hamilton, in Victoria, is
likely to be more affectionately remembered by its
inhabitants or its visitors while they are in this
world than when they go to the next. Instead of
being filled with churches, like, say, Armidale in
our own colony, it is filled with hotels and the
salooFis of sporting barbers. Instead of having to
put threepence In the plate on every possible
occasion, one who goes there has to throw a shill-
ing in the hat and shake for drinks. After this
introduction, it will not surprise you to hear that
the spirits of that district are now trying to get up
a grand gathering of pedestrians—Malone, O’ Brlen,
Arnold, Farrell, Smith, and the rest. The jokers
who are taking the thing in hand propose to give
some handsome prizes, including a Sheffield Handi-
cap with something like £l5O for the first, £6O for
the second, and £25 for the third. These prizes,
though they would hardly induoe the dead to rise
up and run, yet ought to be inducements enough
for most of the living sports. We would only im-
press upon the minds of the winners when they get
their money to try and keep sober.
It really seems strange the apathy shown
by our amateur oarsmen in the interests of their
professional brethren—that is, so far as the colonial
professionals are concerned. When Hanlan arrived
here, in the Height of his prosperity, the Mercan-
tiles threw their Club House open for his use; and
the North shore Club slobbered—when they ex-
pected to make something out of him—with an
advertisement that the Canadian would honour
their Ball with his presence, and this ad., by the
way, was inserted weeks alter it was known there
could be no possibility of his attending on account
of Victorian engagements. Bat a change comes
o’er the spirit of their dreams, when one of our
must promising and straight-going scullers may
have need of their assistance. Clifford’s boats
were burnt by some scoundrel, as we stated a
couple of weeks hack. Surely this is a matter the
benior Club mi ht take up, with the object of
giving such a like.y sculler a lift. Were the aristo-
crats on the Eastern side of the Quay to interest
themselves, on his behalf, we doubt not but th®
plebeians would follow suit In their humble way.
Our amateur’s “ sports,” both on land and
water, have hitherto been singularly free from
Jockeying,” but it would appear that some of
the bicyclists have no idea of allowing such a de*
sirable state of things to continue in connection
with the wheel. For th© champion five-mile race
on Saturday, one bicyclist, who has brought over
the herring pond with him sufficient trophies to
stook the window of a pawn-broker’s shop, started
expressly for the purpose of cutting out the run-
ning in the interests of a Suburban man. After a
few laps had been covered, a most determined-
looking rider came to grief, upon seeing which the
man of medals resigned his machine to the deter-
mined-looking one, who went on the track again,
and as he waited till the field came up, it could
have been for no other purpose than to continue
the cutting-out business for the Suburban man.
As it turned out, however, he proved a poor hand
at the business, and did his man more harm than
good, during the few laps be continued on the
track. With pros, this sort of thing is bad enough,
but with amateurs it is simply—we can’t just now
think of a word Strong enough for the occasion.
We noticed in a Sydney daily fast week
that doubts were expressed as to whether Lord
Falmouth could have netted such a large sum as
£200,000 during his racing career. Th« following
figures, taken from a reliable source will show that
the amount, if anything, was underrated. From
1871 to 1883 inclusive, Lord Falmouth’s winning
record stands:—lB7l, thirteenth with £4211 ; 1872,
third £9974; 1873, sixth £7672; 1874, first £15,975;
1875, first £21,152 103.; 1876, fourth £10,41010s.; 1877,
first £34,378 10a.; 1878, first £87,509; 1879, second
£23,528 10a.; 1880, first £16,061; 1881, fifth £14,104;
1882, fourth £13,184105.; 1883, second £18,434; mak-
ing a total of £228,654 10s. It has been estimated
that his winnings preceding the year 1871 were at
least £BO,OOO, which, together with £200,000 at the
least for horses sold and to be sold, makes the
enormous aggregate of half a million on the credit
side of Lord Falmouth’s account. He was never a
greedy buyer, was no gambler, and raced upon
the best of all business principles, confining his
horses to the chief meetings, so that it does not
appear to us at all preposterous that he should
have netted £200,000 out of the half million thut
has passed through his hands.
Read this—and be quick, for we want to
chip in with what Copeland called “afooremarsh”:
—“ Young Dutchy, the Sydney pugilist, was pro-
ceeding, at latest dates, to New York, to meet
Charles Norton for the light-weight championship
of America. He was advised to stay where he
was.” Wc should think he was. Before we knew
that prize-fighting was illegal, or only permitted
under the patronage of the Inspector-General of
Police, we tried on several occasions to make a
match for Dutchy, but it was of no use. At one
time we entertained hopes of him, and we paid,
for a considerable time, for his beef and duff, in
lawful currency. But we found, after a bit, that
he wouldn’t hit anything but a bladder,
and he couldn’t hit that as hard as we
could. Foley’s pupils, too, used to guy our
champion and offer to fight him for coppers
and brandy-balls. So we got tired, at length, of
loading Dutohy up, only, wnen we took him round
to where the “talent ” congregated, to be covered
with ridicule and steeped in ignominy. We are
convinced that a hawser would drag “Dutchy”
Into a ring whero fight, was really meant, and
nothing but a chain-cable would keep him out of
an oyster-saloon or a bar-room. Though he calls
himself “the Sydney pugilist:,” he was born and
reared in Ratcliff Highway, and it was fun to
listen to the lies he told about the money be had
made by what heloalled a “Jimmynaslum.” As an
ornament, Dutchy was passable, when he had not
“ played up ” his jewellery; but as a pugilist, he is
a delusion A country-girl and A poodle-dog could
knock him out, any day, In halt a round.
“The King is dead, long live the King!”
Ned Trickett—“our Ned”—whose name ran such
a big race with the “long sleevers” to fill thou-
sands of Sydney mouths on that memorable night
in 1876 when the “ champion of the world ” re-
turned after defeating Sadler, has parted with the
house in Bridge-street, an* taken a pub. at Rock-
hampton, Q. And we don't suppose one out of
every thousand of the idiots who bawled them-
selves hoarse over the reception in 1876 now take
enough interest in their erstwhile champion to
oare whether h® has gone to Rookhampton, or
even a warmer region than that paradise of ague
and bananas, But the world jogs along, and young
Mattorson, who has entered upon a successful
oareer in a raoing shell, is being banqueted and
made much of on the Clarence. Some years back,
it looked as if Australian rowing would fall to a
very low ebb after the retirement of the old stagers
—Trickett, Layoock, and Rush—but fresh men
have sprung up in the nick of time; and with
Beach, Clifford, and Matterson It may spfely be
said that Australian professional sculling never
looked more promising than It does «t the present
time. Gulliford, too, is a better man than he is
given credit for. The nature of his daily work,
quarrying, gives him the appearance of being
snouldcr-bound in his boat, but, with practice and
coaching, we firmly believe Gulliford would give
a much better acoount of himself than a good
many of the knowingjones believe. And, talking
about knowing ones, Hanlan, who saw a good deal
of Trickett before the last race with Beach, was
under the impression that the ex-champion could
put the Dapto man through with ease, out even
the opinion of the “ phtnomenon” could not alter
the result of the race.
Mat Matterson, whose name has been
much spoken of in rowing circles of late, in con-
sequence of his dual win on the Nepean on the
23nd May. was born on the Maoleay River on 6th
June, 1864, but ne has resided on the Clarencee
almost from infancy. He stands 5 feet 11 inches in
height, and at present weighs 12 st., but when in
rowing form he scales about 10 st. 6 lb. It is only
two years since Matterson first rowed in public.
This was at the Grafton regatta on 24th May, 1882,
iu the second class all-comers light skiff race, for
which he finished last ; but on the same day, in
conjunction with Sshwood, he won the double
scull race. In July of the same year Matterson
defeated J. Stuart, of Grafton, for a stake of £2O;
and after a lapse of twelve months he was again
victorious against a local sculler named Parkin-
son, the stakes being £5O aside. Matterson won
this race with great ease, and passed the winning-
post two or three hundred yards in ad-
vance of his antagonist, who had already
forfeited to Neil for a previous match. After
another interval of some months, the subject of
our sketch was again to the front, winning the
all-comers’ handicap skiff race |at the Rocky
Mouth Regatta in January of the present year. It
wbs not until after this race that anything was
thought of Matterson: and at the instigation of
that genial oarsman, Michael Rush, he was induced
to come to Bydney and cross blades with Metro-
politan oarsmen. It might be as well to mention
here that Rush had satisfied himself practically of
what metal Matterson was oomposed before arriv-
ing at this determination. (in reaching Sydney,
Matterson's first race was against Nicolis, a Shoal-
haven sculler, for £2O a-side; but there was no
comparison between the two men, Matterson hold-
ing the lead from the start, without the slightest
exertion. His next appearance was ou the
Nepean, and his success on that river will
no doubt be fresh iu the memory of our
readers. In the handicap skiff race (£5O), with
a penalty of 251 b., he defeated Gulliford (351 b.),
Solomon (251 b.), M'Clerken (101 b.), and John Lay-
cock (feather); and in the handicap outrigger race
(£5O), with a start of 10sec., he defeated Robert
Edwards, the Victorian champion, and Pearce,
both at scratch, Messenger <6sec.), and Woods
(20sec.) This was Matterson's first race in wager-
boats, and his style augurs well for his future
success. Since adding to his list of victories the
two latter races, Matterson has evidently put
terror into the hearts of all but our most celebrated
oarsmen. Gulliford having forfeited to him, and
Robert Edwards haviDg declined to accept his
challenge to row for £lOO a side. Matterson will
shortly return to the Clarence to prepare himself
for an expected match with a Richmond River
sculler; but before long he intends to return to
Sydney on a much more important errand than his
present one. Since rowing his flrft race, he has
never been called upon to exert himself, and until
a better man gets in front of him, he cannot tell
wbat he is able to do. Certain it is there is no
more promising sculler in Australia, and no one
more deserving of success than Mat Mattersop.


Kruse’# Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, I#.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
beks, 90 Pitt-stbeet, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
gaw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. gf" Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheon
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-atairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p in.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Til.© ESella/ble IB'u.g'g'ies I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING-, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
(HAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
mm
—— «T»-rSOLE AGENTS POK THE
|'SMITH OEGrAU.
CBAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and sucoess.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
TOZER <&, GO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BIGYGLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, off
machines made,
r Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion e £ ry customer.
Write to us,
OB .4
Call on us.
any
Ou
JamesXMLAi
EM& com.
389 GEORGE STREET 1 SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
Th 9 loyal residents of the sporty little
town of Boulia (Q.) went in for high jinks on the
34th May, the event of the day being a knook-out
between two rival publicans whose fighting showed
they were better hands at running a whisky mill
than milling as laid down by the Marquis Of Queens-
berry. The event was for a “fizz” supper. On
stripping, Rivers showed splendid condition, the
muscles on his back and shoulders standing out
more like those upon a well-trained cockroach
than anything else we can think of just now. His
opponent, Ophat. was a little fleshy, but expressed
himself with confidence as to the result, Round 1.
Ophat led off with his right) which was cleverl/
Btopped by his opponent, who returned with a
well-directed left-nander on the mark, which made
him look red and his backers blue. After some
smart exchanges. Rivers repeated the dose, when
Ophat collapsed, the agony wringing out of him an
“Ohl how hard you hit!” First knock down for
Rivers. Betting 4 to 1 on him. Round 2. On
coming together, or, rather, twelve feet or so
apart, both men showed some scientific sparring:
but this didn’t suit the human ring who surrounded
them, and as there seemed no other way of getting
the men together, the crowd closed in little by
little till the men were close enough for execution,
when Ophat in desperation landed on River's
mazzard, but the latter was not to be denied,
nabbed his opponent on the left ogle, and landed
his terrible left again on the mark, Ophat falling
limp with the cry of “ Oh I you hit me three times
in the same place.” Cries of “Take him away,”
** Shame for so good a nun to get so much punish-
ment.” Any odds offered. Third and last round.
It was evident Rivers would finish the business;
Rivers gay as a lark, Ophat shy, and would not go
close. Rivers, plucky as a wood-bug, pointed to
the scrateh, and curling his upper lip in a manner
peculiarly his own when he intends to finish his
man, dashed clean over Ophat’s guard. Jobbed
right and left, the game Ophat fell, exolaiming, as
did the gallant Monllneaux when d ef eated by Cribb,
“ I can fight no longer.” Thus did history repeat
itself, and the gamest fight ever seen out West
came to a conclusion.
Jim Keene, the New York stock-broker,
has bust up. He had the reputation of being as
rich a man as Jay Gould, two or three years ago,
and very likely he was—even now we don’t sup-
pose he’ll want for a crust. Keene lives some
miles awav from New York, and a trifling item in
his expenditure was £BO a week for a special train
to convey his friends (or himself, if he got on the
tear overnight) down to his suburban shanty on
Sunday mornings. There’ll be a temporary dis-
continuance of that train until matters have come
right again in Wall-street, through some one else
—Vanderbilt, perhaps—“taking the knock,” and
then the Sunday gatherings can be renewed. Jim
Keene, though, was less known to the English-
speaking world as a fifty-million dollars man than
as the owner of Foxball, considered by good
judges to be the best three-year-old that ever ran
in England. Foxhall won the two great autumn
handicaps (Cnesarewitch (and Cambridgeshire) in
’Bl, the same year that the other Yankee champion,
Iroquois, pulled off the Derby and Leger; but
Foxhall was undoubtedly the superior of the
latter. The weight (9at.) he carried home to vic-
tory in the Cambridgeshire had proved a stopper
to more than one Derby winner, the celebrated
Blue Gown being a case in point. Old William Day
trained Foxhall at that time, and Keene (who was
in America, and had never seen his veteran trainer)
fairly swore by the old man’s ability and straight-
forwardness. Keene’s agent started building some
magnificent stables, and Tom Cannon was engaged
as first jockey for the next season, at a retaining
fee of two thousand guineas. Next season, though,
things didn’t go swimmingly; the fresh batch of
horses that came across from America weren’t
worth a cent, and Tom Cannon wasn’t required, as
a matter of fact, to ride more than twenty timet
for his couple of thou.—that gives an average of
about a hundred guineas a mount. So Keene, like
a true cock-tail, threw over William Day and tried
a new trainer, but his horses (in the words of the
music-hall ditty) “ have never done anything
since.” Poor old William is dead now; still, no
doubt, he’ll be glad to hear that his ungrateful
employer has been pegged back one.
When Laycock first showed on the Thames.
“ Pendragon” passed an opinion in the columns of
the Refebeb that Layoock might with luck beat
some of the English third-raters, but the Shark
Islander carried all before him with the exception
of the invincible; and ever since “Pen.” has carried
out a vendetta against anything and anybody
Australian. This is his latest effort:-“Just now.
when there is so much bleating and oackling about
the amateur swimming, the amateur rowing, the
amateur pedestrian, the amateur bicycling, and
every other known amateur definition, it would
be as well to know what is the exaot position,
from an amateur point of view, of the gentry who
have once again come from Australia to play
cricket at so much per game. As it has been con-
ceded that, however much they may differ in
matters of detail, swimmers, rowers, pedestrians,
bicyclists, and others are unanimous that anybody
who makes direct monetary gain by the practice
of the sport or pastime to which he attaches him-
self, is a professional—as this point at least has
been agreed to all round—l for one am utterly
unable to understand how a body of men who
play cricket avowedly for the money profit that is
to be got out of it can be regarded as amateurs. If
the position and doings of our Australian visitors
be contrasted with the position and doings of
other men at other sports whose claim to be con-
sidered amateurs would be ridiouled by even the
most broad-minded and most generous among
deflners, it will be seen that there is more necessity
than ever now to have the amateur question
settled by one general and comprehensive defini-
tion. I fancy that, no matter how such definition
were framed, it would be utterly impossible to
include within it men who travel from country to
country playing a game, sharing the gate receipts,
and subsisting upon them. It would be just as
fair to say that the Irving-Torry company, now
on its way home, was a company of amateurs.
In this instanoe, however, “ Pen.” has had the luck
to hit upon a growl that is simply unanswerable.
It would be ridiculous to attempt to argue that
“6ur Boys’’are not to all intents and purposes
professional cricketers.
The pestponed seoond race meeting of the
New South Wales Cyolist's Union came off on the
Association Ground, on Saturday last, and judging
from the large and enthusiastic assemblage that
put in an appearance, it may safely be said bicycle
racing has become a favourite sport with the
Sydney people. The arrangements were admir-
ably carried out by the officers, tne races were
started well to time, and the afternoon passed off
without a hitch. The event of the day was the
Five Miles Championship, for which the five
entries on the card put in an appearance.
Ferguson and Hassall, who would have shown
much better taste had they remained amongst the
spectators, soon retired from the contest, and
Thurlow made the runniog, with Lee lying second
and Wood third. This order was maintained until
nearly the nineteenth lap had been covered, when
Lee, riding in splendid form, shot past Thurlow
and ran away from his men as if they had been
anchored, wood went past Thurlow, but had no
show with the champion, who won by any distance
he chose in 19min. 35sec. Great things were ex-
pected of Hassall. who brings with him a big repu-
tation from England, but if his riding on Saturdav
was any specimen of the manner in which
champion races are worked in England, it
would not have been any considerable loss
to cycling circles if he had remained the
other side of the briny. The mile maiden
bicycle race fell to F. J. Passauin. R Shute (15
yards) was fairly thrown in for the Cyclists quar-
ter-mile foot-race. E. Timewell, from scratch,
made a clever win of the mile bike handicap, with-
out using handles. The mile bicycle handicap
resulted in a dead heat between Lambton and
Hamilton. L. Max-tin (50 yards) won the Liliputian
half-mile, during the running for which a sturdy
little fellow, T. Watson, came to grief, but nothing
daunted quickly remounted and went on to the
finish. The open 150-yards handicap was carried
off by F. H. Daley (3 yards). A. Henry (8 yards)
made a win of the open quarter-mile foot-race.
The mile bicycle handicap fell to J.B. Wellings
(260 yards); and the medley race was won by R.
Shute, The parade was really a pretty sight, and,
although the Sydneys made the better show
numerically by 26 to 23, the Suburbans most
decidedly took the cake with their handsome and
sensible uniform.
Thomas D. Jennings, a Hobart publican,
weighs 82Hj stone, is 5 feet 10 inches in height, and
measures 5 feet 8 inches round the chest, 7 feet 10
inches round the waist, and 20M inches round the
calf. When he goes to the Theatre Royal in
Hobart both folding doors have to be thrown
open to admit of his passage and he generally has
to pay for a whole row of seats, if the house is
crowded. He is a Yorkshireman, 60 years of age,
and perfectly healthy. He eats but two meals a
day, drinks very little, and contemplates matri-
mony again, his first wife having died some years
back. He was never sick but onoe when he had
the measles and he was so big then that the disease
was like an epidemic In the community. He is
now thinking of getting a patent on himself as a
stump extractor. He has got a lever, a jack and
a log chain. After fastening the lever to
the stump and adjusting the jack, all he has
to do is to climb up on the handle of the
lever, and the stump comes out like a four-
prong tooth under the inspiration of a ‘ turn-key.
For several years he never went out of doors.
This was when he was growing. When he did
finally attempt to take an airing, they had to knock
the side of his house out to let him through. He
is the sort of man we should like for a partner on
a tricycle if the frost was particularly keen, and
we had our summer clothes on. The tailor who
supplies him says that it takes more cloth to cover
him than would make a tent for a side-show or a
dress for a woman; and when he sits down, there
is nothing less sturdy than a butcher’s block upon
whose safety the onlookers feel like betting. He
expects to die some day, and has purchased »n
acre of land in the local cemetery, where, for the
past two years, he has had three men at work ex-
cavating. His friends are now negotiating with
the owners of the Great Eastern, as they think it
would be cheaper to buy that for him than to go
to the expense of building a coflin out of new
wood. We could tell you a lot more about him,
only we haven’t time just now; and, anyway, we
don’t want Mr. Jennings to come over here and sit
down on us. Besides, if he should step on the
shore of this island anywhere, the blamed thing
might tip up and spill us.
When Colonel Valentine Baker got into
his little trouble in 1875, the Tenth Hussars was the
very “ swellest ” corps in the English Army, and
the Prince of Wales was its henorary colonel.
Baker, though a married man, and with visible
grey in his long drooping moustache, was just the
type of man described so often by “ Ouida ’’—her
Bertie Ceoil, for example—and retained good looks
and graces of manner that made him a ladies’
favourite. Now, Baker was convicted, after *» fair
and oareful trial, on strong evidence; but there
are two sides to any incident, and, while there is
the remotest possibility of bis being less heinous
than the jury decided, we think a few words about
Miss Dickinson not out of place. She was a great
beauty at the time, and, as blondes were then all
the rage and she was a splendid sample, her fame
was well spread; she herself was by no means un-
known at garrison balls where officers resort, and
her golden hair and blue eyes were set off by a
figure that might have been a sculptor’s model.
Nor was her dress on that particular occasion
calculated to hide it; a short blue serge skirt,
whioh fitted like a glove—for it was the zenith of
the pullback era—lndicated that her form was not
encumbered with superfluous under - raiment,
while its scantness below allowed to be seen, not
only the daintiest tiny boots, but a clear seotion
of golden-olocked blue silk stockings to match.
A jaunty blue hat, and a strip of blue lace,
that was only an excuse for a veil, justi-
fied the remark, perhaps, of one of the
erring colonel's brother officers: It the judge
had seen her then, perhaps he wouldn't
have been so hard on Baker.” And it is lair
to say that the blue-serged beauty was not
generally credited by those who knew her with
troublesome bashfulness. The story of what
occurred in the carriage is well known—we fold
it a week or two ago—and when the train arrived
at a station, the golden-haired divinity, her blue
eyes dim with tears, and her dainty bosom jerking
with sobs, told her tale, the handsome, amatory
1 colonel was taken into custody, and Mies Diokin-
son telegraphed for her pa. At the trial, Baker
simply denied “intent,” said nothing about the
lady’s character, and submitted in silence to his
sentence. It was; one year in Maidstone gaol,
£5OO fine, and to be dismissed the army, in which
his commission was worth £6000; and ho was of
course expelled from every club. Miss Dickinson
visited the Queen by request, and was considers-
bly petted. Yet, strange to say, the affronted
young lady did not become a heroine, for, though
Baker, neither at trial nor elsewhere, said aught
of her character, it was whispered—and most by
those who knew her best—that Miss D. had not
been totally indifferent to the distinguished
offloer’s admiration, rather warmly expressed, be-
fore they fell out—or rather before she fell out of
the carriage. As a frequenter of officers balls in
garrison towns, &c., she was nostranger to Baker s
name, fame, or fascinations. It was even suggested
that the ankle-grasping episode was a rather
natural result of the combined temptations of the
golden-olocked blue silk stockings, and a naive
request from their owner that the colonel would
oblige by buttoning her boot. It is, of course, no
seoret that Valentine had given evidence of giddy
proclivities before* and he was not a stranger to
ladies’ boudoirs. The matter may be summed up
somehow thus; if less had been whispered of the
ladv. we should be more satisfied that the colonel
had been naughty; and if not quite so much were
known about the colonel, we would be a little
surer that the lady wasn’t at all forward.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Gunnedah oricketing season con-
cluded with a victory by the Wolseley Park C.C.
over the Gunnedah-Namoi United, with ten
wiokets and two runs to spare—A. C. Walker
recently rode from Bingerato Bundabcrg, 13 miles,
in the stated time of 37 minutes. He rode to give
notice of a murder to the polioe. Ihe coit he rode
is a Fenman New Zealand jockey, li. Derritt,
intends riding this year in Australia. ..The well-
known N.Z. stud horse Cassivelaunus has been
shipped to Melbourne . It was the Murrurundi
footballers who defeated the Gunnedah players in
a recent match, and not vice versa as stated by us
in a late issue. A return match booked for Saturday.
.. Sting goes to India. Masquerade and Steersman
have gone... Jockey Riley has been engaged for
Mauritius ...Says “ Augur,” in the Austral-
asian:—“A visitor from Mauritius informs me that
Linda and The Drummer arrived safely at Port
Louis, and created quite a sensation there. My in-
formant also states that the entries for the Maiden
Plate of 4000 rupees, open to all horses who have
never won a race, will be Valentine, syrs, Bst. 81b.;
The Drummer, syrs., Bst. 81b.; Linda, syrs.. Bst, 61b.;
Little Jack, 4yrs., Bst. 21b.; Dukedom, 3yrs., 7st.
71b.” At Grafton, on Friday last, Mr. Fielder’s
Falcon defeated Mr. Hayley’B Maritana, once
round the course, the former laying £26 to £2O.
Falcon won easily by two lengths.... At the Bendi-
go (V.) J.C. Winter meeting, Yarree won the
Handicap Hurdles, Egerton the Telegraph Stakes,
Chippenham the Handicap Steeplechase, Cupidon
the Ladies’ Bracelet, Ned Kelly the Selling Hurdle
Race, and the Time Handicap Trot fell to Countess
from scratch.


Invalids should drink Hooking’s aged
High-class Wines, Nature’s Stimulant. Office, 143
Pitt-Street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral deoorations. 60t Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
“ Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ante, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
The potter’s trade has attained a wonder-
ful degree of excellence of late years, since the
enterprise of manufacturers has made the arts and
sciences subservient to the wants of the age. A
few years ago it was only the rich man who could
use the delicate chinaware \ the poor man must
needs be content with the old brown mug and the
wooden platter. Now, everyone may have pretty
and elegant china or earthenware for daily use;
and fragile “ four o’clock tea sets,” and beautiful
wares of this description, are within reach of
everyone. The artizan may sip the beverage that
‘’cheers but not inebriates” from as delioate a
oup as his richer brother: whilst, if it be broken,
it is so cheap that it matters little. A walk through
Anthony Hordern and Sons’ crockery department
at the Palace Emporium (Haymarket) will prove
the truth of all this.*
JIU
KNITUBB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY NLWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spripy street*, Sydney.
~P|~ ALL t FURNITUHE, HAT6TANDB,
OHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
end
T IBRARY FUR j NTTUReT~CENTRE and SIDE
JLI TABLES. BOOKCASEB, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
T\RAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
I _I_F taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspectioß.
WALL OABI.VUTy for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
IURNmTRE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
l MB. O Oonneh-street.
'ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITER complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
B, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-PQUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
jnd twe chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
“>N, and LAMB, O’Oonnell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40a; Wash-
stands, from 10s 8d; Tables, from 7s 8d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tobies, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 86s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
rooms.
and LAMB,
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
_ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Blaok and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handseme Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL* TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
VA Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-strect.
Kn CHAIRS, for
JCJ DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborate
upholstered In the GH~
NEVER HITHERTO
PERFECT WORKS OF ART
E
BTYLE
SYDNE _.
Inspection Invited.
RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
_ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Ices, from 13s od.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIIL
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
hpOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
JL with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
ROOM SUIT
-ROC
RLY
TEND
LIS
G DINING
— TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered In Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
itNlflfG TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
HAMMOCK CfiAII.-
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JD TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS ana Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADB, nickel-plated and blaok and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
lowest rates.
and LAMB, O’Con-
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble. 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20e: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAIV LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, le* eat prices.
SOCIATY
We suppose a marriage may be fairly
called a “ noose ” item. A few days ago, Mr. C. K.
Ferguson and Miss Isabella Ford, both of Cobar,
started to ford the matrimonial stream together.
A large cavalcade of friends watched the Rev. T.
Dunstan start them off in the Church of England,
and the bride wore white satin-: her ohief maid,
Miss Ferguson, pale blue; and the other six
charming assistants patronised pink and cream.
Fifty enjovod the dejeuner at the residence of the
bride's parents; and a pleasant drive to The Peak
was followed by a ball at night, thus bringing
matters up to the honeymoon stage, whore the
curtain drops.
. m m
The first Dubbo Winter Party took place
in the Masonic Hall on 20th Inst. Among the nice
toilettes, pink veiling and broche looked admirable
as worn by Mrs Booth; Miss Butler donned
oardinal silk and Madras muslin, which suited her
fair face to perfection; Miss Smith tried pink silk
and Madras muslin effectively: and mauve nun’s
veiling and lace suited Miss Emily Brown. A soft
pink material was beautifully adapted to set off
the petite figure of Mrs. (Dr.) Warren; and a
surveyor’s wife selected black with charming
result. Dancing was maintained till 4 aim., when
all went home well satisfied.
• • •
On the 17th, a good ooncert at Narandera
was held in aid of St. Bridget’s Church, and the
amateur genius of the town was assisted by the
Narandera Brass Band. The song of the evening
was Mr. M. Donnellan’s comic effort, “That’s
what the girl would say,” and it would have done
him good to hear what the girls did say. It oftm
does men good to hear what people say. Miss
Wilson sang “ Sitting on the style,” in a style that
made it pretty clear she had sat there herself; and
Mr. Tevelein, in “Lot me like a soldier fall,” ap-
fearod to fall flat. Other performers were Misses
’limrose, Cooney, Kelly, and Messrs. Devlin,
Bowes. Lynch, &o. A farce ended the perform-
ance, “Turn Him Out,” but it wasn’t necessary to
do it to any of the audience. They went willingly.
• ♦ *
The splendid attendance at the Cyolists’
Union meeting was worthy of better races. Per-
haps the wretched weather on Queen’s Birthday
had putthe bicyclists “off their wheels,” but what-
ever reason caused it, the faot remains that very
poor fields started in the races, and, except in the
last race between Hamilton and Lambton (dead
heat), there was not a close finish all through, j
C. R. Wood won his heat in the one-mile handioap, i
but could not get up in the run-off. The double
tricycle race was a walk-over for Moyse and
Hamilton; and only two competed in the one-
mile running (with machine) and riding race
(alternate quarters of mile). It was a gift to Shute,
though Rugg upheld the credit of the Redferns by
his plucky struggle. In the great event of the
day (Five-Mile Championship of N.S.W.), no one
had a chance against the incomparable Lee. It
was simply a procession from beginning to end;
Thurlow patiently peddled away in front—keeping
there just because no one would be obliging enough
to go past him; next came Lee. who never goes
first; and third was C. R. Wood, evidently
determined to “ tail ” Lee, as Lee had decided to
“ tail ” Thurlow. The English rider, Hass&li (to
whom, we observed, Bennett had kindly lent his
old gold unmentionables), was notin form, and re-
tired from the contest ; while any chance Fer-
guson had was spoiled by the tire coming off his
wheel. In the twentieth lap, Lee put on one of
his splendid spurts, and the race was dene. There
was quite a buzz of interest, as five small boys
mounted for their half-mile run, which was won
by the limit "man,” who received 50 yards, L.
Martin. The parade at 4 o’clock comprised about
130 riders, led by the Sydneys, as the oldest club,
and tailed by the Suburbans, Burwoods, Redferns,
Balmains, Wanderers, Orientals, Sydney Tricycles,
Unattached, and Youngsters. A more charming
show has seldom been seen on the lawn than on
Saturday afternoon, and the fine weather en-
couraged a display of toilette! that were as varied
in colour and style as tuey were rioh in
material. Velvets and satins, plush and broche
were seen all round ; these, of course,
do not admit of such ample treatment in
draping as the summer fabrios of a few months
ago, and startling curves were not aggressively
displayed. Promenades were not so plentiful in
the afternoon as later on; and so, when anything
particularly conspicuous appeared, the wearer at
one© became a centre of observation anw criticisni.
One of these conspicuities was of rich striped
plush in various grades of violet, which changed
its colour chameleon-like while under the gaze.
But its owner didn’t. A lily-like girl was a vision
in white, as fair as snow in the sunshine; a grace-
ful lady wore a silk of myrtle green, the loose
bodice gathered into a Swiss centre, that was
quite unltko any other dress, and a lesson to lady
students in the school of simplicity ; a little
brunette sparkled in the most delightful of corn-
flower blues. Now and then a johnny would go
by more perfectly dudesque than common, with
the ah-yah gabble tripping off his tongue, and
slender cane fondled exactly in the middle; but
suoh were scarce, they pined for connianions. and
lacked that air of complacent self-satisfaction
which the johnnies assume when a number of
them afford by their presence moral support to
one another. A passing reference is enough to
indicate that a few wore there, but only a
few. The music of tho Naval Brigade Band was,
as everybody remarked, extremely pretty, and the
programme a good popular one, no less than five
of the pieces being compositions of Mr. J. Devlin,
the bandmaster.
• • •
On the day sacred to Frea, the daughter
of the god of the wind and seas, and mother of the
mighty Thor—on Friday, in fact—the Scandina-
vians held their ball. Hitherto it has been a small
and almost private gathering, but last 1? rea s day
the goddess of love, and hope, and pleasure smiled
on a more ambitious revelry than the sons and
daughters of the icy North have yet ventured
upon. It was a plain and fancy ball, in Tattersall s
building, some of the fancy costumes being more
than ordinarily pretty; and it was due to Mr.
Miller, who was M.C., general manager, and the
soul of the party, that the ball was an entire suc-
cess. Shapter’s band of four provided capital
music, and when the supper was attacked at mid-
night, a special interval was allowed on the pro-
gramme for the purpose. Not being a frigidly
formal affair, mere ceremony did not stand in the
way of acquaintanceship; Mr. Miller introduced,
when required, those ho knew and some he didn t
know; but. as he very intelligently observed, he
couldn’t possibly introduce everybody to every-
body. He further pointed out that a young
gentleman with a faint heart would haveth<a poor-
est chance of winning a fair lady; so some of the
brave cavaliers acted on this practical hint* and
found it possible by adopting a very polite line of
policy to successfully attack the fair ones even
without an introduction. At any rate, there were
no wallflowers. Among the company, which
numbered about eighty, were Sailors and Cricket-
ers, Soldiers and Brigands as usual, an America,
Flower Girl, Folly, Ruth, Spanish Girl. Cantlnlere,
Highland Lassies, and so on. But different from
all and dainty as maidenhood could be, were two
little Danish Skaters-sisters In their early teens,
with a tinge of pretty shyness that drooped the
lashes now and then oyer their bright young eyes.
Costumes of black velvet, short bunched skirts,
and round velvet hata; shoes, stockings, and gloves
also black; and white swansdown edging to
basque and neck of bodice, round tho skirt and
short sleeveß and round the top of gloves and
shoes. Red Riding Hood was there, uot in the
frock which all authentic historians have ascribed
to her, but in green sateen; and the red riding-
hood” was ail she depended on for a likeness to the
maiden of old who got her grandma and the wolf
mixed up with such disastrous results. And
there was a Sailor Lass with a saucy eye, and
a weakness—most girls have it for a “buoy”
her side. Bunthorne brought Patience,
who was a crack dancer, and Patience brought
her tub, which she carefully nut out of
■ e ™ way . wl) ile she devoted herself to school-
ing Bunthorne in the steps. But in spite of all her
patience and efforts, Bunthorne seemed deficient
in caper-bility, and was very uncertain where the
hop came in in the mazurka. A remarkable
character was all in white, with coat buttons the
size of saucers and a hat with wings at the sides,
and he may have been a Norwegian baker. But
as he did not have a very intellectual appearance,
it is more probable he was a member or the Scan-
dinavian Parliament. Some evening toilettes were
in good taste, and handsome. With plenty of ven-
tilation, the room was easily kept at a comfortable
temperature; while in the adjoining flat off the
supper room, where carriages are stored behind
the hangings, there was plenty of space to pro-
menade, or to stroll off and—look at the buggies.
* * *
A large number of complimentary invita-
tions having been sent out, the Mercantile Row-
ing Club expect to have a good company of guests
at the opening of their Blandsviile Branch
establishment on Saturday. There will be a pro-
cession of boats from Dawes Point, and the
steamers Alathea and Petrel will start from Ciroular
Quay at 2 o'clock sharp to follow the boats. If the
weather is fine, the show of toilettes ought to be
something worth seeing, as crowds of ladies will
go for the afternoon’s pleasant outing, and there
will, moreover, be the additional attraction of a
band on board. After Alderman Playfair has per-
formed the opening ceremony, there will be re-
freshments for all, and then an early start for
home. Next Thursday, the Club’s ninth annual
ball occurs in the Exhibition, and its popularity
has already caused most of the tickets fo be taken
up. Programmes, as usual, are specially designed
at Sands s in glowing colours. A newly planed
floor, and music by the Young Australian Band
will ensure enjoyment for the dancers; and for the
benefit of the girls whose mamas won’t let them
cance, or who haven’t a new dress ready, we may
state that tiokets are issued at a small prioe for the
gallery, from whioh plaoe they can watch the
gyrations of the mashers and the maids in the i
mazy waltz below. I
* * *
Lord Loftus will hold a levee at Govern-
ment House on Saturday next, 28th June, com-
mencing at 3 p.m.
* * m
A pretty wedding took place at the Scots
Churoh, Church Hill, on the 19th inst.. when Mr.
Allison was united to Miss Groig, wno wore a
cream cashmere robe, nicely trimmed with broche
silk and eidelwelss laoe, wreath and veil to match.
Four bridesmaids were dressed in cream veiling,
trimmed with eardinal, and dark wreaths to
match, and each carried a basket of flowers. The
bride's mother’s toilette was black silk, and steel-
ooloured bonnet, ornamented with ruby. Among
the pretty dresses seen in church were a little
lady’s electric blue cashmere, trimmed with broche
and decked with a bunch of violets and roses
at the neck; a dark ruby, trimmed with broche
silk and cream laoe, pink rosses at aeok, worn by
a Windsor lady; elephant's breath cashmere, worn
by two sisters, and the hat to match relieved
with pink, suiting the costume admirably. A
blaok velvet and old gold was handsome, but
sombre A Wynyard-square lady wore red and
blue-shot silk, bonnet to match, looking hand-
same. Very enticing was a lady in a slate dress,
draped from the neck to the waist, with a bunch
of violets and snowdrops at each end of the drape,
and a steel-coloured hat with lavender flowers. A
dark-green silk, with white hat, trimmed with
groen velvet and pink tips, was also noticeable.
After the ceremony, the bridal party adjourned
to the Protestant Hall for breakfast, where the
usual pleasantries were Indulged, in the shape of
gastronomical and oratorical feats. Honeymoon
bliss commenced on the Blue Mountains. In the
evening a party of some eighty guests oarried on
the hymeneal byginx in a hearty manner, a string
band being provided for dancing, and it was about
2 o’clock before the party broke up, and the un-
blessed girls retired to dream of similar perform-
ances in future, in which they would take a more
important part.
• • •
One generation passeth away and another
cometh ; and the attainment of& new generation
was celebrated at “ Fairmount, Ashfleid. on Mon-
day night by Mr. Robert Hudson, who entertained
a large party of frionds to mark the coming of age
of his eldest son. There was a crowd of nice girls,
well-dressed and happy creatures, and the young
gentleman who has just come into his heritage of
manhood must have been an envied man—a per-
fect Bunthorne amongst a bevy of possible brides.
“Hudson BrotherT’fwho are by no means “limited”
in a domestic sense) have become a household
word in the industries of the colony, and it is
hoped the new generation will be as persevering
and successful as the “ boys of the old brigade.
The fine ball-room attached to Fairmount was
well thronged by friends from the immediate
suburbs ana from town, and dancing was well kept
up throughout the night. At 10 o’clock an adjourn-
ment to supper was made, and several appropriate
speeches and toasts did honour to the oocaslon;
and, after all was over, a speoial carriage at 4 a.m.
conveyed oity folks back to their homes.
* * *
“ Atherfleld,” Darling Point, was the
Beene of a most enjoyable dramatic and social
evening, on the 17th Instant, and a number of
beautiful and clever young people were the
dramatis peraoncc who rendered it so. Some three
soore accepted invitations, and the theatricals,
rehearsed actively for weeks past, were really
excellent. The comedy of “Perfection, or the
Maid of Munster,” was enacted by the following:
the eldest daughter of a Darling Point doctor
assumed the title role, and her sister was Bir
Laurence Paragon. How she did it, and so well,
was one of those mysteries with whioh female
genius so often surprises admiring man; bu,t the
fact of many asking eagerly who the gentleman
was, and being for a long time undeceived, shows
how admirable must have been the make-up and
manners of the lady Sir Laurence. A young legal
gentleman appeared as Charles Paragon; the new
Yass medico was Sam; and a Burwood brunette
(lato of Newcastle) took the part of Susan—it
would be a left-hand compliment to say naturally
—we will say prettily. Kate O’Brien was all
smiles, and happy throughout, perhaps too happy
for a girl who was practising naughty deception
throughout in suoh an irresistible way. Many a
young bachelor present envied Sam his love-mak-
ing with Susan. The lady prompter was most
attentive to her pupils, and theirsuooess rewarded
her. At half-past nine the rooms were cleared,
and four hours irivolled away in the delights of
dancing.
• • •
Notwithstanding the inclement weather,
about forty ladies attended the Mercantile Quad-
rille Assembly at Orange on Thursday last, who
witb a similar number of the Morcantilers, in-
dulged in the light fantastic until the witcning
hi ur. The majority of the ladies were evidently
affected by the weather, as most wore sombre
dresses of black, prune, navy, or cardinal, from
tbe midst of whom shone out conspicuously those
damsels who were “robed in light.” Byng-street
again claimed the belle, in a little oharmer in a
warm-ooloured satin, while Summer-street sent
a stately blonde in cream, enlivened with
peacock-blue satin. The .wife of a lead-
ing builder, with her sister from the City
of the Plains, looked nice; as did also a pretty
blonde from Sale-street. Two sisters from Lord-
street, one in white, the other in black cashmere,
danced divinely; while a charming brunette from
the Coal City had many admirers. A bride in fawn,
and a March-street damsel in black nun’s veiling,
trimmed with satin, were attractive. Two sisters
in navy-blue silk were oonspieuous for splendid
dancing. The daughters of the head school teaeher
had numerous suitors, while No. 12 contributed a
quartette, one standing in bold relief attired in a
handsome and fashionable dress of blaok satin.
Refreshments, and music better; on the whole, a
successful gathering.
Roller-skating was always a favourite
pastime of residents ef the Eastern suburbs, and
for years it was carried on there with more
vigour than in any other suburb, but the want of
a deeent-sized hall was such a drawbaok that last
year it was allowed to drop. Since then, however,
the St. Matthias’ Hall has been built, which is very
large, and with a splendid floor, neither too hard
nor soft. So the Eastern suburbs have gone baok
to their old love, and last Monday the Woollahra
Private Rinking Club started its rambling career in
the new hall. The rink is under a committee, and the
season will Jast 13 weeks, or longer, if thought
necessary. As many ladles as gentlemen were
present, and for nearly three hours they rolled
along with more or less grace or unsteadiness,
according to their profloleney on the precarious
wheels. All were delighted with the floor, whioh
is not only large enough to allow of getting up
speed, but affords plenty of room in the centre for
fancy work. Rinking is about the warmest thing
out, and so, come what weather may, the Wool-
lahra Club loeks forward to keeping the cold out
«uriDg the winter evenings.
** * m
On the 22nd July a Masonio social Is to be
held by the members (and their friends) of Lodge
Fidelity, No. 1979, E.C. It will bo In the York-
street Masonio Hall, and they intend to make it a
thoroughly pleasant one,What eolour would
you call that?” said Charles, at the sports
on Saturday, as the striped dress swung by.
Must be crushed tiger,” responded Adolphus,
too loudly. And the lively owner, who looked
round, closed the conversation by what sounded
like a wish to see the colour of a crushed dude....
After a day’s trouble at Llsmore, during whioh
the whole inhabitants marched about, and shouted
and fed, to commemorate the opening of the
Fawcett Bridge,” the gush wound up with a ball
on Friday evening last, whioh was fairly attended.
....Last week Madame Marius and Miss Eva
Thompson organised a concert for the patients
at the Insane Hospital, Gladesvilie, and with the
assistance of other volunteers, gave a good even-
ing’s entertainment Social assemblies will be
held at Tattersall’s Hall on Friday, June 27; at
Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, on July 4; at Glebe
Town Hall on July 7.. Last Wednesday a banquet
and ball was held by the Oddfellows in the Masonio
Hall in connection with the Grand Master’s
Chapter. A good supp9r, a few toasts, and
then the floor was devoted to dancing, with
an occasional interval for the melodious voices
of the brethren to be heard in song
Ladies’ Baths to be built at Manly for next sum-
mer.... On the 3rd July, the Glen Innes people
compliment their Mayor by a ball The Munici-
pal Council of Randwiok presented an address to
Mr. 8. H. Pearce (who was first Mayor in 1858),
consequent on his resigning through ill health;
and they enjoyed an evening's hospitality at his
residence, Blenheim—Bazaar at Bt. John’s Pres-
byterian Churoh, Paddington, opens next Wednes-
day afternoon—Royal Society’s annual conver-
sazione took place in the Elizabeth-street rooms
on the 17th last. Only gentlemen present An
opening railway ball is to be held at Jerilderie in
July or August —Commercial Rowing Club at
Brisbane expect to have Hanlan at their annual
ball, next month... .Spelling Bee revived at Pater-
son, by tho local School of Arts, a few days ago.
Only seven contested for all-comers’ prize, won by
a lady. Miss Doust....On the 16th June, Hanlan
gladdened the Melbourne girls by appearing (with
Edwards) at the City Rowing Club’s soolal party ...
Sir William and Lady Jervois, having visited
Auckland, gave a ball, at whioh some of the ladies
were so anxious to shine that they arrived nearly
an hour before the time they were invited for, and
there was no one to receive them. The ball was
ohiefly remarkable for the great number of big
boys who were at it, and the desperate soheming
for invitations by those who wanted to get to it
The steamer Leura having, through the good
fortune whioh befell a lady on board, landed one
more passenger than she took from Bydney, a
Brisbane paper naively announces that “this
steamer has now established another claim to the
patronage of ladies in an interesting condition.”
Foundation-stone of Masonio Hall to be laid at
North Shore on Saturday, July 6, with Masonio
honours. Banquet afterwards Bathurst pos-
sesses a flourishing sooial club, as well as a gymna-
sium, to help the winter nights through Sydney
Grammar School boys performed Greek drama to
a large complimentary audience on Friday night.
The visit of His Excellency Sir Anthony Mus-
grave to North Queensland caused great festivi-
ties. A largo ball was held in Townsville Bohool
of Arts, and banquets galore were given. At
Cooktown, there was a levee of the eilite, when
nearly thirty people were presented, and one indi-
vidual, whose name the equerry seemed unable to
get, was introduced as “ the sugar man from the
Bloomfield River.” The Governor suggested that
Queensland should erect a monument to Captain
Cook, on the spot where he had landed, and tho
circumstances of Mrs. Watson’s death were nar-
rated to him. Her monument is still unbuilt
Pupils of Miss M. Smith, head-mistress, Kedfern
Publio School, gave her wedding presents last
Thursday The MUndooran Bachelors’ Ball took
Slaoe last Friday. About 20 oouples mustered in
[r. E. Lucas’s large room, and a fine supper was
served by Mrs. Lucas in a marquee outside.
Dancing was kept up all night, and the belle was a
modest little maiden in black sateen and tarletan
trimmed with cardinal.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Squib Could not give so much space.
“ Cobar”: Thank you; brevity is our forte.
“ Enthusiast ”: No, we cannot verbally describe to
you the New Waltz, nor the Military, the
Boston Glide, the English Slow, the Lurch, the
Kensington, or any other waltz that goes by
any other fantastic name. The principal thing
in waltzing is to keep time to the musio, and
not to maim more people than you can help.
There are really but two styles of waltzing
worth troubling about; good and bad. The
bad is the most popular.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale)..—June 27.
Burwood Private Assembly........ ....a ..June 27.
Governor’s Levee.; .......June 28.
Opening M.R.C. Braaoh Club House June 28.
Sydney Lyceum Festival opens (West’s
Rooms) June 28.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition).... July 3.
American Celebration July 4.
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms).. July 11.
Sydney Thistle Club’s Annual Ball (New
Masonic Hall) : July 18.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....July 18.
Social of Fidelity Lodge, E.C. (Old Masonic
Hall) July 22.


s
UNDAY AFTERNOON
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banka Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday. y
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIM’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand plano-
foite from the establishment of Nioholsen and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
IN
STORED
RE
KS
O?Ri6ORfI?S
m
fM
ESSENCK© f UFE
e only infallible remedy for
//e syb ifs JjEßiLiyif
I
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is onelor
365.; if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 24th June, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing: Public Works and [Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
, Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Hoard have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Additions, &c., Steamers’ Wharf
Newcastle
Iron Drawbridge with timber
approach, span over Erica
Creek at East Uoeford
Erection of Lockup, Milltown
Erecting’ Overbridge at Goul-
burn Railway Station
Erecting Hate-house, Sheep and
Cattle Yards, at Glenooe, G.N.
Railway
Erecting Post and Telegraph
Office, Paddington
Erection of Porter's House,Mac-
donald River, G.N. Railway
Construction of Ash-pits Eve-
leigh |
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Cobar
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, TJrails
Additions to Quarters, Gobby’s
Lighthouse, Newcastle
Construction of Machinery,
Shafting, &c., Government
Printing Office
Erecting Station Buildings Jeril-
derie
Laying on Water and Gas, and
repairs to the Protestant Or-
phan School, Parramatta
Supply and Erection of Three
Iron Goods Sheds, Circular
Quay
Masonry Dam across Nepean
River, Sydney Water Supply |
Erection of Closets, Sheds, &c., i
Lunatic Asylum, Parramatta
Bridge over Sandy Creek, roa-1 |
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Stoney Creek, road
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Double Creek, road I
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Sandy Creek, road
DuDbo to Cobborah
Tuesday,
Ist July,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
Btk July,
at 8 o’clock.
OXYGEN IS LIFE! — Dr. Bright’s Pho
phodynk Remedy for Indigestion, Nervoi
xieDility, Liver Complaints, Female Complaint
Lassitude, Loss of Power, Mental and Phyeici
Depression, Decline, and all Functional Derangi
ments. Thoroughly recruits and re-establishc
Health. Highly recommended by the Medici
Faculty. S3T CAUTION.-The indubitable pro!
of the great value of Dr. Bright’s (the onl
genuine) Phosphodyne is the various worth lei
imitations which are being made up. Therefor
ask tor Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne and refuse usi
less and possibly Dangerous Substitutes. Wholi
sale Agents for Sydney: Elliott Brothers.*
W
Office,
ASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empt;
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, BuLLETii
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL
THE NINTH ANNUAL BALL,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
tar THURSDAY, JULY 3rd,
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Worship the Mayor,
JOHN HARDIE, ESQ.,
and
THE MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
EVENING DRESS.
Refreshments by Mr Thos. Cripps. Decorations
by Messrs. Sale and Dare. Band: The Young
Australian.
Stewards:
Hon. F. A. Wright
Hon. W. J. Trickett
Hon G. R. Dibbs
Hon. Wm, Laidley
Sir P A. Jennings
Captain J. G. Barron
Carl S ibl, Esq.
Charles Pearse, Esq.
George Munro, Esq.
J. B. Holdsworth, Esq.
C. J. Roberts, Esq M.L.A.
G. N. Griffiths, Esq. M.L A.
John See, Keq. M.L.A.
John Harris, Esq. M.L.A.
R. G. Vallack. Esq.
John Hinchliffe, Esq.
T. K. A lit. Esq.
R. Fowler, Esq.
R. Sands, Esq.
Tickets: Double, 30a.; Gentlemen’s. 205.; Ladies,
12s. sd. ; may be obtained from the Stewards and
members of the Committeo, and the following
warehouses:—Messrs. Peapeg and Shaw, Thomp-
son and Giles, Paling and Co., E. Cantor, R. Sands,
J. M. Ellereamp, Hordern Bros., Farmer and Co.,
A. Huenerbein, Searl an 1 Son, W. H. Wyatt, Elvy
and Co., and J. B. Holdsworth. Visitors’ Tickets
for Gallery obtainable from Messrs. E. Cantor,
King-street, and J. M. Ellereamp, Hunter-street.
D. MURRAY, ) Joint
'w. A. BLACKSTONE, f Hon Secs.
R. A. KEUDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
Coolalta Wine Cellars, Mort’s Passage
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th June, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for Additions to
the Pennant Hills Public School.
Plans and Specillcations may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Publio Instruction. Sydney.
Tenders, oudorsed “ Fresh Tender for Additions
to the Pennant Hills Publio School,’' must be
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary. Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, 7th July, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
FRIDAY, 11th JULY,
Day after the O.R. J. Club’s Annual ltaoes.
Holmsten’s
FAMILY HOTEL,
VICTORIA-STREET, GRAFTON.
The Premier Hotel on the Clarence.
JOHN H. MUNRO has received instructions
from Mr. J. A. lIOLMSTEN, to sell by publlo
auction, at his Rooms, the Colonnade, Gratton.
On FRIDAY, 11th July next
(the day after the C. R. J. Club’s Annual Races),
at 11 o'clock,
All those GRAND HOTEL PREMISES, so long
and favourably known as
Holmsten’s Family Hotel,
situated in the business centre of the city, and
having 99 feet frontage to Victoria-street, by a
depth of feet to Wharf-street, being
bounded on the back by Victoria Lane, and
containing perches, more or less; being
subdivisions 7 and 8 of section 2 of original al-
lotment 6 of section 3, city of Grafton, parish
of Great Marlow.
The Hotel premises are very substantially built
of BRICK (on stone foundations), Two Stories in
height, with Attics extra, and very HIGHLY
FINISHED. Containing a Drawing-room, 13 Bed-
rooms; large Dining Room, 43 x Yty* feet, with
folding doors; Bar Parlour, small Pariour, Hall (8
feet wide); extensive Cellars; and Balcony (12 feet
wide) round two sides; also. Verandah at back; 4
Servants' Rooms, Pantry, Kitchen, Laundry, Bath
Rooms, large Billiard Room, 2 large Commercial
Sample Rooms, large Yard, Harness Room; Sta-
bling, having 4 loose boxes 10 x 14, with extensive
loft accommodation; and every other convenience
for carrying on a first-class Hotel business.
The trade done at this House is probably the
largest on the Clarence, as it is situated right in
the centre of the traffic, and also close to the C.
and R. R.S. N. Company’s Wharf, where the ocean
steamers lie. It also commands the passenger
traffic by the river steamers—a very large trade
indeed—and is one of the oldest established Hoteis
in the district. The only reason the proprietor
has for disposing of it is that he has secured a com-
petency, and wishes to retire from business.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS’,
Ami the Term* will be
One-third, Cash; balance in equal amounts, at 1,2,
3, and 4 years’ date, bearing 8 per cent, interest,
and secured upon the property.
Fuller particulars can be obtained upon applies,
tion to the Auctioneer, and anyone wishing to in-
spect will be shown over the premises, and afforded
the fullest information.
Remember—FßlDAY, 11th July.
JOHN H. MUNRO, Auctioneer,
Grafton and Casino.
Rudge Bicycles and Coventry Rotary Tricycles.
"R I ® 9 , the J ery style-, and fitted with adjustable Ball Bearings to Both
Sety Siindries of all descriptions! 11 10 Gulnea '- Boy8 ’ BioycleB and Juvenile Tricycles in great
The Coventry Convertible Tricycle.— This machine
can be converted into a Double or Single Tricycle, perfect
m every respect, in less than 40 seconds.
JIBAOiS. Y a IBM?
By this means, the machine can be used by one or two
riders; and, as it is when single only 29 inches in width, it
can be taken through any doorway.
J. PIIIZACKERLEY, Sydney Cycle Depot,
61 DRUITT STREET (near Town Hall).
N.B.—Ropaira executed, on most reasonable terms, by English workmen.
m
uiuiiiiiiii
Hli
H-
uii
a
a
%
View off the Extensive Brewery of ANHEUSER-BUSCH, St. Louis, U.S.A.
THIS BEER was awarded a GOLD MEDAL at the Amsterdam Exhibition against 73 competitors ; also, GOLD MEDALS at the Paris, London and
Philadelphia Exhibitions, where it was pronounced to be the BEST LAGAR BEER brewed in the world. We will guarantee it free from all
adulterations, and is highly recommended by the medical faculty to invalids who require a pure and strengthening tonic. Sold by all wholesale Wine
and Spirit Merchants throughout Australia.
Sole Agents-J. W. BUTCHER & CO., Sydney.
A Yarn with Hanlan.
We went to see Hanlan, the other day»
just after his return from Melbourne, and had a
chat with him about his colonial experience and
a few other matters of interest only to ourselves.
We found him domiciled at Mr. T. M. Alcock’s, the
Haymarket jeweller, in George-street. •* Well,
What sort of time have you been haviDg since you
left Sydney?” we enquired. “Very pleasant, I
can assure you,” said the champion; “Mr. Alcock
went over to Melbourne with me, as you know,
and we had any amount of fun on the way. Before
the train had stopped at half-a-dozen stations, we
began to discover that the people were taking
Tom for me, so I hung back and pushed him for-
ward. Tom would occasionally stand out on the
platform, and the people around would point him
out and eay, * There’s Hanlan I Why, he isn’t very
big, is he ? I’ll bet I measure more around the chest
than he does,’ and a lot of stuff like that. Then
sometimes the people would come forward to con-
gratulate him on his skill as an oarsm-tn, and Tom
would assume a sort of maiden blush that I never
oould get on my face if I practised for years.
However, he bore his honours well, and it was a
change for me. What did 1 do in Melbourue ?
Well, I gave two exhibitions on the Albert Park
Lagoon. At the first there were 12,000 people in
attendance, there being no counter-attraction, but
at the second there were only about 6000, as there
was a big football match on at the Melbourne
cricket grounds. I was handsomely treated there,
too—my reception being nearly as enthusiastic as
here.” “ Wbat is it you use to make your boat go
—have you got any contrivance in the bottom of it,
such as somelpeople think you have ?” “ Bah 1 no 1”
said the oarsman, “ the only thing that makes my
boat go, is elbow-grease, and a knowledge of how
to apply it. Such suspicions are amusing, since
I’ve got used to them. Down in Melbourne not
less than 3000 people cam© to the boat-house to in-
spect my boat, and I had to have three men con-
stantly on guard to keep it from being injured.
They even cut the canvasc, so as to see under it;
and each one wanted to touch it with his fingers.
After the Melbourne exhibitions. I went to Bal-
arat and exhibited my art to 6000 people. To-
morrow, I go to Brisbane, to row against two men
— a Mr. M’Lean, to whom I give 100 yards in two
miles, and a Mr. Miller, to whom I give 130 yards in
two miles. I’m going to get back here for the 4th
of July ball, and then I go on to Sandhurst
to give an exhibition on the lake in the park
there. The lake is about a quarter of a
mile long, I believe, and the date is fixed for July
9th. Then on my wav back to Sydney, I'm
going to stop at WaggaWagga and give them an
exhibition there. My match with Beach for £10GO
is to come off on the Parramatta River on August
16th. The distance is three miles 360 yards—from
Ryde to Three Brothers. If I win this race I am
satisfied that it will be the hardest one that I will
ever have to row. Edwards is making a new boat
for me, as the one he made me before got water-
logged in its case coming over from Melbourne on
the steamer and got “ crooked,” so I expect to
row Beach in the new one. In the States I used to
row in a Mexican cedar boat. Mexican cedar,
you know, is the wood of which cigar
boxes are generally made, but when I go home
I think I’ll get a paper boat. They are made
by Waters and Son, of Troy, New York,
while the boats I have always used previous to
this trip were made by Buddick of Boston. After
I get through with Beach, I am going over to
Wellington (N.Z.), to row a match for £400, against
a man named Hearn. How long will I be in the
colonies ? Well, I think, about a year. Then I am
going home by way of Suez Canal, and will give
exhibitions on the river Seine at Paris, and
throughout England. My arrangements have not
all been completed as yet, but that is the pro-
gramme I have mapped out for myself, and I have
no doubt it will be carried out. But, here comes
young Edwards, of Melbourne. He is going to
Brisbane with me. What do I think of him?
Well, he’s about the best man I ever saw for his
Aveight, which is lOst. 61b. He’s young yet, but
there’s mighty good material in him.” Tom
Alcock looks so much like Hanlan that you would
take them for brothers; and there is a sort of
affinity between them, as Alcock has got the
fastest trotter, he thinks, in the colony, while
Hanlan has the swiftest boat in the world.
Books ok Mining, by Mr. DeCouroy
Browne. Beresford Chambers, 52 Castiereagh-
Btreet—The “ Misers’ Handy Book,” 2nd Edition,
relates wholly to Miners’ right claims— Is. 6d.; by
I>ost, 3s. The “Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” re-
nting wholly to Mining Leases, Mineral Lioense
Holdings, and Mineral Conditional Purchases—
2s. 6d.; by post 3s. The “Manual of Minerals,”
commonly found in Australia ; how to dis-
tinguish, test, assay, and value them—ls. 6d.; by
§ost 2s. J. J. Moore and Co., 554 George-street,
ydney*


Circulars and pamphlets explanatory of
its curative properties have been translated into
all languages, and there is no portion of the world
where Wolfe’s Schnapps is not known and ap-
preciated.
Eat and Lite.— Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoifnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney,
A VISION OF JUDGMENT.
We do not think we have ever made our-
selves conspicuous by our love for the cloth. The
reason of this is such a good one that you will be
delighted when you hear it. It is that we have no
love for the cloth. Yet upon occasion we can pity
a parson or a priest even. There are cases
clever clerics are thrown away u P° n , f ? OD £ r r e) ?n'
tions of oafs. There was Sydney Smith, for in-
stance, sent away in the zenith of his fame to
stagnate among the fenß. There was that spirited
panon in Cornwall, who wrote a petition in rhyme
to his bishop, a verse of which runs:—
“ O Bishop, Master Drover!
For liberty I pine;
To Devon take me over.
I’m sick of Cornish swine!
>oa nhnut six years ago, when we were in
Knlrlapd" Wo need not refer to Pastor Allen, the
SSSuiob ot Warerley, orPeter Campbell the
Brilliant bush missionary. The examples of elo-
quent spirits exiled to barren parishes are numer-
Una ns trains of sand in restaurant sugar. But we
must -ffer our respectful sympathy to the Kev-
Amnrl W Bereflford, vicar of the ctauroh of St.
Luke In the town of Leek, in England. That pro-
found scholar was olßoiating at the funeral
of a farmer some time ago. The ooffln was
lowered down into the grave, and just then, by
thA mercv of Providence, the reverend gentleman
noticed that the feet of the corpse we.e turned to
the west Electrified with horror, he-tne clergy-
man not the corpse-immediately ordered them
♦7, take ud the coffin, and turn it the reverse way.
The unhappy ignorance of the parishioners was
then exhibited i hey remonstrated wit'i their
naatorT and pointed to the headstones around,
which were all at the east ends of the graves. But
the pastor knew his duty. He was not going to
allow t-,is fatal error to be continued, even if they
martyred h?m. He explained in feeling terms the
difficulty which would be experienced on the Day
of Resurrection if the corpse were buried other-
wise than with his feet to the east. And he carried
hisnoint Now, as this is a rather careless com-
mun.ty in matters where religious ceremonies are
concerned, we will take the trouble to explain
why it is a vital necessity for the feet of corpses
to be turned to the east. We reter to the east of
the Scriptures. Jehoshophat is in the east, and
Jehoshop iat is the place w here, as e very body
knows who knows anything, mankind will be
lii d red There will be something of a crowd there,
and-as in all such affairs-tbose who come first
will he first served, and will get a fairer hearing
thev will find the Twelve Apostles compare-
tfvely fresh. For it is extremely likely that the
Jehoshophat judges will, like our own,
waut to get home to their heavenly-
hash, and make pretty short and sharp
work of t e unfortunate sinoers who
turn up late. Then there are other
advantages to be gained by those
who come early. They will be able
to got good seats for the show, and
will not miBS the joy of seeing their
friends damned. This advantage alone
is almost a sufficient recompense lor
personal damnation. Also, it they are
sent to Heaven, they will be able to
pick out a harp with the lull comple-
ment of strings, and a crown that will
fit their heads and have at least its
eye teeth left. \on know what wo
mean by the teeth of a crown < It you
don't, you have only to look at Sun-
day-scnool pictures of saints and you
will understand. These crowns are
used for the sake of economy-being a
sort of combination of crown and
comb. It isa well-known fact that when
Lucifer and his ai gels were cast out of
Heaven, they had to leave their crowns
and musical instruments behind them,
and, as might naturally be expected,
they left them in as damaged a con-
dition as they could in the brief period
that was given them for packing up.
The elect have to help themselves
from these ancient “properties " until
the heap is exhausted, which it will
never be-at the present rate of pas-
senger traffic to the Shoah. If the
early birds are sent to hell, they will
still have an advantage over late
comers in being able to choose the
coolest spots - most of the devils will
then be up above working the poll at
Jehoshophat, so the domestic discipline
of hell will not be as strict as usual -
aud may even, by a little judicious
diplomacy, be able to get appointments
as firemen and bellows-boys. lor our
own part, we should thiuk it would be
much more fun ti be captain of a
cooking - range, wuere your enemies
were roasting for everlasting, than to
be the conductor of a hallelujah-
horde. And, speaking of the hallelu-
jahists, the latest piece of celestial
gossip— conve> ed to us per favour of
the ghost of Bishop Barker—is that
the last batch of Evange lists who went
to Heaven got seven days tor serenad-
ing St. Peter, who. It seems, has a most
unsaintly hatred for street music of
every hind. But it is now time to ex-
plain to you why those who are buried
with their feet to the east have the
best chance of getting first to
Jehoshophat. You see the sound of
Gabriel’s trumpet will start the dead
pit on the road at once. They will
»ot have time to rub their eyes or
collect their confused senees-conlused
with their long sleep. Consequently,
those who have their faces turned to
the right quarter, and their feet toeing
the line, so to speak, will have the
best ohanoe in the race. The others
irlll, In the hurry and confusion of the moment,
either start off on their heads, and be incontinently
damned for contempt, of court on their arrival, or
else— and this Is an awful possibility—walk off to
the West, and never flDd out their mistake till the
Judgment la all over. Then what an eternal mess
they will be In—acknowledged by neither God nor
the devil, and everl istlngly moved on from the
fates of Heaven and the area-doors of Hell.
maglne yaurself one of these, dear reader—and
the thing is quite possible, if you do not personally
superintend your own burial—and think how you’d
like to wander about through blind space, when
the light was out, and the public-houses closed
(or dverl No home, no drink, and perpetually
oraiTaF with dry lips to be damned, while the
lucky SJhifl who got to judgment in time to secure
L, home, urfa at you’,thro ugh the oars of the infernal
tfgtes. and refuse to give you enough tire to light
your pioel Ao4 all the time you see them swal-
lowing hot rum ipgide, while you shiver on the
outer stops, and uayy the meanest devil that
mixes pitob. This is onp of the terrible alterna-
evt)B that await the corpse who is not buried with
U feet to the east. So that we sincerely pity the
parson of Leek for being thrown among people
Ignorant of these things, while weudir.irp him for
his noble determination to save tfieir stupid soqls
whether they like it or not. Ifou wifi, wethjnk,
agree that you have now hoard more about the
everlasting mysteries than you ever heard before
in a month of Sundays from anv parson of them
all While you deal with us, yon will never need
to go anywhere else for information about either
this world or the next. This comes of our having
k reliable staff of correspondents in each. And
again, enables us to give a few use-
to people about to enter corpse circles.
Always t, aye a handy tombstone erected over you.
Tt, is the correct thing to present it-as a sort <.!'
visiting card—when you get to Jehoshophat. It is
a sort of guare*tpe of respectability. But it must
be light or you vHU not be able to carry it unless
you hire aa Irish per per and let him go halves in
your respectability as w recompense. When wo
sav it is ae rigueur to present your tombstone, we
are putting the ma ter mildly. You will have to
» resent it—for purposes of identification, and for
toother grisly reason we will tell you about further
sh. Never allow a monument to be placed over
you. For, mark this—if you do, you will, as sure
ba you are a corpse, have to hump that monument
Vbeye ijt stands to the Valiey pi Judgment,
even if you take all eternity to do it in. This is the
inexorable penalty of posthumous fame. See to
it that you have all your fame while you are
l alive. Conoeive the devilish dilemma in which
the proud newspaper proprietor will be who rises
up .at the sound ot the trumpet to find a two-ton
obelisk over him which|he will have to shoulder
and walk off with, or sit beside for ever, and be
forgotten by God and the devil! How will he on
that day curse the mistaken admiration of his
iriends ? And how will he vainly try to trade off
his monumont for the tin immortetle of the poet
whose humble grave is In the hollow below! That
will be the day for squaring up old scores, my
masters! And now you shall have the grisly rea-
son we promised you—the reason why you must
take your tombstone with you when you go to
Judgment, we mean. Attend to it, for it may save
your soul. God is not partial to liars. The worst
liars are those who, having lived mean and sordid
and sinful lives, die with the full knowledge that
they will be credited with a complete list of the
cardinal virtues skilfully carven in marble, with
the casual information appended that they “ died
in the Lord,” when they go under ground. When
they are told to go to hell on the day of settle-
ment, the devil deputed to Introduce them to in-
fernal circles will give them a lift up with their
monument, whioh will immediately turn red-hot
and the letters thereon, lurid. With this on their
backs they will be driven down an avenue of
scorn, where they will have to run the gauntlet of
all the ghosts of all the generations of men,
who, with spectral fingers pointing out, will
hiss them down to hell. And then they arc
not done with it, for they will have to carry that
burning load of lurid lies upon their backs for a
gnashing eternity. This information finishes up
our correspondence from the other world up to
latest dates. For our own part, we may say that
we do not dread our future burden. Nobody will
plant anything on our grave—unless, by chance, a
mourning- creditor, wno will come to weep there
and leave a bottle. This it will ;be only a pleasure
for us to carry, as a souvenir of the gay old days
above.
Pulpit and Stage are at it again, and this
time the battle field Is Wilcannia. A few Sunday
evenings ago, a certain incumbent up there, before
taking the usual fall out of “ Paul to the Califor-
nians,” slipped into his dearly beloved on his own
responsibility, and gave them particular fits for a
complaint they had made touching the immoderate
length of sermon he had preached in the morning
in favour of the holy raspberry-balm cause of
temperance. It appears that this zealous apostle
had orated for over an hour, and the result was
that one half of his flock found their poultry done
to rags, whilst the balance caught colds in their
HUMPING HIS MONUMENT.
heads through sitting in front of fillets of veal
and shoulders of mutton which were as chilly as
the back-blocks ice round the North Pole. As a
natural consequence, the unregenerate portion
of his flock began to swear loud enough to
make people 18 miles down the river shudder
their very shirts off; and, hearing this, the worthy
after comparing his disgusted lambs to
the sleepy-headed disciples of old, who were un-
able to “ watch for one hour," wound up by truth-
fully observing: “Why, if Tommy Empson (nioa
and familiar that) had not entertained you longer
than I detained you this morning, you would have
demanded your money back.” That’s so. But, as
the Wilcannia Wesley isn’t Tommy Empson, and
there happens to be a very marked difference be-
tween being detained and entertained, we respect-
fully suggest that Tommy be allowed to fill the
pulpit next Sunday, and do a song and dance
while the long-winded apostle skips “ roun wid de
contreebuBhion sasser.”
Everybody, and his wife, has, of course,
heard of the heiress who had her sawdust brains
up-ended by the actiog of Garrick. They have also
heard of the lady who followed Mario like a
shadow; of the dame who dogged Capoul, and of
the gentle matroa whose stranger fate was to
track the course of Wombwell s menagerie, in the
fond hope that she would, at last, see Dan. King,
the lion-tamer, chawed into sausage meat by his
own pots. History also tells of a maiden fair who
was so struck on our own “ Handsome George,”
that she used to write almost every day imploring
him to give her an interview, and it is on record
also that the silvery-tenored Georgia Minstrel,
Billy Wilson,—he of the mouth almighty—was
ardently sighed for by an amorous lady of this
city, who probably intended to put cushioned pews
in nis saveloy-trap and run it as a Salvation Army
Church. Therefore, no one will be surprised to
hear that Henry Irving has mashed a ’Frisco
“ gurl ” into madoess, and, after trapesing through
the States after the great tragedian, she intends to
still pursue him on to England. Henry is by no
means as young to-day as he was some thirty years
ago, and people are wondering now whether it
was the acting or the wondrous mouthing of the
modern Roscius that brought down this chicken
of the Columbian bird, whose bright home is in
the setting sun. Personally, we are of opinion the
giddy “gurl” was captivated by the sight of
Henry’s Ipoomotive apparatus which, when he
moons'around as Hamlet, resembles two chickens’
legs tied up in a mute's hat-band. It must be nice
to be a great tragedian.
This is one of the many tales that will keep
for a long time in cool weather. During the re-
cent drought, a gentleman of bigoted teetotal ten-
dencies called into a certain pub.ic school up
North, and, after a long chat with the worthy
pedagogue, asked to be favoured with a glass of
water. The teacher regretted all the tanks were
dry, but added that the children carried water for
their own use to the school, and if the visitor
stepped into the next room he could help himself.
He aid step, and the sight that met his gaze was
enough to make Father Mathew sit up in his
shroud and kick until there was nothing left of his
marble tomb but the name ot the man that oarved
it. Over two hundred bottles were ranged round
the place, and every one of these had, in their wild
youthful days, held either brandy, whisky, rum,
Old Tom, or some other ooncootion of the devil, or
his advance agents, but not a single bottle was
labelled lime-juice, vinegar, ginger-beer, or
pickles. Th* visitor very naturally concluded that
theso weapons bad previously been emptied of
their original oontents by tne parents of the
scholars before being converted into water-holders,
and therefore he had wandered into about the
most drunken spot on this earth, the State of
Maine and Fortßourkeof oourseexcepted. Slowly
and sadly he retraoed his steps, and enquired if
there wasn’t an eau-de-Cologne bottle of water
about the school. The teacher said 44 No; such a
thing was unknown about that district.” The
visitor said he was very dry, and would the sohool-
master kindly pull up the floor and see if there
was a pain-killer flask underneath that he could
get a drink out of. But the hard-hearted wretch
refused, and the thirsty teetotaller filed off sucking
a junk of load, which he generally carried by way
of a last resource.
A few weeks ago we described how an
English patent-medicine firm had started a new
idea in the way of advertising, by having the name
of their wares branded on the heads of twenty-five
bald-pated old men; but this has been completely
up-ended by an ingenious cuss in the land of pop-
corn and presidents, who has just struck on a
totally new expedient. The following is a copy of
this pushing young party’s prize circular:—“ Dear
Sir, I take the liberty to write to .you about a
novel way of advertising, that is, to have all
tobacco seals and stamps in your line of business
tattooed on the person of a man that is now under-
going the process of being tattooed from head to
foot. His back is left for this kind of advertising; if
you would like the lower part of his back for any
seal or stamp or picture, you can haveitfor3sodol.
the uper part is for , this man is to travel
through the tJ.S. The uper part of his back is
for 600dol. I have just finished tattooeing Mr.
Fred. Hadly from head to foot which required the
time of eight weeks this man will be done in five
weeks this work is the neatest and beet in this line
of business. If you would like a smaller place than
that let me know, as the back of his legs is not
wholey finished vet. It will be done In first-class
style this is the third man tnat I have tattooed all
over Mr. Geo. F. Mahard 0 Bennett-street, Boston,
Mr. Fred. Hadly, 68 Hammond-street Boston, ana
the man that I am at work on now Mr. J. Burk,
57 Thieder, South Boston. Yours resp.” The
lower half of Mr. J. Burk's back would be an ex-
cellent spot for some of our religious editors to
advertise the circulation of their gay seotarian
rags on; whilst those parts of his legs which are
not “wholey ” finished might be ornamented with
copies of the Dog Act, to prevent hungry poodles
from taking an unfair advantage of Mr. Burk
whenever his back was turned.
What Granny would call an “ embarrass-
ing predicament,” happened recently in the gay
rouseabout eity of Paris, and it all came about in
thiswise. Two gentlemen (very old and tried
friends, indeed) decided to give their wives a real
slap-up supper and spree on the night of the Mi-
Careme in a cabinet partieulier, because the said
ladies were amiable, stay-at home sort of people;
and, as one of Ihe husbands (Gervais) observed,
“ the affair would be so totally new to them that it
would furnish their dear partners with a subject
of conversation for months and months after-
wards.” Everything passed off splendidly; the
evening's fun was delightful, the supper all that
the mo-tt confirmed bon vivant coula desire, and
the wine was—well, you can bet it was wine—
“ The Rhine’s breast-milk, gushing, cojd, and
bright;
Pale as the moon, and maddening ass her light.”
And so it came to pass that the gay quartette Im-
perceptibly slid into a very bad state of how-came-
you-so-Mister-Johnson ? So thoroughly mixed up
did they become, in fact, that Mons. Francois
gallantly escorted Mdme. Gervais to his own house,
and Mons. Gervais on his part did the like office
for Mdme. Francois. When the mistake was dis-
covered next morning, the husbands were still
wrapped in balmy—very “ balmy’’—sleep; and it
is an excellent sign that this little mistake has not
impaired the friendship of the ladies in the least.
Francois apologised to Gervais, and declared be
really did not know it was Mdme. Gervais, and
Gervais returned the apology, earnestly protesting
he didn’t know it was Mdme. Francois. What a
sublime example have those dear friends given to
us all. Mi-Caremc is frog-eater's talk for Midi
Lent. And Mid-Lent it was.
The sombre saoredness of the Sabbath
must be maintained in Melbourne. Were the
Theatre Royal and the Hall of Science to open
their doors on Sunday evenings, there can be no
doubt that large numbers of people would find
their way into the cushioned seats, and would en-
joy an hour of pleasure, of instruction, or, at the
worst, of intellectual activity. These things must
be reprobated. They are altogether out of keeping
with the Chief Secretary’s conception of the way
in whioh a staunch Christian community should
suffer and grow holy. It is proper to observe here
that the Ohisf Beoretary is but the personification
of Victorian law. Mr. Summers proposed to de-
vote an evening to an artlstio rendering of some
choice sacred music. Such a treat on any evening
should, if fairly considered, take rank among the
most elevating and purifying services accessible in
the city. But, because the entertainment was pro-
jected for a Sunday night, it was denied all fair
consideration, and the arm of the law was invoked
to keep the door barred. So far, the people who
liked music better than walking the streets, and
also the people who liked music as an occasional
change from the monotony of church services,
were kept to their old diet, and those who call
themselves religious people rejoiced with a holy
gladness. After extinguishing Mr. Summers, how-
ever, it was remembered that in the Hall of Science
there was still an entertainment going on on Sun-
day nights, and that this entertainment invariably
attracted a full house. Mr. Joseph Byrnes was the
chief performer on these occasions; and it must be
confessed that, among the exponents of Free-
thought, he is far from being as violent, and very
far from being as insidious, as many others who,
from time to time, have held forth on the grand
old Faith. The Chief Secretary, on information
received, proceeded on the 21st to extinguish this
Mr. Symes in the same way as he had already ex-
tinguished Mr. Summers. Neither the Theatre
Royal nor the Hall of Science will be opened any
more on Babbath ovenings- If you are to go into
any place, it must be into a church. Of course,
you can walk the streets if you like, or you can go
home and go to bed ; but if you want to hear
talking, you must hear it from the cloth; and if
you want to hear singing, you must hear it from a
ohoir of young ladies In sympathy with the chancel.
If that be tyranny—well, it is Law.
The Melbourne lawyers are much
disgusted, beoause a Victorian Judge
refused a rule In a certain case, with
the energetic phrase “ I’m d dif I
do.” And he didn’t. Our Judges would
never use such inelegant language.
They would never wish to be damned.
It would be superfluous. The judicial
mind—as we have it in Sydney—is
rarely superfluous. It is seldom enough.
Shopgalism is now fairly neck-
and-neek with servantgalism, and it is
a matter of considerable doubt as to
which is the more offensive of the two.
Pernicious reading is the chief factor
in the shopgal's tiouble. Every spare
moment she has is spent pouring over
the giddy tales in the \ oung Ladies’
Journal or dragging the heart out
«>f shilling novels in which the young
Duke of Diddleum meets the lowly vil-
lage maid behind her aged father’s
humble fowl-house walls, and there
the loving pair sit, and sigh, and bask in
all the innocent smiles of love, and
cover the old man’s approach with the
cracks between the palings. Even the
shopgal’s lunch of bread-and-pull-it is
wrapped up in the Even Ooze; and as
the poor, deluded girl munches her red
herring and washes it down with rain-
water fizz, she reads: “ ‘ ’Tis I. your own
adored, your own Adolphus Ge-e-orge,’
as he caught the trembling Angelina
Maud Marier in his arms and clasped
her to his manly bosom.” And then
the soft-headed little bonnet-builder
takes another bite out of the herring s
tail, and sobs “Ahme! wouldn’t I like
to be Angelina Maud Marier.” The re-
sult of this is that the shopgal gets
her head filled with inflated notions
of herself, and, consequently; 'elevates
her nose to an angle of if any
male biped less than a bank accountant
dare to look at her. case exempli-
fying this occurred at the Newmarket
(Vic.) railway station a few days ago.
Two young ladies of the thimble-and-
thread order wished to alight there, but
as the station platform was built fora
very much smaller place, there are
always a few carriages left along way
outside the station. One of the Jadics
(who, by the way, was exceedingly
well-favoured in the way of shapely
understandings) hopped down on the
ground as gaily as the early bird drops
on the unsuspecting worm, but the
other damozel distinctly refused.
“ Well,” exclaimed the agile maid,
4 you’ll have to either jump or wait
for the guard to hand you out.” “M e
be touched by a guard,” scornfully
replied this “culchawed” young person
—nevah! I’d rather die first.” The
guard, who was standing by, then
walkei off, remarking as he went,
“Gala gets awfully particular when
they’re forced to wear stockins.’ ”
The [?] and Worthiess
are never imitated or counterfeited . This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and It is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, beet and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.


“ IN 1870 SCROFULOUS
Ulcers broke out of my body until my breast was
one mass of corruption. Some of these Ulcers
were not less than one and one half inches in dia-
meter,the edges rough, ragged, and seemingly dead,
the cavity open to the bone and filled with offen-
sive matter. Everything known to the medical
faculty was tried in vain. Gradually the bone
itself became diseased, and then the suffering
began in earnest. Bone Ulcers began to take the
place of those hitherto on the surface. I became
a mere wreck. For months at a time could not
get my hands to my head because of extreme sore-
ness. Could not turn in bed. Knew not what it
was to be an hour even free from pam. Had
reason to look upon life itself as a curse. In the
summer of 1880, after ten years of this wretched
existence, I began to use the Cuticctra Remedies,
and after two years persistent use of them the last
Ulcer has healed. The dread disease has suc-
cumbed. All over the breast where was once a
mass of corruption is now a healthy skin. My
weight has increased from one hundred and
twenty-three to one hundred and fifty-six pounds,
and the good work is still going on. I Jeel myselt
a new man, and all through the Cuticura Reme-
DIES ' JAMES E. RICHARDSON,
Custom House, New Orleans.”
Sworn to before United States Commissioner
J. D. Craw ford.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
f
First Prizes and Exhibition.
M H - F • A K E •>
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN'S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Street*, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laugrhiag Gas,
Spray, Methyline, and Chlorotorm.
P
DE
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of tt
teeth. There are three hinds, distinguished by a
Tellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached t*
the bottles. Tfiat with the Y ellow stops mstantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer Periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use. '
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against i raudulentirrntations,
eethat each Label bears the nmne, Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London
ft
9
DE
ASTHMA, COUGH,
BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patieiite. obtalned of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent Imitations,
see that each box bears the name of Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.
WeaKNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure t« perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to l-obust health
and Vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This t reatment of
5erron« Debility and
Physical Decay isumformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness, Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYC0„ G2Castleroagh St., Sydney
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO 'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOULENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
SOLE AGENTS:
■P
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
j3P” EXTREME SIMPLICITY. I W~ GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
|ggr- UNEQUALLED SAFETY.
m
'S:
I'v" £
Mil x
'
Mil
r i
ILMS
'H
g?Tff.:a.X&
yi'ji'
rtiMintti ii'ati.
SIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. &T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. E3T FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
JB3S, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, ind DUNEDIN.
And at^MgibßS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVEI
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
LilanU vouicut
Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
‘ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Principal Agencies :
TNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C G ostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough-
-1 hreshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Ornaa px Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated ----v —-
Bo\T and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &o.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penrroi-nedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Qtrrksilver Mining Companv, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels anr. Company, of Patras and Corfu —Currants.
Thos Hen and Co. —English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Hed Croi Preserving Company, Victoria-Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, See.
D eWende land 6 Comp any, fiayange, France-Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Thos Perry and Son, Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh-Ale.
Bruaton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. „ „ . _
Nbw South WALBS.-Scott and MuUaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.
—James Fry and Co., W. and D. Gibson.
South Australia.—w .C.
, Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
■ INDENTS executed, on the most favourable termß, from all parts of the world. Consignment*
of produoe received for shipment to London, under liberal advance*.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why Trevelyan Smiled.
» Why I can smile, anU murther while I smile.”
Shakespeare.
Tn bveone years, ere many a fading- Autumn
lC Hacf tinged these hairs of mine with saddest
/rt „ Wisdom, as a slight set-off, had brought ’em),
( °Dark stumbling-blocks of problem round me
mit throned on summit’s empyrean, Knowledge
B smiled down to me, and beckoned me above,
reiii from all ways of Life, as from a college,
T I gathered stars of Truth and flowers of Love.
And one by one, each eyeless Sphinx grew optic,
As each on each flung broad explaining beams.
Till things that iu my youth looked dark and
AndPstrange and splendid, as the mystic dreams
nt tnhn in Patmos, felt the necromancy
°0f volumed Knowlege - cowered before the
op Power?and yielded all their relevancy
eyes that peered beyond the veils ot Chance ;
And one by one, the shadowy shapes that hover,
Half-fact? half-phantasm, in the feebler sight
nt careless eyes, as lover unto lover
0 Drew to me, hearing my keen cry Mere light,
near voices called to me, that had lain muzzled
And dumb, and reticent to duller ears,
And meshes i unwove, whose threads had puzzled
All effort ot the Wise through all the years.
T've groped in labyrinthine by-ways mystto,
1 And culled therefrom rare largess of fair wheat,
I>ve taken facts that stood antagonistic,
1 And brought them face to face, and bade them
As friends— I’ve followed the remotest mazes
Of Thought, and settled all things past all
And novvPcan someone tell me what the blazes
The Irish Secretary smiled about ?
T own it floors me—me, who know the reason
1 Why, prowling moodily along the coasL ((
While all this land yelled out Arrest ltl Trea-
Rir Gravy saw the dread Kiama Ghost—
Who can foretell how Hunger will decipher
The “Mene” Henry George writes on the wall,
(God grant the stern old law, ‘ an eye an eye for,
' Be then forgotten, lest worse ill befall).
Who can unravel, cheerfully and freely,
Why Januarius is a C.M.G. ?
To whom the hand-writing of Horace Greely
Is plain as print—who, in ray infancy,
Or shortly after it, could work Equations,
And analyse the parts that join in Fate ,
Who know the reason why the poor relations
Of patriot statesmen fatten on the State—
Who plainly can discern the lugs of Midas
On men who sit to frame our country’s laws-
And hear discordant brayings, when, as wide as
A gateway, ope the British Lion s jaws;
Who can point out to you why Graham Berry
Has not been knighted, and disclose some things
That happened at the sieie of Londonderry
Not widely known —who can name all the kings
That swayed Assyria before Ahasuerus,
vr reigned in Egypt, ere the giddy Queen
By subtlety of arts and graces various
Decoyed poor Antony, and why Bill Green
Inscribes his “ monniker Guigltelmo Verdi;—
Yesl this thing fairly knocks my stuffing out,
Will someone tell, that I may then and there die,
The little joke Trevelyan smiled about ?
I understand the creed that Swinburne teaches—
I even understand our Sladen’s verse;
I’ve sought the subsoil of Buchanan s speeohes,
And found it bitter as an Orange curse;
I know the reason why the Law flings fetters
Round betting-rings, yet tolerates Tontines;
know, for sure, who wrote the Junius letters,
I’ve twigged the mind that gets out Mrs. Greens;
I know the reason why the fiery Mahdi
Is hailed as prophet by stern, dusky ranks—
I know why Oscar, in his Sabbath ’ cadcy
Wears poppies, and affects aesthetic cranks.
I know the answer to each knotted thesis
As yet propounded in the windy Schools,
I know the secrets of each dead Kameses—
I know that all policemen aren’t fools.
I know that M’Elhone is not the Stilton
I know it’s sale to say so, now he’s gone;
I know worse devils than are drawn by Milton,
Who walk the earth attired in spotless lawn;
I know it’s quite impossible to be a
Good man, unless you go for faith, not works,
I know we iicaed ’em all in the Crimea
I know one Briton can bash fifty Turks.
By what I’ve mentioned, you can plainly see, I
Know nearly all that any man may knov(;
I know how many pubs were in Pompeii
Before Vesuvius stopped ’em, long ago;
I know why old Sir John’s remarks grow ruddy
Whenever Farnell’s measures get him riled—
But, spite of deep, undeviating study,
I can't determine why Trevelyan smiled 1
This way it bap’d. That troublesome Tim Healy
Stood in his place upon the Commons floor,
And cheeked the British Lion till it really
Thought it the ticket to sit up and roar;
In angry tone, this rebel asked to have an
Explanation given him, concerning why
Five Orangemen, who slew a lad at Cavan,
Were held as blameless by the Majesty
Ot British Law (whereat the British Lion,
Here cloth od as a Speaker, shook his mane,
And roused himself, and fixed his watchful eye on
His prey)— discharged without a single stain
Upon their characters—asked, also, under
What law the monster Matthews, of Tyrone-
A fiend, who fitly had been sawn asunder,
Or on the wheel disjointed, bone by bone—
A wretoh, who, in his Orange rag, inciting
To orime, a peaceful people, led the way
By soaking well with paraffin, and lighting
A hut, wherein two aged cripples lay—
A demon teacher of sectarian fury,
.For whom no punishment wore too severe—
To meet the wish of a Coercion jury,
Was sentenced to confinement tor a year .. .
And furthermore, this sharp interrogator
Asked why an Orangeman—one Doherty—
Who took good aim with a six-tongued vepay-
And pinked a party who was standing by,
When last the Mayor of Dublin was in Derry—
Was ladled out a sentence short and mild.
Just eighteen months! But though this chat was
merry,
Not yet the Irish Secretary smiled.
And then, in language quite depraved and Whig-
l'his'brazen Irishman went on to quote
The story of a ruction rather biggish
That happened in the wilds of Ballymote;
Two fools who held that Orange was the right hue
Attacked two other fools who swore by Green,
And then ensued the most delioious fight you
Have ever heard of. But the staid, serene,
And dignified high Law, entituled “ British,”
Will not permit such muscular display;
And, when these Party picnics grow too skittish,
The Lion rises up, t» block the way;
But, somehow, from this crowd the Lion picked
one, x .
A partisan of Green— the man most harmed
Of all the lot-the most chewed-up and kicked
one— ,,
Defenceless, too: the Orangemen, were armed I
Still, no one smiled, and like a frog, George Otto
Sat In Ills place, or like a brooding hen
(How’s that for metaphor ?) till Healy got to
The story ot the youth from Crossmaglen,
Who, on the evidence—but here s the story:
One Michael Watters, ofJArmagh, a boy.
Conspired, the Kingdom, and the Power, and
Of Britain's sceptre wholly to destroy,
By forming, with the aid of several others,
Poor budding Kossuths, each as mad as he,
Another Unionhood of Irish Brothers—
The same old story—to set Ireland Free!
With no proof, save the word of an informer.
They took this lad—but little more than child—
And placed him in a cell—Hell has none “warmer.
Wherein he died. Bight here Trevelyan smiled.
Why did he smile ? The story wasn’t giddy,
Or mirth-provoking to a great extent;
What did he smile about ? Or even did he ?
For when Tim Healy asked him what he meant
By so much mirth, he said he really never
Did such a thing, but then Sir Henry James
Arose, and said he did— at something clever,
That he had whispered him. Then naughty
names
Began to circulate among the Members ;
Whereat the Lion rose and “ tuk a holt,
And flung cold water on the slumbering embers
That might have wakened into a revolt;
Quite angrily the Lion—here a Speaker—
Declared such goings on would not suit him,
That never had he heard a question cheekier
Than that which issued from the lins of Tim.
What if the Secretary did look pleasant ?
“ pn name you, sir 1” thus did the Lion roar;
“ Sit down, sir! nothing more from you at present;
Sir Henry has possession of the floor! ”
That’s all. I’m old, and life is fleetly flowing
Away from me, but I am reconciled
To die, because there’s some slight chance of
In the Hereafter, why Trevelyan smiled.
AGBNOR.


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, dear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
whioh will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese's Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
a young may in one or our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous siek headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was Impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of i% and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul heath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es«
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use tbeir stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit an I good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “ Hop ” or
irP?? ”' n their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Hops on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
The Diamond Dves are the beat dyea ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarf*. Hoods, Yarn, Stook-
iigs, Carpet Bags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 80 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted F*st and Durable. Each package will
colour one to fpur lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Bold by druggists and dealers at fld.
Ser package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, GP O
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &0., &o , by return post.*
FREEDOM IN THE FANTODS.
In these days, when the roof site lightly
on our skulls, and thing’s generally have what you
might call an upward tendency—when Freedom,
as the Irish members say, is stirring uneasily in
her sleep and will soon unlid her seraph eyes and
fling the glory of their beams across the world;
when the Great Beyond is within easy reach of
the humblest Individual—it is inoumbent upon
everyone to be well posted in explosives and only
use the boat brands of dynamite. 'With a view to
this, we have been lately up to our neck in the
Salvation Army literature of reform; in the
delirium tremens of heroism—in the United Irish-
man of O'Donovan Kossa. Anything more pathe-
tically comic than the fulminations of this sur-
prising sheet, it is impossible to And anywhere
about this planet. It keeps a column for what it
calls “Resources of Civilization’’ contributions,
wherein it says: “When the Irish people will
realise the great screech that can be knocked out
of the enemy with trivial ‘Resources,’ they may
feel inclined to nssist;” and an enthusiast, writing
fromPeiora (111.) says, “ Dan Driscoll told me that
he would give 50 cents a month for the boys in
green. He quit drinking, and he says that 50 cents
will help poor old Ireland 1” How’s that for
patriotism ? Hegulus and Tell and Krapotkine
very probably thought they were doing something
big in that line, but which of them abandoned
■ wipes that his country might live ? And Lady
Fionuld— whoever the foul flend she may he-
wn ting from Wioklow.says: “ We’ve been wonder-
ing if you’re not laughing those days to hear this
great English thief and robber of weaker nations
crying and whininglike a whipped our to America
for protection.” Hark at Maurice Keneflck of
Kilieagh: “I cannot keep still, so I will put some-
thing aside, and chip in five dollars, all for dyna-
mite. , . . Now, boys, is the time; up with
Gladstone as high as the tower of Babel
Wo hear the yells of the hell-hounds now, begging
our American Government to stop the Fenians. I
wonder why she did not hear the American
Government, when she had the rope around
O’Donnell’s neck. . . . Now we have got her
just as she had O'Donnell, with a rope around her
neck! Now, boys, pull; yes, pull her to hell.”
We haven’t space for much of this line irony, but
there is a joyfully reeounted list of fires and
explosions, that only want “ hallelujah ’ after each
of them to be absolutely Captain Cantyish. Listen :
“Mr. Editor, I send you some items of tho progress
of the Fire-flend through the British dependencies.
A fortnight ago, Sunday, Trinity Church was flred
and totally destroyed. Six buildings at Trinidad
were destroyed by Are on Jan. 27. The loss is
estimated at §400,000. One life was lost.” And,
after chronicling a whole column of appalling
calamities, this cheerful writer finishes: "I en-
close you §1 for the Fund, and I cannot de-
scribe to you how your readers were delighted
by the late blow-up; and if there were about 1000
English men, women, and children blown to hell
at the time, some of us would be still more de-
lighted.” And at the bottom of this, Mr. Rossa
tells you confidentially, as a friend, “ Keep away
from the White Star line, and from the National
line of steamers.” Surely, after this, America is
the place where a man may say the thing he will
with the ohill off. When the libel law of this land
has reduced us to a skeleton—mere spine and ribs,
erate and basket, you know—when we’re tired of
this life, we’ll go to Amerioa to recuperate. But
we make it a distinct 'cbns. 1 deration that we wait
until we are tired of it.
The St. James’s Budget, on the principle
we presume that any sort of a stick will do to beat
a dog with, charges Henry George with appropria-
ting the land nationalisation ideas of Spence, the
Yorkshire schoolmaster, without acknowledg-
ment; and then seeks te envenom the accusation
by alleging that Spence’s “ most notorious disci-
ples were Dr. Watson and Thistlewood, who were
tried for the Spa-fields riots in 1817, and the latter
of whom was hanged for his share in the Cato-
street conspiracy of 1820.” As for the charge of
plagiarism, it is utterly false. Henry George admits
to taking his ideas on the land question from the
Mosaic agrarian economy, the source likewise of
old Spence's views. As for the endeavour to make
the wild-brained efforts of Watson and Thistle-
wood reflect discredit upon the Spencean doctrine
—even upon the erroneous supposition that they
were other than political enthusiasts—it must be
clear to any mind not prejudiced by downright
malice that it is not only illogical, but to the last
degree mean. Would the Budget allow that the
moral beauty of the Christian doctrine was aflfeoted
by the fact that two of its more notorious disci-
ples were the historic Bishop of Clogher and the
Rev. Dr. Dodd? (We beg pardon of the
shades of Watson and Thistlewood for making the
comparison.)
A correspondent, who writes with a piece
of burnt stick on a liver pad, is kind enough to
inform us that since the O’Sullivan has, like
Achilles, retired to his tent in a “ huff,” the Demo-
cratic Alliance has cut up rather soft, and the
balance of its advanced thought followers have
been left to the very slim protection of their own
resources. From the back of the poultice referred
to, we also learn that “the organisation Is re-
ported to b« heavily in debt, and its committee
have perpetrated so many grotesque actions of
late, that the more sensible members are leaving
in shoals (fishy proceeding that), and the public
speak of it only as the “ Dam’derratic Alliance.”
This is all very well from the burnt-stick proprie-
tor’s point of view, and seems to substantiate the
crmplaint made by Achilles O’Sullivan to the
effect that the Alliance he formed was an alliance
of patriots, but that the commirtee alluded to had
mado.it an assemblage of third-rate song and
dance men, park howlers, and fools in general, but
for all that we’d like to see the “ Dam'derratics ”
hold up their end of the stick, so that we could
justly weigh the pros, and com. of the whole affair.
We have no doubt both sides mean well, but so
far as their efforts up to the present date are oon-
oerned, they might just as well have spent their
time and energy in suearing pigs.
The long talked of Social Purity Association
has got Itself accouchored in Melbourne at last.
It was born alive, and baptised in the name of the
White Cross Society. It is obviously too early to
speak of anything it has done, and it is the merest
guesswork to try to forecast anything it is likely
to do in the near future. Its first business will be
to live. Few association that have found their
way into solonial life have succeeded in screwing
out a means of subsistence under ciroumstances
less encouragiog than .those that stare the social
purists in the faeo. The notion of a set of men, no
matter who they are, banding themselves together
to walk the streets as exemplars of (a-hem!) Purity
—to stride up and down the public squares as past-
masters in Charity—to hop around through parks
and gardens as the He-vestals of the ir generation
must needs make the thougntless scoff. And. as
the numbers of thoughtless people are multitudin-
ous, it is extremely likely that some of the He-
vestals will .find their wives amoDg the scoffers;
and from scoffing these wives will go to switching.
Perhaps they won’t; but rather than sit down
scoffing, it is to be hoped they will With this
prospect just ahead it is unnecessary to post up
the names of the baldheaded, watery-eyed re-
formers. Let their wives at them first, and if they
survive that, and straddle down the streets, their
smug mouths may be wortn examination.
J he Dialectic Society (Melbourne) had be-
fore it, lately, a subject of momentous interest,
and if the perspiration its discussion expelled
made some Melbourne people fear that the Yan
Yean reservoir had given way, still the sweat was
well spent. “ Has the foundation of an Australian
School of Poetry been laid yet ?” That was the
majestic conundrum. The gentlemen who argued
the question did not approach it in any perlunc-
tory spirit. They went right down to the heel-
taps of it and climbed right up upon its shining
crown. Their dissection of contemporary Aus-
traliatn poets was keen but civil. Their dissection
of the dead ones was keen and fierce. That wa»
natural. Effiere are some liviug poets in Australia
to whom do .show civility argues only common
prudence- About the dead ones everybody can
say what he likes, and how he likes. Thece Dia-
leoticipqs didp t '’.think—ah— that the gentleman—
ah—who—ah—wrote ‘ Convict Once ’ was pre-
cisely Australyean—ah. Neither was the gentle-
man—ah—who wrote—ah—nor any other fellah
precisely Australyean-ah.” All that said aye
were eleven, all that said no fifteen. Perhaps the
Dialectic geniuses think they have something in
their heads when they talk of the foundation of
an Australian school of poetry. If so, w'n<*t is it ?
Is not Australian life a fac. simile of English life ?
As well seek the thing called an Australian school
of poetry as an Australian school of prose, or an
Australian school ot honesty.
This is an affecting thing. A prominent
member of a certain Order had a son who got into
trouhle, and he buzzed round until a goodly sub-
scription was raised to provide the prisoner with
—the offence being a very serious one—the assist-
The latest thing in hats is with the cap-
erown as shown above. To make one it is only
necessary to out the crown out of an ordinary hat
shape and replace it by a pleated piece of velvet 12%
inohes in oircumference. The brim is covered with
the same ooloured velvet, and between it and the
crown is a bias stripe of the same. The trimming is
simply a velvet loop four inches wide, an agraffe and
long feathers.
anoe of the ablest counsel. The day before the
trial, the affected father met one of the most
influential of the subscribers, just as he was comb-
ing the froth out of his beard with an auctioneer’s
card at Punch’s corner. “Well,” said the mag-
nate, “I hope you’ve secured the best advice;
you’ve taken oare, I trust ?” “Well, no; I haven’t.
Fact is, boss, I’ve taken a pub.” “What! sir?”
“ You see, boss, me and the missus talked it over,
a few days ago, in a quiet way, boss, just as you
might do it yourself, governor—see ?—over a tin
of salmon ana a quart, and the oßly question to be
decided was whether we’d sooner have the off
chance of Neddy or the pub. I put it to the
meetin’, boss—quietly—just as you might have
done,” continued the heart-broken parent, “ and
the pub. was carried by a majority of two. So I
For a half-mourning cost none can be more tasteful
than that shown in the accompanying illustration. The
material is Japanese silk in large [?]ack and white cheek.
The short basque made with a line pleated plastron is
worn with a tunic of the same material; and round the
neck is a band of black ribbon velvet terminating in a
large looped bow.
took it.” “ Upon my life,” cried the influential
subscriber, of all the bare-faced impu —“ Go
bird,” put in the newly-made publican;
taint all colonial and aowcumbers yet. I won’t
desert him. He broke my knee-cap, and put his
mother s elbow out twice—but he’s my own flesh
and blood—and—yes. He shall have a recommen-
dation to mercy. And that'll stand me in £2 10s.”
J hen he made a dart for the cheese and onions.
A Southern paper, with altogether errone-
ous views on the little social funniments that
surround the hymeneal altar, suggests to its
readers a most villainous plan for checkmating the
coveteoueness of the post-offlee mashers, itseems
that when a small snip of bridesoak" is forwarded
by parcel or letter-post to a frienu at a distance,
the scent of the missive is too tempting to the
young man sorter, and it is found that the paoket
reaches its destination with only a moiety of Its
original contents. Well, this Southern paper
suggests that some score of packets, got up so as
indicate the usual rapture, and containing snips of
cake, in appearance very much like the usual
snips, but, in reality, compounds of ipecacuanha,
should be forwarded through those oifioes whe-e
the long-nosed young men most do congregate.
The suggestion has certainly the merit of being
practical. It is no small thing to be practical in
such a matter as that. And, once the hint is given,
it is easy to improve on it. As a rule, we never
take hints. But just to show what we could do
with a hint if we liked, we would add that instead
of going to the trouble of a making fictitious
bridescakes, and filling them with perfumes and
essences to make t-e ipecacuanha go down, we
would just enclose a piece of real cake, with an
ounc9 of arsenic in a corner. There’s simplicity.
But we’re not going to work the hint. For we
rather sympathise with the young men. They’ll
get plenty of bridescake yet—plenty of bridescake.
And sorrow enough will follow.
When a man is dead, it is reckoned his
inalienable right to be buried; but that depends
If a man dies in Williamstown, for instance, of
small-pox, there might be a few preliminaries
necessary, such as registration. &0., or else you are
hawked around a bit first We will not swear to
the strict accuracy of names and places in this
case, because somebody has stolen our Argus, but
as nearly as we can recollect, a man died in Wil-
liamstown of a disease which the physioians first
took for a complication of dyspepsia and disloca-
tion of the small toe; but which proved to be
small-pox. He was screwed down In a coffin, and
tfie procession started for the cemetery. But the
sexton said “No, pass him on.” He was next
carted to Geelong-. The Advertiser roused the
public, and he had to be humped out to Hamilton,
and thence to Portland—the cemetery trustees
everywhere refusing- to bury without a certificate,
and the health officers determining: that that corpse
should not be buried in an uninfected district.
Finally, when the coffin was accidentally let fall
while being loaded on a truck for Sandhurst, the
corpse crawled out on his hands and knees, and
darted away back to the Williamstown cemetery,
found the grave, lugged the sexton up by the
scruff of the neck, and jumping in, shook his fist
at the man of clay, and said, “ Look here, if you
don’t shovel in like fury and get me out of eight,
I’ll pull you in and bury jyou. Pam your regula-
tions— 4 man might as well be alive as dead at this
rate.” That cnrnge is now quiet, and Berry i*
looking' up his grievance. w
One must look with regret on a man who
has lost his sap, and who stares out on the merri
ment of the youthful side of the world with
seowls horn of everlasting spleen and dyspepsia
Judge Holroyd does not do it altogether so bale
fully as that—which is the reason one does not
look on him with such deep regret. He had a bar
maid in the witness-box before him, the other dav"
She announced herself as Polly Cunningham’
Polly believed she was a pretty girl, and, indeed a
speculative man would lay the odds that her fatW
was a bit handsomer than the learned judge. And
Polly's belief induced her to carry herself a little
saucily. Then it was that eternal wrath stirred on
the seat of justice, and proceeded to wither unthe
affected little Poll. First: “Were you christened
Polly ?’’ “No, your Honor—Mary.” “ Then how
dare you, how dare you, how dare you call your-
sels Polly in this court ? How dare you ?” Second*
"Your in oner is very insolent, Mary Cuuningl
ham; very insolent; you ought to be ashamed of
yourself. Mary Cunniugham. I see you smiling
F-y-y-you b-b-b-bold g-g-g-girl 1” Now, surely H
God had anything to do w th the making of Judge
Holroyd, there must have been a time in his
Honor’s life in which to sit on the side of the
counter and let Polly tweak his nose and chuck his
chin, would have been beatitude. And he would
have called her Polly all night long, if she would
have let him; and, he would have called her man-
ner a sweet one, and her looks lovely. It is a pity
when the sap goes out of a man, and when the
freshness of youth, even alloyed with a little
affeotation, seems to be a terrific crime.
A little observation of Mr. Julius Herz
would be enough to satisfy one that, if ever the
proper occasion arose, that eminent musician
would prove himself possessed of a most delicate
sense of humour. In his ordinary sphere of life it
was hard to foresee any set of circumstances out
of which that proper occasion could be manufac-
tured. But, nothing is impossible; and all at once
the occasion shines out. Mr. Herz was called upon
to fill the important position of secretary to the
Bisasser Fund concert, lately rendered with great
success in the Southern capital, and upon him de-
volved the duty of returning thanks to the talented
performers. This he did by public advertisement
in the Melbourne papers. He named six ladies and
nineteen gentlemen, and on behalf of the commit-
tee tenders to them, “ for the kind and generous
way in which they contributed to the success of
the evening,” an expression “of the warmest
thanks: and also to Mrs. Palmer, who was absent
from the platform through indisposition.” Mrs.
Palmer’s method of contributing to the success of
the evening has so much novelty about it that it
is almost certain to be followed by fraudulent Imi-
tations. But in the hands of a humourist of the
calibre of Mr. Herz, these imitators will be put to
the trouble of having to go around their friends
with the advertisement in their fingers, asking
“Which of all the ways does he mean?” The
answers will te so numerous and so perplexing
that the parties concerned will give up imitations,
and Mr. Julius Herz will have the satisfaction of
feeling that he killed one of the pests of musioal
Witjby pouring on it a drop of the rose-water of
life.


THE
IGNO
3Pla.xa.o-
THE
IMEigrnon
X=l^3iTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
mig^non
FliilTO
Is Tron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESSI
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH J
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
Wilmer
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
Jf. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC JCE,
RAINS, BRUISES, HURNS. BCALP3, and
iaken internally cures DIARRH(EA, P
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lutems aches
And pains. - .
Price, 2/- Soldi Everywhere,
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROfriroß,
MELBOXJKISri: AND D2STEY.
PAINT
TONIC NERVINE
XtfCvJIMA KUfjJLI.
BAPE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
-cjL vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 365. a case.
Bold everywhere. Role Proprietors. M A RRH AT T,
BROTHERS. M.P.S., Manufacturing and consul!-
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
«in 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. 1 had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of ray strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. 1 am now 63 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Yt., July 15, 1882.
® Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gednev.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs aud colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882. ...
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAGDON.
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No ease of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot he greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
*• prepared by <p
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
v \ Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
>
m
HOT WATER BATHS
HAltf DRESSINQ'&WICMAKINC ESTABLISHMENT
137, 139 141 £ r -
HALF HOLLOA YFLASH Y T//UHSOAY
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-grltty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prossbr and Co., Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own dep6t
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays exoepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
XI HAItfiOUB KTBEEt.
&0L ll£
OLEND
?Mml
TRAD
Al
COLLIE BLEND WHISK Y.—Thlflts a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED WhlflWes, com-
bining fulness of body, with pkiuanoy and delicmoy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Bole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
VMM
'Ca£BRK@ t :
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
bole’agent
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUTAOTITRK'R OF THB OKLBBRATBD
SULTAN’S OOFFKB.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERT PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, ifl.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-«t.)
PAINTERS’ &, DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
&
K
m.
I
€
3}
HOP
liSiiil
iJ
ft
Q
ft
?2>£
IVALUABLE ' J h
SUFFERING ,^
r^-^==L?«> M y
NVALU
h.»«iU
Los
ion
L #f 4
es
e«
in^J
in*
Ne
r Viu
liv
Ss
Ce
55®
-^SPECIALLY'
APTID FOR T
Australian Colonies*
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
IS
£
>!
O
(A
a
o
V:.-*
1
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB CO LOURS JEN AME LLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION'
** 2b. per lb.
*** 2s. 6d. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lio.
K
JRADE
MARK.
[Registered.]
Our TEAS IM
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength |
the publio may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
J. Henochsberg ,
Manager.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and Home Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmlfching!
Plumbing, Gaatitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatie Bell-ntting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOBETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 3), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIKBT-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the wall
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 3. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In
and tramway terminus.
close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamer*
Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLNORE, Proprietor.


The Seal Dark Horae.
Now, here'n a par. for you ! You’ve heard
a lot of talk about the dark horse that was to beat
Hanlan, and who was, from the outset, supposed
to bo Beaoh. Well, we oan tell you that Beaeh was
never the dark horse at all. Beach, though a bit
of an “eel-punoher,” Is a flno, strong, and reliable
puller: but he was never, in the true sense of the
saying, “a dark horse.” About the hero of Dapto’s
a-Dapto-bility to make a fair show with Hanlan
there can be no question; and if Ned should either
die or stop too long fooling with the girls on the
road, there is no doubt that Beach would stand a
chance of coming in an excellent second. It was
for ns, however—who have done so much for our
country —to dig out the real Simon Pure. It was
one Sunday morning that we turned him over in
the mould of the universe with the spade of Fate,
[l—Ed. B.] A member of this staff, having
had a difference with a fair-haired party at Waver-
ley, thought he would like to order his coffin. He
had, besides, heard of a new hearse, fitted with a
check-string and a talk-pipe, and furnished with a
box of dominoes and a euohro deca for the enter-
tainment of the corpse on the journey to Waverley,
and vehicle possessed for him, in his then state
of mind, many attractions. So we went into
Kirby’s, and after having transacted the necessary
malanohoiy business (during whioh period the
member of our staff, who felt bad, shed many
tears), the purveyor of moi mary paraphernalia to
tha University, &c., took us aside into a small
bower constructed solely of [coffins, and producing
a bottle containing a curious spirit, called (by the
O Emancipated Female,
In the days that are to come,
Will you get upon your musole
And make all creation hum ?
Will you cultivate the morals
Of the tardy evening lark;
And “do” the “masher toddle”
“ On the block,” or in Hyde Park ?
Will you spend the evening gaily,
Till the early sunshine winks,
Im the palace of Gambrinus
Playing vulgar “pool for drinks ’’ ?
In the days emancipated
Will you squirt to baoco-juice,
A-loaflngon the corners
Like a Venus on the loose?
Will you come home in the morning
When the air is damp and chill,
And go fumbling for a key-hole
That refuses to stay still ?
O Emancipated Female,
You may do these things, indeed ;
But we fear it isn’t sewing
That has planted suoh a seed.
THE EMANCIPATED FEMALE.—SEVERAL QUERIES ADDRESSED TO HER.
vulgar) "rum,” bent down, and said, solemnly,
“ I’ve got him.’ “How many will he kill within
the quarter?” said we. “Who?” he asked.
"The dog.” “What dog?” “We thought
He frowned, and looked annoyed. “Well, tell
us." we said, frankly, “is it anything to do with
rats?” “Oh, well,” he cried, rising, “if you re
geingto oast ridicule on the whole thing from the
Start It took half an hour’s explanation, and
an obsolete circus-tioket to pacify him. “ Listen,”
prooeeded the retailer of funeral requisites, “ he’s
a wonder ; it's his own ; and he can draw it.” “ A
badger?” we interjected, innocently. “Oh, as
you seem determined to —.” Ten minutes of
passionate asseverations, and an order for a skull-
chart alone restored his equanimity. Then going
out mysteriously to where the hearses are at livery,
he presently returned with a fine stalwart young
fellow of Swedish nationality. He was of
great personal attractions, and had a splendid
physique. “Here is the man,” exclaimed the
superior shroud-seller, “ who is going to do the
trick." “ Yes,” said the new arrival, “ vith mine
own boat I tink I can do this Kanaka.” “ This
g»n« —” “Beg pardings,” he replied; “I meant
to have said dis Kanakian.” He then did a draw-
ing of his boat, which is fitted with a slide that
works on copr-whoels, adjusted so that a
spring: working: upon them enormously aids the
motive power of the rower. There is also a musical
box to entertain the puller with popular airs, and
a little cupboard to keep a bottle and a Bandwich-
o.iso in to allow of Victor’s getting a snack while
Hanl&n is ploughing away 160 lengths in the rear.
Kirby believes in Dombrownitouki to such an
extent that we are of opinion it will be a consider-
able time before he will be induced to turn-up this
Swede.
The Wallaby and the Dinko.
A FADLE.
A wallaby aad a dingo were travelling together,
one sultry day, over the Old Man Plains in search
of water. They had about one moie day’s journey
to get across, and the dingo’s tongue hung black
out of his mouth, and the wallaby’s tail was as
limp as a politician’s spine. At length they espied
a small crevice between two rocks, with water
about six feet down. “Do you,” said the dingo,
“ sit above, and lower your tail down. I can then
descend, and, after quenching my thirst, I can
olimb up your tail and to the surface, when, being
strong and refreshed, nothing can prevent me
holding you by the tail and lowering you down.
We may then, I trust, reach the end of the plj ios,
where there is abundance of food for both.” The
wallaby obeerfully consented, and the dingo was
soon down in full lap. Springing to the surface,
and licking his lips, he said, “Now, old boy, a bit
of a feed, and I’m right. Give us your tail.” The
wallaby hereupon slid slowly down, whilst the
dingo secured a good bite of nis tail and held on.
“ How are yon getting on T’ asked tbe dingo.
“Can’t reach it,’ groaned the wallaby—let out a
bit.” “ Won’t run It,” answered the dingo, taking
a deeper hltoh and biting off six inches, while tbe
wallaby plunged to the bottom and wa3 suffooated.
As the dingo walked off, laughing and ohewing,
“ It does seem funny to me,” he ohuckled, “ that
an animal should have so rich a tail and so poor a
head.” Moral; By the time the working-man has
got Protection, Nm. Melville and Luscorabe will
be [Here the writing is utterly undecipherable.
When will our correspondents learn to write
legibly ?—Ed. B.]
The objeot of an Anglo-Frenoh syndicate
(100 shares, 6 guineas each), is to play a martingale
against a series of ten coups at Chicago and other
Amerioan towns “ where gambling is tolerated.
Well there’s something honest about the phun-
spokenne3s of this venture. °ther syndicates we
have heard of have as immoral an object, only
they wrap It up in flne*phrased commercial lingo.
They call it a hand-distribution.
Savs Labbv in and with Truth —“The
RoyJFamilyW-all told-about£WOjMWper
annum. This would give a meal to K(K), OOP c hi Id r e n
on 300 days of the year. Heaven forbid that!
should say that it would be better that 500,000
children should have a good meal every day that
they attend school, than that we should en 3°y the
blessings of Royalty. I am not so lost to all sense
of the fitness of things as even to suggest su„h a
heresy. I merely state a statistical fact.
And so we are about to civilize our friends
the Arabs. A mighty good idea, too. It occasionally
happens that the effects produced on the savage
breast by British steel and bullets are but evanes-
cent, but those produced by British civilization
hang on until the last of the victims are civilized
clean off the fa e of the earth entirely. In spite
of this, however, we will nave a tough job to rub
out tbe pirates of the desert. Franco tried it once,
in the “Morran.” Under Parisian a few
hundreds of the rag-tag and bob-tail followers of
the Prophet were induced to dig wells, plant palms,
and build houses, and for a time all went on nice
and lovely. Then the overseers were recalled for
twelve months, and when they returned once
more to report progress, it was found that tbe
coffee-coloured galoots had burnt ail the palms,
stabled their flocks la the houses, and pitched
their tents in the middle of the streets. Then the
frog-eaters pitched up the job, and agreed to let
their converts go to the deuce, whichever way best
suited their own patriarchal inclinations.
Rather a novelty in the way of suicides
recently occurred up near tho Gulf, where a
billiard-marker celebrated the Queen’s birthday, in
spite of Her Aaoesty's postponement ediot, by
soaking his clothes in kerosene oil aud afterwards
setting fire to them. As he happened to be
inside tbe clothes in question at the time, the
crowner’s ’quest declared the contract was weu
and truly carried out according to tho recognised
laws of lunaoy. He was evidently a marker of
mark, for he left £ISOO to the local School of Arts,
and £lOO to be fairly and squarely divided between
two of the leading residents of the place as well.
Rumour says this School of Arts may yet have the
distinguished honour of being converted into a
temporary ball saloon for the convenience of the
dite, who will hold a bang-up shivoo in honour of
the oremated knight of pin-pool. “ Yaller on red,
an’ spot’s yer player.”
The Dubbo Dispatch observes The
Slate of New South Wales knows no religion.”
And this is the dismal conclusion of the Dubbo-
nians, is it, after all our struggles ? And after we
have baoked up Beg till we don’t believe anybody
will be saved; after we’ve talked with Dan Smith
on a future state, and Dan O’Connor on the pre-
sent one. After we’ve backed John Osborne, and
even given Picton a show. Alter we’ve gorged
ourselves with Joe Cook, and taken tonics from
Vaughan, Barker, and Polding, ail of blessed
memory; and then, in desperation, have tried our
own Cyril, with a dash of Mrs. Hampson and Mr.
Burnett thrown in—now to be told that New South
Wales “knows no religion,” is enough to make a
man fling down his pen, drift away into blank
atheism, and—and,—in fact it’s enough to—to—
Yes. And we wiU, too. We’ll never read our dear
Express any more. We really will not—there,
now.
Lady Brassey tells the tale of a certain
glorious isle in tbe Southern Seas, where the mis-
sionaries were compelled to substitute cocoa-nut
milk for Lord’s Supper wine, because they found
when the real tack was used the cup never got as
far as the third communicant without requiring to
be replenished. Something similar really occurred
iu one of our Western towns, where an aboriginal
“ ’vert,” on receiving the sacred vessel, emptied it
at one draught, ar.d then, handing it back to the
startled minister, called out, “'B’ill ’em up agen,
Mass’r. Jimmy boadgerie Christian; dhrink im
that pfeller pevery time now.” And, apropos of
this, a certain ultra-teetotal Church of England
divine has actually started to serve out the Sacra-
ment in the snaps of a cup of ginger-ale—a de-
coction which we reverently submit contains more
stomach-ache to the square inch than any other
poisonous fluid ever yet,'invented—Woseby’s un-
fermented, of course, excepted. Heaven help the
rash missionary who tries ginger-Dop on the saddle-
coloured saints of the South Sea Islands!
The Plymouth Congregational Church,
Chicago, has established a dispensary, so that any
member of the flock who fails sick over Sunday’s
sermon can be put right during the week, free of
charge. One of the leading lights has put down
£4OO towards this good work. He’s a deaf man,
and feels himself called upon to do the best he can
to alleviate the sufferings of his less favoured
brethren. We would dearly like to see this dispen-
sary system introduced by some of the Sidney
churches, no one to be eligible for a church
warden’s berth unless he were a qualified apothe-
oary. A box of restoratives could be placed in
the corner of each pew, after a consultation with
the pa tor, on the Saturday evening, had given the
wardens an inkling as to what particular drugs
would be most suitable as antidotes to the next
morning’s discourse. For a charity sermon, or
anything extra long, a nice assortment of pick-
me-ups might be provided, the vergers being in-
structed to hand them to all who looked qualmish
about the “and now, thirdly and lastly” period’
This is a pretty smart idea, we fancy.
Western Canada is evidently a splendid
place for women—to keep away from. Why we
think of this to-day is simply beoause Mrs. Alfred
Chadwick, who lives in that thriving district
recently got a divorce, End the reason Mrs. Alfred
Chadwick hankered after separation was simnlv
because she had grown tired of being yoked to a
plough with a bullook, and compelled to break ud
the farm lands of her loving lord and master. Mr
Chaewiok’s speolal line of defence was that in
bitching his estimable wife to “Blackbird” (the
bullock’s side), he did no more than all other mar
ket farmers in Western Canada do with their wives
every year. In fact, Mr. Chadwiok submitted that
if he has erred at all it was on the side of lenienov
beoause, whilst other Canadian agriculturists liven
up their lazy ladies with the business end of a
whip, he merely encouraged Mrs. Chadwiok to
shake herself about by rapping her over the bead
with olods of earth- However, a divorce was
actually granted, and the disgusted Mr. Chadwick
now wants to know whether he is breathing the
pure air of freedom or being strangled by the
I fetid breath of a hellish despotism. “ Blackbird’s ”
present mate runs on four legs.
Among the recently published State
Papers of the Commonwealth ai e all sorts of infor-
mation. Here is a traveller’s tale communicated
by John Finch when doing the Levant, to Ladv
Conway:— At Boshki, thirty miles from Smyrna
is an ancient Greek church, wherein are several
images and pictures, a yard high and two inches
thick, weighing 501 b. each. On St. George s Day
if the priests do not take them down, they come
down of tueir own accord, and go out of the
church, and the priests go with them in procession.
Now, what is strange and yet true is, that if a
Lurk carry any of ttiese pictures, he cannot let it
fall from his head, but is terribly beaten, and is
thrown into bushes and under the horses’ feet
and the pictures rise up half a yard fall down upon
their heads, and beat them to the ground, so that
the Turks reverence the pictures . At
Jepell, 300 miles from Tripoli, is a whole province
where, by petrifying blast or sand, all things are
turned into stone, in the same postures they had
when living . . . The Duke of Florence has a
hen with all her chickens in stone, and all the
colours of their feathers. One in Venice has a
bough with apples on it, all the natural colours.'’
Hop Bitters has restored to sobriety and
health perfect wrecks from intemperance.
Peruse dll.


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
i'HE premier whiskey is
~ THOM AND CAMERON’S
Quality unsurpassed.
®*ly brothers,
Sorters 61148 for N ‘ s ' w ' and Q ueensland <
» m «a°™£l MglKr™
8 Seor ae Street, Sydney
Aniline Irish Whiskey
*’ ■ ,4 * ISS 9» * CO.*S DUBLIN WHISKEY
Htw 18 Wsckpasshd.
n *Lamond on label, cork and capsule.
°aly Brothers,
Kenta far n.B.w. and Queensland.
Si
BULL-DOG ALB.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALB. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO,, Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
SAFES and SHAW
H RESPECTFULLY invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS,
UdiQ S ’ , n as follows
Qn d Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
Tai Lor. Ctjt
u frot n-las fid T d TAIL OK-MADS ulsters,
>h" a, «MCht
Loin!^ 611 ® Asters, from ss. 6d. to 80s.
fcOJUctJT TAn^- aped Ulster8 < New Cloths
ft ULs ACKE TS,i Q NEW FANCY MATE
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
each
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
®*Eapes
and SHAW.
Standard
e °tion of the
PEAPES and SHAW.
Tweed" Clothing.
en for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
! CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
various classes of goods enumerated below.
OVRRGOATS, cut long,
h °!’CiUrV v 4r, s l iTAL lAN CLOTH, 255., 305.,
&VSk^ LSTERS ’ linbd wool> 30s -’
ofe* §!p t ° CKgvB BLOATS, 635.
wear a\. overcoats ’ suitable for
AV &®F a J&«» Suit, 425.. 505., 555.
rr(; iA^, r ‘i j EO fn.^l,, KD ;SAC ’ SUITS are
CUT FIT, STYLE, and
01 be for Good Honest Value
tv 32s - 6dR S S 4 R AS r FOLLOWS .
* , • 8,1 «•. 505., 635. the SUIT.
Jfew v ? st > 50s -
eSt of ®upland Broadcloth),
s^^^^°2sa?sa*«ftat
■‘^^^psjissau^sas
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. fid. to 535. 6d.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. 6d.; the
Suffolk, 13s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 31s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. 6d, Bs. fid.
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
Sh&PG
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
to ( , liv .
Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
m
w PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Opera..
hotel,
r °f King and castlereagh streets.
n
. Uil SfIcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
©oo\
i
™E ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
&
consume, in manufacture, nearly three
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
b -^Co s , into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
c. and in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Ueror ’ Si r Roger (thiok twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
‘ (v, lm Do r~ t:o ' and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
O^Qt T En era ° f PiT> ® 9 dsrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
UOP *” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY*
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assorts
raent of
Eric a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Rolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solio
352 George Street-
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HOUN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, nary, the elutos, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgedn dentists io6 marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
curried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
“C7n.d.ert©,]s:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO. .
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
R BUBO IS
me
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sc
forwarded to any part of the colony
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital . £300,000
Reserve Fund £133,600
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo, H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. TI. Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all tins*
casks, and Pottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, m 601 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
14,J4, and lib. tins*
R. WHITTINGHAM& CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
■^y-ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatio
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle ant
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUKNS,
Corn shelter*
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WALinnc
WOOD,
&b. Sue. &o.
HEBBLB WHITE & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
[A CARD.]
H. W. COOPER,
34 0 CROWN STREET,
Late with Dr. Langston Parker,
Author of “Modern Treatment of Syphilis,” of
Queen’s Hospital, Birmingham, England,
t®” Patients treated by Parker’s method.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES <PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Ell Ell sb papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, GEORGE ST., t®6 SYDNEY


Lsta-aa G-olcL X llery ■
(HEGISTEHED.) 1
*
o
9 SIDNEY AECADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
MM IBi JEHffl, CAPE W fffltt, St,
latest fashions.
WATCHES, PEOM 30s.
■■ *
®esr> Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
QUINA LAROCHE.
is it ? j
ASK YOUR DOCTOR
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
xr tj RnYT) (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
Jb.
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice and Fashionable MEN ? g O FT ffyfF
SUITS, TROUSERS and VESTS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD ami is u*
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. n k in 8 ft#
Both shops are thorougly chock f uU. Come early and inspect the cboO J 0 *
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hay^ fllC *
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street*-'
FRY’S MALTED COCOA'
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
the new tobacco,
the new tobacco.
* THE NEW TOBACCO.
„ t mw pm TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
Thl l!8n 515 TAG “the NBW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it isseienee
amii n st ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
Snise orgaSse at once, so that everyone can
o rioopni Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MA CQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
as
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
6 lock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all hinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GTT.RBY’S silyerstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
ran be recommended as being of the highest
rmalitv. and superior to any imported.
q U y TjjCKK« & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street. Sydney.
tw° BEST ENGLISH LEVERS.
THE LIVERPOOL & LONDON
Watch Company
have REMOVED to those most
extensive premises at Corner of
Royal Arcade,
296 Pitt-st. Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES
Reduced to £3 10s.
Sent to all parts of the colony Eree of Charge.
Each watch warranted for five years, and kept
in repair free of charge.
C. SIMMAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note the above Address.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 1© Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELY iiTand SONS’
Edinburg n Pale Ale.
R
OBERT BU TCHER
(Late William Long),
&
o o.
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
ORNfj
ORM
SMWUr.fi
v/ut
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should b© carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
mQQIRTS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtaine ; d first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Yisitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
riON, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Sfear Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
yf
(I
BLAKE’S I*"' j
STEAM 1
H. P. GREGORY f
17 PIT - * - STB
SYDNEY _
vnR
ARE SOLE AGENTS F^d-
, to »tP y
and have in StocK and
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS ptf#
TANK OR LIGHT J J
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR&
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING P
SEND FOR PRICES AND
CATALOGUES
forWA^
a
<v
w
pAPy
330
Office: 330
STORES: MU' I'*' 1 '*'
P
N.B. Pattern®
PAINTS.
OILS.
E. ROWLANDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Eratesi Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only l . , hit ./ for ft rated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs
