

E=r oT7-Id.exs. TTxxiTrexsal
OF
In the Australian Colonies.
....... HORDERN AND SONS
**-ACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
P
ik/:-: ...
Novelties! Spring Novelties ! The Opening oi the Spring Trade.
Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season .
H . . , « -»-r ; -hit- i*i ii /~n • l Tim.'.. mrnwTr+ V»ina* -froeli in 1 jSippk. Ribboi
% Glo^ in B a charmin* variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons,
\\ ;i es ’ fies, Collars, Flowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring mont.is.
tb]V a^n ifieent stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, TV indow Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
r equisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and su Jstan ui y,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER .
Our Only .Address*
HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
CESaI 'PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PIIOVIDERS._
The Bulletin
New Series


CAMERAS,
■i :■ C ARDf /;m tMi C/\L> :
uents ior *tr' : -.•
1 1 w
Nl fK.SJI VFIR AMD UilOfiiliOLD'.^
Csmpfets Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
~ EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
H. L. SUSffIUERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
U. L. SUMHEHFIELB & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E C
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET,'
STREET, DUBBO.
; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
WAG6A; MACQUARIE
£Sr Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prioes of Men’s and Boys’
(roods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J • C3r. Harborow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
OF
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
fMew Sleek of Ladies 9 Glowes, Lscss, and Fichos.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, UifsiireSSas, Oaegs.
Parses and Fancy Mar®.
w. W. CATER, Importer,, 193 & 195 Fitt-strest.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cl ATER’S system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
/ prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES GLOVE*! Awn
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES. U ES ’ AND
Our Introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris isn ~ ,
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged. e ' n aris ’ sa rea * sucsess We have
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
TV. “W_ CATE2S,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
T
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The most Comlortffibio and Private Jfrti 8 ! 8 and Spirits!
-applied, bporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up, 61 * S " MancierBaud Co. s telegrams
SB. a. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Haldsluck & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
BiK CEL RICHARDS ft Co., London.
Soli Agent* lot Heldeioob fit Co.. Eeuni. ♦
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker <& Cutler.
-^ssssfflmarassra?*
COLONIAr i-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY'S
N _ IFI CENT stock °, f ? in^le and Double-
ILfw wl Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Kei elvers, &e. All goods will be fafthfullv
; d at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
ceived 0d f A t ?, ck of J rab !f and Pocket Cutlery just
an Ail work , and r ®P airs executed equal to
& n ipean workmanship. H
Eno-pflr So 1? A «e, nt for Australia of the celebrated
KSSiSKfe.'** 0 "’ : •*> *■«-
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & COA
IS, ICED, ui sunn on®
397 GEORGE STREET,
6* and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGI' 4 * 1 *
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENOLANC.
IMPORTERS OP 0 o j 5
Engineers’ Tools, founders’ Materials, Ship
♦ Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agr
Implements. 'Jf"
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and Hoisting-, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
BOILERS.
"Vertical and Horizontal,
MACHINERY. aß d
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, 1
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hamm
WOOD.WOKKIKG MACHINERY. g ft *S.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. *i®* wer<
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam r
Engiisa and American Agricultural lmpl® nie,its '
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes
Bakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and ®nem»
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. gSi far* 3 *'
Coach BuiiiDEKS* Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furn
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. <ialvani zel1 ’
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; «
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. ,
ifoP 1
Squatters’ Supplies. aD d
Wool packs, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Wasbina
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. carpenters’
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in La p
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAEE AND
387 B®orsgo Street, Sydnfty*
cfl
WRIGHT, KEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
BEIEHIL CARRIERS,
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,, 1
BRANCH OFFICES,
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Fasa
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagg-a Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Naranda?
Hulong
Carrathool
May
WiBT»RN District, N.8.W.;
Caperte©
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymage®
Co bar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.B.W.
Morpeth
G-unnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrinjj
Tamworth
Cralia
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOUTHERN AND SOOTK-WEBTKRN LlNB;
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Teuiba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Central Lins:
Capelia
Comet
CowHßville
i Towers
Nobthbbn Linb:
Ravenswooa Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WJM. M'CULLOCH 9b 00., LIMITED.
war Agencies in ail .part? of the world.
Foster’s
GUINNESS'S EXTRA- STGWT.
mm
fwv.vu.
The BEST ALE and
SOLD BY ALL
gijolJT
m
r vti
AU
Yiraroe, Son?
m~ THE . NEW P^L!
INVESTMENT COM 000.
CA?I*A*’2 SI iv .
Allow Interest as f°}l o Xontb s iJo& } hJ\ l !$.- >1 '
on fixed deposits for ,K i ! ‘ l
and UPWARDS for
£1 to;
CENT, on sums from t ,/
Branch, Payablo on D etn
-r 1 7 WA-*-
I. v
bV 6 "
*1
Dt *Z
mi
tooar’s head
.IS of Stout selects i (
best of the brewing 1 * q 0„ %
Arthur Guinness ana V
cannot be excelled- * igtP
CATT KLL * CO.. Sole A


THE BULLETIN
Vcl. 2.—No. 68.—New Series.
SATURDAY. AUGUST 30. 1884.
Prioe—6d.
What is Socialism?
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30, 1884.
This is a question which has lain in our
mind for many years. We do not yet feel
ourselves competent to fully elucidate it.
Socialism has an exiensive literature of its
own. Its principles, as we understand them,
are co-temporaner-us with organised and
recorded thought. They are discoverable in
the social laws of Moses as recorded in the
Hebrew Scriptures, recognisable in the
philosophy of Plato, prominent in the
moral code of Jesus of Nazareth, scattered
through the idealisings of More; and, later,
glimmer amidst the works of the French
Encyclopcedists; and, in modern times, And
strong and coherent expression in the works
of St. Simon in France, Las-
salle and Carl Marx in Ger-
many, and, still more recently,
in pamphlets and brochures
by Hyndman, Morris, Camp-
bell, and a rapidly increasing
host of other writers in Eng-
land. Our list is, doubtless, as
incomplete as our knowledge.
Henry George, however, is
not a Socialist, although the
designation has constantly been
flung at him as a term of
obloquy. In a recent English
publication, we observe a
Socialist writer remarks : “ I
object to Henry George, not
because he is a Socialist, but be-
cause he is not a Socialist.” Tho
objection to George seems to
be that he halts on the thresh-
old of necessary reform, and,
while offering a genuine remedy
for some of the evils of exist-
ing society in his plan for
national appropriation of all
land rentals, he errs in in-
sisting that his remedy is a
panacea—a cure for all social
evils. The thorough-going So-
cialist contends that, while
George’s remedy for the evils
of landlordism is effeotual lor
those evils, there remain un-
healthy relations between Capi-
tal and Labour which would
still disorder the entire body
politic, even were the cancer of
land-monopoly extirpated.
* * *
We heartily wish that more
competent and more fully in-
formed teachers than our-
selves would undertake the duty of inform-
ing the public what the true meaning and
significance of this growing system—Social-
ism—are. But during all the years that we
have ourselves awaited and expected in-
struction through the medium of the local
press, we have received worse than none.
We have read intermittent sneers scoffs,
which even our own imperfect acquaintance
with the subject enabled us to perceive
were not justified. In short, all arts have
been employed to disgust readers with the
name and idea of Socialism, while sedulously
keeping them ignorant of what Socialists
have to say for themselves. A superficial
acquaintance With the ideas of St. Simon,
learned from sundry brief summaries in
English magazines; a frequent study of the
laws of Moses, embodied in the Old Testa-,
ment; and a constant and appreciative study
of the principles of Jesus of Nazareth,
as recorded in the New Testament, have
been, until very recently, apart from re-
flections original to ourselves, almost our
entire field of information. With the tone
of Continental Socialism we are, conse-
quently, but slightly acquainted, but we
have been at the pains to procure some of
the most recent publications * by the Eng-
lish Social Democracy, and it is from their
contents, combined with the Bible, that we
propose to draw our materials for this
article.
• • •
In the first place, then, we will explain
as well as we can what all the trouble
is about. People naturally want to
know how there came to be Socialism
and Socialists at all: what their complaint
is, and Avhat their objects. Briefly, the com-
plaint is that the existing organisation of
society is all wrong; that it is antagonistic
to natural laws; that it is an organised an-
archy, maintained by force and fraud; that
it combines the maximum of human suffer-
ing with the minimum of true personal ad-
vantage. In more exact terms, the Socialists’
MR. MAX VOGRICH, CONDUCTOR METROPOLITAN LIEDERTAFEL, AND MRS. VOGRICH (MISS ALICE REES.)
contention is that the inequalities of con-
dition—of wealth and poverty—created and
maintained by existing legalised systems,
are contrary to natural justice. Wealth, as
the exceptional advantage of individuals,
they sharply affirm is maintained solely by
The Robbery of the Poor.
• • •
This is the subject of Mr. Campbell’s
essay. He finds his text among the Proverbs
of Solomon, “Rob not the poor because he
is poor.” This, Mr. Campbell remarks,
seems, on the surface, a very extraordinary
exhortation. Men are told not to rob those
who have nothing to be robbed of, and they
are apparently tempted to do so by this very
fact that there is nothing to rob. Mr. Camp-
bell proceeds methodically. First, he de-
monstrates that there are poor in England
whose penury seems irreconcilable with the
idea that they have not suffered foul play.
He reviews the conventional explanations
of the existence 6f the desperately poor.
“The poor are drinkers,” say the Temper-
ance people, “and so from temperance plat-
forms the people are told by the rich and
well-to-do . . . that they must really re-
form their habits, and not leave their foul
and desolate abodes for the gin-shop with its
glittering attractions.” Again, they are
thriftless. The grim satire of the Earl of
Derby, who enjoys an income exceeding
£170,000 a year, telling the poor of England, in
a speech at the Mansion-house, that it is their
duty, everyone of them, to live within their
means and lay by something every year, “as
he, by much restraint and self-denial, W6are
to suppose, contrives to do,” is pointed
out. Next, the country is over-populated !
So cry the Malthusians and the advocates
for emigration.
“Perhaps,” writes Mr. Campbell, “no one sur-
passes in insolence these two kinds of reformers.
Neither have the faintest idea, or apparent desire
to obtain the faintest idea, of what number of
people the land of England can maintain, under the
conditions laid down by the Almighty Maker of
them and it. Get rid,” he cries, “of every super-
fluous person in the land, by all means; but, per-
haps. before you talk any more about that, you
win h*)ve the goodness to find out and settle who
the superfluous person is.”
And he indicates pretty clearly that the
superfluous person is more likely the idle
non-producer than the producer and
worker. Again : “The poor must be better
housed,” cry another class. “The State
must take the matter in hand, and provide
them with fit accommodation at the lowest
possible rent.” Of course, if land and
wealth escape their due proportion of taxa-
tion, this remedy would simply burden the
rather poor with the cost of accommodation
for the very poor. But Mr. Campbell
simply remarks
“Very well. But will any one kindly inform me
what he thinks should be ‘the lowest possible
rent ’ a woman earning sixpence a day, or a man
one shiliing and fivepenco, pan be expected to
pay ? ”
Brushing aside these futilities, the writer
cries, “ What is the root of the matter
then ? ” and answers—
“ What but this: As a people we have forgotten
God. We have forgotten what Justice means.*
Wo have made and passed laws, not as to us seemed
just, but as seemed expedient. We have sought,
dealing man with man, not the just thing, but
simply the gainful. And as a net result and out-
come of it all, our laws and the accepted constitu-
tion of society are such that there is going on
throughout the length and breath of the land, in
thousands of the subtlest and cunningest of ways,
unchecked, unheeded—nay, applauded and ap-
proved of—that which the Hebrew sage of old
warned his fellow-man against—the robbery of
the Poor by the Rich, simply because they are
Poor!”
Next comes the demonstration. What
have the poor to be robbed of ? is an obvious
inquiry at this stage. The reply is, in effeot,
they have their property. The property of
the poor ? Nonsense! A definition is re-
quired. What, then, is property, if the poor
are among the propertied classes ? Mr.
Campbell professes to discover that econo-
mists have not yet provided a definition,
and proposes one of his own. Property, he
holds, is that which is proper
to a thing, part and parcel of
that thing, and which cannot
be dissociated from it without
it being destroyed in its dis-
tinctive nature. This seems
exact. We talk thus of the
properties of a magnet, of oxy-
gen, of steel, and so forth. With
respect to a man, the term is
evidently inapplicable to any-
thing external to his owu
being.
“ A man’s property, in its simplest
meaning:, is all that rests within bis
own frame, all the powers of body
and mind which by nature are his.
These are all that a man can call
‘ his own,’ to which no one but the
Almighty Giveb can have a prior
claim.”
This being “private property,”
what are its rights and what is
“common property?” Access
to such things and opportuni-
ties as are necessary for the
sustaining and renewing of soul
and body. That is the definition
of natural rights, and of com-
mon property. Nothing very
monstrous, so far.
*■ * *
Here, then, we have ex:act
propositions. Personal pro-
perty is what, belongs to each
man s body and mind. Com-
mon property is what Nature
has provided of material things
which are necessary for the
sustaining of life. The natural
rights of man are simply the
rights of access to these
material things—in other words,
the right of living. Hence,
the right of living being equal in
all men, the right of access to the material
things which are necessary for the mainten-
ance of life is equal to all. If this be ad-
mitted, then is private property in land
condemned, since land is one of the material
things which have in them the life-maintain-
ing faculty, just as air and water have. This
is, in fact, Henry George’s main canclusiou,
arrived at by a distinct line of argument.
i*i
But now comes a fresh departure. Sup-
posing the right of man to have access to
material things and to produce from them
by his labour, articles of use, were not
denied him, George holds that all would be
well. The Socialists dispute this. They say
men might still be robbed of their labour.
They declare that men arc so robbed. And
*“ To-day,” a monthly magazine, Is.; “A Sum-
mary of the Principles of Socialism,” by 11. M.
Hyndman and William Morris. “The Robbery
of the Poor,” by W. H. P. Campbell, Is. “The
Christian Sociali t,” monthly, Id. “Justice,” the
organ of the Social Democracy, weekly paper, Id.
Published by Reeves, Fleet-street, London, R.C,
*Mr. Campbell has this footnote:—“Nay, we
deny its existence. The Saturday Review (No.
17) informs us that there is no such thins: as a
man's ‘natural rightswhich is simply saying
that there is no such thing as natura Ijustice. Our
Saturday Reviewer woqljj resent, we pr6Bum§
being called an Atheist. 5 ’


TIE POPULAR EM
OF
U
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.— YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, & c .
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
EEI BOBU WHISK?
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERB OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
TUB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-tiioe.
tr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. FEB IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Sing!: Bottle Itpirtut,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sc ±.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of ouch a Quality that cannot be surpassed at an;
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RBD or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
la sold in this department.
The host Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
la. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
TEBDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
j Market Street, Sydney .
they assert that it is to denial of their com-
mon rights and to robbery of their labour
that the hopeless poverty of the many is
jointly attributable. Here, therefore, we
arrive at the conflict between Labour and
Capital which George regards as in-
essential, the political economists of the old
school as unavoidable, and the Socialists as
criminal. At this point we resume our
quotations from Mr. Campbell:—
“ These conditions being thus recognised, a man
is entitled, by duly exercising his powers upon any
portion of this common property, to produce any
commodity or natural wealth in a form ready tor
us . . . . If another man desires a similar com-
modity, let him go to thG common-wealth and pro-
duce it for himself; or, what is the same thing,
let him ask the other to exchange it for its due
equivalent.”
That due equivalent will be some other
article upon which an equal amount of
labour has been expended—the “natural”
value being common to both. This is honest
exchange. No one is the gainer over the
other. One man can become richer than
another only to the extent that he is more
laborious, more apt, or more thrifty. Such
persons will have, rightly, more claims than
others upon the general wealth, because
embodied in triat wealth is more of their
labour, or more of the fruits of their personal
property, their abilities.
* * *
Now, as Capital is simply stored-up Labour,
under these conditions the industrious, thrif-
ty, and able would be the capitalists of
society. But no one would be much richer
than another. That is, considering a simple
state of society. But invention steps in. A
machine is oonceived and constructed which
can, with one man’s guidance, produce what
ten men’s labour was previously required to
produce. This machine is (say) an improved
kind of loom for the spinning of cotton shirt-
ing. The community has hitherto had all its
wants supplied by teu men who have been
paid in proportion to their labour. The
machine in the hands of one man produces
all that is required; and, as only one man is
to be maintained, the product can be ex-
changed at a oneaper r?.te. Tho othtr nine
spinners are starved out. The one man
receives nearly as much as heretofore had
been paid to ten. Cheapness creating de-
mand, he erects a seooud machine, and
offers wages to one of the nine to work it.
As there are nine iqcn anxious to get the
occupation, they bid against one another,
and he who offers to take the smallest pro-
portion of his true labour value gets the
post. The machine owner now has two
looms at work, equal to twonty men’s labour,
and expends only his own labour and half the
value of his hired assistant’s He pockets the
other half as part of his gain. He has thus
“ robbed the poor because he is poor.” But
-his success excites rivalry. Other machines
are made, and competition between capital-
ists sets in. Society, then, is for the first
time distinctly benefited by some saving
effeoted of the cheapness of production be-
ing allowed to purchasers. Meanwhile, a
starvation class is being created among the
displaced weavers. Want and hunger have
begun their ravages. They are followed by
envy, recklessness, negligence at work,
thieving, despair. Society begins to require
gaols, police, and slave-drivers styled over-
seers. And all this they have to pay for.
Against their gain by cheapness of produc-
tion has to be set-off their loss by demoraliza-
tion and misery'in their midst.
’ j- {(■;;>» :
* * *
9 9 9
Despite our most strenuous efforts to con-
dense, we are but half way—if even so far-
through our .subject. We have not yet an-
swered the which appears at the
head of this article. 3kor can we hope to
even approximately do justice to the expo-
sition with the sp&oe just now at our dis-
posal. At this stage, therefore, we will
break off, deferring until our next issue the
further elucidation of the extremely inter-
esting problems under consideration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Splendid Reception.
The return of Sir Henry Parkes is, to some
creatures, like the return of Bummer. He is the
luminary of thsir existence. Deprived of his light,
they languish in torpidity and obscurity. At the
touch of his rays, they are warmed and quickened
into life and motion, and begin to 6quinn and
wriggle from their holes and hiding-place c , and to
creep again uncannily before the eyes of a shud-
dering public. On this Saturday, a public banquet
is to be given to the patron ;eamt of creatures of
the kind. Names which have been almost for-
gotten, and which the people of New South Wales
would fain forget altogether, except it were to
point a moral and adorn a tale, come into print
again; published with the pretecs on l at the
grovellings and homage of tlieir d sgraced and
contemned owners can confer something other
than indignity upon any man whom they brand
with the blister of their approval. Sir Henry
Parkes is a man of talent. Grantod. His talents
are of the order which deserve admiration and
esteem. Not granted. Has he so ordered his life,
has he so employed the gifts of Providence, as to
be a type for fathers to indicate to their sons—a
model for imitation, an example to be heaved
aloft and held up for the edification of the youth
of Australia? Only Providence can endow a man
with talent; so that the fact that Sir Henry
Parkes is clever'supplies no reason why he should
be loaded with distinction. Our young men
cannot become gifted by emulating. But Provi-
dence leaves to man the employment of its en-
dowments. Is it, then, the use that Sir Henry
has turned his gifts to, that the ban lutters would
fain have our youDg men emulate ? Are they, as
fathers, or as elders of the people, desirous of say-
ing, let your liie be as his; deserve by similar con-
duct a like reputation as to your dealings with
your neighbour; be such a man in regard for your
word, be such a man in regard for your obliga-
tion; earn such a reputation lor integrity in pri-
vate life, and disinterestedness in public affairs;
study to leave, like him, your mark in the public
records of your country; be known, like him, for
the self-sacrificing devotion of your career; como
to be favoured, liko him, by the attachment of all
that are despicable among public men—do these
things and you will do well? We shall observe
with interest the tendency oi the speakers, and
how they will reconcile with their deure to hold
up their idol as an example for the present and
rising generation, the circumstance that he re-
turns, after having sacrificed to bis personal ag-
grandisement his duty as a public man, during
one of the most momentous cr.ses in the affairs of
this colony which has occurred during the past
score of years.
♦
A Noble Cause.
We observe with admiration that an effort is being
made to work up another meeting on the case of
—Andersen, Esq.—a gentleman who has been a
good deal before the public of late. The free and
enlightened persons who howled at the last meet-
ing, are much aggrieved that the Government has
not adopted their suggestions, and the fact that
the magistrates who dared to sentence the saintly
Andersen to the penalty of the law have not been
dismissed, and that the “ pusillanimous ” constable
who in the most cowardly way interfered with the
enjoyments of Mr. Andeiisen and his ladyfiiend
has not been flogged, as suggested at the meeting,
has aggravated these persons beyond endur mce.
We fully sympathise with them. The only point
they have gained so far i'b that the Government
intend, whtn printing tho papers connected with
the case Of their interesting proteg<s, to omit all the
gross indecencies in t he evidence. To include these
in the printed papers might outrage the delicate
susceptibilities of Mr. Andersen, and the retlmd
feelings of his lady associate. Tho inclusion of these
details might, on (he other hand, have the outrage-
ous effect of inducing people to believe that the
magistrates were fully justified. And what a
scandalous injury to Mr. Andersen that would
be! The suppression of th se parts of the evi-
dence will necessarily have the effect of convinc-
ing everyone who reads the half of the evidence
which is printed that Mr. Andersin never did
anything disgusting, since nothing of a disgusting
nature is to be published. We would recommend
that if these carefully expurgated papers be pub-
lished in time, they be read at the proposed meet-
ing, and the absence of any testimony of filthy
conduct will then serve to justify a resolution that
the magistrates be flogged and dismissed, and that
Mr. Andeiisen be appointed to till one of the
vacancies as some compensation for the outrage
he has suffered, and as a slight testimony of the
appreciation felt for his pure and lofty character.
Tho other position might be offered to his lady
friend, who has, we believe, been flung into a
loathsome dungeon for her share in tho adventure
which has conferred fame, and, we trust, will give
fortune by compensation, to her fond lover. Wf
think it hardly fair that so much should have been
said of Mr. Andersen, and so little of the lady
It is true she has not, like him, been flogged: bui
—this should weigh with the meeting—she de-
served to be quite as much as he did. Why should
so interesting a character be neglected ? Interest-
ing ? Certainly. The woman v ho has been loved
by the high-souled Andersen cannot but be inter-
esting; also, noble.
The ‘Times’” Morality.
The French have apparently emulated at Foochow
the exploits of ourownNavy at Alexandria. With-
out any formal declaration of war, but simply after
notice given by the Admiral in command of the
fleet, they have bombarded the forts and the city.
The London Times, with extraordinary Pharisee-
ism, has charged the French Admiral with violat-
ing the rules of civilised warfare. The charge
seems accurate enough; but there is something
revoltingly hypocritical in the assumption of the
Times that we are in a position to pose as moral-
ists. If the bombardment of Foochow was just a
sickening massacre of Chinese, the description
equally fitted the bombardment of Alexandria
and the rout of Tel-el-Kebir by British forces.
The resistance at Foochow seems at least to have
been more effective than the resistance at Alex-
andria. The loss on board the French fleet is
given at six men killed, which is a ‘‘sickening
slaughter” as ompared with the casualties or/
board our own fleet at Alexandria. We had only
one man killed. The French bad als > a gun-bost
injured, and a torpedo-boat sunk. We had no
vessel injured and no boat sunk. Much of the
Podsnappehy of tho Times and similar papers is
due to the fact that it has been fashionable to
represent war as a noble and inspiring business,
whereas, it is, in its essence, simply the black-
guard violence of natiOns-ruffianism on a large
scale. In its essence, it is brutal, foul, and treaeh
erous. To deceive an enemy is one of the highest
talents of a great Commander, and the secret of
victors has generally been the art of making every
one of their battles an unequal one. Students of
history are aware that the successes of Frederic
the Great and Napoleon— taking two modern
examples—were almost invariably gained by de-
ceits. That is to siy, by amusing their adversaries
with expectation of attack in one direction, and
then overwhelming them with superior numbers
at a point left weak. There is no chivalry in war.
There is cheating, and brutality, and ruffianism.
And it is true that the French have conducted
themselves with brutal violence towards Foochow.
They have gone to the length of killing Chinese,
and have committed arson, and assault and bat-
tery. They r weren’t particular about giving notice
when they would begin, nor were they nicely deli-
cate about the moment of leaving off. This is
horrible and revolting. But at least there was no
incident so shameful as the offer of a reward for
the head of Osman Digna by our Admiral
Hewext at Souakim, and, above all, it is not so
horrible and revolting as the shameless and un-
blushing hypocrisy of the Times’ moral indig-
nation 4
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For ono year, 34b,; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 108. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 ccyasecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. 11. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Several Berlin journals are inclined to
look on the proposed appropriasion on the east
coast of New Guinea by the Australian Govern-
ments on behalf of England, as a measure specially
devised to forestall Germany.
Queensland’s proposal to adopt the Cana-
dian military system is a wise one, the Dominion
defence force being by far the most economical,
as well as the most efficient, of British colonial
armies. The sooner New South Wales follows
suit, the better
A Spanish Socialist journal denounces the
defection of one of its contributors by the follow-
ing paragraph, which has at least the merit of
candour:—“ We beg to inform our readers, with a
feeling of indignation, that. M. Arostigud has
ceased to belong to our staff. He has written to
our editor to say that, having inherited a sum of
6000 piastres from a relative, be considers his new
position as incompatible with our doctrines.” We
suppose he meant that their doctrines were incom-
patible with his new position.
The French Chambers, sitting in joint
congress, have decreed the Republic inviolable,
and declared members of ex-ruling families in-
capable of holding the Presidentship. This throws
the burden of illegality upon any attempt of the
Comte de Paris, or Pion-Plon, or Victor to come
forward as a candidate. ’Tis, perhaps, a pity that
this course should have had to be adopted, "let it
may have been done to avoid needless bloodshed.
As to the chances of success of either a Royalist
or an Imperialist pronunciamento, they are infini-
tesimal, seeing that tha ‘‘new model” French
army is Republican almost to a man.
Country Money for City Lands.
(From the “ lllawarra Aryus.' ")
Iu the course of a few weeks the railway line,
which connects Sydney with the wealthiest agri-
cultural and mineral district in Australia, will be
opened. That line is the one known far and wide
as the lllawarra Railway. It is a fact within the
general knowledge that during the past ten years
nearly £6,000,000 of good, solid money has been in-
vested in land and buildings On tbe old railway
suburbs of Sydney. Huge areas of splendid land,
which for years had lain idle, have been divided
and suh-divided, and built upon, till now the me*
tiopolis of Sydney may be said to Le joined right
through her populous suburbs to Parrafflatta.
Along the line there is a continuous growth or at
least ten miles, and there is scarcely afoot between
Homebush and Parramatta that has not been sola
for building purposes, and which, in ten years
nore, will be a succession of thriving townships.
And it can safely be said with regard to these
huge investments that there is hardly one in
a thousand that hasn’t exhibited a solid in-
crease in value. Nearer the city, the major-
ity of investments have increased 1000 per
cent. The opening of the lllawarra railway line
offers just the same, if not improved, advantages
to people who were not fortunate enough to se-
cures sites on the old railway lines. The Anglo*
Australian Investment, Finance and Land Com-
oanv, one of the w. althi- St in Sydney, has secured
on tlie lllawarra lire, the largest estate yet offered
to the Australian public on subdiv sion. This
splendid estate is only twelve miles from Sydney.
L'his is a few minutf s’ run in the train to and lrom
business in the city, and the Company have re-
solved on a far more liberal plan of subdivision
than yet attempted. A great deal of mischief, it
is now seen and admitted, has been done in the old
railway suburbs by reasdn of the small building
rite?, which tend to dwarf the general character
of he suburban residence; but the Anglo-Aus-
tralian Company have decided not to have less
than two-aero blocks, and there will be also three-
acre and five-acre blocks, on this great subdivision
now announced. This will be a guarantee to any
man investing that there will be an improved style
of building in the vicinity of this investxent, and
it will be very surprising if, in the course of a
couple of years, this subdivision is not found to
be the basis of the best-planned and wealthiest pt
all the suburbs of Sydney. And the Company, in
making these subdivisions, have rpsolved on a plan
f nmire-'Bwhicti is certain to meet with uni-
versal adop ion. The Company wi 1 not require
aeposits, uor will interest be charged. A fan-
profit only will be charged on the whole subdi-
vision, and this has been found to work out so that
ou the two-acre blocks only Its. 6d. per month will
be required; 21s 9d. on the three-acre blocks, and
:«s. 3d. on the five-acre blocks. This is by far
the most liberal plan yet devised, and it is
not feurprising to hear that hundreds of ap-
plications are already in. The announcement
of the subdivision has particular interest for resi-
dents all over the interior of the country. During
the past tbr e years a great deal of surplus ooun-
ry money has been gradually finding its way into
the Sydney land market, and the most substantial
results have been nctud. City property always
idvances in value ten times faster than those of
the inland centres—a natural result of the greater
growth of the metropolis in population. Hence, a
lotel-keeper, store-keeper, farmer, grazier, or
ither business man puts a portion of nis suvmgs
in city and suburban blorks, and the interests on
his money have been ten, twenty, and even fifty
times the profit gnater than if allowed to remain
in a bank. Some thousands of blocks on the Par-
ramatta River, overlooking the chatni i in aquatic
course, are held by country residents in both N.
S. Wales and Queensland: and tne same fact is
noticeable with regard to the subdivisions ou the
>ld line of railway. The subdivision now an-
nounced by the Anglo-Australian Company,
besides bei„g the largest and the most liberal
is also the best that can be offered the pub
ho of these colonies. The land to be sold
will form beautiful river side residences, and
the existence of droughts is unknown, so that all
kinds of agriculture may be adopted throughout
the subdivision. The lllawarra line opens up the
vast coal districts of the South Coast, and brings
the metropolis within a short run of the matchless
grazing, farming, and butter-producing ar-as of
Wollongong, Kiama, &c. Hence the certainty of
a great traffic on the new lines, and the certainty
likewise of extensive building operations and
increased values for land. Country readers of
this artiele are invited at once to make the fullest
inquiries as to this great subdivision: and plans.
&c., may be obtained on application to the Manager
of tne Anglo-Australian Investment, Finance, and
Land Company, Mr. William Clarks, M.F., 163
Fitt-Btreet, Sydney,


SKIN BEAUTIFIER.
To keep the pores open, the oil glands and tubes
active, and thus furnish an outlet for impurities
in the perspiration and blood which cause humili-
ating blotches, blackheads, and minor skin blem-
ishes; to cleanse, whiten, and beautify the skin, re-
move tan, freckles, sunburn, and oily matter; to
keep the hands soft, white, and free from chaps
and roughness, prevent contagious skin and scalp
diseases and to provide an exquisite skin boautiiler
and toilet bath and nursery sanative, redolent with
delicious flower odors and Cuticura healing bal-
sams, use the Cuticura Soap. Indorsed by phy-
sicians and chemists as absolutely pure and highly
medicinal. Sales 1881 and 1883,1,000,000 cakes.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rats,
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents,
When used in connection with Bristol’s
Barsaparilla, there is no affection of the
stomach, liver, or bowels but can be safely,
soeedily, and completely cured by Bristol's
Sugar-coated Pills.
Three persons in every thousand ara
known, or believed to be, thieves; one person in
every thirty is a pauper; thus leaving ninety*
eight in every hundred of the public who will be
interested in the displav of China and Crockery at
Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-street.*
Avoid a Costive Habit oe Body not only
because of the attending lest it en-
gender more serious consequences. Dr. Jayne’s
Sanative Pills are either Laxative or Cathartic, ac-
cording to the dose, and may be depended upon to
produce healthy secretions of the Liver and
Stomach. To be bad of all Druggists and Store-
keepers, and wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-
street, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock,*
jldme. Rita and Mr. J ohn Radcliff give a
lecture-concert on Thursday evening September 4.
Mdme. Rita is a soprano of high culture, and Mr.
Radcliff is simply the greatest living flautist. He
lectures, and illustrates by playing every instru-
ment in the flute line, from the Pandean pipes up
to the perforated shin-bone of the last organ-
grinder he has killed. And Rita sings. There's no
shin-bone about her singing either. Their’s is
going to be an exceptional concert, and may not
be repeated. Radcliff; and Mrs. Radcliff didn’t
come here because Sydney concert platforms are
preferable to the boards or the orchestra of the
Royal Italian Ogera, and they are not going to
stop for ever.
W* « •
And, lying on the table before us, is a let-
ter from Mi. James M. Costello, of Miller's Point,
stating that a concert is to be given ou the lOch
prox., to aid in raising a fund to build an addition
to the Ophthalmic Hospital at Moore Cliff, Miller's
Point. Mr. Custello gives us the date all right,
and tells us that Annis Montague and Charles
Turner are to assist, but he forgot to state where
the concert is to be held, hence we can t tell you.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Fred. Pollock has opened the newly-
built Academy of Music, Adelaide, with the
Pollard kids. Miss Flode Lome is the star:
she is chaperoned by her Mamma. A corres-
pondent considers “the Academy may or may
not prove a fortune for the enterprising Pol-
lard.” This is a very safe conclusion to come to!
The Academy, by the way, belongs to a slop mer-
chant and a photographer. The old hall, it will be
remembered, was the scene of a certain comme-
dian’s triumphs—only cut short by the vanman who
won the “magnificent suite of furniture,” nightly,
sticking to it in real earnest A comedy called
“Where Were You Last Night?” is to be played
here shorily. It is probably James Albery’s adap-
tation from the German, “Where’s the Cat?”
under another name .. .Alf. Lawton, Amy Rowe 1
Minnie Hope, and Dave Gardner are overriding
it from Melbourne. They were last heard of (by us)
at Wagga. They appear to be doing well. So does
Dan Barry’s crowd at Narandera, etc., only Dan
has too many people—and Mrs. Ned Holloway is
hardly mature enough yet for a “star ” J—lt has
A COURSE OF TRAINING
TO MUCH FLESH.
THIS IS THE SORT OF THING TO TAKE
IT OFF.
A DECIDED IMPROVEMENT.
IN SPLENDID CONDITION, AND
AS HAKB A 8 NAILS.
ust occurred to us how tired Minstrels must be of
seeing in the country papers: “ We advise those of
our readers who love a hearty laugh to go and see
them. ’ We hear of two circuses performing in
the Northern Districts—St. Leon’s at Inverell. and
Ashton’s at Glen Innes. Ashton calls himself the
Saw-dust King. Well, this is a tree country
Keogh and Marian Willis have been going it at
Parramatta, and no mistake. The Great Scotch
Tragedian did Conn in “The Shaughraun,’ and
Maid—we mean Matron Marian (Mrs. K.) has been
giving them “East Lynne” (alas!) “The Woman
in Red,” “ Leah,” "The Octoroon,” and other nice
light pieces, full of novelty. They did not give
the “ Relief of Lucknow” tnis trip, though; pro-
bably because they were unable to “ specially en-
gaue ’ Jim Sweeney to play the part of the unre-
lenting Indian, in his George-street “elastics.”
Sam Howard’s of the company. “ Resurgam" is
Sam’s motto; though as to the rest of it we are
afraid not, since Sam’s dad must have soared loDg
ago! Voyons?— oh! The Gunnedah Amateur
Minstrels have been having a great time, giving
entertainments for what they call, with some
vagueness, “ Local Charities.” We once knew an
amateur Minstrel troupe that always played for
charity. Only the charity began at home—and
stopped there. Mr. A. Von Davans is the business
manager. Von Davans is probably Schleswig-
Holstein for John Evans. Zulu Thompson is do-
ing the usual stroke at Port Elizabeth (S.A.), and
forwards us some papers. It is funny exhi-
biting a Diorama of the Zulu War to the
Zulus; but it will be funnier still if some of
them call out in the middie of the entertainment,
“Not a bit like it.” It ap ears, 100, that Vernon
Reid has climbed up as far as Inverell, with C. J.
Tyrrel, Miss Tessie Horan, and other tremendous
performers, and it is set forth that Mr. R. Crabb,
G.S.V.t). (another crusher!), has been lecturing
on “ Happy Homes ” at Morpeth, &c. Mr. C. does
not charge at the doors, but makes a collection
“to defray expenses.” Unselfish creature!
Cobar has lately been enlivened by a sword-swal-
lower and a snake-charmer. The swallower is said
to be a Hindoo. This reminds us of the “ African
Sword-swallower,” at Mr. Crummies’s farewell
supper, “who looked and spoke remarkably like
an Irishman.” “Professor Heller” (of Ballarat)
came to grief at Charlton (Vic.) the other night,
He advertised the usual thing—presdigitation and
a present for everybody. It turned out that he
couldn’t do any tricks, and the gifts “ hadn’t ar-
rived”; so, to quote Alf.’s telegram, the people
rushed at him for their money, only “to find tne
police escorting him to the Globe Hotel, under a
running fire of such words as ‘swindler,’ ‘fraud,’
‘Ballarat impostor,’ ‘ Drag him through the mud,’
&c.” This gift business has been rather overdone
lately. Ben Allah spoiled the market. But he was
a genius at it, and he could conjure. He’d adver-
tise to give away a kind of Tower of London re-
galia, showing the flashing diamonds and gloam-
ing coffee sets in the window of a popular
tradesman. Then he would show, distri-
bute the tin - brooches, pin - cushions, and
penny - whistles, and before the audience
had sufficiently recovered from surprise to
give vent to indignation, Ben was ensconced
in his buggy, scampering away in the moonlight.
Mrs. Dr. Potts is garnering in a harvest at
Armidale, to the confusion of the local medicos.
They all say, plaintively, “ We make ourselves
look as old and ugly as we can!” ...And little
Dunning, it would seem, intends going out of the
profession, since he has sold the lease of bis Opera
to Allison and Rignold. They open (September 13)
with “Romeo and Juliet,” with the Irving scenery
and “ props.” Miss Fanny Reid (very pretty) is the
Juliet, but we don’t know who the Romeo is,
unless the management think of starring Bill Hol-
loway ! And let us tell you that the Bega Ama-
teurs have been benefiting the Wolumla School of
Arts. “ Foiled ; or, A Struggle for Life and
Libeitj,” no less! There’s pluck for you! No-
thing like amateurs for “gall.” ...And how has
Fred. Millis been doing it in New Zealand! He has
lost in Palmerston, where he got the unsuspecting
editor of the paper to insert a column anecdote of
the “ValentineVox” order, about a man in the
tr in having his portmanteau full of dogu Millis
draws “moderate houses,” but as his show don't
eat much, he gets along all right. What Mill s
wants is a six months’ hard grind at the English
language; then he wouldn't say, “ And now I am
about to introduce to you the son and hair." Fred,
is to arrive in Sydney shortly, ong route for Amel-
leky —At Auckland, Dargon is to read shortly.
By the wav, we wonder what Dr. Piercy does in
the entertainment besides playing “ Chief Rob-
ber?” Not “look after the front of the house,”
surely Dunning, with the eternal “ King’s
Dragoons,” “Barbe Bleue,” &c., is at Wellington.
Prima donna, Miss Ivanova ! That’ll tell you !
Our old (and young) friend, Carrie—
Who ran away
With a man one day,
Who tootled, tootled, tootled on the cornet,
is in New York. She lately played a Fairy Queen
in a lot of rot called “Penny Ante,” of which
great things were hoped, but which was very ex-
peditiously damned at the Fourteenth street
“ Theater.” The librettists name—” Leerburger ”
—was enough to cast a blight on anything And
Emerson has gone broke ou the English turf.
Blued all his savings and his £lOO a week besides.
The Granville people have been giving a con-
cert in aid of St. Marks, in the School of Arts
there. Granville used to be Parramatta Junction,
and is historic chiefly on account of its possessing
four porters who won Jones’ sweep a year or so
ago. The star of the concert was a Mr. Marvin,
who, the Cumberland Independent says “ has a
voice” (it can’t, then, be Mervin,) “and knows
how to use it.” Mr. M’Manis, we believe, sang
with much applause, “ Sweet olden days,” and the
“Brave hold hoak,” while Mrs. Gowanlock elec-
trified the “push” with “My Je-ane.” and “The
Smugu-ugular.” The performers consider the
concert to be a complete artistic success... The
Baldwins, this reminds us, did Parramatta to indif-
ferent biz., lately. A local “cricket” says: “The
Professor, during the evening kept the audi-
ence alive with his witticiss (sic), which were
of the most amusing character.” . Oh, and the
Walhalla brothers’ circus, which was said in
the telegrams to have “gone broke ” in Adelaide.
has reformed again, and is at Wagga Yes and
here’s not a bad joke about Keogh. He asks Miss
Carney, in “East Lynne,” if she can keep a secret.
“Yes,” she says. “Well, then,” retorts “J.F.,”
“you’re the only woman of your sex that can.”
And “ Penny Readings,” if you please, at Tumut,
and—but, here—
To take the Chair, Mr. John Weeden
His willingness he was concedin’;
But he said, “ Lookit here,
I’m too nervous, I fear,
To be treatin’ the ‘ push 1 to a readin’ 1”
They didn’t press him. We see, in this entertain-
ment, that si Mr. Eldershaw accomplished the feat
of singing “The Midshipmite,” “with a bad cold,”
and Mr. Hicks was encored for “ Launch the Life-
boat,” which (as Mr. Bantam would remark),
“to say the least is Hickstroardinary.” And you’ll
about die with disappointment when you read
that Dr. Clune has been lecturing in the City of
Oranges on his travels in England, Ireland, Scot-
land, and Wapping. The Government supplied
Dr. Clune with his travelling expenses, it will be
remembered, last small-pox time; but they had to
get a writ in order to persuade them. The doctor
lectured for the Sisters’ Parramatta Infants’
School. Dr. Clune chose the Tonarle (as Caron
used to call it) for the scene of bis triumphs; and
the next attraction there will be Madame Marius
and Miss Eva Thompson, who give a “mat.” on
the 2nd prox —Miss Marie Lanyon has been doing
big things with J. L. Hall, in “ She Stoops to Con-
quer,” at Hobart. Miss Jessie Grey used to be Mr.
Hall’s leading lady, but she is now adorning an-
other sphere. “’Twas ever thus.” Duncan
Macallum writes us a scintillating letter about the
Royal Comic Opera Company, which seems to be
composed of “Miss E. A. Lambert, Miss Bessie
Royal, Miss Lily Boieyn [lll], Miss Carrie Sulman,
Mr. Vernon Reid, Mr. C. H. Templeton, Mr. Chas.
A. Tyrrell, Mr. A. Magney, Mr. P. Stuart, Mr. G.
Rocks:” and the “musical conductor is Mr. George
Tallis Trimnell.” L! 11] Duncan says that they have
made lots of money, and gives it us straight that
Vernon Reid has “a banking account.” It seems
that Vernon Reid had an offer to sing the tenor
part in “ The Merry Duchess,” but declined on
account of the overflow of bullion at Glen Tnnes.
. . Blood will flow soon. The Yass Courier noti-
fled that the Lawton Minstrels gave a “ pleasing
entertainment.” The same paper also states that
Miss Amy Rowe gave “ The White Squall." We’d
like to see Lawton again—even if he sang “For I
had but eighteenpence.” —An American musical
criticism:—“ As a singer she can just wallop the
hose off any that ever wagged a jaw on the boards.
From her dear, bird-like upper notes, she would
canter away down to the base racket, and then
cushion back to a sort of spiritual treble that
made every man in the audience imagine that
every hair on his head was the golden string of a
celestial harp, over which angelic lingers were
sweeping.”
The Vogrichs.
On our front page will be found the portraits of
Herr Max Vogrich and his wife, whose musical
talents are now as familiarly known as household
words throughout Australia. They are young,
too—this gifted couple—Herr Vogrich having just
succeeded in leaving the leg of a table and walking
to his mother the year that Nicholas started on his
tour to Constantinople; while his wife didn’t see
the light for a good ten years afterwards. The
Herr comes of musical people, his father having
been conductor of an orchestra. We shall not
dwell on young Max's precociousness—how he
played the big drum at three, the trombone at
five, and the moutn-harmonicon at seven. It is
enough for us that these accomplishments—harm-
ltss enough in themselves, though fiercely pro-
vocative of murder in crowded neighbourhoods—
were given over for ever when young Vogrich
settled down to the study of composition, har-
mony, and the piano. He appears to have studied,
played, and composed everywhere, from Lapland
to the Alhambra, winning praise wherever he
went; but even now, in his calmer moments, he
thinks the happiest days of his life (we’ve not
spoken to him since his marriage) were when he was
blowing in vain down his trombone at Leipsic—the
stolid-looking little German-sausage concealer be-
side him having stuffed a cork down the instru-
ment. In 1881, he came to Australia with Wilhelmj,
and has been here ever since, playing, composing,
teaching, directing, and making himself agreeable
all round. Here he met his wife, who had just
discarded skipping-ropes and taffy, and possessed
—there’s no mistake about this, at all events —the
sweetest voice ever heard in Australia. Alice
Rees was her name, and Stawell, in Victoria, her
birth-place. How the noise of the crushing-
machines in that quartz town didn’t crack
her voioe before she got through her first
reading lesson—“ The cat has a rat,” or “The
rat has a cat is to us a mystery. How-
ever, she pulled through, and became, while in
her teens, the acknowledged songstress of Aus-
tralia. Her voice is as clear as a silver flute.
When she lays herself out to fetch a note, that
note might just as Wellcome down off its perch
and give in. The Vogrichs are settled in Sydney,
where they teach and intend giving occasional
concerts: and if the Sydney public really relish
music of the best sort, those concerts will be
packed.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents i oho give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication* noticed.]
“ Carl K.” : Send some more poetry. Yours
is the first of the Spring crop. Unfortunately, it
got lost before we could work it off. Think the
oflice dawg ate it. Ai least, he was found dead
this morning. The opening lines—the only ones
we remember—were delicate and suggestive:—
“ Along the groves,
With St. Mary's coves,
I used to amuse myself.”
Yes, Carl; poetry is your line. You supply it, and
we’ll supply the dogs . “J.L.T.”: Your leasing
proposals appear sound,but the teachings of Henry
George have not yet madG sufficient progress in
Australia to justify us hoping for the introduction
of measures based on a denial of the right to pri-
vate property in land. ... “ Djemnah”: Of course
it’s absurd to see silly girls neglect plain duties in
order to acquire a smattering of music or French,
particularly when this smattering is only intended
for vulgar show. But if you limit woman’s sphere
to darning and pastry-making, how do you know
the De St aids and Goddards you are condemning
to commonplace, if useful, lives, when they might
be delighting mankind ? . ..“R.X.”: The lines are
commonplace. There’s not a touch of real poetry
about them. . “Threno-psycho”: We do not give
your verses, but we entirely agree with your sen-
timents regarding the “ lash.” Its introduction
during the last quarter of the nineteenth century
was a huge blunder, and we consider deprives us
of all right to becomingly criticise the atrocities of
so-called barbarous nations “Musician”: All
information can be obtained by writing to one of
the large music-sellflrs, Sydney—say Messrs. Pal-
ing’s, George-street. J.P.T.C.”; Not without
merit, but scaroelyin our style “Slow Young
Man ” j The verses refer to a domestic incident on
which we do not desire to dwell. But, besides,
they are full of false quantities “R.A.”; Not
adapted “ F. J. Coleman”: Of no special in-
terest— "Moth Have not heard about the Ton-
tine lately, so suppose it must be dying or dead.
No doubt the firm where you got the ticket can
inform you “J. Maguire”: Before asking us to
explain matters, you should first explain your
letter. What it all means le bon Dieu alone knows.
Another like it would about cook us .. “Glow-
worm. Now, look her=>, you stick to the mangle
and give poetry a rest. Just look at yourself ip
print:—
“ If you knew what it is
To be cold and wet,
And list to your jokes on
The chill door-step.”
“ And within you are merry and joke and laugh,
While the poor at your doors are cold, and
starve.”
A word in your ear. We admire yonr sentiments,
but d your mode of expressing them... .
“A. 8.”: Yes, always write on both sides of the
paper when writing for the press. Then cross,
and go over the same space again. This saves a
lot of paper and the printers like it. Of course,
they will say they don’t, but they do. We’ve
actually seen a ‘ compo ” fall over his ease, and
knock a leader into “pie” with gratitude on
receiving a bit of crossed paper to set up
“Bathurst”: To expeot a Conservative paper to
give an impartial account of Socialism is as ab-
Burd as to expect the Pope to send a Cardinal’s hat
to Bob Ingersoll —“School”; So you want to
know what “ Wilkinsism ” is, or was, for ’tis nearly
dead ? Poor thing. How long have you been
teaching? Go and ask any old teacher; say—oh,
it doesn’t matter much—say old Wright, at the
training school. Of course, the chances are he’ll
fire you over the verandah, but he might happen to
be in good humour through seeing the candidates
lying heads and tails over the desks, hunting for
the vanishing point dropped from a string of
decimals on the black-board. If you catch him in
such a joyful moment, he might tell you what
“ Wilkinsism ” was. He knows. N.B.—Don’t for-
get to bring a blood-hound and the shaft of a
buggy with you “St. Kilda”: You have our
authority to contradiot the rumour that The
Bulletin is owned by the Y.M.C. Association. It
is a pure invention... “Sport”: For athletes in
training there’s nothing like stout and plum-duff.
Of course, it depends a good deal on what they ai-e
training for—to run, or to lie roqnd and enjoy
hemselves.


Personal
Items
Lord Garmoyie is the son of a great J udge;
Miss Fortescue is the daughter of a coal-merchant.
So it’s a case of coal-sack v. wool-sack.
“ A tall figure, with curiously black hair
fringing a bald head,” is Mr. Lucy's description of
the Poet-Laureate. Tennyson, we mean, not
Sladen.
Our old friend Prince George of Wale* is
no longer a middy, but a sub lieutenant; and the
Duke of Edinburgh's son is to be a Rear-Admiral
of the sky-blue as soon as he grows big enough to
wear a cocked hat.
The new American Consul is named
Learner. We can't reasonably-being only a
Learner—expect him to excel the Chestertleldlan
style of letter-writing for which Mr. Kahlo was so
justly distinguished.
TheDukeof Argyll, on fiuishingaaeloquent
Bpeech in the House of Lords, eat upon and oroke
the glass of water from which he had been drink-
ing. Members of the colonial legislatures don’t do
such things. They sit on metal whiskr-tlasks.
The man Green, the Melbourne “Hotel
Rarber” caught at the Masquerade Ball, stated
that he was a son of Ebenozer Ward, M.P., of
Adelaide. When Ebby was asked if this allegation
were true, he replied that he couldn’t say for
certain.
Labouchere thu- neatly pats the case
against hereditary titles:—“Why anticipate the
future, and guaranteo a reward before it can pos-
sibly be known whether it be merited? An here-
ditary ‘Bir’ is as absurd as an hereditary prize-
winner in the schools would be.”
The late Charles Reade’s “ copy ” once
caused a compositor to kill himself. It was so
difficult to decipher. They say these things about
a man when he is dead. They think it won’t hurt
his feelings then. But they seem to forget the
existence now of journal provided especially for
the dead.
Lord Randolph Churchill (a younger son
of the late Duke of Marlborough) a little while
since severely punched the bead of his brother, the
present Duke, :on the occasion of a dispute be-
tween them arising out of the profligacy of the
lattor, who has utteily dissipated the magnificent
art treasures of Blenheim.
As Mrs. Langtry’s beauty has hitherto been
too much for the susceptible feelings of Americau
jurymen, it is thought that our old friend Morris
Greenwall will fare very badly in his suit against
her for £lO,OOO for breach of contract to go to
Australia. Anyhow, Lily is a lot prettier, though
she never was more amiable or more elegantly
dressed, than Morris.
The Paris correspondent of the Boston
Herald was recently fined Sofrcs. (£1) for stating
that Madelle. Van /ante, of the Opera Comique,
there, was kissed with undue warmth by Carvalho,
the manager. That par. about Zintc would pro-
bably have cost, out here, £3OOO, and live or six
days of continuous insults—privileged, protected,
and continuous insults. Hem!
Sheriff Cowper entertained a party of
friends t’other day to a trip up the Parramatta
River on board the Government steam launch
Nea. We wonder whether Charlie got the Nea
uratis for that trip ? We guess so, as he’s rather a
near fellow. It is rumoured—we know not with
what amount of truth—that he occasionally presses
the hangman into his service as waiter.
Says “Three Star,” in the V.L.V.G “I
am glad to learn from Avoca that Mr. J. R. Moc-
kett is able to get about again, altnough not
exactly quite right yet.” A little jingle:—
We’ve known a man for less than this
His eye get banged from out the socket I
Too bad of you, indeed, “ Three Star,”
To thus be cruelly mocking Mockett.
“ Boetel, the now ex-cabdriver tenor of
Hamburg, is receiving the unprecedented salary
(for a young artist in Germany) of £75 a night in
Kroll’s Theatre, in the Thiergartei , Berlin.” We
reckon that a thundering good whine must come
out of this Boetel I Formerly a cab-driver, now a
tenor. Once he was crusted, and now he is upper-
crusted. It’s right for a Boetel to be crusted, any-
how.
The Earl of Onslow does not appear to
have succeeded in shop-keeping. He has been
running a “ village store,” and the contents were
recently sold by auction at Gpildford Market. The
lots included three flat-ipons, three stucepans,
seven fryiDg-pans, a clothes-line, twenty odd mugs
and jugs, cigars, eboe-laccs, pocket-knives, cord
trousers, Pompadour dresses, and “ things in
general.”
The Hon. lon Keith-Falooner, the well-
known English bioyclist, bas joined the Salvation
Army. Two or three titled Cambridge cricketers,
if not actually connected with the “General’s”
movement, are actively concerned in those of a
kindred sort. But the glories of the “General”
are fading fast. The money does Dotiiow so freely
rtsitdid. The artful warrior will decline and fall,
as professional beauties and skating-rinks did.
G. R. Sims (“ Dagonet ”), the now cele-
brated journalist and playwright, was born in
London in 1817, commenced life as a city clerk,
sent poems and short stories to almost every
magazine in London, none of which were accepted;
his first introduction to the Press was through
helping a journalist with a column of “ Waifs and
Strays” in the Weekly Dispatch. His poems
have now reached a sale of over 100,000 copies.
Mr. Joseph Simmons, the celebrated aero-
naut who proceeded against an English railway
company for pretended damages (of a Joiimontary
description), has got damages—that is to say, he
has got two years for perjury. Mr. Simmons,
therefore, will not, for twenty-four months, be
able to go up in a balloon, boys-not even in a
captive oalloon. The next time Joseph wants to
tell lies and swear to them, ho should go up among
the clouds.
We read that “Baron Miklou'io-Maclay,
the Russian naturalist, expects to complete by the
ead of 1885 his work on ihe explorations he has
made in the islands of tho Pacific. It will then, in
all probability, be published simultaneously in
Russian and English. This important work may
Oe preoeaed by biography of M. Miklouho-Mac-
iay.” Apropos, the prettiest speoimen of natural
history yet collected by the Baron comes from
Watson's Bay.
It is probable we are on the eve of one of
the greatest revolutions in the world of thought
that has occurred since the age of Aristotle. Mr.
Pioton has been keeping quiet some time, and, it
i i rumoured has wricten a letter home direct to Mr.
Spencer with a view to taking him out of winding.
His reply will be eagerly looked for, but will take
some time to reach here—some time. Mr. Spencer
does not grapple with such opponents in a hurry—
not in a hurry.
In Coknhill for July, there is a story
about Taglioni. The great dancer had a horror of
Bhortskirt3: and it appears that on one occasion
the Emperor of Russia went into the stalls to
satisi'7 himself of rhe fact that it was impossible
to see her knee On one occasion one of her ad-
mirers suggested that she should shorten her dress
“just a very lir-tle. ’ “Signor,” replied the dan-
seme. “I do not danca for men, 1 dance for wives
and daughters.”
The Rev. Mr. Munro, of the Scottish Free
Church, has i’esigned because permif sion has been
given to coLtfcegations by the Assembly to use
instrumental music, which Mr. Reay holds to be
“ detrimental to the best interests of true religion.’’
We have heard of much damage being done by a
“kisto’ whustles.” Hadn’t thit Victorian station
master, who let the two trains collide and kill
people, the other day, neglected his duty to attend
‘‘choir-praotiee ? ”
For all-round servility, London Figaro
takes the largest bun. Listen to this:—“ Prince
Albert Victor, the oldest son of the Prince of
Wales, is expected at Heidelberg. He will live
with the well-known historian, Professor Ihne, who
has been ordered to engage him a German valet.”
Ordered! If this bs true—possibly ’tis only
Figaronian-and Ihne complied, German profes-
sors must be nearly as toadyish as aro nine-tenths
of their Oxford and Cambridge brethren.
The only public act the late Duke of Wel-
lington was realiv known for, was for presenting
a return-d transport at Court. The Judge who
had tried the man recognised him in the Crush
Room, and the gentleman who so ardently wished
to cultivate the society of Royalty was igno-
miniously turned out. Like Pip’s patron, Mag-
wich, the returned gentleman, had made “ a
powerful sight of money;” but then, you see,
Australian squatters were not so much in request
with crowned heads then as now. Otherwise
There it is again. Worse than doctors! A
Madame Pascalet attended the singing classes of
Ismael, the retired tenor, at Marseilles. Well,
Mons. P. found out that the Professor used to kiss
Madame Pascalet every time she went there, and
this news caused him considerable reflection. He
made enquiries, and found that Ismael was wont
to take his wife to the local Coogees and Bondis,
and has demanded a separation. We have resolved,
since we learned this intelligence to keep our eye
on the man who comes to teaoa our family the
key-bugle.
Tawhiao is “ doing it brown ” in London,
where, not knowing how to pronounce his name,
tney have christened him “ Taffy ” for short. He
has been taking turns round Hyde Park in the
Life-Guards’ drag. At a recaption, the King said
to those present that, “although his face was
black, he hoped ho had a good heart.” We're
ready to swear that the parson who interpreted his
speech put him up to that meek remark, which
wo have heard hundreds of times at Methodist
exhibitions of converted fcouth Sea niggers and
Government aboriginal-station tea-meetings.
Spurgeon’s congregation recently pre-
sented him with a cheque for £4750, on account of
a little testimonial. He stated that “£lOOO would
go to pay debts on the Jubilee house. The balance
would go to purchase a life-governorshio at St
Thomas’ Hospital, to almshouses, to the Poor
Ministers’ Fund, to colportage, and the purchase
of mangles and sewing-machines for the necessi-
tous.” Welt, he can afford it. If some of our holy
crowd tumbled into a similar piece of good for-
tune, they’d give nothing away but “cheek,” ard
call for a collection when they’d worn out the box-
iron.
We are sorry that Mr. F. R. Barlee, an ex-
premier of Western Australia, is dead. We didn’t
know him, but the decease of eminent men always
gives us pain. It makes us think of when our
time is to come, what a deal of inconvenience we
shall be put to. Another Barlee, brother of
F. R, this reminds us, died not long ago.
He was a journalist und short-hand writer.
He once got hold of a confiding printer
and brought out a publication oalied Once
a Week—which he published once a week too
often. Some one called it Barlee-water, and then
it faded.
The Echo, the London radical evening
paper, congratulated the opponents of the Fran-
chise Bill in the House of Lords on the fact that
“ Lord St. Leonards, who is a staunch Conservative,
will be liberated from gaol in time to record his
vote in favour of the resolution of Earl Cairns
Gall! Apropos, when his Lordship was brought up
to receive sentence, he came in the gaol-van. But
it is only fair to say that even the Radical news-
papers think the case against Lord St Leonards
was to an extent trumped-up, and that his offence
would have been amply punished by a fine, espe-
cially as he happens to be pretty hard up.
Nice thing ! Here’s Mr. Warburton Stent
sending his wife to Kreuznach, (in Germany,
Alfred), for the baths, accompanied by her
daughter, and escorted by General Low, and from
inquiries subsequently made, the daughter was
taken away, and “ these proceedings instituted.”
When the husband confronted his wife and the co-
respondent, she merely said she would “cast her
lot” with General Boom—we mean Low. Now,
how old do you think the General was ? 70 nett.
And this reminds us, that Madame Ferdinand de
Lesseps has— but after all, we don’t see . At
the same time, it’s rather curious that
Labouchere says “an attempt is being
made to introduce into England the culture of the
Bartlett pear. It is a fruit that tempts every one
to take hold of it, but inasmuch as it overflows with
juice at the faintest handling, it is not popular.
This leads me to presume that the pear is named
after an ancestor of Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett, who
overflows with talk at the very faintest handling.
The Yankee farmers call it a ‘slobbery’ fruit,
and prefer what is known as the Clingstone or
Gladstone peach. We, too, prefer the Gladstone
to the Bartlett.” Ashmead-Bartlett is the Yankee
gentleman who became Mr. Baroness Burdett-
Coutts.
This, from tht; Standard’s agony column,
somewhat recalls the protracted flirtation in
Granny's “ Perso al ” corner of those delightful
young persons, “Dearest Dennis,” and “Myra”:
“ Hermose,—dame fringing floral road, regal rose-
bud, bloom, then grand flower Face form-er mag-
nified by after yearstately Lady, magnifi-cent,
woman handsome splondid (passing picture noble
for a heart's homageyes, the larger deeper bloom
bright orbs andark frameof hair) strong my admi-
ration Love intense before, then, and since mag-
nified more passionate, lill the last brown moment
of idolatrous life, with a vehemencevery fibre
force thought of my manhood whole heart your-s.
Trurose.”
The Queen is anxious for the early publi-
cation of the first instalment of Lord B-acons-
fleld's papers. “But,” remarks Truth, “ what-
ever is published will, of course, be most carefully
edited, or I suspect that the Queen would be
slightly astonished at the bitterness with which
Mr. Disraeli inveighed against the Court for many
years, and particularly against Princ3 Albert, who
greatly disliked him, and who, if ho had lived,
would have done his best to paevent him from
being Prime Minister. I wonder whether Lord
ltowton will publish the correspondence which
passed when, contrary to all precedent, Mr. and
Mrs. Disraeli were not invited to the State bails
and concerts.”
So F. H. Temple-Blackwood, Dufforin’s
Earl and not Louise's consort, goes to India, in
succession to Ripon. Dufferin is lireworky, but
he has brains, aud is no bigot. If he does no worse
than Ripon, he will do. If he does no better than
Lytton and Northbrook, he will be a failure. The
fact is, as Bright says, tno place of the Viceroy of
India is too high, his powers too great. The duties
of the post are far greater than any human being
can adequately fulfil; the result being that the
peoples of India are neglected, while the ser-
vices ” aro coddled. Ripon saw this, and struggled
to remedy it, and failed, for in a matter of this
kind a half success is scarce a whit better than
total failure. A largo measure of decentralisation
is the need of Hindostan.
FUNNY, VERY!
“Mr. Salomons was counsel, yesterday, for
a company who were the defendants in an action
for damages caused, it is alleged, by sparks or hot
ashes dropping from a locomotive engine, and the
learned Q.C. convulsed the court by remarking,
‘ We had the best spark arresters, ladies ex-
cepted.’ ’’—Lyre.
Oh. let him crack his little “ wheeze ”
To which but “ Wholesome Fun would stoop;
Such bosh will ever small minds please,
When “set off ” by a “jury-droop.
But, if this stuff, to perpetrate,
Elsewhere the Counsel were at pains;
The joker would be asked to state.
The Kind, of dog that stole his brains.
Marwood, the late lamented English exe-
cutioner, once told this story to a small and select
company in a bar-parlour:—“ When I first com-
menced this business, I was rather in a fix, for my
missus was inclined to be religious; so when she
asked me why I was away from home so muco, I
told her I had been appointed registrar of births
and deaths for the district- She appeared satisfied,
so after two or three jobs I began to feci comfort-
able. I came home one night from an execution
at Newcastle, and, as my supper wasn’t quite ready,
I put my black bag (containing the rope and straps)
on a chair and came over here just to have a glass.
When I went back she placed a nice steak before me.
‘ H aven’t you got any vegetables, Sally ? ’ I asked.
Taking a large covered vegetable dish from the
oven, she placed it on the table, remarking ‘ There,
William, 1 hope you will now enjoy your supper.’
Imagine my dismay, when, on raising the coyer,
my eyes rested on my rope and straps cut up into
small pieces. The cat, or rather rope, was out of
the bag: and, before I could recover from my sur-
prise, she was out of the house, and it was months
before she would live with me again.”
We see that Mr. Cornwell, Secretary to the
Irish Post Olfice, was arrested by Meiklejohn, who
got into trouble through conspiring with Dru«-
covich and Palmer (those three men, the crack
inspectors of Scotland Yard) to rob a fool of a
woman named the ComtesuO de Goncourt of
£lO,OOO by means of confederates, who are now
doing long terms of imprisonment. Meikle-
john has, therefore, it seems, been taken
back in the service. Druscovich is in the
service of the Porte; and it was rumoured
that Palmer was in Australia under another name.
Cornwell, it will be remembered, brought a civil
action in Dublin to assert his innocence respecting
certain rumours; but he came out of it deplorably.
It was proved he consorted with men who were in
the habit of ‘‘going about in drag” (women's
clothes) ; and he was known in his set by the
soubriquet of “The Duchess.” The case against
him was very cleverly worked out, and he went
all to pieces directly. Now, it was mere rumour
that led to Cornwell’s arr-st in London; yet ru-
mours of a very extraordinary kind appear to
attract no official attention in Sydney.
“On three or four occasions,” blows Bu-
chanan, “I sat with him (the Philosopher of Chel-
sea), when no one was present but our two selves,
and never shall I forget the genius and power of
the man displayed in conversation. There was no
preaching, or lecturing, or ostentation of any kind.
His grand original thoughts r.nd ideas flowed away
from him in a natural stream of the finest talk I
ever listened to, public or private. Every power
he seemed to possess and wield with eas?. Wit,
humour, grotesque fun, terrible explosions of
scorn, a magnificent power of illustration, with
occasionally beautiful touches of the pathetic: all
these powers he exercised without the slightest
effort and with perfect conversational ease.”
O prophet of fustian, why give yourself away for
naught? How could any fellow, even a Thomas
Carlyle, terribly explode with scorn or flatulency,
or be grotesquely funny, “with perfect conversa-
tional ease ?” And why n t, while you were about
it, have told us tho exact propulsive power of his
number 19 s? But what a picture, Thomas and
David by their own two selves —Auster at the feet
of CEolus learning the art of windbagism!
When “Edinburgh” was Admiral-Super-
intendent of Naval Reserves, he was ordered, with
his squadron, up the Baltic, under the orders of
Vice-Admiral Hood, with the Channel Squadron.
He remonstrated, though to no purpose, resting
his protest on the desirability of the Reserve
Squadron going on an independent cruise. Now,
however, that Edinburgh bosses the Channel
Squalron, he doesn’t see matters from the same
standpoint. The other day, when “my lords”
ordered the two squadrons to take their midsum-
mer cruise, Anthony Hoskins, who now commands
the Naval Reserves, objected to occupv a subor-
dinate position with an independent fleet—Edin-
burgh having assumed that he was entitled to take
the command of both squadrons—and Anthony
won his point, to Alfred’s extreme vexation. And,
talking of Edinburgh, H.M.S. Vivid (the Devon-
port admiral’s steam yacht), whilst conveying him
to pay a visit down Plymouth Sound—but you
know the story. And, talking of that lubber
Leiningen, fllius stupidior patre stupidn, he h s
b en promoted to the command at Sheerness
What a long-suffering ass is the British tax-payer!
Two facts, made public in these columns
about a couple of years ago, were recently com-
municated to the Argus by a London correspon-
dent and by “ The Vagabond.” respectively. Firstly
teat the late Adam Lindsay Gordon was not the
author of “ Voices from the Bush,” a poem attri-
buted to him by the compiler of Massiua’s edition
of his poems; and, secondly, that the verses be-
ginning—
“ They say that poison-sprinkled flowers
Are sweeter in perfume
Than when, untouched by deadly dew,
They glowed in early bxoom,”
which are also printed as Gordon’s in the edition
referred to, are taken from Professor Aytoun’s
“ Bothwell,” and were included in Gordon’s works
merely on the strength of the fact that they were
scribbled, in the poet’s - handwriting, on the back
of a playing-card taken from his pocket after his
melancholy death. “ Voices from the Bush ” was
from the pen of Mr. Mowbray Morris, once a
Government House official at Adelaide, and lately
dramatic critic of the Times; and it was originally
published in an Adelaide paper.
That celebrated litigant, Mrs. Weldon, who
is to the English courts what the late Joseph Bragg
Slack used to be in Victoria and Madame Lotti
Wilmott was in N.S.W., said a neat thing the other
day in the Court of Queen’s Bench. “ Gnder the
Married Women’s Property Act,” she observed,
“ it seemed a woman might possess property of
any kind but her character.” And when the Judge,
alter she had spoken for several hours, asked her
how much longer she wis going to be ? she replied
*• My lord, I never can tell ”—a remark which, of
course, occasioned much laughter. Mrs. Weldon
has. regardless of the maxim that a man who is his
own lawyer has a fool for a client, always “per-
sonally conducted ” her own case. Perhaps, how-
ever, the adage in question does not apply to
women. Anyhow, the lady has so far been extra-
ordinarily successful in litigation. But she has
just commenced to learn that even a pretty and
t andsome woman—she is neither in any very
marked degree—can by constantly wagging a
rather rough tongue, and at tho same time shelter-
ing herself beneath the privileges of her sex, be-
come as cordially hated by judges and jurymen as
she apparently is by several of those with whom
she has gone to law.
J udging from the way she shaped at the
start, Mrs. Oscar Wilde bids fair to knock all the
(esthetic stuffing out of her limp old man in some-
thing less than the proverbial three rounds. Slip-
ping across to “ Paree,” on their bridal tour, poor
Oscar caught a most infernal attack of the ” Oh,
mys,” and, as he leaned over the steamer’s side the
doubled-up bridegroom called his bride to his side,
and exclaimed, between the acts, “ Darling, do not
grieve for me. I am—whaaoooop—l am dying,
deah; but there is a better— whoooo—whooo-oop
—a better world than this. See that you seep my
—hoooo—ah—whooop—my memory green, dearest,
will you not ?” “ I will, indeed,” replied the sob-
bing spouse; “and 111 have your grave kept
green, too, deah. Not one of those horrid, vulgar,
staring colours, but a nice, ripe-gooseberry green,
with terra-cotta palings, and such a duck of a
canary’s - gasn coloured tombstone, with a
monkey’s-smile su rah silk inscription on a scorched
banana ground. You just die, deab, and I’ll make
your grave the envy of every corpse this side of
the equatorial line.” This struck Oscar as carry-
ing enthusiasm for high art just a trifle too far,
and he accordingly girded up bis loins, and took
soda-with-a-dark-bottom until he planted his
daisy-masher on what our own Andy would call
“ terra firmer."
Earl Cairns, who moved the rejection of
Mr. Gladstone’s Franchise Bill, is one of those law-
yers who has graduated through chicanery into
piety. As a rule, a successful lawyer turns pious
as he nears his latter end. His conscience troubling
him, he seeks to ease it by bargaining with Heaven,
as men of notoriously bad lives hope to avoid
damnation by bequests to build churches and con-
vert the heathen. Ex-Lord Chancellor Cairns has
been so busy with the law and the prophets that
his domestic concerns have fallen into a state of
deplorable anatchy. His zeal for the conversion
of the negroes has lef - him no time to look after
the morals of his chitterling heir, Viscount Gar-
movie. While the father has been slumming and
psalm-singing, the son has been toying with
actresses. The old man is of that type which in-
terprets the Scriptural phrase, “In my Father's
house there are many mansions,” as meaning there
is a House of Lords in heaven, and that, therefore,
it is right there should be artificial grades of
citizens on earth. The ex-Lord Chancellor is and
looks a nronounoed snob. Born of humble parents
—his father kept a huckster's shop in the North of
Ireland—and having obtained a certain position, he
lo»es n© opportunity of displaying his contempt
for the order from which he sprang. Moreover,
he is a pensioned pauper of the country to the
tune of £5OOO per annum.
In the English Court of Appeal a motion
was made on behalf of Lord Colin Campbell for a
rule for a new trial in the case of Lady Colin
Campbell v. Lord Colin Campbell, on the ground
that the learned Judge of the Divorce Court had
misdirected Ihe jury, and that the decision was
against the weight of evidence. The direction of
the learned Judge was to the effect that the com-
munication of disease by a husband to a wife with-
out informing her beforehand that he was unwell,
was legal cruelty. The husband and wife in
October, 1881, became engaged after a three days’
courtship. They were married the following year.
Lord Colin Campbell at that time being out of
health, and it was arranged between them that
they should not sleep together, as it was forbidden
by the medical gentleman. Lord Colin, on the
wedding tour, was accompanied by a hospital
nurse, who passed as 1 ady Colin’s maid. In the
following year, according to Lord Colin’s case, a
dispute of a different nature to that raised in the
divorce case arose between the husband and wife,
and Lord Colin alleged that for the first time Lady
Colin suggested that she had cause to complain of
what had occurred after marriage. Their lordships
intimated that they would read Lady Colin Camp-
bell’s evidence in private, and then give judg-
ment. She is the daughter of Blood (Blood, Wolfe,
and Co.), the big brewers, and he is son to the Duke
of Argyll, and consequently brother-in-law to
Princess Louise. He shouldn’t have let her know
his secret. “ Blood will toll.”
When the great Dublin libel case (Corn-
wall v. O'Brien; was tried, Mr. O’Brien appeared
for plaintiff, and Mr. Justice O’Brien presided. So
that the O’Brien clan were in it pretty extensively.
The plaintiff was permanent secretary to the Dub-
lin Post Office, and the unmentionaole crime im-
puted to him by defendant, who is the editor and
proprietor of the Nationalist journal Gnited Ire-
land, was, singularly enough, similar to that for
which a prominent Melbourne postal official was
recently tried. The making of the accusations, no
doubt, arose to an extent out of the bitter hosti-
lity entertained by the Nationalists against Eng-
lish officials in Dublin, but it was nevertheless
fully proved in court that the charges were true,
and a verdict was returned adverse to the plaintiff,
who has left the country. The existence of a hor-
rible state of immorality was disclosed during the
investigation, and the Nationalist members, with a
view to following up the advantage gained in
Court, urge Government to take criminal proceed-
ings against the parties concerned. The return of
a verdict for defendant was celebrated in Dublin
by processions and band-playing. The detective
who so successfully worked up O’Brien’s case was
Meiklejohn, the man who was some years ago 6ent
to prison with Inspector Druscovitoh, at the time
that accomplished officer and Mr. Froggatt, the
well-known London solicitor, got “ into trouble.”
Mr. O’Brien was fined £5OO by the Court for com-
menting on the case while it was sub judice, but in
view of the verdict c iven it has been decided not
to press for payment of the penalty.
When about to leave Sydney, Archibald
Forbes told us all—or, perhaps, it wouldn’t, be cor-
rect to say that, as we didn’t all patronise his lec-
tures—that he was going to get married again. He
had the shockingly bad taste to inform his
audience, in. as tender accents as he could muster,
that he was going away to “a great happiness”—
and so confirmed the newspaper rumour as to his
prospective second matrimonial venture. Well,
Mr. Archibald Forbes isn’t married yet, though he
left us a long while ago; and we now hear, on whst
should be very excellent authority indeed, that it
isn't at all likely he will be soon, if indeed he is
ever again, a Benedict. Which only shows you
how imprudent it is, when you mean to get
married, to say anything about it in public. Some-
times, when you have made up your mind as to
matrimony, it is imprudent to let into the secret
even the girl you have selected. Sometimes again,
it is terribly dangerous to let her father know any-
thing as to your intentions, especially if he chances
to be an athletic gentleman of forty-five, who
weighs thirteen stone, and generally wears shoot-
ing-boots. Apropos, there has been in London
considerable excitement as to the grave charge of
plagiarism made in Adelaide against Mr. Forbes,
who is accused by a correspondent of the Adver-
tiser of having deliberately paraphrased a Times
article in a description of the London law-courts
printed under his own signature. Mr. Forbes’s
version of the matter—and there are sometimes
two sides to a question—has not yet been made
public in London, but the other version has, for
the Engineer has republished the two articles side
by side, and printed slips of them have been freely
circulated in the literary clubs.
Young Lord Savernake, who has just mar-
ried Miss Dolly Tester, of the Empire Theatre
(who, it seems, was only cne remove from a ballet-
girl), has just got what he was looking for. It’s
not difficult to prophesy his fate. All his grooms
and footmen will now have to be over sixty and
married (not that that makes much difference, now
we think of it!), and he will call in none but
female doctors. Of course, lots of stories will
reach him of the “pros.” she was mashed on at
various times ; how she bad followed this one
home in the snow; pawned her jewellery for that
one; of the nicknames she had; and even, through
the medium of spite and jealousy, he will learn all
the ignoble secrets of the dressing-rooms; he will
be told the “ fake ” she did in this dance, and the
“ frost ” she was in that piece, until he will wish
he was dead—and she, too. And when he enters
his Clubs, chappies who “ have known the party ”
will grin behind their newspapers before welcom-
ing him; and old warriors, who only a few years
ago had “ tipped ” him at Eton, will openly call
him a d young fool. And what sort of a place
will his house be? It is said that Helen Faucet
(Lady Theodore Martin) has always made members
of the profession welcome at her house, and you
can kiss the bo°k on it that Miss Dolly Tester will
do the same. Only, as it happens, the class of
actors and actresses which Lady Martin receives,
and those which Lady S ivernake will invite, will
be of a totally different character The Empire
Theatre, by the way, where they were producing
with great splendour, was Tawhiao’s
favourite resort, chiefly on account of the anato-
mical character of the entertainment. So he must
often, we suppose, have gazed w th rapture upon
the symmetrical limbs of the present Lady Saver-
nake. The Alhambra he also much affected, and
had “atime” one night in the green-room, much to
the amazement of theballerines. The New Zealand
party used to have the Royal box, and never “ part
a copper.” They are, we may add, doing London
under th • auspices of the Aborigines' Protection
Society I! 1
Sir John Hay—not our Sir John Hay—in a
letter to the Times, complains, with good reason,
of the favouritism shown to Lords Wolseleyana
Alcester as compared with the meagre recogni-
tion accorded to General Graham. A lot of facts
have come out in England which render even still
more inglorious the “great victory” won by
brawny Englishmen, raised on roast beef and plum
pudding, over wretched darkies, living on sherbet
and water-melons. For instance, one fact is that
at Tel-el-Kebir, the English troops were as numer-
ous as, even if they did not outnumber, the Egyp-
tian forces ; another fact is, that the celebrated
“midnight charge” at Kassassin, was a mere
brutal slaughter—it was not a tight, but an abso-
lute battue of blackfellows. The military parade
of Lord Wolseley in Egypt was child’s play, but
the two battles won by General Graham by hard
and desperate fighting against a determined and
resolute foe, showed bravery of no ordinary kind.


“Court influence” acoounts for if. all. The bat-
tieg” of Alexandria and Tel-el-Kehir were as in-
glorious as they were for our army bloodless.
\Vhat other motive, it is asked, could there have
been than the glorification of the Duke of Con-
naught, who, as the calculating Wolseley took
rare to inform Her Majesty, instanter by tele-
graph, “ led his brigade bravely,” &c. The Court
would seem to care very little for sterling merit;
rank, position, and influence are the one prevail-
ing thought in its mind. Nothing could be more
scandalous than the case of Lord Chelmsford,
"whose gross incapacity and negligence caused
the defeat of the English in Zululand, and the
massacre of a whole regiment; yet, Lord Chelms-
ford has now been appointed to the lucrative sine-
cure of Lieutenant of the Tower, through the in-
fluence of the Court.” The unsnlor-like blunder-
ing of “Admiral” Prince Leiningen (who has been
only two and a half years at sea) “ consigned three
persons to a watery the Solent,” yet this
Royal personage is now going to hoist his flag at
the More, despite the superior claims of scores of
gallant ollicers. Ihe “ glaring imbecility ”of Qen-
eral Burrows lost us the battle of Maiwand, in
Afghanistan, and led to the slaughter of the 66th
Regiment. He is still unrewarded, and it is sug-
gested that someone should whisper in the Queen’s
ear that he looks with a jealous eye on the favours
neaped upon the other incapables.
Mr. Henniker Heaton’s story concerning
his intervie v with the Frenchman who, having
found his wife unfaithful, killed her lover, whose
liver he fried and forced her to eat, is good up to a
certain point. But it goes too far. Henniker
surely doesn't wish one to believe that any well-
educated Frenchman who had ever dined at the
Trois Freres ” would have been guilty of so great
an outrage upon the laws of cuisinerie, to say
nothing of the offence against politeness involved,
as to adopt so brutal and so English a method of
dealing with the foie d'amant in question. The
Gallic gentleman was.it seems, on account of his
little “adventure,” transported to New Caledonia,
but was on his way back to La Belle France a free
man w en Mr. Heaton chanced upon him. We
remember having road in Figaro about a French-
man who, when acting as host, left the room to
prepare some coffee, and, on returning, found his
guest kissing his wife. That Gaul also took a
culinary revenge, though of a somewhat different
sort to that of the gentleman who. according to
Mr. Heaton, gave to the erring lady a friandiee
concerning the proper preparation of which there
is, we hope, no competent in London,
save His Majesty King Tawhiao. He didn’t kill the
lover. He merely drank the guest s cup of coffee
and shouted: “Tberel I have my revenge! I
have taken all And then there is the
story of the other Frenchman, who, having sur-
prised his wife in the embraces of an Englishman,
broke his rival’s umbrella and jumped on his hat,
exclaiming, “ Hurra! I have had my revenge! It
is raining much, and he will soon have to go out!”
One can just credit these anecdotes, but unless
Mr. Heaton assures us that the wife of his friend
was an Englishwoman and accustomed to Sydney
boarding-house cookery, we must respectfully but
firmly decline to believe the story, which is even
less credible than that told by Win wood Reade
about a certain Princess of Central Africa whose
habit it was to embrace a lover one day and eat
him the next. In short, we cannot, without at
least a cartload of additional testimony, lend our
endorsement to a “ romance of real life,” ivalling
in grimness that attached to the fiendish Count-
does he come from “ Haddon Hall,” or from
Irving’s “ Tales of the Alhambra who one day
at table asked his wife “ how sh j liked the dish she
had just eaten?” and, on being told that “it was
very sweet,” coolly informed her that “it should
indeed have been sweet, for it was the heart of
your lover, Raoul de Courcy.” There’s no poetry
about the liver. Henniker should have made
tae Frenchwoman’s wife eat her lover's heart.
The dapper Morgan, of Queensland, had,
tlie other day, a “bone to pick” with an English
solicitor. The latter was about six feet two, but,
though W. P. M. is only five feet six, he has a
broad chest and a square jaw. He smilingly en-
tered the office of his English friend, a smug, well-
to-do, gentlemanly rascal, who makes £lO,OOO a
year by his profession, and said, “ How do you do,
Mr. Priggit ? I see that that business is finished,
and now that is completed I have very great
pleasure in coming here, and expressing my
opinion concerning it.” The bulky Mr. Priggit
here looked up, and as he saw that Morgan’s eyes
were dancing, and that Morgan was “ washing his
hands with invisible soap,” and looking ex-
tremely pleasant, he (Priggit) likewise looked de-
lighted, as if iu anticipation of the forthcoming
compliment. “Yes,” continued Morgan, “I have
very great pleasure in expressing my opinion, Mr.
Prugit; for you,” and here Morgan's face clou ed
as the sky clouds in a tro oical thunderstorm, “ are
the d est scoundrel I ever met in all my ex-
perience, even though I have lived lir, North
Queensland. Yes, sir, you are the biggest liar and
tha paltriest thief i have ever met inside or out-
side a door wearing a brass plate. No, you need ’t
call your clerks and messengers to have me re-
moved, for if you put your lying lips to th t
speaking-tube I’ll put my fist through your scull,
and grind your bones on your own door-vtep.
You tried to ‘ have ’ me. and you didn't suc-
ceed. Good morning, Mr. Priggit, good morning.”
On another occasion, Morgan interviewed a
firm of London engineers with reference to
some work he wished done, and the head of the
establishment made a deal of difficulty about the
matter, remarking at the same time: “However,
if there's a firm in London that can do the job,
we’re the people, for we've been established since
the time of Henry VIII.” “ Did you know Henry
VIII.?" asked Morgan, without a smile on his face.
“ No,” answered tne alleged engineer, who thought
that in Au tralia, where Morgan came from, they
might not teach history; “I’m talking, not about
myself, but about my firm.” “Ah, 1 see. But,
never mind,” observed the little man; “I think
your firm are a bit too old for me. uood-bye.”
Morgan is still uncivilised, though he has been
fifteen months in England. He was at the orna-
mental water in St. James’ Park the other day,
when a man came up and aoked him the way some-
where. “Go round this water-hole,” replied the
Queenslander, “and turn to the right when you
get to the other lagoon.” Such is the deplorable
condition to which a man is reduced by living in
the wilds of the North.
Everyone has heard of—for it has been
well advertised that stupendous volume of
twaddle, “ Lady Brassey’s Cruise of the Sunbeam,”
the gentlest thing that can be said abouc which
is that its style reminds one of Her Majesty’s ex-
quisite literary ventures. Speaking of the Bras-
seys, a correspondent of an English paper writes:
—“Tom Brassey is as thorough and out-and-out a
nobody as a man can well be. His father managed
to make a fortune, and some few years ago left his
son, the present * Sir Tom,’ a stupendous fortune
in land and funded investments, and an annuai
income greater than that possessed by many a
duke. Then Tom marripd a fashionable wife with
plenty of push and gush. He was plain Mr. Brassey
then, and she a simple ‘ Mrs.,’ but she made up her
mind she would not let things stay in that way
long. She was bound to have a title. If she was
not a lady in realiry and in accordance with the
accepted rules which govern Society and the Eng-
lish definition of one, she would be made one by
law. So she set to work doing all sorts of things
to get her name into the papers and make people
talk about her. Tom bought a place down in
Sussex, as close to the edge of the grand old estate
Of the Earl of Ashburnham as he could, and put
up a great, vulgar, staring house o i it,, a house
that is the laughing-stock of the neighbourfiood,
and an eye-sore to everyone of taste who passes
within view of its exterior. In deference, most
likely, to their lack of any progenitor who came
over with the Conqueror, they called the place
Normanhurst Court. But its name is the only an-
tiquity it had. The carpets were new, the furni-
ture was new, the frescoes were new, the carriages
were new, the family silver was new as the most
recent dated ‘ Hall ’ mark of the Goldsmiths' Com-
pany could make it, and the crest which decorated
it was the latest invention of the obliging gentle -
men who conduct the affairs of the Herald’s College.
Hut that did not matter. The Brasseys were new
themselves, and that made it all right. So down
to Normanhurst Courc they went and installed
themsilves. The county people did not seem to
take to them at all, and, like the Sassoons, when
they began their social career at Brighton in 1870,
they had rather uphill work at first. The Ashburn-
ham family, whose magnificent park of centuries’
growth the aspiring windows of Normanhurst
overlooked, set their faces against them at once
and refused to recognise them in any way. People
of less push than Mrs. Brassey would have been
crushed by the succession of snubs to which she
was treated by the members of this most ane'ent
of English families. But Mrs Brassey did not care.
Regardless of refused invitations and no return of
hospitalities, the Brasseys kept on entertaining and
giving dinners to whoever would accept their hos-
pitality. Mrs. Brassey knew how to attract meD,
and if you get the men of the house into your
clutches, the rest of the family will soon follow.
Dinuers cooked to perfection, and wines of the
rarest vintage flowing like water, will not stay long
unnotic d in those days of sensual gratification,
where palate 3 and stomachs rule where heads and
hearts used to do. The county magnates—except
the Ashburnhams, who have alwavs kept aloof—
and people of importance in the neighbourhood
bega to thaw. Each week the newspapers con-
tained increasing lists of great people who had
dined at Normanhurst, and diued in a manner
they seldom dined anywhere else. Invitations,
heretofore ignored, were now things to seek; and
people who dined once were only too glad to come
again—as long, at any rate, as the chef remained at
his post, and ’55 Chateau-Margaux and Perrier
Jouet magnums were uncorked without stint. All
the way from Marlborough House, the Prince of
Wales sniffed thearoma of theNormanhurstCourt
cuisine and the bouquet of the Chateau-Yquem,
and he soon signified his willingness to name a
time for a visit there. What mattered it to him if
the man at the top of the table wa9 a ‘mushroom
of hasty growth’ and his wife an over-dressed
woman, if the sauce tartare tasted as well, and
there was none the less crust to the port? Under
such circumstances, it is rather a shame to think
that the house where he stays or accepts enter-
tainment has its social status tlxed, and that other
people of more refined and proper tastes have in a
sense to accept his judgment of people as one to
follow. However, since then the Brasseys have
gone on daily becoming more popular and talked
about. Mr. Brassey went in for politics, and was
returned a member of the House of Commons for
Hastings at the last general election, and when Mr.
Gladstone formed his Cabinet he made Tom Rras-
sey >he Civil Lord of the Admiralty,the one whose
duties go only to victualling ships and things
like that. In 1883, Tom Brassey was made a
baronet. Mrs. Brassey’s fondest wish was con-
summated. She was a ‘Lady’ at last. Doubtless
she took all the credit of the honour to herself.
She fancied her ‘ literary ’ ways, her famous yacht
Sunbeam and ‘ Cruise ’ from her own pen had mot e
to do with the acquisition of the long-coveted
title than anything else. But the fact of the matter
is simply this: Brassey, like hundreds of lately
made lords and baronets who have preceded him
in the first step, gained the distinction because of
his wealth. In these days, let any man who is un-
commonly rich go into politics and show an apti-
tude for them that would be considered but
mediocre ability in a poor man, and let his life be
fairly moial, decent, honest, and upright, and he
will sooner or later be made a baronet or peer. A
baronetcy is generally the first honour given.
Money is power, aud Prime Ministers, who have
the making of peers in their hands, know how easy
a blatant leveller is turned into a stanch adherent
of monarchy and firm supporter of Royalty by the
simple conferring of a peerage or baronetcy. It is
curious how quickly a title will change a man. At
ab events, Tom Brassey was made a ‘fir,’ and now
he is to be made a ‘ Lord.' But whatever he was,
or is, or will be in name, in reality he is a man
who would never have been heard of if it had not
been for his money. When such men are made
noblemen, what must one expert I And yet it is
an astounding fact, when one comes to look into
it, that many of the families which we are accus-
tomed to call * great,’ and which still retain under
their ancient titles a place in the peerage, are re-
presented at their heads by men who have no more
blood-right to the family cognomen than has a
man named Smith to be called Jones. This is the
kind of thing which shakes one in one’s precon-
ceived idea as to the stability of ‘ family,’ the
purity of blood, aud the directness of lineage of
the British nobility, and make one think, after all,
what are the odds if men like Brassey do get in
among them? Brarsey, at least, bears .his father’s
name. That much can be said for him. And if he
lacks the polish and refinement of such men as the
Duke of Richmond or the Earl of Macclesfield, he
can seek consolation in the reflection that the first
of his line was neither the illegitimate son of
Charles 11., by Louise de Querouaille, a pas sie
mistress of Louis XIV. of France (as wa j the first
Duke of Richmond), a Lord Caancellor of
England who was fined £30,000 for corruption in
office (as was the flrii Eari of Macclesfield).”
• •
“ Mr. O’Connor said he would like to paint
the Government in their true colours, but he
was bound down by Parliamentary rules not to
call a spade a spade.” Wc wonder how many
colours it would take to paint Dan? From the
Tamworth Hooke:—“We tell you justice will not
be done until Jessie Jane Duncan is in gaol for a
long period.” Thus does George put his foot down
on the girl. Luckily for her, only metaphorically!
By the way, Hooke's boot’s a bye-word in Tam-
worth. He would do very well letting it out as a
weighbridge —What a lot of “truths” someone
must have told in the Van Heekeren case. And
yet they, in most cases, believe a woman before a
man. The only conclusion v/o can come to is that
the lady prosecutrix must be the possessor of
a splendid imagination! We mean this is the
only lawful conclusion we can come to ...
W. H. Cooper writes to say that he was under
three doctors. Poor fellow! In this hot weather,
too “ The Vagabond” has been “congratulated ’
by “ Dagonet.” If he wishes to congratulate one
of Alfred’s poets, now, Sims would need be careful
that his felicitations take the form of something
in a tin Why, it seems now that Harcourt Lee
wont to ’Frisco via Ballarat, and stopped there.
Pity he didn’t go vid Walcha, where he might have
made the acquaintance of the Shroud’s Paris cor-
resDondent.. .The Mount Gambier man, Bolte,
who has just been committed for trial on a charge
of fraud, was the most popular fellow in the town.
Of lino presence, he was an enthusiastic sportsman
and captain of the Volunteers. He was an auc-
tioneer by profession, and in a large way of busi-
ness. Very generous was he to travelling dramatic
companies, and many an actor and actress will be
grieved to hear that there seems to be some possi-
bility of a lock being connected with this Bolte ..
A. P. Tighe, ex-M.P. for Northumberland, says that
ill-heaith caused him to resign. He is now but a
poor hand at the destruction of duff. Weil, we
wish A. P. Tighe a better A. P. Tighte George
Macleay wires that he is too unwell to be able to
go to Lisbon. Chance for Henniker, whose ser-
vices with despatches vid Reunion haven't yet
been recognised. Happy thought, why not send
Lambton to Lisbon—with instructions not to re-
turn ?. So Mrs. Alice Jones has been committed
for her escapade at Mr. Thingummy’s tea-party.
She seems to have made quite a circus of it—intro-
ducing two tumb:ers. Next time we give an “at
home,” and invite Mrs. Jones, we shall have
india-rubber delf, and sit down to the tea-board
with the Qoal-Bcuttle for a helmet— We had often
been perplexed as to how to classify the late
Thomas Carlyle. He never wrote a bit in our
style, and we never found him stumble on conclu-
sions we used to enunciate in tho clearest manner,
when conducting the Bringabagaflouralong Ga-
zette. We had our doubts about his greatness,
buc David Buchanan has seen Carlyle and written
down in the Telegraph that he found him agreat
man. What more do we want ?
The Fortescue-Garmoyle case will not be
heard until November Everybody connected
with the Royal Family who dies gets a cairn at
Balmoral. Poor dear Leopold is to have his cairn,
aud poor dear Brown has his already. Brown is
now dressed in bronze kilts. ..A London writer
puts it thus concerning Mr. Howard Vincent: “Mr.
Chief Vincent, of Scotland-yard, having married
an heiress, has resigned. He prefers to be blown
up in the peace and sanctity of his own house.”...
The Duke of Albany left “all his property of
every description unto his beloved wife, Helen
Frederica Augusta, Duchess of Albany, for her
own absolute use and benefit.” Leo XIII. has
named Dr. Byrne, Vicar-General of the see of
Bathurst, one of his Domestic Prelates, Dr. Vincent
Coletti a Cameriered’Onore, and Dr. George Dillon
a Oameriere Segreto Soprannumerario. This Rives
each dignitary the title of Monsignor Oscar says
he likes the married state. He feels confident of
his ability not only to sustain its iaDOurs, but tc
set an example of the pervading influence
of art in matrimony. We Rhould like to
hear Mrs. Wilde’s views on these points
On (lit that the wife of O’Donovan Rossa is travel-
ling- inco(j. in Ireland The frir-nds of the Tich-
borne Claimant intend to arrange for a grand
demonstration on his release upon ticket of-leave.
By the way, the Claimant says his term isn’t up
till November, and ho thinks the Home Secretary
will make a mistake if he lets him out in October,
as is proposed. Quite a lot of people think a big
mistake will be made if he’s let out at all Dr.
Piers C. Claughton, associate Bishop of London, is
dead. He succeeded the late Rev. G. R. Gleig in
’75 as Chaplain-General of the Army. Mr. Gleig’s
name is handed down to posterity by the perpetra-
tion, on his part, of a snocking bad novel called
“ The Hussar.” Dr. Claughton seems to have done
nothing in particular; though, doubtless, he was
celebrated in his “set” for the grace with which
he daily disposed of “bis little nine.” Earl of
Lauderdale fatally struck by lightning on the 12th
waile out after grouse. The Scotch true-blu'J
Presbyterians will recognise in this an evident
judgment—the sins of “chameleon” Secretary
Lethington and those of the bloody Duke who
furnished “L” to “Cabal," and iron-booted and
thumbscrewed the Covenanters, visited upon their
descendant in correct Scriptural fashion F.
Searle and W. Searle Parker, two well-known and
unhappily much-trusted London solicitors, have
levanted, leaving £1,100.000 liabilities. They haven't
since been heard of. We should say n0t!....
Mrs. Ramsay, of Canniften, who recently died,
was the largest woman in Canada—weighing 5001 b.
—yet during her lifetime an arbitrary Govern-
ment orl.v allowed her one husband—at a time
“ Well, Wilde,” saia a Philistine to Oscar one day
at lunch, “and pray how have you been passing
your morning!''' “Oh! I have been immensely
busy,” said Oscar; “I have spent my whole time
over the proof-sheets of my book of poems.” The
Philistine inquired the result. “ Well, it was very
important,” said Oscar. “ I took out a comma."
“Indeed,” returned the Philistine. “Is that all
you did?” Oscar, with a sweet smile, said: “By
uo means; on mature reflection, I put back the
comma.”.. Now that the Rev. Marston Reece,
vicar of Hixten. has been suspended for live years
by the Archbishop of York, lor being “tight” and
interlarding the litany with hiccups, we wonder
how he will whileaway the interval! Keepapublio
house ?,'This a good deal depends upon whether
he is wived or not. People in a superior position,
when under a cloud, if single, generally marry.
The glowing picture painted by the Eng-
lish dailies of the heroic conduct of Stnvens knock-
ing down twelve men in dsfence of his warder and
then sobbing like a child at his release, has now
toned down to a “slight row’’ between a small boy
and a warder at whom a stone was thrown.
Nqw that Peter Campbell is no more a
“ medicine bush missionary ” with orthodox views
in regard to “Box so-and so,” but ha- blos-
somed forth into a “Fair (sic) thinker” (which
apparently means believing in nothing but duff
and Peter Campbell), we are beginning to hive
,/rave doubts on the score of John the Baptist.
The point chiefly to be considered is—did he go
and preach in the wilderness clad in a raiment of
camel's hair and live on locusts and wild honey; or
did he utter his ministrations got up in an elon-
gated “ banger,” and reside in the Coffee Pa'ace of
the period ? We are constrained to think he did
the latter, and that an ex-waitress there had her
own reasons, subsequently, for demanding his
head upon a charger. Herod, too, had probably
found out that there were always plentv of £1
notGS in John’s P.0.-box, and that all the physic he
used yearly for the natives was a bottle and a-half
of condemned pain-killer, and, therefore, lost all
sympathy for the evangelist; but, even then, as
the theory goes, he still held his hand. But, no
sooner did the King behold that John, not content
with having blossomed all at once into the “cele-
brated lecturer, journalist, free-thought ex-
ponent,” announced himself as an “ auctioneer and
land agent” into the bargain, than his Majesty
yielded to the solicitations of the ex-waitress (now
in the ballet) and straightway ordered the decapi-
tation of John and the presentation of his head
(with strict injunctions to “ bring back the plate ”)
to the lady. We shall be happy to debate this sub-
ject with any sober person over the rank of a
Dean.
Far away in northern Lismore we have a
literary brother whose heart is sad because of the
burden of the Press. Here is some of his bitter
irony:—"The newspaperman is always the spoilt
pet of the public—as he gets everything for
nothing—and clothed in purple and fine linen,
lives upon pound cake, drinks champagne, and
enjoys his butterfly existence while it lasts—as
those the gods love generally die young—or should
he get old or troublesome, and take to writing
leaders about the Mud Age, or other disagreeable
topics, he is generally pole-axed, or sent to the
lunatic asylum.” After reading which it will be
apparent that editing papers on the Richmond
triver is a few times more unsatisfactory as an oc-
cupation than bees’-nesting in a wood full of
Avasps. It makes a man cynical and sarcastic,
which no man should be. Cynicism and sarcasm
have a tendency to sour the stomach and derange
the digestion. Telegrams are the chief trouble of
this Lismore editor: he can’t get them until the
facts they convey have recoded into the dim and
my thie era of history. But, being a man not easily
daunted, he came down to Sydney, and, meeting
some leading Lismore residents here, asked them
to go with him to the Postmaster-Oeneral. They
refused, evidently not caring—so he says himself—
“to be seen in company with a newspaper man.”
Fancy there being anybody in Lismore with
dignity enough to be damaged by being
seen with a Avielder of the Archimedean lever!
Yet ho is quite right. We have met
such people ourselves, and have noticed that
they always manage to keep respectable company
except on a fine day. Then then cannot net rid of
their shadows! The Lismore litterateur, however,
to use his own forcible expression, "faced the
forlorn hope alone.” He goes on to say: “After
being shown the way upstairs by the gentleman in
uniform who paces the portico at the ueneral Post
Office, we asked an official if we could see the
Postmaster-General, but were informed he could
not be seen that day. We then asked to see the
next in authority, but were informed that he had
gone for a holiday. Wo then asked to see the next
in power, and after being spoken to rather sharply
by the messenger, who evidently thought we Avere
looking for a Government billet, tve were shown
into a room where an official was seated—whom
we found much more civil and po’ite than his
subordinates outside, even though we were not
dressed in the latest masher costume, and did
not sport diamond rings on every finger.”
This is very pretty writing in its way and a striking
proof that the best quality of rum made on the
Richmond River is not exported. But it also re-
A'eals that the writer knows but little of the way
in which the world is governed when he expects
Government officials to be civil and polite. They
are not paid to be civil and polite. They are paid
to pick their teeth and pare their nails in the in-
tervals of bluffing the public. Also because a
member of Parliament boards with their aunt. So
that we are not surprised to read the result of the
interview. We quote again: “Returning our
thanks for the kinuness shoAvn us, we retired, feel-
ing that alone we did it; and have since reaoed or r
reward, as wo have the satisfaction of finding by
experience that these Press messages now come
worse than ever.” Of course. Precisely. The
Lismore editor should have got somebody who
possessed influence with the messenger to intro-
duce him to that dignitary, who would have intro-
duced him to the counter-clerk, who might have
had strength enough to point out the chief of the
counter-clerks, who, perhaps, Avould have sent a
boy to show him the next in authority, who, perad-
venture, would have told him to go to blazes, and
so settled the matter at once. That’s the way
busict ss is done down here.
WHY WE DIE
Before the Alloted Period
of Threescore Years
and Ten.
( Hall's Journal of Health )
What person of maturo years does not at this
season involuntary go back to childhood’s days,
when Spring cleaning applied as well to our inter-
nal structures as to the household, and the purifi-
cation of the blood, of the accumulated distem-
pers and impurities of the year, became a duty
which brooked neither argument nor delay ? What
doses of sulphur and molasses, of salts and senna,
of dock and dandelion, of sarsaparilla and winter-
green, and many other nauseating possets, remark-
able only for their horrible taste, we used to take
every spring! Whence the custom or the autho-
rity for this annual purification of the blood we
know not, but the necessity for it seems so firmly
established by the practice of our best physiclaus
and the education of generations that we may
feel safe in accepting it as extremely beneficial, if
not actu illy necessary. This, however, wo do
know, that, whether existing as an impurity of
the blood or as a constii utional weakness trans-
mitted through generations, there exists in certain
familioj and individuals a debilitating element that
undermines the constitution, saps iis vitality, and
renders life prematurely brief. The old etory of
the two brothers is a case in point. John led alife
of exposure, smoked and drank to excess, lived
high, kept late hours, never thought of caring for
his health, and died at ninety-three, in full pos-
session of his faculties to the moment of dissolu-
tion. James was brought up under more favour-
able auspices. He was taugnt to be temperate in
ell things, to eschew tobacco and liquors, to be
careful in diet and exercise, to avoid exposure,
and to rise early and retireearly. In consequence
of which he died in hearty old age, frosted with
the coatings of ninety-live years.
We speak of such people as having strong con-
stitutions; and we are right. The more we inves-
tigate the matter, the more firmly will we adhere
t > this conclusion: that it is the amount of vital
energy born in a man that enables him to live the
full turee-score years and ten. Now, what is this
vital element? Blood, undoubtedly, since it is
this fluid that nourishes the system and maintains
the life of its several parts. In this blood, handed
down through generations, or seif-incurred, exists
an element of weakness or debility, which we call
consumption, scrofula, rheumatism, or kidney
disease, because it assumes the form of each in
turn, or in dilferent families; but, by whatsoever
name it may be known, it is a vitiating poison,
that infests the blood and circulating fluids, and
weakens the delicate machinery of file, insidi-
ously it develops itself year after year, fastening
on tuij organ and then on that, until the vitality
or resistance of the patient is gone, and death en-
sues. The inheritance of this impure taint is so
widespread among all nations and peoples that,
could all the plagues which have devastated the
earth be combined as one destructive force, they
could not create a tithe of the misery and suffer-
ing lor all time and generation inflicted by its in-
heritance and dissemination.
Its direful effects may be noticed in the slender
ligure, lackin <• proportions ; small, weak, and
crooked limbs; pale countenance, olten of trans-
parent wh'teness, sometimes with a hectic flush or
unnatural redness of the cheeks; sometimes a yel-
low color about the mouth, blue rings around the
eyes, which are usually large, and of a bluish-
white, particularly when tending to the lungs; the
eyelids are frequently swollen, inflamed, ana dis-
charge viscid matter; the nose is, swollen, red, or
shining ; the teeth are unnaturally white or
covered with foul secretions; the breath is fetid;
the bowels irregular, the stomaeh sour, and the
appetite capricious, at one time feeble, at anotner
ravenous; the muscles and flesh are soft and weak;
or if round and full, fail, through inherent weak-
ness, in performing their ollicos without fatigue;
the limbs and joints are weak; indifference, indo-
lence, and debility, with Incapacity for prolonged
mental or physical exertion, mark the daily life of
the person; the powers of the mind of the scrofu-
lous or disease tainted may be at -times brilliant
and strong, but not enduring; the body may be
capable of great effort, but, or short duration. It
is undermined, sapped, and debilitated by a poison
that rankles in the blood, bones, and tissues, chat
permeates every avenue of the body, that robs
the Lrain, the lungs, the livor, the kidneys of their
proper nourishment, and saturates them with a
contaminating fluid that rots out their vitality,
filling the body with foul corruptions. Thus it is
often without the knowledge of the subject that
cancer, canker, consumption, ulcerations of the
liver, kidneys, and uterine system, rheumatism,
neuralgia, chronic pains and - inflammations, fe-
male disorders, internal ulceration and decay,
dropsy, dyspepsia, emaciation, and debility fasten
upon the system and pave the way for a rapid de-
cline. The presence of the virus r-nders the
system less able to combat infectious or malarial
diseases, to resist prolonged mental or physical ex-
ertion or serious accidents. The blood having no
longer the power to nourish and sustain, the de-
pressed condition of the electrical or nerve force
invites disease, and the system becomes a ready
prey to epidemics, malarial fevers, and prostrating
influences
My materia medlca is simple, wholesome, and
sensible. It consists of three articles—nutritious
and easily digested food, plenty of fresh air and
exercise, and Outicura Kesolvent. The Resolvent,
is a combination of new and original medicinal
a?ents. by Weeks & Potter, chemuts and drug-
gists, Boston, assisted by the late L)r. dray.
It is scientific and positive in its action. In fortv
minutes it may be detected in the blood, saliva
sweat, milk, aud urine, proving that it has made
the entire circuit of the fluids of the body. Mere
it meets with the corrosive elements, constituting
blood poisons, chemically unites with them, form-
ing harmless compounds, which gradually pass
from the system. As a blood purifier, diuretic
and aperient lor the purification of tne blood ana
\ he curing of constitutional humors, as well as for
the purpose of a Spring medicine, no medical com-
position or so-called blood purifier, or sarsaparilla
syrup of modern times, can compare with it. As a
sue, innocent, aud efficacious compound, unsur-
passed in activity and power, I recommend the
Cuticura Resolvent to all who are constitutionally
weak, or subject to maladies originating in impure
or tainted blood, ft combines four great proper-
ties in one medicine, acting at once upon the di-
gestive organs, blood, kidneys, and bowels. For
those who wake with sick headache, furred
tongue, biliousness, dyspepsia, torpidity of the
liver, constipation, piles, high-colored urine
inflamed kidneys, feverish symptoms, and’
other congested conditions requiring a speedy
gentle, and safe aperient and diuretic, nothing in
medicine cm possibiy equal it.
The Test of Actual Trial. This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing- its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at Od. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trilling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sicir Headache
Costiveness, &c., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-sized bottles 3s. 6d. gold
by all druggists.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney.
GEORGE PERRIMAN, Scene Painter, Wynd-
ham-street, Alexandria, Sydney. Disengaged
fTI HEATRE ROYAL*
Under the direction of
Messrs Williamson. Garner and Musorove.
LeSMr. S La/.ar. Treasurer, Geo. I, Goodman.
ASTOUNDING SUCCESS
of the latest and greatest Musical Novelt) of
MERRY DUCHESS «prr v OUCHFSS
MERRY DUCHESS MERRY DT CHES&
The finest performance of Comic Opera ever given
in Sydney.
The music is brilliantly sparkling.
The dialogue is crisp, pointed, and witty.
The scenery new and beautiful.
PRICES; Dress Circle, 5s : Slabs, 3i.; lamily
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No tree list.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management ot
RIGN O L D and ALLISON.
Messrs. Rignold and Allison have much pleasure
n AUGUST
hev will introduce to Sydney audiences the g i fted
ounKEngltthCooedlgm^^^
vho will be mpported MB. Chippendale and
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
Phe initial performance will be Brinsley Sheridan’s
beautiful comedy,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL,
tnainess Manager I for Miss 1. Mr. A- L. C unard.
K Manage/ fDe Grey 1 Mr. F. T. Lmgham
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein s, 411
j/orgl-street! Acting Manager, Monty Browne.
N
AIETY THE AT RE.
It Lessee Mr - John Bennett.
W LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MU. WYBERT REEVE.
KBfXSoSk Wbatgs&’pMzance! SSd
the grand Pantomime-Harlequinade. Beautiful
Rnllets Gorgeous Transformation Scene. ,
Day ticket*.at Loders
Hotel (opposite Theatre). Agent for H. Stanley,
W. Farmer. Business Manager, G. A. Coleman.
A i RTY THEATRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 30th.
Iy VICE-REGAL COMMAND NIGHT,
tinder the distinguished patronage of His Excel-
lency the Governor,
tiORD Augustus LoFtus, G.UB , Ladv Ax otstus
LOtTUS, and Suite.
First production on any stage ®f an entirely
new and original comedy,
TiiE Philanthropist
(written by Mr. George Forbes),
in which Mr. WYBERT REEVE wi 1 re-appear,
supported by a most powerful company,
PP including Miss Maggie Knight.
Rox nlan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
A nAD E M Y OF MUSI C.
t |g“ e VEIK a ° ,IW,^M %T« S WEBK. l “-
HISCOCKa^FBUERAL^MfIiaTRELS
hd Bp^.y v Dplon. o to s .tbsr E W,,h tb. MAR-
Oon,e ‘
fttiirdav Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling’s, where
•ianos for this entertainment are supplied.
ENTERTAINMENT.
USIC AL
jar OLD MASONIC HALL,
M
Ui
York-street,
Thursday, 4th September.
Under the Patronage of
iidRD Augustus Loftus, P.C., G.C.B, Ladx
LOFTUS, COMMOIiORE EhSKINE, THE MAYOR
and Lady Mayoress, and other distin-
guished patronage.
Ran TO RINAFORE !
Ripes of ALL PEOPLES 1
FLUTES OF ALL AGES I
with Musical Illustrations.
MR. JOHN RADGLIFF,
Rremier Flautist at the Royal Italian Opera, Pro-
fessor of the Royal Academy of Music, and
Member of the Council ot Trinity College,
‘ LGndon, will make hln First A ppearance
in Sydney, and
iME Ml DU,
Prlma Donna at the Opera Comique and Criterion
Theatres, London, and of the Crystal Palace
and Charles Halle’s Concerts, who will also
make her First Appearance in Sydney.
SWT” MR. RADCLIFF will Play on Different Instru-
xnents, Music of all Countries and all Times.
Pianist
Mr. CHARLES HUENERBEIN.
Tickets at W. H. Paling and Co.’s (Limited) Music
Warehouse, 356 George-st. For further particulars
see daily advertisements.
N
N
G
D A
vvtnv WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
and afternoon classes. The suite of
™rvms(B) largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
m Australia! to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
TMmuws &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.-
Thet»U-room js much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
tnd drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together and is superior in ventilation,
Boring floor, &c. No decorations required.
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
# at this office-
■BIS ELECTRIC CIRCUS
AND
GREAT LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM.
.A
-V
! -
c£
on.
A
■K
,)iii
arai
LOCATION: BELMORE PARK.
OPENING NIGHT, SATURDAY, AUGUST 30.
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY, at 2 o’clock.
60 of the Finest Circus Performers in the World. 60
Splendid Stud of Trained Horses and Ponies.
ROBERT LOVE, Advance Courier.
G R A
N D CO
in aid of the
N C E R T,
NEW BUILDING FOR CHILDREN AT THE
OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL,
will be given at the
NEW MASONIC HALL,
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 10th,
at which the following renowned artistes have
most generously consented to appear
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE,
SIGNORA L. P. M. FABRIS,
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
MADAME MARIUS,
HERR FRANCIK,
and
MR. T. SULLIVAN,
kindly assisted by a quartette of
GENTLEMEN AMATEURS.
CHORUS OF LADY AND GENTLEMEN AMA-
TEURS (pupils of Signora Fabris).
MRS. C. E. MOULTON,
and
MADAME ANNA KING.
Grand Piano J s kindly lent for the occasion by
Brinsmead and Co., Bond-street.
Tickets at the Music Warehouses.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Paling's.
S
UNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCE IT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Plrssure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
ICOPFF and AUSTIPFS
Renowned Siring Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3 40 4.
’tLc" entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
MURKUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M'SHARRY,
Contractors.
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, ami Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
A large stock of PaperhaDgings of the most
beautiful designs ever Been in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
for the
CHAMPIONSHIP OF AUSTRALIA,
to take place
DURING THE CAULFIELD CUP WEEK.
RTessrs. Alcock & Co.
■will present one of their
match billiard tables,
Value One Hundred and Fifty Guinea", to be com-
peted for under the following conditions, viz..
1. The match to take place in Melbourne, be-
tween the 11th and 18th October, the game to be
1000 up. If ■" ore than two players compete, eacn
game to be 1000 up. All competitors to start from
scratch.
2. Open to all comers who have resided in tne
Australian colonies, New Zealand, or 'lasmania
for twelve months prior to the match.
3. Each player to stake £5O, and the winner to
take the stakes and Messrs. Alcock and Co. s
trophy. If more than three compete, the runner-
up to save his stake.
4. Nominations (£10) to be paid on or before the
30th August next to the sporting editor of me
Australasian.” Acceptances <£2o) to be ? n v? r
before 9th of September. The balance (£2O) to be
paid on or before 9th October, or nomination ana
acceptance fee to be forfeited and added to the
stake.
5. P.-oceeds of the hall (less expenses) to be de-
voted as follows, viz. One-third to the Melbourne
Hospital, and two-thirds to be equally divided
amongst competitors.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OT PARLIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund £138,0X1
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: _ „ L _ ,
Jas. Scroggio, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Havmarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. T. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily. w
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsvillo, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRA BOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA TOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited).
42 King Street, Sydney.
Town off Bourke.
OPENING OF G.W. RAILWAY TO BYEROCK.
Land SaSe ! Land Sale S
SPLENDID BUSINESS FRONTAGES AND SITES.
W. H. DANIELL has been instructed by the Exe-
cutors ol’ the late Joseph Becker and Patrick
Green to
SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION
About the time of the Opening of the Railway to
Byerock,
(60 Miles from Bourke),
The exact date of which will be announced in
future advertisement,
111
Bill
and also
A FEW ALLOTMENTS IN NO. 1 EXTENSION,
EAST BOURKE,
which have been recently Surveyed.
The Auctioneer has much pleasure in calling the
particular attention ol the public to the above
Sale. Some of the Allotments to be offered are
situated in
THE VERY CENTRE AND MOST VALUABLE
BUSINESS PORTION OF THE TOWN
OF BOURKE,
and as land in Bourke is steadily and daily Increa*-
ing in value, the attention of business men re-
quiring sites, publicans, investors and others is
specially directed to this Sale, as such an oppor-
tunity cannot again occur.
All further particulars can be obtained from the
Auctioneer.
TERMS LIBERAL.
TlTLE—Direct from the Crown.
W. H DANIELL,
Agent for Executors of the late J. Becker and
P. Green,
Mitchell-street, Bourke.
Bourke, 3lst July, 1884.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 25th August, 1884.
TENDERS FOR TURFING TENNIS AND CRO-
QUET GROUNDS.
TENDERS are invited for Turfing the Tennis
and Croquet Grounds at the Hurlstone
Training School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of
Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for lurfing Tennis
and Croquet Grounds, Hurlstone Training School,
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m„ on Wednesday, the 10th September,
IS Tbe Minister does not bind himself to accept the
Lowest or any Tender. w> TRICKETT.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
£
mm
s^r
mill
m
19
ft.
'/Q
''7
ip
NVALUABLE
V~ ec SUFFERING t
XT., tv* o *s- *
* ® M
Lo
ion
$s
erff
int
Her
you
stie
Ss
L»
Oe
fUl e
jpECIAU-Y
adapted for the
Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
o
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
lF all Whiskies Imported. these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
• MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA. . _ T .
GOLD MEDALS, S, and W.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMHOCK WHISKIES
are ho.tied and shipped in bond .fed!! “.53^
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Flit-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide,


|s@“ THIRTY SHILLINGS.
m.
THItITY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and ttao grandest
achievement ot the alchemist s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition arc equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest.
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
ot the sterling golu as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection willonly strengthen theeon-
viction that it is real geld. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad > become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers, llut as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and Is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment,
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are fow, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and sendin your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, we will send to
any customer (post free, if at a distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Hold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance t o & Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery bv sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,” is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in thu long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at cost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 Georg e-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberis, with
double slides and tassels, 15s ,20s.,and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., Cs., 7s. fid.,
Bs., Bs. fill., 9s, and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. fid. to 303.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2 10s. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ hanosome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaine'', 303 each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. fid., 20s , 225.
fid., 255., 275, fid., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. fid., Bs. fid., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s,
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s fid. to Bs. fid. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless .. ..£2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glatses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells .. .’. .. £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 6
iW These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements arc of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £460
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albort £5 5 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 6 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albort.. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. ..£666
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our'watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £4O.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings. 6s. fid.,
7s. fid., 83. 6d, and lUs each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and KuDy Rings, 7s. fid.
and Bs. fid. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, Hat broad buckH, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c„ &0., from 53. to
8a fiJ. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. fid., Bs.,
83. fid., 98, 10s., and 13s. Of. per set; Same as
above, only half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per B<-t; Gent’s elegant Seals, real
ptenes, 7s bd , Bt, 95.. 10s., and 12s fid* each;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Be,
10s., and 12s. fid. each; Gents Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s fid. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest Amerioan Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. fid., 205.,
255., and 30s. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
ROYAL—“The Merry Duchess ... P-*•
House—“ The Shaughraun” ,-••• {£•
'i?ETY THEATRE—“Pirates of Penzance ... ib.
ACADEMY OF MUSlC—Federal Minstrels ib -
We forgot to tell you last week that we
w the Theatre Royal on the evening when
presented to William IPach,
t hSmSfon sculler of the world, a gold watch or
as a memento of his great victory over
redoubtable Canadian. It you were there,
' mi know all about it; but if you weren t. .lust
along for a minute, and we 11 tell you how it
ro * The house was about as full as it ever gets.
'na everybody wanted to see the Champion. hir«t
a ° d ®,poked at one box and then at another, and
th /n wondering if “any of them fellows is him ;
B ?,t Belch was not to be seen. The managers had
aim hidden away in the coal-hole under the stage
, b treD him dark until the right moment came.
They were afraid, perhaps, he’d slope with the
memento without making a speech, and they
that if he did once get awav and regain his
hnat in the bay there wasn't anything round this
of woods could ever catch him. bp they j
Sent him locked up unti 1 the first interval came
!n when Mr. Musgrove or Mr Garner (we don t
vn’ow them apart) appeared before the curtain
innl and announced that he took great pleasure
to the audience Mr. 'William Beach,
champion of the world, &c.. &o. Of course, every-
Sv yowled like a democratic convention of tom-
o+a and then the orator went back to the wings,
loosened the hand-cuffs, and led the prisoner iorth.
I t was a trying moment for the hero of the
Parramatta. During his long colonial career, he
had always borne a reputation above reproach and
had enioved the contidence and respect of his
friends. Now he was compelled to confront that
\oat assemblage, each one of whom seemed cla-
bfs blood. Crest-fallen, with eyes on
tho floor, and his light hand in his pocket, he stood
there the picture of repentance and despair. Could
his heart have spoken, it would have said, I m
snrrv I beat him. I didn’t mean to. It was an
accident. If you let me off this time, I won’t do it
again.” Still the populace seemed clamouring for
revenge. The victim’s face tlusbpd. Finally his
Wsrht hand was withdrawn from his pocket. It
sought his ear, which it rubbed gently, as though
somebody was talking about it. Then he leaned
oVpr sideways, reached down and scratched his
toff leg It was a picture for a painter, finally, a
screech from the gallery that sounded as if some-
hod? had trampled on the devil’s tail, brought the
eves of the culprit to bear in that direction. The
irods met his gaze and inspired him. Then the man
who had introduced him proceeded to pass sen-
tence upon him it was quickly over. For the
tirst time the prisoner's lips parted. He spoke.
The silence of death reigned in the theatre. Men
„nd women held their Dreath to catch toe first
words that might fall from the unfortunate man s
Hds. It was only a whisper and tew could catch it.
But these were the words, “ I wish to h -1 I was
out of this.” Then in a louder voice he exclaimed,
“I don’t know much about speakin’, but when it
comes to rowin’, I’m all thar.” This was too much,
it was more than human nature could endure.
One lon- 1 , deep toned growl of vengeance swelled
ud from the pit, only to be augmented as it reached
the dress circle, and capped with a hurricane of
screeches from the gallery above. The audience
arose as one man. A rope was quickly brought,
and [See here. The]next time we send you to a
theatre, and you go to sleep and dream of lynch-
ings and mix a report up this way, you 11 get a
week s notice.—Ed. B.]
* * *
Tho boss is always hopping on to our neck.
But perhaps you would like to know something’
about “ The Merry Duchess,” which was put on at
the Royal last, Saturday mgnt. You would ? Well,
•‘The Merrv Duchess” is a new comic opera by
George It. Sims and Frederick Clay. Nellie Stewart
nlaved in the title role, and the production of the
niece was signalised uy the first appearance in
Sidney of Mis- Gracie Plaistead, and the first ap-
oearance with the Opera Company of Messrs.
Philip Day and Mans Phillips. There lsn t much
plot to the piece, but what there is of it runs like
this The Duchess of Epsom Downs is the daughter
of Sir Lothbury Jones. She has a favourite mare
called Damozei. who has w ;n the Derby and is
entered for the St. Leger, Freddy Bowman (Hans
Phillips), the great English loekey, is booked to
ride the mare, and the Duchess has fallen desper-
ately in love with him. An attempt is made to
poison the mare O' the eve of the race, but this
doesn’t “ connect.’ and, as a last resort, the touts
persuade Lord Johnnie (Pattie Browne), whose
servant Fred Bowman really is, to claim him tor
another horse. Lord Johnnie is also in love with
the Duchess, and she has promised to marry
him if her mare is beaten tor the St. Leger.
She hopes to win, for she wants to wed
the loekey; and, of course, is in more trouble than
an old maid with a man uuder the bed, when Lord
Johnnil claims the successful rider for his own
horse At last Lord Johnnie relents, and then the
touts insult Freddie, until he strikes one of them,
and the police lock him up lor breaca of the peace.
The infuriated populace, led on by the Duchess,
storm the calaboose, and poke the door down with
their walkiog-sticks. Freddie rushes out, skins
lor the paddock, takes his seat on Damozei, and
wins the race. And right here wc wa-at to tell you
that the scenery with which tho piece is mounted
is worth going to look at. The one representing
the cornfields at Muddlebam was particularly real-
istic but the gleaners were dressed in entirely too
gaudy costume for the occasion. The Doncaster
racecourse, too, was so cleverly represented that
in the race scene the field of horses were seen to
let away well t ogeth er with Damozei forging
steadily a-head until she came around at last
winner of the race. This was as neat R stage trick
as we have seen in many a day, or night t ither, and
nothing but the fact that Beach is Champion kept
from getting up and offering six to one on the
chestnut. # + „
Somehow, wo never grow tired of Nellie
singing. We once had a canary-bird
that fancied himself a little, and he could rather
warble around anything iu our ava.ru. [Whats
?-Ed. B.] (That Frinch for burred-house.
Usv'the divil admire your impudence. Kape
ga, phoile I procade. — Dram. Report .] Well at
last this bird got so proud that when any other
WrS hPvan to sing he’d hold up his nose and wink
knowing to ihose about him, as much as to. say,
“Watt until he gets through and t lllgive him a
tnrn T’ll show him how that song ought to be
sung ” He got to feeling so vain finally that none
of the others would sing until alter he d gone to
the night air gave them sore throats,
rifwe tbund oufwhere Nellie Stewart lived and
sent The bird around, with the request that she
should let him hear her sing. We weren t present
at the rehearsal, but that evening when the bird
clme home his tail was down and he looked as
thmirh nothing short of a prospective visit from
hia mother-in-law would be sufficient to give zest
fo lilte and put any tlavour in the cup ot the future.
• *
And this reminds us of the young priest,
fresh from college, who importuned his Bishop to
•dfow bimto preach his first sermon in the Cathe-
dral The Bishop was a good-tempered old soul,
as some of our bishops are occasionally, and
granted the request, knowing full well that the
voung clergyman didn't know enough of the. logy
?odo g any particular harm to the cause ot Chns-
d£n?tv Sunday came, the Cathedral was crowded,
aSd the voong priest appeared in a brand new
f ~f hlack with oil on his hair and scent all over
He mounted the P.ujPitwith bead e r ct
fiashimr eve. and an air which said, L would take
the Fnbewn Rock from the mountains, and hurl
it down dong the line of Humanity, demolishing
the blttllments of Infidelity, knocking to atoms
the towers of Scepticism, crushing to dust the
strongholds of Hereticism, and scattering into a
thousand fragments the Breastworks of the
Devil ” But, somehow, bis eye happened to bght
on a man in the congregation with whom housed
to ct aqi rtnnios when a hoy. and nis tongue renioPU
Sv|e P In vlin did he clear his threat, g.ow red
in the face, and try it a Brain. The words wouldn’t
come, and he retired from the pulpit with fallen
head, and with heart filled with humiliation. His
Lordship met him, and, taking him by the hand,
said in all gentleness, “John, had you ascended as
you descended, you might have descended as you
ascended.” But, to the opera.
« • *
Grade Plaistead was received with ap-
plause and a shower of bouquets. The shower
wasn’t particularly showerful, for the flowers
were handed up from the orchestra: but they
were pretty and fragrant, and that’s all you want
in bouquets. Sydney play-goers always receive
a new celebrity witn open arms, and there wasn t
a man in the audience who wouldn t have received
Gracie that, way if he could. If you werent out
on Saturday night, wo must tell you that Miss
Plaistead isn't much bigger than a small bottle of
champagne, but she's just as lively and sparkling
when she gets in front of the footlights And she
sings ever so prettily. We liked her best in the
bird song in the opei ing scene, when she trilled
away like a thrush with a broken ieg, until we
almost wished we had an empty cage somewhere
to put the little warbler in and spirit her away to
same enchanted isle where nobody but us should
ever hear her sing. But there A man always
does seem to prefer what he can’t get, and doesn t
realise until afterwards that ail tne time he has
been rearing with tenderes-t care an upas-tree in
whose shade the flowers of the human heart must
wither and turn to dust or stone. So much for the
constancy of human nature: but we don't exactly
see what that has to do with the opera nor with
bright little Rowena about whom we had been
telling you. [You've been out. between the acts
again, That’s what ails you.—Ed. B.]
• • •
No, we haven’t; but Miss’Plaisted oonies
from America, you know, and every time we see
an American lady we can’t help thinking of the
old mountaineer’s daughter that we once tried to
court over in Colorado. She was rather a healtby-
lookra? da-nsel, six feet tall, and could shoot a
rille or skin a de*»r with any man on the new dig-
gings. And she had red hair, but that didn’t mat-
ter. After a fellow’s been in the Rocky Moun-
tains a month or two, he’s got an anpetite for any-
thing. Her name was Sarah (“ Sal,” for short), but
we used to like to think of the time to come, when
love should mellow her practical nature to such
an extent that we needn’t fear to call her our Little
Mountain Daisy. We didn’t dare do this at the
outset, for she was right on the muscle, and it was
generally believed that she could “ put a head
on any man in the camp. One day, when we
couldn’t stand it any longer, we sat down and
wrote to her. Our letter ran something like this:—
The golden banners of retreating day
Are faintly moving o er the mountain’s crest.
The blazing monarch of the skies has swept
Beyond the horizon of sight, and left
A purple kiss of love upon the cheek
of each proud daughter of the Snowy Range.
Fantastic shadows glint and glance along
The lines my eager pen pursues, and in
Their carol wild and free 1 catch again
The magio light that dances ever In
Your roguish eyes and sends a holy gleam
Athwart the gloomy cavern of my soul.
How strange it seems that I should love; for I
Had thought myself a misanthrope To me
All men and women were alike, and in
My blindness all were bad; but by some spell
Some secret magio of your own -new-born
Emotions thrill my soul to bid Despair
Look up and put new sinews in the arms
Of Hope. Once I had thought to climb the hills
Of Truth, and walk with kinored spirits there—
The dizzy heights where none but beings of
Immortal faith and courage dare to tread.
To faint to fall, to fail of all I hoped
Was but the just and proper sequel to
My halting faith. To-night my noart is sad:
My soul, like some dark night-bird, wings its way
A-down the steeps of life, where scattered lie
The fragments of full many a joyous dream
Of love. And there ’twould brood. But you have
come
To drive away the vulture of regret.
Now once again my doubting soul looks up;
Ambition thrills my palsied nerves, and I
Can dare again the cruel storm-bursts of
An adverse fate. Will you not grant your love
And prayers to bid me God-speed in the race
Which lies before ? May I not biud your soul
To mine by ties of love so strong that no
Untoward blast can shatter any dreams
Of gladness that the years may bring to us ?
If so, I'll storm the citadel of Fame
And place the banner of eternal Joy
Upon the turret-top of Truth.
We awaited the answer with all the anxiety of a
man who expects to catch the small-pox. The
next, day it came. We hastened awav to our cabin
with beating heart, and tore the yellow-covered
missive open. It read as follows: —“ Young feller.
You ar eviduntli a Tenderfoot. You hain’t ben on
the diggin’s long null to sit down on a cactus bush
and eat a cold dinner without grumblin’. Until you
kan do thet, you hain't uo business makin’ up to
Sal williams. Besides thet, tber seems to be some-
thin’ ailin’ of you. Suppos’n you try Varmifuge.
Chub Newett, as keeps the gin ral store, says as
how it’s powerful in cases sich.as yourn. Yours
in a horu, Sad Williams. P.S.—Next time you
come snootin' around our place, I’m goin’ fur to
sick Towse on yer.” It is needless to state that we
didn’t go “ snookin’ around ” their place any more.
But we were younger then than we are now, and
not half so careless about being laughed at. So
we sold out our claim, and the next day fouod us
on the overland coach bound for Carson City.
But, there. We’ve gone dear off again, aud
haven’t told you anything about the opera yet.
Well, there are Fanny Liddiard, Ida Osborne,
Philip Day, Edwin Kelly, W. H. Woodfield, and a
host of others, about whom we may tell you some-
thing next time. What you want to know is
whether it’s worth going to see. It is worth going
to see, and bids fair to run longer than any of the
pieces previously presented at the Royal during
the present season.
• * * *
If Dion Boucicault wasn’t the son of a
Moonshiner, he ought to havo been, for a host of
his favourite characters are so thoroughly im-
pregnated with the spirit which made Mooushin-
mg not only possible, but positively enchanting,
that one cannot help wonderintr from whence he
derived his subtle power of description, if not
from breeding and early experience. One of his
best characters, to our mind, is Conn the Shaugh-
raun, the hero of the play of that name now on at
the Opera House. We told you about this piece
last week, and how Jenny Lee played in the title
role. For several nights the litile actress was ill,
and Harry Leston took her place. You remember
lois of things thap you have seen Harry do, no
doubt, but you il never forget him as tne Tipsy
Passenger in the “Silver King.” Harry can play
Coiid, too; but after you have seen Boucicault
himself, Grattan Riggs, and A. O. Miller in the
character, you don't care to see any other man
attempt it. But you do grow interested in Jennie
Lee’s rendition of the part, for you can’t help re-
membering all the time that sbe is a little woman,
and it is amusing to watch her efforts to be a man.
The first night she gave us a sort of combination
of Jo, Sam. Willoughby, and the Grasshopper,
wrapt in one, and made immensely funny by
the brogue and carriage the actress assumed.
We don’t know why it is that Jennie Lee
plays best in male characters; but we do know
that if we were as pretty a little woman as she is,
we wouldn’t be a horrid man at any price, nor
look like one for love or lame. But tastes differ,
and the world has been standing halt-bewildered
ever since that eventful morning when the .old
woman kissed her cow. The cow doesn't seem to
understand it yet, either; but cows were not built
for philosophy, Milk is more in their line.
* * *
George Forbes played Captain Molyneaux
very mu- h alter the Style of George Forbes You
wouldn’t hardly beiieve it, perhaps, but we are
getting to like Mr. Forbes on the stage. This is
not because he plays so well, but because we have
a curiosity to see what he will do with each new
part assigned him. We have a suspicion that
George knows as well as anybody that he can’t act
a little b:t; but he seems to like rhe stage, and the
public tolerate him, probably for the same reason
that we do—it humours him and amuses them.
There is this that we must say for Mr. Forbes.
When.be has a long engagement at any theatre,
and is suddenly cast out of any new piece, we miss
him like a front tooth. The stage don’t seem right
unlesi he comes on sometime during the evening.
After we get. used to bi n, we actually believe that
we would sit and watch him play Hamlet, rather
than not see him at all : and you can, or rather
can’t, imagine what George would do with Ham-
let. Oh, by the way, we had almost forgOtt p n to
remind yoo that Mr. Forbes has written a new
comedy, “The Philantropist,” which is to be played
for the tirst time on any stage at the Gaiety
Tueatro ou Saturday evening ot tbi- week. And
this will bring back to us a number of old favour-
ites and iriends. Wybert Reeve will re-appear, so
will Maggi Knight, Miss Bessie Palmer, and Lillie
Bryer. Yes. and there will be Harry_ Lesion,
Edwin Palmer, the redonbtable George .himsilt,
and a hand-cart full of smaller fry. Wfc are going
to see his piece, for Lord Loltus and his lady have
promised to be there, and they are always scolding
because of late we don’t seem to want to app ar in
public with them. But we can assure both you
and them that we haven't intended to appear
neglectful or discourteous. Our reason all along
has been that, whenevor we used to go to the same
place as the Governor, we got all the attention,
and we couldn’t bear to see his dear old face
shadowed over by a fueling of loniiness and
negleot.
• • •
We told you last week how well we liked
James Carden’s Corr.v Kinchela.and Oily Deering's
Harvey Duff. Well, the programme has been
changed, for som« reason, and Mr. FrankJyn baa
assumed the role of Duff. And a genuine duffer he
is in that part, for he can’t play it any more than
our step-uDcle can, and be keeps a saloon on tho
outskirtsof Hamburg. Mr. Arthur Rodney, too,
was rather a ‘'frost’’ as Robert Fflliott. Rodney
looks like Henry Irving, and, on occasion, can
imitate him rather cleverly, but that doesn’t make
him a finished actor by any means, as is shown by
the fact that he can't play the Fenian for sour
apples. There is too mucb of the “lah-de-dah”
about him for a Fenian, and that seems to come so
natural to him that ho doesn't appear abli to
throw It off before leaving the dressing-room.
With the exception of Jennie Lee, we failed
to discover any improvement either in the cast or
the acting. Jennie has evidently been reading Tiik
Bulletin between the lines of the play, and lat-
terly has been giving us a creation more iike Conn
and less Jike Jennie Lee. We weren’t pining for a
change, you know, for Jennie is good enough for
us pro or Conn; but the interests of true art must
be concerved.
j • •
Oh, yes; and if we hadn’t met Monty
Brown, we should have forgotten to tell y< u that
“The shaugnraun” gives way cm Saturday night
to the “School for Scandal,’’ which will be pre-
sented at the Opera House by the London Comedy
Company, of whom Marie de Grey is the bright
particular star, with Mrs Chippendale as principal
satelite; and the evergreen, or red, lather, Monty
Browne as agent. Miss de Grey didn’t have very
good luck over in Adelaide; but that is owing to
the fact that, our Southern sister is just beginning
to cast off her swaddling provincial clothes, and
won’t countenance anything that doesn’t first meet
the approval of .>ydney. You remember what a
“ Host ’’ Sheridan’s “ Fun on the Bristol ” was down
in Melbourne? Well, that was all because the
piece wasn t put on here first, and we hadn’t a
chance to pass an opinion on it. You’ll see that
when the Widow O’Brien goes back to Melbourne,
she’ll get the warmest reception of anybody ex-
cept Genevieve Ward. Now, we have our repu-
tation, and what is better, perhaps, our peanuts, to
stike that our prophesy proves correct; that is, of
course, providing Sheridan takes his play to the
Bijou or the Victoria Hall. But we must getaway
from the Opera House and “ The Sbaughraun ” for
the present, for we hear the Juveniles “ peeping’’
away up at the Gaiety, and we want to see what
sort of a house they’ve got, and how they handle
“The Pirates of Penzance.”
** * *
You have seen “The Pirates,” of course.
A much-quoted writer has said: “ »ee Venice and
die.” That may be sound advice in a beautiful
locality iike Venice, but if you take our tip for it,
you’ll not want to die when you see ttanley s
Juveniles attempt “ The Pirates of Penzance.”
you'll want to live long enough to dance on the
graves of the daily critics who told you the per-
formance was worth going to see—was, in fact,
inimitable and thorougnly surprising. Of course,
it is only a very small proportion of the public to
whom we now address ourselves, for the vast
majority of play-goers have grown accustomed to
the twaddle in the dallies, and have found out that
they must either go themselves or read The
Bulletin before coming to a conclusion as to the
merits of a play. We must tell you that we don’t
like the children as pirates; but in the Panto-
mime, with whicn the performance closes, they
are quite entertaining. We liked them so well In
" Jack the Giant Killer,” that we almost made Mr.
Stauley a proposition to adopt t ern; but as we
heard he would want to be included, we gave it
up, and the Juveniles are still under his charge.
If we had them, we should go around taking con-
tracts from big warehouse firms to rid their estab-
lishments of rats. Then we should train them up
a little further in “The Pirates” and take them
around to play the piece in the cellars. If that
didn’t kill the rats, we should be greatly disap-
pointed; but we are so firmly convinced that it
would that we are willing to take a benefit if we
lose.
* * *
Dolly Inifaan looked pretty as the Major-
General, and Amelia Hodge was passing sweet as
Mabel. Amy Child’s Frederick was a sort ol
hybrid performance that wouldn t have been
powder enough, &c., had it not been fur hei
pleasant face ana really excellent voice. But
again little Walter Harman carried away the show-
cases of the bakery. Heisthe cutest little scamp
we ever saw on the stage, and the first thing bis
folks know we ll be making a second Charlie Ross
of him. The beauty of his acting is that he studies
out all his business himself, and is quite indepen-
dent of the stage manager or the prompter. Such
precocity was what prompted us to steal pigeons
when a boy, and to “ raise ” cheques later on. By
and bye we are going to stand lor Parliament, if
we can find out iu which district the weakest—beg
pardon, we mean the honeetest—man now hails
from. If you have followed us, you know that
“ The Philantropist ” is to be put on at the Gaiety
on Saturday evening of this week. So we’ll bid
good-bye to the juveniles, hoping that it may be a
long time before we have occasion to spank them
again.
#* * *
Miss de Grey and company open at the
Opera House on Saturday, in toe “ School for
Scandal.” m iss de Grey is an actress of the Langtry
type. The new star has a singularly picturesque
appearance. Mr. Monty Browne Is her agent. He
has a singularly picturesque appearance also. So.
it will be seen from tho outset, that the show is
generally attractive. This is a spec, of Messrs.
Allison and Rignold, and the toga of glory has
fallen on Monty as their representative. And, by
the way, Monty has a pretty little daughter who
plays in the company under the name of Miss
Fanny Montague, and whom the S.A. Register
butters ad. lib. With regard to her pourtrayal
(oh, Alfred !i of Angie Gordon, it says:—"This
gushing young party was most pleasantly por-
trayed by Miss Fannie Montague, who made a
decided hit in the character, and was frequently
and not undeservedly applauded.” Pretty this,
isn’t it ? But not so pretty as Monty Brown with
a watch-chain all over his waistcoat and a nine-
inch smile.
** * *
Equesquirieulum! No, it has nothing to
dh with a spelling bee. It's a new way of figuring
out Bilcnore Park, where the fence is up and the
tents erected, and small boys are peeping through
the cracks and sniffing sawdust as preLmiuarif s to
deeper joj s In suort, it is Woodye no it’s not
anything “in short.” anyway it signifies that
Woodvear's Circus opens on Saturday, and that
you’d better not forget it.
For continuation oi *• sunary blows,” see page 5.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Thus a party named “ Sigma,” in the
Cobak and Louth Heradd:—
“ Thus I wait whilo the moments go fleeting.
With a yearning that conquers all will,
And anon with a heart wildly beating,
I murmur, ‘she cometh not still!
Paw thing! Well, Sigma, listen :
You may wait till the fall of the gloaming
Till the owl on the forest tree hoots;
For your love, with you, will not go roaming-
We saw her go out with the Boots.
* * *
Here’s a magnifloent sample of London
correspondence, which we clip, airily, from the
FIZZ!
Canterbury Times:- “Tom said Mr. Hopkins
was goipg to bring the Maori King and his suite to
Ascot on Cup day, but they never turned up. I
wish he had, for [!!!], despite the absence of the
Prince and Princess of Wales, the Royal heath was
one blaze of rank and talent, birth and beauty,
dressmaking and millinery, all four afternoons.”
Oh, thanks for this, you dear young thing—
This screed is great, sweet gusher;
In introducing you,-thus, here
We try to be your husher.
* * *
We like to give a new organ a show; so now
for the Melbourne Era, which is also several other
things we have not time to set down; and is edited
by “Hotspur," whoever the deuce lie is. The paper
is more sporting than anything else, and in order
to show “ Hotspur’s ” infinite judgment in aquatic
matters, we give entire his boat-race tip, which
appears in the second issue:
: Hanlan and Beach on Saturday. It’s:
:all over. Put every cent you have on:
: HANLAN, :
; He Can't Lose. :
After this, if “Hotspur” will kindly forward us,
in future, his selections on the principal events, we
shall be happy to give him a percentage on our
winnings! In size, the paper is big enough to
wrap up sixpenny worth of hard-bake in, but not
large enough to hold a quart of walnuts. Its
phraseology is somewhat original. For instance:
“We saw Mrs. Templetoi, Charlie, Vernon Reid,
Tyrrell, and all the crowd in town on Monday,
looking so horribly Vanderbiltish [!!!] that we
wished we were in the 4 push ’ to go with them
overland to Sydney.” A supplement is published
in this number, exactly the size of a restaurant
bill of fare, and contains a communication from
Sydney, sent by the immortal orator who was so
crushed at Foley’s fight. 1“ You may have road it
in the Melbourne Sportsman.” Yah! Booh! Kill
him I Whoosh!] A sample of the Era’s dramatic
criticism is worth quoting. Here it is:—“ We will
not individualise the performers [their italics];
suffice it to say that the only one who didn’t de-
serve hanging was the little girl with the lavender
stockinge.” What, however, goes even further to
assure the success of this gorgeous publication
than the items we have quoted, is that they publish
the stalest wheezes as original matter, and on the
front pane. Everybody knows the retort on Ward
Beecher when he stated that he never spoke
authoritatively of a place unless he’d been there.
Well, in trying to localise this item, the gifted
editor commences as follows:—“While talking to
a number of gentlemen at the Theatre Royal bar,
a well-known divine remarked,” &c. [!!] On the
whole, we think that th > Era is a very nice little
paper; but we consider that, before many numbers
are out, there will be a very strong flavour of
leather about the staff—shoe-leather.
• ® •
Nearly every night, in London, the Maoris
have supper at the Savage Club. It seems they
are members. Et, pourqui pasf Cannot they ne
considered as well as Patchett Martin in the light
of dilettanti f This club must be getting its name
up. Tawhiao, Rathbone, Te Wheoro, Henniker
Heaton, Te Tuhi, Withers, and-great Coesarl—
Allison! We don’t know whether they made
Chris, a member, when he was in London for his
wedding trip, in an extensive condition of hair-oil;
but we are sure Frank is, if not President, at any
rate, “high up in the black there,” since he has
established a world-famed reputation from the
artistic manner in which he used to grease the
machinery. Frank was a stalwart-looking fellow
and the best-liked of all the boys. He never
affected much style; but there’s onG thing certain
—he looked fifty per cent, bettor in his canvas rig’
when down in the well of the machine, than he did
when solemnly driving to town in the frock coat
and bell-topper of civilisation. We believe Frank
will make a name yet, in the old country—pro-
bably as a diplomat. For we are sure his success
whatever it is, will not be unconnected with
Grease.
* * *
A fire broke out at a certain hotel, and
when everybody had slid down the escape, a man’'
form appeared at one of the windows. The crowd
beckoned him frantically to come down, but in
stead of doing so, he suddenly disappeared. The
excitement now became intense, and his horrid
fate was just being canvassed when here-appeared
as suddenly as he had vanished. He had a bag i Q
his hand, three hats on his head, two comforters
round his neck, and he held a meerchaum pipe 0 f
great value in his mouth. Then hardly had he
gone gingerly down the ladder when the whole
building fell with a crash. When seen in the street
next day, it didn’t take a newspaper report to in-
form the people there had been a fire. He was the
local reporter; and it’s only after a fire, you know,
that
* * *
“ Well, if there’s one thing I like,” saida
Po ts’ Point millionaire, “ it is a good breakfast-
coffee, my dear ?—yes, a good breakfast. When a
man gets to my age, he likes to come in and fin
his chop steamiDg hot, and his- toast and butter
ready for him, and the table-cloth white as snow,
and the knives and things glittering—pass tee
toast, please—but, hullo! what in thunder is this ■
he roared, pulling out his watch, and staring
wildly round the table. “ Is there anything want
ing, sir ?” asked the trembling servant, looking
over the table and missing nothing, “hook


again.” The servant was more bewildered. “ Have
I told you a thousand times,” he thundered, bring-
ing down a rattling thump on the table, “ have I
told you a million times what I want? Isn’t this
Saturday morning, and isn’t it nearly nine o’clock ?
Where in thunder is my second edition of to-
night’s Evening News ?”
m * •
The usual row is occurring in Melbourne
re the Coffee Palaces. If you happen to go there
with luggage consisting of a box of paper-collars
and a smalltooth-comb, having a lady on your arm,
no unpleasant questions, it seems, are asked. One
day, however, an official’s attention was called to a
gentleman (a good customer) who requested accom-
(ffr £» ery r,i,,Ae
* A'///e 7/t jj? <O/ &«,?*. "
T/V'hi fe Tn-y&eff ocece S’/on. a flfy s<rs?ia/~A ZcS
eT« &e €t*t.c/ /fi'ngyy T-eacS oS%-*r
a/7*
- ■ii ■ , frt jS’o/k/ t /U - -
7-n. «**- o IV S fja. r.
/vrj /A-e. ct <*->■*&/»CMty
A.C- Wh. *-</& C*.p/ n- 7n j'cerr/ia'*,
/r£ o 7r?v /0*7%- 's’^'^C.
&s$ t*ret uce .'t/' <i j*. c&tc/z/
■ PoSrfjSg. -
is
Ct<jr* -n- e__
$72& fr '
''£> r& wLa./~ tSoWttn.l
fat efAcn* J ato o/>e *-*
A« e-_^-s=s
rn. i-C
ft Ay
<syc/7i €y / t'A-ofejnaZd&im
of CoffiMf<§ffecfetff^^^^,
*Wmm
— Z~VI b» r*. cZ£> t x~
jk^v/V";
/fery.
* n ( . / rn or<^
— 7ncicf*±.
WELCOME BACK!
modation for his wife. “ say,” said he to the gen-
tleman, having called him aside, “ isn’t this a little
too—eh ?” “ Only my wife, sir, I assure you,” said
the party. “ What! that one with the black gown
and the tow front?” “That lady is indeed what
is represented,” observed the visitor, in a huff.
“Then where’s the one in a gamboge ulster, with
her front tooth out ?—and the one with the Scotch
plaid and the tin locket ?—and the one that couldn't
get on her shoe ?—and the Why. damme, sir,”
he cried breathlessly, “I begin to think you are
Blue Beard.”
• • *
The superintendent of St. Barnabas to
Alfred“ The recent affiliation case. To the Edi-
tor.—Sir, My attention has been drawn to a report
of an affiliation case which appeared in your issue
of 7th instant, in which it was stated that ‘both
parties were members of St. Barnabas’s Sunday-
school, and that as such they both attended the
annual picnic of that school.’ . . What, in the
name of common sense, has this case to do with St.
Barnabas’s school festival ?” . . To slow music—
It really would be hard to say,
And seems to us a rum thing;
Yet, people in the light of day,
All whisper it had something!
The whole’s a risible affair,
If true the rumour runs;
But, we won’t hurt your feelings, there!
Say— something in the buns.
The Tamworth Hospital has only £3O in
the bank, and the wardsman wants to know how
he is going to get the £6O owiDg to him out of it.
About 16 directors, meeting in conclave, couldn’t
solve it. It must be a fine thing to be wardsman
of the Tamworth Hospital! We adviso him, how-
ever, to keep eating his way along until the not
weather comes. Then he can take an evening
contract from the townspeople to go out killing
mosquitoes with a flint musket.
* * *
Mr. James Hawthorn, who murdered his
brother, “died penitent.” Then, probably, he
stands a better show than his brother for the halo
business, since his brother was 6bot while on his
way to the public-house.
William Green, of the Universe, but now
of Pentridge, went a-masquerading at the Exhibi-
tion ball as Charles 11. of blessed memory, and a
detective, in a boatswain’s get-up, took him away
to where he could confess to having robbed his
fellow-lodgers, and thence to a lodging-house
where he may rob away as much as he likes for six
months.—
“ Whilst I survey,” said W. Green,
“ The glories of this glittering scene,
And watch the dance’s mazy ring,
And feel I’m every inch a king,
And scrutinise each loose-hung locket,
And nimbly whip it in my pocket;
Whilst royally I twirl my stick,
And in my pouch six watches tick—
What more can man desire on earth ?
I’ll now give way to joy and mirth—
A cup of wine! Oh, for the eyes
That in King Charley's revelries
Were wont to sparkle night and day
And turn Life’s weary toils to nlay!”
“You’ll join me, sir ?” a stranger cried,
“ I will, though scarce my lips be dried—
A toast-the fairest fair, Nell Gwynn.”
“ A hominy ’’—the King’s run in.
* * *
A bigger set of toadies than are to be
found in our legislature, could scarcely exist.
We have seen a bright young member—a
poor barrister, perhaps—speaking logically and
to the point; and all the while constantly
interrupted by a collection of jays,’ who
ought to be chopping wood with a blunt axe;
while, let some ponderous titled ass or “influen-
tial citizen ” get up, he may meander along to any
extent he pleases; the unutterable rot he perpe-
tuates being onl / interrupted by a few fawning
and slavish “hears!” Let them say what they
like, they are all Cupids in their hearts.
* * *
WHO HE WAS.
“ You go my way ?’’ (Oh, thunder! ’twas
The most infernal weather!)
“ If so, good stranger, say, because
We’ll take a cab together.
Upon his face we didn’t dwell
(We’d been for a small outing;
But yet we carried very well
The dread effects of shouting).
We called a cab, and both got in—
Now mark, we are no cowaid!
But shuddered, as with a dark grin,
He said, “lama Ho ward I”
We gazed at him and then beheld
A face, to put it mildly,
That, if one rather to it held,
He would not love it— wildly.
He laughed a laugh that so lacked glee,
It was more like a sob, sir;
“I see,” said he, “ you don't know me—
Well, I am Nosey Bob, sir.”


BRIEF MENTION.
A burning shame: Hell.
A rum complaint: Too much of it.
The Savage Club: Darlinghurst on Tues-
day week.
The principal want of Redfern now, ac-
cording to the local rag, is a larger dock!!!
A literary hedgehog: The Melbourne cor-
respl ndent of the Rum.
What’s the use of a Standing Order to the
Giraffe when he cannot stand.
Which are the giddier—Policemen in the
country, or doctors in town ?
“Green moons have been seen lately in
Sweden.” he cheese beginning to show, iikely.
It is said that there is exceedingly more
draughts tnan chess about the Newsboys’ Brigade.
An order that would both improve and
dignify some of Alfred’s bards: The Order of the
Bath.
A chemist has brought out a new patent
medicine at £1 a bottle. He says it is a sovereign
remedy.
“The Vagabond” is going to lecture in
Hay pretty soon. The cemetery is being enlarged
in anticipation.
Lots in the Cooper Fstate now procurable
in feesimple for the first time. There are baccarat
clubs in London.
Tbe Knglish Government have announced
a definite line of action with respect to General
Gordon inaction.
It's astonishing how many satisfactory ex-
planations teem in the papers respecting Mrs.
Smyrke— now she's dead.
We have it on record that whenever the
editor of a paper uses (D.V.) often, he is nearly
sure to be a D. V. himself.
Dan. Smith terms “flaggelator ” “flog-
gerator.” We forget at what hotel he put up I
when he landed. Let’s see!
The Rum has an article—“ What is Colonial
Wine?” Well, sometimes it’s a mystery; but it
generally isn’t colonial wine.
We suppose Alfred would be offended if
Her Majesty conferred upon him the Order of the
Thistle. Thinu, and you’ll laugh.
Ikey writes, gravelv : “ Mrs. Smyrke was
interred at the expense of this society.” What a
comfort that must have been to her!
In crioket, there is just an “ 1 ” of a differ-
ence hetween a gentleman and a player. One
plays for play, the other plays for pay.
IF YOU WANT TO “MASH” A GIRL WHEN YOU ARE ON A BICYCLE,
TAKE CARE THE ’BUS IN FRONT OF YOU DOES NOT STOP SUDDENLY.
“What is Tontine Assurance?” is the
neading of an advertisement in a contemporary.
What is it ? Well, it’s—unspeakable cheek.
Now that the Quirindi people are out, it
will be rather embarrassing for all parties when
they meet face to face on the Quirindi "block.”
Since the publication of Her Majesty’s
book, the phrase “Queen’s English” has nad its
meaning reversed. It is now used iu sarcasm
only.
A gentleman in Forbes recently, while
proposing the health of the bride and bridegroom,
trusted tnatPtheir troubles would be but little
ones.
The Herald says, in a sub-leader: “You
can always trust a newsooy with a shilling.” Yes,
when you keep your knuckles dug into his collar-
bone.
The Morpeth Times is glad that “a little
new blood will be infused into the Council.” With
the present Europaau outlook before us, we rejoice
at this.
We can snap our liugersjat the mention of
invasion now. A rifle club in a Northorn town
has just decided to shoot every year for a Silver
Beer-jug.
The Cooma Express says that many men
who have come into the country for work have
died of “ sheer starvation.” Shorn by the lambers-
down, we suppose.
Whenever you see a woman come to throw
greens out of her gate, wearing her husband’s soft
felt hat, you may be certain that her better-half is
in the drapery trade.
“You can never get head or tail out of
Henniker Heaton,” was rem irked to us, the other
day. “Not where a coiu is concerted,” was our
prompt and happy reply.
English v. Cooma Express was a libel
action, tried iu Cooma lately. It is time the lan-
guage was protected. The Cooma Express has
butchered it long enough.
Fancy, Field-Marshal Blucher was not a
polished scholar. We forget, though, Alfred,
when he addressed his riud, by letter, with how
mar y “ r’s ” be spelt “ lather.”
We wish the Redfekn Times would issue
a larger supplement. While we were loot iug at
the imprint ot the last number our little dog swal-
lowed it, and it disagieed with hun.
“The King of Annam has been poisoned
by Mandarins,’ read Joe at tbe b.eakfast-table,
theoiherday Then he added, musingly, “Inever
eat ’em; I rather have lemmings.”
The Lismoke Chronicle, to hand, h s just
three pars, of reading matter, its other most in-
teresting item is an assurance to th e eff cot that the
bad and worthless are never imitntj id.
We regret to state that the recent cold
weather has painfully affected Sir John Robert-
| son’s magnificent fleet of steam vessels. Their
j coughs are worse than ever, poor things!
It has never transpired, by the way, who
j the stabber was. From the lengthened “re-
ticence” of the police, we begin to think it. must
i be somebody very “ well connected ” indeed.
Justice is said to be even-handed. Under
present arrangements, in this country she is very
often left-handed. It is certain sir.- is not light-
handed, but not so e'ear tbatcheis not light-fin-
gered.
“The law for the rich and the law for the
poor ” business is said to have been exemplified in
the case of Andersen This is especially apparent
(ondit) when opera boutfeand panto mime are on.
No more.
Did you ever hear Alfred’s essay on t-he
bee? “No!” Well, here it is “T ebe is biger
than the fli. It has for legs, and it bites.” It was
perceptible by this that his scholastic course was
completed.
The Armidalb Chronicle says that The
Bulletin "is beginning to find there are some
men of wit and education out of Sydney.” Yes,
dear boy: but only a little way out. We live in
the suburbs.
It’s epidemio. Mark this wire (our italics):
—“Anna Af. L. Potts, MD, is having crowded
houses at her lectures in Tamworth.” Comment
is needle-s; and, if it were not, there’s no room for
any on this slip.
Tomkins recently bought a yacht, which
he christened “Tne Swallow,” but after the ex-
perience of a few trips he says the name is most
inapprooriate, as th= boat always makes him do
the other thing.
In the interview between Admiral Miot
and the Hova plenipotentiaries, the French com-
mander’s language was “ very firm.” Mr. Wack-
ford Squeera used to be “very firm ” in his inter-
views with Smike.
In a country newspaper office. “Do you
keep a barber on the premises ? ’ enquired the
visitor, as the merry click of the shears struck on
his ear. “ Hush!’’ replied the steam power, “that’s
the editor’s room!”
The Bennett-Mackay cable between Europe
and New York was designed for the special benefit
of the N. Y. Herald. An application to have it
duplicated in the interests of the Corowa paper
is under consideration.
R. A. Proctor has written an article show-
ing that an exploration of e ives, and underground
woraings geuerally, points to a time when all the
wtters of the earth will be dr*wn inside. Fancy
having to take everything neat!
It was kind of the landlord to say that he
wouldn’t press the late Mrs Sm.vrke for rent. If
he had put the bailiffs in! Well, if he had, he
could have only seized the occupant, and that
would probably have saved her life.
We wonder who that dull dog is who writes
the Herald’s Brisbane letter. By the way, there
is a good deal of similarity in his style to that of
the solid man who dates from Paree. This, we
presume, is merely a coincidence.
“ The Marquis de Leuville has recently
presented his fiancie, Mrs. Leslie, with a diamond
coronet, tho central stone having been in the pos-
session of the de Lsuvilles for 400 years.” Well,
it was only her due. She “ got it out.”
She remarked at breakfast time that she
thought she’d send for the doctor. Theu he sud-
denly remembered that he’d nothing particular to
take him to the office that day. During the morn-
ing she grew rapidly better, and— (Assez! Tonnerre!
—Ed. B.]
“Why,” once saida man to one of the pro-
prietors of the Maitland Mercury, “do you print
your paper in so many sheets ?” “ Well, the fact
is,” said the proprietor, shutting the immense
door of the iron safe with a clang— “ the fact is,
they like it. It looks more."
Certain bones of the tiger species were
found at the Fish River caves, lately. The savants
say this is a clear proof that this country was once
infested by animals of this description. Well, per-
haps so; but there was certainly a tiger lost from
a circus not far from there once.
A girl in England drowned herself lately
because her young man, Charley, loved her no
more. The jury returned a verdict of suicide
while In a state of unsound mind. Rather! The
girl who would drown herself for a person called
Charley must have been very mad indeed.
A military man laughed at a timid little
woman because she was alarmed at the noise of
the cannon whan a salute was being fired. He
subsequently married that timid little woman, and
six months afterwards he alwais took off his boots
in the hall when he came home late at night.
We understand that, at the next general
election, Mr. Copeland will make his few electoral
“remarks” at Armidale. Funny thing at Armi-
dalii, by the way, two out of three people you
meet are named . rim. But there’s only one
Jaekes. There s no room for more in the city.
Scene: Bal'-room. Swell, to pretty widow
(having broached com try-house visit': “Do you
think-aw— that you—” Pretty widow ( ecentiy
bereaved): "Yes” (with a sigh); “ I’ve nothing on
now. ’ Then tnere was a pause, and both minutely
examined the pattern of the carpet. Modern cos-
tume!
So much has been said now about Civil
Service embezzles getting off easy because they
I were “ well-connected,” that they say the latest
one is not to be prosecuted chiefly because he Is
confoundedly ill-connected. As the Honorable
; Mr. Lucas would say, there are compensations in
| everything.
He was a well-known German, and on a
hard puller without a curb he was affording excel-
lent amusement to his friends. A friend rode up
and called out, “I s«y, Fallenoffenheim, what are
you doing to-night?” "Don’t speak to me!” ex-
claimed the troubled Teuton; “don’t you see I am
busy riding?”
Some amiable lunatics are "going about,
we believe, making an effort to resuscitate Sydney
Punch. In conjunction with this intelligence, it
is a somewhat significant fact that the Hon. F. M.
Q C , has just requested and obtained six
months’ leave of absence from tne senate of the
Sydney University.
Nea.’ly all the houses in the little 12s. a-
week 1 erraces have pianos now; and, what is worse,
nearly all the young ladies of the families have a
taste for singing. A favourite lyric with them, we
notice, is “Fill the gobling— let it spiarkle;” while
the fathers and brothers very much affect “ The
brave old hoak.”
When David Belasco (his name is probably
Johnson) was called before the curtain after the
first act of h s play “ May Blossom,” at the Madi-
son Square Theatre, he fainted. It has since trans-
pired that the whole thing was adapted from the
French, and another man adapted it. No wonder
ha fainted. His little conscience!
“ Some Hebrew manuscript about 700 years
old has been presented to ihe Sydney University.”
One of our most valued contributors doubts the
genuineness of the MSS., and offers to produce
recent MSS. written by a Hebrew, concerning
which there can be no dispute. His terms for
entering into ttie controversy are—bail.
Henniker and an Irish member were look-
ing on when the head of the Duke of Wellington’s
statue was unscrewed. “ Why it’s hollow ! ” said
the former, in a tone of surprise. “Yes," re-
marked his companion, and then—smiling blandly
oil Henniker —added wickedly, “ Nature often
works in the same way as the bronze-caster.”
Irish humour is still alive. A gentleman
who, in the exercise of his rent-requiring func-
tions, encountered circumstances which destroyed
one of h;s eyes, blew off part of bis face, and irre-
movably deposited a bulletin his skull, isdescribed
as having been “ unpopular with his tenants.’’
Both he and his wife were found dead in bed.
Thus Alfred on the result of the Bpach-
Hanlan boat race:—" The gratifying result was
made known at the Evening News office fully
half an hour before the news was received by any
other person in town. Crowds of people thronged
the International Hotel, ant flatly denied the truth
of the message; but as the time wore on, other
messages were received, and the colours of Beach
were hoisted at the International, cheer after cheer
rang forth from the excited crowd for the Austra-
lian,” etc. Ihe italics are ours. The excited crowd
had seen the Nooze before, therefore comment is
needless. But why this public admission, Alf.?
“ Wfiat you want is the nationalisation of
your land,” said a bar-room orator to a crowd of
farmers. “How’s the manure sold?” asked the
oldest man in the room, inviting the speaker to a
drink. Wiping the foam from his lips, the old
dodger said, “ Ah, that’s it. That’s what I want to
know. But the paper I seen it in said it was the
best top-dressing ever found out.”
“ If there is one characteristic of the age
that is more conspicuous than another as exhibit-
ing the essentially vicious drift of our modern
ciyilization.it is the rare for wealth,” observed a
hungry Domainer, as he refused a shilling to go a
half-mile message, and strolled around for the
first haul of orange-peel and sandwich-crusts in
the park.
A home paper says it appears from statis-
tics that “life on board shin is a kind ot training
ground for officers, on leaving the navy, to become
clergymen.” The reason is very obvious. The
naval officer finds that, great as is the favour with
which he is regarded by the fair sex, the curate is
even more popular. Therefore, he becomes a
curate.
“ What is the use of all this shameful sacri-
fice ot human life in this bloody butchering of
Arabs and Egyptians ?” demanded a Market Wharf
politician, as ne mingled water with his whisky on
Friday last. “Damifino,” replied a disconsolate-
looking duffer near him; "it don’t seem to raise
th’ price o’ pigs a bit, so far ez 1 kin see—now,
does it ?’■
“ So you say you can write for anything,”
mused an editor to a beery applicant for a re-
portership, who was awaiting a reply while the
critical gazeran down his copy. “I can.” was the
confident reply. “Then I’ll give you a show,” said
the editor, pointing to the basket and pitching in
the agonising screed; “send in plenty of copy—
for that.”
Herald: “ E.Y. —You doubt me, though
dearer than life to me.” Of course, she does, since
she saw you with the other girl. Come, hurry up,
E.V., and let us kDow (not necessarily lor publica-
tion) which is really dearer than life to you-the
young tobaceo-twistre&s with the red shawl, or the
sylph with the carbuncle ponum who does the
milk-walk ?
“ A party of four young (sic) were sup-
posed to have been lest (sic) .in the bush in the
northern part of the colony of South Australia,
have been found, all well, by a large search
party.” From Alfred, of course! This is one
resuit of ail the staff going to the boat race, and
leaving the managing editor to do all the fine
reiding himself.
A storekeeper living in a plaoe called Slap-
up, advertises in the Monaro Mercury that he
wishes to call in all his outstanding debts. We
should think so I The lyre I—
’Tis right that you should sorrow sup
To trust in such a town;
For peonle bving in Slapup,
How can they, sir, slap down?
The Salvationists finding, when applied to
for “tucker” by those in want, that the “ Lord
will provide " is pretty well played out, have now
another elegantly holy gag. Le void ;—“ The Onlv
Shelter: Christ] is the oniy shelter of the soul tn
trouble.” This would almost convert a houseless
hungry man on a wet night—we mean, convert him
from his transient belief in the Harmy, and send
him out collecting lumpsof road-metal.
“ The number of female physicians at pre-
sent practising in Russia amounts to 350, of whom
there are no fewer than 100 in St. Petersburg it
self.”
The Continong is pretty smart,
Oh, that, inoeed, must be conceded;
They had, those Russian boys, the art,
Of “ dropping down" so'lorn e ewe did.
A rather obscure member of the Legisla-
ture, much be-saimonad, kuooked in the a earlv
hours of the morning at the door of th Woolioo-
mooloo watch-house. When the door was opened*
and he saw the sergeant, he said —“ Mistash’
Thorshi lived here.” “So you do,” s,id the ser"
geant. And so he did, until next morning. “The
case was heard in the magistrate’s private room ”
&c.
We are glad to hear the bad boy Is gotne-
to be a good boy, for ail good boys die. Here
is his latest utterance :—“ No, you needn’t
expect to And me in a pulpit,’ said the bov
as] ho scratched « match on his pants t.o light
tne tramp’s pipe; “I shall practice and not preach ”
We suppose we win next set a bit abou , the sad
sea waves. We hope so. Just after the bad bov’a
body is found. ys
The disaffection amongst the Melbourne
warriors seems to be due to the fact that m»nv
have not got their uniforms, and have to
make their daily onslaughts on the canteen in
moleskin pants and dungaree jumpers. They all
wish to be led into the deadly breaches—the deadly
regimental breaches. (Registered.) [We cannot
really see anything either serious or arguments
tive in this.— Ed. B.]
There’s a picture in this week’s Tamworth
News, aDd u one seems to know exactly what it
purposes to represent; whether it’s Josephs'
country house, the Escurial at Madrid, a new de
sign for a gaol, Mrs Potts’ “ Sanitarium,” the
Villa Nevada, or a wholesale boot-manutaetorv
We wish Jos* phs would elucidate. Tnis mystery
is a vast deal more thrilling than that which is em-
bodied in his serial story.
So one of the ancient Parramatta River
wheezers went on the rocks, and another Parra-
matta wheezer came to the rescue, with the fol-
lowing 1 brilliant effect:—“She was badly steered,
also, the result being that she ran into the Osprey,
knocking that steamer higher up on the rocks and
going ashore herself.” The Parramatta wheezers
have no boats: so here seems a very good show for
a fresh-water Grace Darling.
This is from something, in Adelaide, which
calls itself—“the only comic paper”:—“ We duly
sent around our ‘sporting’ editor to interview
Miss Ada Campbell, the * FreetbiukereSS,’ but ”
etc. En route
Dull dog, we know you’ll see this
(That is, if you’ve a mind):
You are the only comic rag,
Thank heaven, of its kind.
Granny's mission, just at present, seems
to be disingenuous reflection upon the conduct of
the French whose republican proclivities she can’t
abear. The Foochow bombardment, she tells us
(with complacent ignoring of what occurred at
Alexandria), was a violation of the usages of
civilized warfare, and yet we haven’t heard that
Courbet offered a reward for the head of the
Chinky generalissimo.
We have just learned, by telegraph, that
Ballington Booth of the Harmy and Captain
’Oward are coming to Sydney next week. One
plays the violin and the other the concertina.
These musicians, with Happy George on the drum,
the Converted Fireman on the cornet, and Hallelu-
jah Bob on the bassoon should form an attractive
quintette. We should say they would be a great
success—at the cat-scaring business.
A Barnsley cottier, aged 21, whe had quar-
relled with his sweetheart, drowned himself and
left this behind :
“ Dear father and mother, I bid you farewell,
For with you I can no longer dwell;
Having lost the object for which I crave
I commit myself to a watery grave. ”
In Sydney, it is generally the poor devil’s relatives
who burst into pjetry—in the Evening News.
A Bundaberg ethnologist has discovered
that the Scotch and the Jews were once identical.
This is a pleasing testimony to our cleverness.
Over two years ago we wrote, apropos of some-
thing we can't remember now—“To the saying,
‘ Scratch a Russian and you’ll find a Tartar,’
might be added another—* Scratch a Scotchman
and you’ll find a Jew.’ ” The Scotch frequently
tiud themselves Jews; it is their national failing.
listen to this, from the Gospel according
to the Harmy: How to Sell War Crys: Before
you go out with War Crys, spread them out
before the Lord that He may bless them to and for
His service, tell Him you want to sell them for His
e lory, and be sure yo.i have no other object in
view.” That’s not bad, is it ? But, as the thing"


doesn’t go ahead In the streets, we suppose the
boys don’t spread their papers out enough—or else
overdo it.
On the first night of his arrival at a Cara-
+hnol pub., before re i lag to rest he, as had been
y,u custom in civilization, put his dirty boots out-
the door, in the vain expectation that they
_ iu ld be cleaned and replaced. Next iroraiog, he
+i>nnd them in the same dirty condition. He cabed
landlord. “ Why, my boots weren’t touched
ifst night 1 ’ “ Why, you didn’t think we were all
tbaves here, did you, sir?” answered Mr. Mac
One of the Herald boat-race men has the
following:—“ He [Hanlan] seemed very fit, and
showed, in all his actions, whilst waiting for a sta it
that he was prepared to row a great race.” 'lhis
is the recognised “aquatic copy.” Any innova-
tion upon this would.probably bring the writer
int > exceeding unpopularity with rowing men; an
event, we suppose, that would break any hearts
but ours. For our parts, we are aweary of these
eel-punchers ”
They wouldn’t let a bushman into a house
not loDg ago, at Brunswick (Vic.), and so he came
back after a bit and just fired the place. When
arrested, he said it was bis playful little way of
triving a lesson in hospitality. This action is much
admired among swagmen, who appreciate its noble
motive. The pri-oner is probably, judging fiom
the refined ferocity of the act, of Oriental descent.
But we really cannot say. All we know is that his
name is Maloney.
After the carving lodger had backed the
knife into a saw over the leg of a fowl which had
travelled so well in the days of his flesh that he
had none left, he sat down perspiring. Then the
bird rose from the dish, and from his headless
trunk came the ghostly words: “ Who’s that rub-
bing a candle on my leg ? I can’t see very well
without my head. Why can’t you let me rest after
I’m dead ? Can’t you start on the stuffing ? It’s
inside, somewhere.”
We read that in Algiers, fearing the recur-
rence of hostilities such as happened during the
recent anti-Semetic riots, the Jews keep their
bouses shut, and have no intercouse with the outer
world. This is lucky for such Algerians as have
bills of sale on their furniture; but it’s very rough
on any artless “sports” who have backed tne
wrong horse, and haven’t the needful wherewith
to meet the Algerian Ned Jones at the local Tat-
tersall’s on settling day.
What is sacred music? “Desist,” ex-
claimed an indignant mother to her son, when one
Sunday afternoon she heard issuing from the
drawing-room piano sounds incompatible with
her Saboatarian ideas. “ But, mamma, dear,” an-
swered the son, “the piece is called ’The March
of the Jewish Priests.’ ’* “ Oh! very well,” replied
WHAT’S THIS. OH, THIS IS A LITTLE SUGGESTION FOR BALL-ROOM COSTUMES. A MAN WHO WENT UP TO THE GLEN INNES AFFAIR, AND FROZE THERE, BENT IT TO US.
the mater; “ if it is anythin? to do with priests it
must be sacred, so pray continue/' We consider
this a most delicious story.
Apropos of the unpleasant condition of
the bath and other accommodation of the hotel
which developed five small-pox patients, a corres-
pondent asks:—
“ Where and oh where is our little—See more—
Wh.-re, and oh where, is he,
With his work cut short, and his screw cut Ion?,
Where and oh where can he be ?”
Curiously enough, we met Mr. Seymour outside
that hotel on Monday.
About half an hour before muffin time,
When no one is about, do you know what Cupid
does ? He goes across the road, leans e gainst the
Infirmary railings, and gazes on his bedizened
mansion; and, chuckling softly, says: *‘lt takes
me to do it.” By the way, in the next Ministry,
there is not the slightest doubt that B. B. will be
Minister for Justice. We’ve seen somebody’ like
Mr. Smith somewhere, and we can’t make out who
it could be. Apollo, most likely.
They loved one another dearly, and they
were out walking in the dewy eve. “The doctor
came to-day, Edwin, dear,” said she, mildly. He
dropped her arm as though it had been red-hot,
his leatures turned ashy pale, the perspiration
stood in beads upon his forehead, and staggering
back he hoarsely gurgled—“ Which doctor.” She
whispered the name. “ Oh, if that 8 the case,” he
replied, “of course, I —” And they continued
their walk, in the dewy eve.
R. B. Smith, Esq., M.P. for the Hastings,
has bought a new mirror. It is 20ft. x 18ft. We
saw twenty men hoisting it into his gilded man-
sion last Saturday. Peeping in, we saw the under-
butler dusting the armour of Cupid's ancestors in
the hall. We tapped her on the ;-houlder, and said,
“ What does your master want that enormous pier
glass for, Jane?” She looked round surprised.
“To shave with,” she said; “t'other one worn’t
large enough, so it has been put in the libery.”
Alfred has endowed the Newsboys’ Bri-
gade with a fife-and-drum band. This will come
in handy for the evening parties, and will save the
expense of the cornet and violin —not to mention
the wear-and-tear of the Erard. We understand
that it was only when he heard of the fife-and-
drnm business that Chris, handed in his little mite.
Talking of Chris, we '•aw a portrait of him, the
other uay, at the photographer's. He looked all
gloves. But, perhaps, he’ll grow into them in
time.
A widow of 84 committed suicide at Vienna
a short time ago. She evidently thought lhere
was no use in waiting any longer for a husband.
You wouldn't find a Sydney widow guilty of such
foolishness. When she finds herself growing too
■old to allure by her personal attractions, she starts
a boarding-house for bank-clerks. The conse-
quence la that In course of time one of them owes
her for three months’ board, and she takes his hand
in payment. A muoh better plan, this, than suicide
—for the bank-clerk.
“Tickets,” oried the guard, to two beetle-
browed young candidates for the gallows, who
were perched on the tram; “tickets, now.’’ “ I’m
’Anlan,” said the first; “I travels free.” “And
t’m Halcock, his fields admits,” says the other; “ I
travels free, too.” The guard was very busy then,
S 3 he passed on. By and bye, he returned. “So
you're Hanlan and Alcock, are you ?” “We bar.”
“ Well, then,” said the guard, deliberately, “ 1 m
going to kick Hanlan, and to lock Alcock up.”
They found a sixpence.
“A morning with the Rothschilds ” is the
heading of an article that runs through many ot
the country papers. It is generally put in the
funny column, and is evidently the handicraft of
a man who had to sit down on a candle-box and
write for breakfast on the fly-leaf of the Family
Bible that he was afraid to “pop.” If, howev< r,
he actually did interview the old millionaire, as he
says, he ought in all honesty to give us “ An Even-
ing outside the Kothschilds,” and some idea of
how their boots are toed.
The Redfern Bancroft intimates that
Lord Nora anby has i ee > r c ived v it'i “men
arms” on his ret urn to uis lainily seat. i>o allu-
sion on part of Bancroft (who is moral), of course,
to the resident housekeeper. This reminds us i ha.
Lady Normanby was cordially hated by the Vic-
torian ladies who frequented Government House.
It is reported that after her first reception in
Queensland, she detained one ot the lady visitors,
and, calling her aside, said, “Now, tell me, Mrs.
O’Mulligan, do you all come from Botany Bay ?”
Here’s the flowing bowl slopping all over
the floor again. Speaking of the recent Land Bill
shivoo, the South Australian ‘Tizer says: “At a
quarter past 1 the Speaker left the chair for re-
freshment. When the House resumed, the Speaker
was unable to take the chair.” For length, breadth,
depth, and general massiveness of construction,
that’s about the most successful libel we have ever
struck since the sultry day that Mrs. Potiphar went
for the innocent, unsuspecting Mr. Joseph. Sir
Toby has the ’Tizer clean over the Supreme Court
“ pocket ” this time.
A corpse was in one compartment of the
train from Maryborough to Ballarat, and a newly-
wedded couple in the next, whereupon the News
has this profound comment: “Thus the brightest
and darkest pages of life were brought closely
together.” We pass over the bold and dashing
metaphor which makes death a page of life, be-
cause it’s the News’ own monopoly to attach no
meaning to anything, and to call a horse a hash-
spoon if it comes more readily to the tongue
(which it does, by the way), but what we want to
know is what that young oouple have done to be
reminded that the dead man next door has the best
of it ? Won’t they find it out i.i good time ? Oh,
cruel!
It is rough on the journalist, who has no
real memory for the incidents he encounters, and
bo constructs one by the aid of an expensive note-
book with a morocco cover and solid silver bind-
ing, to And towards the end of the week, when
printers are clamouring for "copy,” that the only
Information which that magnificent volume will
disgorge consists of fifteen feminine addresses,
the record of some utterly unpayable bets, and a
cabman’s number in nine figures, with a struggling
statement underneath: “email summons him for
refusing more than his fare.”
Dr. Ducrot, of Maitland, must be such a
funny man. He publishes a Proclamation in the
Maitland Mail. Here is a little of it: “ Whereas
information has been communicated to me this
(Thursday) morning, August 7th, a.d. 1884, that
the Society of Guilds have proposed the name of
the said Louis Ducrot, M.D., as medical officer for
their Lodge, the said Louis Ducrot, Doctor of
Medicine, does hereby solemnly declare that no
Society in Maitland could drink bis medicine,
because they are not able to pay for it.” This
refers to the Druids. What the Druids will have
to say about the matter will appear in another
chapter.
They want a clergyman at Norfolk Island,
and a Mr. Mills writes to the Times that it would
oe “ a charming retreat for somo elergyman.”
Tnere is no rush for the billet. We regularly read
the s. M. Herald’s Norfolk Island letter, and have
yearned to get to that land of excitemeut. Here is
a specimen of the giddy whirl“ January : A
schooner appeared off the coast; name unknown.
February: The whaler osprey watered and left.
March: A leading resident is suffering from a sur-
feit of oysters. April: No mails since 1847. Is the
French Revolution commencing ? At all events,
we are safe down here. Is it true that gold has
been discovered in Australia ?”
That “ Yorkshireman ” in the Sportsman,
or somethihg, id a wonderful prophet. Here’s his
tip for the boat-race:—" Should Hanlan, therefore,
be ‘ the least bit off,’ the Championship of- the
World might be in danger.”—
We’re lost in admiration quite!
That's the way to get along,
Because you know, if you're not right,
You cannot possibly be wrong.
This feat is truly grand and great!
Can you, will you, dare you say
When—of course you 11 guess her state—
Our speckled hen is going to lay ?
Here’s a bit of jam from the agony column
of Tuesday’s Morning Muffin:— " Bright and
pretty, admired, reproachful thoughts, inatten-
tive, fearing blame; recognised too late, dearie;
have spoken ; comprenez ? Longed-for oppor-
tunity thwarted; no sunshine yet; disappointed; i
fate inexorable. M.” This is a “cypher” ad., |
and having worried out the koy, we find the plain i
English of it read “Oeme home, you dirty, ]
drunken, loafer, Gilhooley, and work lor your
starving wife and children. The police are on your
track. Baby’s got the chicken-pox, and Matilda
Ann’s gone to ive with the nigger cook at the
boiling-down establishment. Come home, you
wretch, come home.” That “ busts ’’ the ” bright
and pretty ” business all to pieces.
The wife of a selector named Paul sum-
moned her husband, the other day, for deserting
her. The hubby said she'bad run away from him
seven times, each time with the contents of the
till. Mrs. Paul, it transpired, preferred living in
town!! Her husband, she said, once took off hi-
strap to belt her with. Fancy ! Case dismissed;
the Redfern Bench remarking that she had a home
to go to and wouldn't go to it. It transpired, in
the end, that the complainant had a fancy for doing
1 the Block, taking tea at QuoDg Tart’s, and other
innocent luxuries. And yet to think the husband
But, there! They may be happy, yet. Let
him put on a pair of clean moles, grease his
bluchers, tie a white handkerchief round his neck,
and escort her to Peapes nd Shaw’s. Then we
j recommend him to take her back, >nl allow her
to wear aliirht-bluesilkdioss, with abig crinolette,
in the paddock, and read Ouida’s novels all day
while he is splitting posts and rails.
Austria, hungarying after openings for
trade, has sent four cruisers on a trip round the
world, muoh to the amazement of the Rum, whose
views Kalnoky doesn’t seem to have cared to ask
for, prior to despatching this experimental squad-
ron.
It would be interesting to know what
course would be open to Stephen Murphy suppos-
ing his ease were a grood one, and that he obtained,
as he alleges he did, a verdict against the
M.U..1.00.F. The Chief Justice tells him that
the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction, even if the
case he a good one— but that statement probably
ODly means that Murnhy mustn’t expect the Court
to consider his application unless he prefer it with
all due formality per a Q.C. and string of juniors,
instructed by his solicitor. Then we imagine that
Murphy’s monomania (if it be monomania) would
fit into the Supreme Court environment. But a
poor monomaniac-what, hoi tipstaves, drive him
out I
Why don’t these enormously rich people
here set the example to the close-fisted aristocracy
of England, and give a few hundreds each to the
poor! But what’s the good of talking ? We once
gave regularly to the poor for three years. Every
morning, on our way to the office, we used to give
2d. to a blind beggar. One afternoon, however,
meeting him, we said, airily, “ Ezekiel, would you
like an order for the play ?” “ Yes, and thank you,
good master,” replied he, quietly. Then a dark
and bloody suspicion came over us, and we stopped
his allowance. Just—as we are informed—as he was
going to set up his carriage.
Granny’s Melbourne correspondent sneers
at the memory of Wilson Gray, who, he says, was
a confessed failure as a politician, “so he went to
New Zealand, got made a sort of a Judge, and there
gave up the ghost.” If the value of political effort
may be judged by its seminal effects, Gray was
not a failure as a politician, though he missed
clutching the golden keys and shaping the whis-
pers of Victoria's Vice-regal throne. The sort of a
Judge he made was such that his memory is re-
verenced in New Zealand as that of a conscientious
and just magistrate—so truly reverenced as not to
be In the least likelihood of being besmirched by
the handful of mud which Conservative hatred of
Democratic simplicity and rectitude would heave
at it.
“At the Central, the other day, a man asked
to be Hogged, believing that to be the only cure
for his thievish propensities.”—
It's not because you, rogue, a trifie stole
(To steal a big thing you had Dot the soul)—
'Tis not because with trumpery you flee
That whipcord good shall wasted be on thee!
You frowsy knave! prithee have patience yet,
Nor lie and say deep stripes you dream to get!
Go slow! you who so “ wanted ” to be “ banged
The cost is much the same to have you hanged.
And should you seek the grave and silent tomb
(They hanging say is quite a ploasant doom).
We promise, now, oh, most ambitious chap!
We'll purchase you the clothes line and the “cap.’
A man in Kempsey, recently -while work-
ing a tank for his master fell into it. It was near
I be end of the week, and, being a full-bodied man
e imparted quite a flavour to the supply. The
wner was formerly very particular about this
ank, but now he has generously placed it at the
isposal of thetotfra. The town have declined to
leprlve the tank-owner, and this fact deserves to
le chronicled as the first instance of anyone in
tempsey refusing anything. The enemies of the
ank-man say, however; that his offer was only a
)lindto beguile the people into emptying a tank
>f water possessing an aromatic aroma of
noleskin. Doubtless if “Cupid’ 1 were applied
o, even though he is in the Opposition—for who
sould resist his blandishments ?—the Government
lydraulic pump would be sent up to aid the noble,
’ree, independent and conscientious elector.
Weakness and sickness changed to health
tnd strength with Hop Bitters always. See.
Scrofula, and all forms of scrofulous di-
teases, are rapidly purged out by the use of Ayer a
Sarsaparilla.
Terrihly damaging to the system are those
fiery compounds of cheap umectifled spirits, sur-
3harged with fusel oil, which their nefarious
vendors and importers either insinuate or openly
declare to be equal to Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Tipsters sometimes fail; prophets fre-
quently err; magistrates have been know,; to sen-
tence their prisoners more or less un.j 'Stly, but
the Crockery and Chinaware at 402 and 404 CDorge-
street, are all that they are represented to be by
Bray Bros.*
It is really astonishing how apparent trifles
disconcert some peoule’s arrangements. There is
little Golightly Smith thoroughly knocked over by
a pink bonnet. We believe it was pink, but we
won’t swear to it; we saw it, but we can't describe
it. If we were to say it was made of flowers, it
would not be altogether right; if we were to con-
sider its construction due to the presence of lace,
we should be equally wrong; if wo ventured on
the ribbon theory, we should he bowled out to a
dead certainty : in fact, anything like a conjecture
as to its composition would be utterly futile. It
was a delicate, delightful, downright duck of a
bonnet fashioned in fairy-iand, and made up of
etherial nothings nto a beautitui something, for
the purpose of adorning a pro ty face, and up-
setting little Smith's equilibrium. But Smith save,
*• Bonnets wear out, and he’ll soon have to get
another one to keep thing.* sweet.” Well, he has
only one thing to do—go to Anthony Hordern and
Sons, the Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sirs,—l have duriDg the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian Hop Bitters,
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic cases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS CHEETHAM, L.etL. Mid., K.C.P.,Fdin.
Hop Bitters strengthens, builds up and
cures continually, from the first dose, lie sure
and see.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases,
rvriura-ists. Monos. Moss Jte On.. Genera. As-onts.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated w ; t!~
flag and floral decorations. SOS Hunter-street,
Sydnev.*
The promoters of the Federal Consultation
Company otfer shares in their Melbourne Cup
Sweep at £1 each. They guarantee to distribute
1000 cash prizes, the first being £2500. Prospectus
giving full particulars, will be sent free, on appli-
cation to Robert Ramsay, Commission Agent, 405
George-street, Sydney.*
Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system •
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Proprietors : -Marshal!
Brothers, M.P.s., 104 and 100 Market-street, and
5 Pitt-Btreet, Circular-quay, Sydney.
Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
‘‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adv ser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at tieresford Chambers, 52Castie-
reagh-street, Sydney, «ar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
tikiJl, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes q,re the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Goods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbous, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and pei t'ectly col >ured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blu.', Seal
Brown, 3ii Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at Od.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &0., &c„ by return post,*


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be c/lad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Victoria Trotting Club August 30.
A. J.C. Spring Aug. 30, Sep. 2. 4.
Cloncurry J.C. September 3, 4.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Geranium R.C September 17,18.
Liverpool J.o September 20.
Sydney Turf Club September 26.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1,4, 6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandcra T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting. January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 5, 7
AQUATIC.
S.R.C. Regatta SeDtember 13.
N.S.R.C. Regatta September 27.
ATHLETICS
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Union Race Meeting August 30.
Suburban B.C. Race Meeting September 13.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
From England we learn that the 50-miles
professional bicycle championship, run fer at
Aylestone-road Ground, was won by F. Wood, who
covered the distance 2 h. 47 min. 2Utec., and made
a “best on record.” From 25 miles the record-
beatiDg commenced, the following being the
leaders and times for each five miles:—2s mins,
Wood, lh. 17min. 25sec.; 30 miles, Lees, lb. 33min.
20sec.; 35 miles, Lees, lb. 50min. 41sec.; 40 miles,
Battensby, 2ta. lOmin. 14sec.; 45 miles. Battensby,
2 h. 28 min. 58sec.; 50miles, \V 004, 2h.47min. 20sec.
Friday last concluded the most successful
meeting of the Viotorian Coursing Club. For the
Victoria Plate, Mr. W. B. Rounsevell’s Red Hind
beat Mr. G. Whittingham’s Whilda (late Hazel) in
the deciding course. Mr. J. Wagner’s Rhodanthe
beat Mr. W. M'Culloch’s Moss Rose, and carried off
the Vice-president’s Plate; the Sunbury Stakes
fell to Mr. G. Whittingham’s Wild Teddy, which
beat Mr. J. B. Scott’s Scissors in the decider; and
Mr. W. M’Culloch's Mistaken beat Mr. T. Daley’s
Moonee Valley King (late Esau) for the Consola-
tion Stakes.
A foal six weeks old, in mere frolic, in the
presence of three witnesses, jumped over a close-
cut thorn hedge sft. lOin. in height and 3ft. wide at
top, with up-hill take off, aud a ditch on landing
side (base measurement, 13ft. 2in.). The feat was
done apparently with perfect ea;e aswellassafety,
and took place at Tredington, Gloucestershire.
Martin Loughlin, who is in England, should keep
his eye on this foal, which, when a three-year-old,
will, no doubt, bo able to take Tommy Corrigan
over an eleven-foot fence stuck on top of Govern-
ment House railings.
At the International meeting in England
between the Manhattan Athletic Club, U.S., and
the South London Harriers, in the 100 yards, J. M.
Cowie, of the 8.L.H., defeated the Yankee repre-
sentative in 101-8 sec., making the beat time ever
credited to an English amateur. The Yankee flyer
Myers, about whose status as an amateur such a
dust has lately been raised, ran away with the
quarter-mile in 49 3-ssec; W. Snook defeated the
Yankee representative in the 1320 yards, in 3 min.
10 1-5 sec.; and in the mile he was again successful,
covering the distance in 4 min. 27 sec. L. E. Meyers
won the half-mile in 1 min. 55 2-5 sec.
The rival champions had travelled over
the first mile, and Hanlan was preparing to play
the cat-and-mouse game with the Dapto terror,
when a long-legged slab-sided party from the
States squirted a pint of tin-tag essence over the
boots of the man in front and observed: "Waal,
boys, I guass Mistur Haanlan’s goin’t’ call up t’
thet thare little pub. on th’ hill an’ hev a taste o’
doxology juice, an’ then he’ll come down an’ wait
along stream fur Mistur Bavch.” Mistur Hanlan
didn’t have to wait long. And, talking of this,
reminds us that a well-known city medico was
Matterson, on Friday last, was boated hy
J. Dodd, of North Shore.
At latest, F. Archer had this season won
125 races out of 272 mounts.
“ Black Charley ” Reynolds holds the
“best on record” for the Parramatta Champion
Course—2omin. Bsec.
Peter Newton in tends “doing” Tasmania,
New Zealand, and then ’Frisco. At the latter place
he will probably be “ done.”
Is it Beach, or his hackers, who are so
anxious for a six months’ spell? From the little
we have seen of the champion, we fancy he will
find six months rather too much of a good thing.
The Wanderers’ Bicycle Club had a road
race from Petersham to Parramatta on Saturday
last. Pearson won in 56min., Dodds finished se-
cond, and Gill third. A pleasant day was wound
up by Mr. Hill fairly inundating the club men with
Krug.
In the football field on Saturday last,
University defeated Balmain by 19 points to 2;
N wtown defeated St. Leonards by 9 points to 5;
and at Bathurst a weak ltedforn team suffered
defeat at the hands of the locals to the tune of 18
points tc 5.
The victory of the Australians over the
Gentlemen of England at thefOval in the second
match, was, says an English paper, due to the un-
seasonable prevalence of Midwinter, just when
the bowling of the English team ought to have
been most summary.
The last time the Prince of Wales shot at
Huntingham, he missed ten pigeons running,
though he wa9 allowed the use of two barrels.
Perhaps the bad marksmanship of Albert Edward
accounts for a little of the Princess's anxiety to
put down pigeon-shooting.
The Bur wood-University football squabble
still remains In abeyance, and we understand the
matter has been placed before the Union. Tha
dispute will have to he decided sooner or later,
and we cannot see the utility of allowing it to
remain over for any length of time.
The Herald man who did tne boat-race
talked of Beach balancing his boat in fine style
“through the gauntlet of water, wind, and Tomki;”
also, of the " magnificent hydi*atmos ” of the
south wind. Surely, this was the result of running
the gauntlet of too many whiskies, with too little
of the bydratmos of the pump.
Hastings was kept very quiet for the
Hawkesbury Handicap, and the stable made no
end of a pot over his—except to the lucky few-
unexpected win. Young Kelso had anything but
a gay time of it, as he lost a stirrup Rather during
the running, which accident no doubt accounted
for his running across Bonnie Bee at the distance.
Notwithstanding the number of first-class
boat-builders on Jtbe shores of Port Jackson, it
seems a peculiar thing that one of our suburban
rowing clubs should think of sending to Mel-
bourne for a four-oared outrigger. Possibly, if
Donnelly and Sullivan, Dodd, and Messenger were
to put their heads together, they might raise a
boat approaching the standard required by the
suburbans.
On 6th July Charley Cheese and Redmond
Condon met within twenty miles or Cambridge, to
contest in a prize-fight for a purse of £5O. They
stood up at ten o'clock, and after nine-two rounds,
lasting two hours and twenty-five minutes, the
affair ended in a draw. London was terribly
punished about the head, and was quite blind
towards the finish, whilst Cheese’s hands were com-
pletely gone.
A prominent and popular footballer again
broke his collar-bone ou Saturday last. The little
misunderstanding between a couple of seamen
last week, when one left the field ot battle minus a
thumb, was a mere tlea-bite compared to tho
roughuess of the plav. One up-the-line player,
who has been in a chronic state of skinned nose
since the season commenced, once again managed
to peel his nasal organ.
Pretty cool, the TiMES’’suggestion “ that
Hanlan, Beach, Wallace Ross, and Teemer should
row in a match on the Thames in the autumn.”
Not for Joseph! oh, dear no! Races of tbis de-
scription will be confined to the Parramatta for
the future. We might send the Clarence River
voungster home, if they want to see something a
triflo above their own calibre. Shade of Chambers
and Renforth, how have the mighty fallen 1
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union rajes £to he
held next Saturday, will, no doubt, proven very
enjoyable afternoon’s sport. But are they not
making a big mistake in bolding frequent race
meetings of this description? The English Union
confines itself to races for amateur championships,
and we think the New South Wales body would do
well to follow in its wake. The Onion races
should be few and far between, and the endeavour
should be to make them the meets of the bicycling
season.
The Burwood-Wallaroo match on Satur-
day proved a hard-fought affair, and it was un-
doubtedly the match of the season so far as the
onlookers were concerned. Burwood won by a try
to nil, Petit making the only score of the day. By
the way, a prominent University man, among tho
spectators, was loud in his opinion as to the fair-
ness of the touchdown. Under the circumstances,
he would have shown better taste had he kept his
opinion to himself.
Sid. Edwards steered his brother from the
bo .v of the Leveret, arme * with a red fiag and a
fog horn, and Hanlan’s fright from the Tomki
must have been as nothing beside the shock given
to Matterson when the unexpected first blast from
Sid. burst upon him. However, the instrument
was not required for a lengthy period. After the
first mile, the race was a fog-horn conclusion in
favour of the Clarence River man. [Very obscure
—requires explaining.— Ed. B.|
OFF FOR A MONTH.
WIFE (in alarm): “GREAT HEAVENS! I’VE MISLAID THAT LITTLE TIE I ALWAYS
WEAR WITH THIS DRESS, AND I KNOW IT’S IN SOME OF THESE TRUNKS. NOW DO
HURRY AND FIND IT FOR ME, FOR I’M SO AFRAID WE’LL MISS THAT BOAT!”
universally credited with having netted from £3OOO
to £9OOO on Beach. He regrets to say, however,
that he didn’t have 9d. on the event, and that he
receives a gross of begging letters every morning
on the strength of the rumour.
Some time since, in commenting on the
fact that, in reporting the recent amateur cham-
pionship athletic meetiug in England, the news-
paper men had quoted the betting on the principal
events, we stated that our amateur meetings had
not quite come to that pass just yet. However,
we find that the evil Is not really so far oft as we
thought. Books are now made on the principal
bicycling events, and the odds are posted daily at
a certain shop in town. This is a matter the Union
should put their number tens down on with a
vengeance. Where heavy betting steps in, it is
pretty sui-e fraud will accompany it, and honour
and fair play will take their departure.
Phere were a tremendous number of drags
at the Oxford-Cambridge cricket match, but the
majority of them were, to quote the words of a
swell with much collar, “ iu the occupation of
shoddy people who went there to swagger.” The
lessees of these imposing conveyances provided
luncheon on a very large scale, and their servants
were kept go.ng all the afternoon in supplying the
claret cup. As a guide to friends, the names of
the people were written on large placards that
were suspended from the roofs of the coaches.
And this served to advertise the people referred to
as persons of fashion. It is a brave thing to sit in
a public place ou the top of a coach which is
labelled with one’s name. Especially if one drinks
champagne from silver mugs.
Poor old Granny continues to send the
religious reporter up to do the boat races, and, as
a natural consequence, her accounts of them still
appear a little mixed. She gave the time of the
Ranlan-Beach race just a minute too slow; but
sue outdid this trifling error when she gave the
first mile in the Matterson-Edwards affair as 7min.
45sec., notwithstanding tbat the men shot Blax-
iand s in 6min. 35sec. “The buoyant carriage of
the Clarence ißiver sculler gave evidence of au
overflowing energy” is not bad, and a very
pleasant departure from tho stereotyped style of
aquatic reporters, but we don’t exactly see it. The
Nooze evidently copied their report from the
“tea on the tables at six” account, as they dropped
into the same error with regard to the time taken
tor the mile.
The Glebe Rowing Club had a little excite-
ment on in Blood and Entrails Bay on Saturday
last, when Messrs. Drew and Smith rowed a skiff
race from Young’s Wharf to the Club shed, for a
new hat and the love of the thing. The race arose
out of a recent row-off to see which of the two
sucking Hanlans—we beg[pardon, Beaches—should
represent, the Club at the recent M.R.C. regatta,
wuich event \ws rowod eff iu rather an unsitisluc-
tory manner, after dark. On Saturday last, Smith
soon drew out a lead, and in rather a risky man-
ner took Drew's water, leading his man by a
length nearing Glebe Point Wharf. A heavy sniff
from the abbattoirs appeared to give Drew fresh
lifo, and he almost picked his opponent up; but
when the spurt died out, Smith increased his lead
and made an easy victory over Drew, who ap-
peared short of condition.
The rowing fever has caught even Larry
Foley, our champion middleweight—or heavy-
weight either, coming to that—who has purchased
the wager-boat built by Donnelly and Sullivan
for Hanlan. Beyond removing Hanlan’s trotter
cases and substituting a pair of number nineteen?,
the work will suit the versatile Larry to a T, and
from this out we do not suppose he will be quite so
fond of cracking a skull. A la the ex-champion,
the gentleman who so deftly put Abe Hicken in
his little cot intends shortly to give an exhibition
of his prowess in his new purchase, after which he
intends to fly at some big game—maybe a shark.
Larry is only waiting to have a little more swim-
miDg practice, and then he intends to give the
proposed exhibition. Larry’s first performance
will be going in one side of the shell and out of
the ether, a trick he claims even Hanlan has not
performed in public.
To-morrow week will be rowed the Inter-
colonial Amateur Outrigger race between W. G.
Brett of New South Wales, and A. F. SharJand of
Tasmania, for a valuable trophy in the shape of—
but, we’ll fill this in after we get a look at the pot.
Both men were out on Friday last, and after taking
a good deal in hand, rowed down with Matterson
and Edwards. Brett rowed in his old taking style,
getting along seemingly without any exertion, in
great contrast to the Yandemonian, who puts his
back into his work with a will, and effects the
Hanlan dash at the finish of the stroke. Brett
comes from the Hanlan stable, and Sharland from
the Beach ditto, which means roast turkey and fizz
v. plain victuals and a pint of stringy now and then.
The Beach stable has carried off tne double so far,
but, fit and well, we expect Brett to spoil the treble
by defeating Sharland from end to end. By the
way, we heard a well-known aquatic man took
£5OOO to £5OO and backed the treble—Beach, Matter-
son and Brett. Mr. Brett should feel flattered at
the interest the backer of the treble now takes in
his welfare.
On the first day of the Hawkesbury August
meet. Dr. Cortis’ Despatch carried off the Hurdle
Race; Paul cantered in for the Public Auction
Stakes; Barsro made an easy win of the Guineas,
his stable companion, loianthe, a length away,
second, and Lord Exeter, another length away,
third; Rapid defeated Princess of Lome for the
County Purse; and the Maiden Plate saw Tremando
to the fore, Csirngorm, half a length away, second,
and Prince Imperial third. The second. Handicap
Day, brought together a big crowd. The Hawkes-
bury Produce Stakes fell a victory to Reginald,
half a length from loianthe, Cairngorm third; for
the Hawkesbury Grand Handicap, Blazes, Bonnie
Bee, Privateer, and Hastings were all in a lump at
the distance. Bonnie Bee was the first to show
with an advantage, but Hastings, with Kelso up,
came with a grand rush, and defeated Bonnie Bee
by a length iD 2 min. 36%sec , Blazes, half a length
away, third. The Two-year-old Stakes fell to Cairo,
Evie second, Eagle Grange fhird; Nepicallina de-
feated Tempe by a neck for the Members’ Handi-
cap; Howlong made an easy win of the Disposal
Stakes ; and Boscawen defeated Merlin for the
Ladies Bracelet, Tramp third.
He sat, a lonely man, in the corner of a
smoking carriage last Monday week. Generally
he loved the lively sally, the cheery greeting, and
the newsy gossip of the day; but this lime tbeto
was something the ma'ter with him, and his sole
amusement was a cough. “ Good morning, sir,”
to the first man who came in; “I believe that th«
constitution of the world ” “ Hold on a
minute, sir,” was the frenzied reply; “do you
believe it was rowed on its merits?” “I was just
reflecting,” he said to the next smoker, “ on the
fleeting nature of time.” “ Time,” he said; “ why,
aren’t you satisfied with 20.28 ? ” Wearily turning
to an aged man, he said, “Should this Federation
” “ Don't tell me, sir,” was hastily jerked out;
“ I believe it’s a money-making swindle! Hanlan
could never—” “ Hi, Sam, my old cock,” roared
three clerks who turcbled in at Newtown, " what
do you think now? Hand over, sonny; 20 28 is the
little trick.” Then turning to a solemn grocer,
whose grizzled brow showed long and arduous
vigils over an erratic sugar market, he desperately
risked a joke at the trade. He said, “ What are
your views as to the result of the match?” and
the aged one, with a twinkle of the eye, said. “It's
natural enough. The beach has done a good turn
to the sugar, and now the ‘sugar’ goes to the
Beach.” We were about to emulate Herr
Schunke’s feat, and leap from the train, when the
ticket-collector entered the car, and looking
round with a dazed eye, called, “Beach —no,
hang it; tickets, please.”
Put a girdle round about the earth in
forty minutes, Mr. Shakespeare? Well, we should
whisper in an undertone and sing mighty small
indeed if that was all we could do in this enlight-
ened age. Now, for instance, we had a bit of a
boat race over here on the 16th, and, on the 18th,
the Melbourne Age comes along with the follow-
ing “ wire ”: “ London, 16th August.—Tho news of
thw defeat of Hanlan, the Canadian sculler, bv
Beach, of New South Wales, on the Parramatta
River, at Sydney, on Saturday, has excited the
greatest astonishment throughout England aud
America. In both countries it is generally be-
lieved that Hanlan’s unexpected defeat must have
boen the resu'tof some accident." Kindi •• observe,
Mr. William, that the cablegram announcing- the
squelching of the “Amurrukin Burdo* Freedom”
by a back kick from the invincible emu’s hind leg
was sent from Sydney to London at 6 p.m. on the
lQth, and it must have reached Londou m time to
be Hashed over to the crumpled up Noo Yorkers
the same day, because, you see, the Age's return
message is dated the 16th also. Allowing for the
time occupied in getting tho Yanks to come to
and then explain to eacn other exactly how the
whole thing happened, we find that the news
travelled back from America to London and from
London out to the Melbourne Age in exactly six
houx-s. The average time Reuter takes to wire
home and get a reply is twenty hours, but intellect
conquers time, ana the Age conquers intellect
Try another lot of “tangle,” Mr. Shakespeare—do.
The first half of the English racing season
is roughly reckoned to end with the Ascot meet
and the returns for the first half-year show that
Archer, for the twelfth time in succession, is far
away at the head of the list of the winning horse-
men. His record up to the Ascot close shows that
he has scored 95 successes against 121 failures
Admitting that the ” Tinman ” has the pick of the
mounts, and rides whenever and wherever he
thinks he has a show, the figures are still pheno-
menal. Wood, who is a most industrious rider
also, comes next to Archer, with 49 wins and 143
losses—that is to say, he has ridden about 1 winner
out of every 4 mounts. 8. Loates, the next on the
list has ridden about 1 winner out of everv 5
attempts; he has been in the ph skin 183 times
has lost 145, and won 38 races. Cannon's average
is [excellent, as nearly as possible 1 in 3; he has
scored 23 in 72 mounts. Little Martin, the infant,
prodigy, is a trifle off his record, showing only
7 firsts out of 86 tussles. Cannon’s wee bill for
steering Little Duck in the Grand Prix came £9OO
exactly; and, apropos of this, home papers inform
ua that Cannon’s t alet is very indignant at a para-
graph which appeared inthe Paris Morning News
to the effect that, after the Grand Prix, the Due do
Castries presented his master with four notes of
1000 francs each. “ 1 spent more than that myself "
said the valet, proudly. “ Cannon’s valet” is good
and we can now believe the story which says that
Sir ’Enry Parkera recently declared that if he
couldn’t be an angel, or a professional beauty, he
would like to bo a professional jockey. And he is
just about as fit for one thing as the other.
The Matterson v. Edwards match caused
no little excitement amongst aquatic men, and it
is a long time since we saw so much money flying
about at a second-class boat-race. It was stated
that the Clarence River boy had, with a tide under
him, broken 20 in a trial over the full course, and
his friends were jubilant accordingly, laying 5 to 2
and 2to 1 on him freely. Edwards won the toss
and took the Southern shore, although we fancy'
he took all the worst of it, as no tide to speak of
was encountered until the mile point was passed
and the Victorian had to drag over the flat to Uhr’s
point The two men rowed about ten stone and a
half, Edwards, if anything, having a pound or so
the best of it. The four sculls dipped together
and Edwards almost immediately showed to the'
front, gradually increasing his lead until at Uhr’s
point he must have had nearly a length to the
good, which he lengthened out sufficiently to cross
over and take Matterson’s water half way to Blax-
lands. Edwards, by this time h-id commenced to
tire, and the Clarence River lad drew up till the
nose of his boat just overlapped Edwards’ stern,
and in this position they shot the mile in 6 minutes
35 seconds. A shrill blast then came from the
Admiral, Matterson’s steamer, which was evidently
the “office,” as he pulled round Edwards with
the greatest ease, and leaving him very much
as he liked, widened the gap to some eight
lengths at Putnoy. Edwards pulled a game race to
the bitter end, but Matterson merely played with
him over the remainder of the course, the judge’s
flag dropping at 23min. 35sec. Matterson is a wiry
customer, but to look at his good-looking face,
white skin, and almost womanly appearance, no
one would take him to be the stayer he is said, or
rather has proved to be. We understand Matter-
son is going to pull another race, and then lay up
till he thickens out. The “other race,” should it
he arranged, will probably be with his fellow
river man, Donald M'Donald; and, although Mat-
terson has proved himself an out-and-out good
youngster, he will, no doubt, find M‘Donald game
of a very different calibre to the men ho has msde
such easy victims of. To our liking, the best bit
of rowing Matterson showed on Friday last was
when he did his preliminary canter. He threw
more swing into his body than ever we saw before,
but directly the race commenced, he relapsed into
his old style—reaching out with a clean grip of the
water only excelled by Haulan, but after that
pulling a lot with his arms and meeting his sculls
at the finish, his body never going back of the per-
pendicular. Should the youngster develop a swiDg
in the next two years, it is hard to say where game
will be found too big for him.
We notice Mr. Deebles, in a letter to the
Evening News, has come down a month, and
states Beach is willing to row Hanlan for £5OO in
five months’ time. If Beach alone had been con-
sulted in the matter, we feel pretty sure he would
rather have rowed Hanlan on the Saturday fol-
lowing the race, than wait five or six months.
Whetuer the Tomki interfered with the ex-oham-
pion’s chance, no one on earth but Hanlan can say;
but his reputation as a sculler is such that we may
rest assured both in England and America the
general belief will be that the Tomki, and not
Beat h, defeatedjthe Canadian—hard lines as it un-
doubtedly will be for the Australian. A great deal
is made of the fact that Hanlan kept Trickett
running alter him for a return match; but, look-
ing at the two ca s es impartially, can they be con-
sidered analogous? Hanlan defeated Trickett from
end to end without a shadow of a doubt, whereas
Hanlan has certainly a good show for complaint,
be he right or wronf, at the manner in which he
was interfered with by the Tomki. That Hanlau
was short of condition, we firmly believe. We at
the time disbelieved the yarn that on the Sunday
preceding the race he partook cf plum-pudding
swimming in fizz ?nd porter, but wehave since had
it on good authority that he did put himself outside
a plateful of this filth. If our information was cor-
rect, lie must have betn about fit enough for a
trip across tbebay to Gladesville. As for his work,
to our mind he was too fond of 100 yard spins and
loafing about on tne water, while Beach was doing
hone6t work over the full course. However, we
suppose they will meet again sooner or later—
sooner, we trust—when it is to be hoped the Tomki
will be where she is most suited for—on an oceau
trip—and that, should the Australian again be suc-
cessful, he will win it in a manner that will not
give our American cousins the possibility of a
bubble. Hanlan has hitherto pulled about list.,
but, if he goes through a preparation on the Parra-
matta such as our scullers believe in, we do not
think he will step into his boat an ounce over 10st-
71b.—rather light, certainly, to tackle such a 12st.
t'ger as Beach. That Hanlan is a good three
lengths in a mile better than Beach, the Austra-
lian’s greatest admirers must admit; and should be
get into tip-top condition and get a sufficient lead
to take a breather after the first mile burst, it
does not appear to us quite a certainty that he will
not take the championship back to Canada with
him.
Gall! Well, we should rather say it was.
As loDg as the hired assassins of the London Press
considered Mr. Murdoch and his merry, merry
men fit subjects for their fiercest invectives we
could rest content; but now that they have em-
ployed their “ corner men ’’—their drivelling idiots
who sling their bald-headed, unmeaning trash for
so-called comic journals, and thereby fill their
lunatic asylums with gibbering, jackass madmen—
now that they have engaged these dull dotaids to
point the finger of scorn at “ Our Boys,” we l teei
desperate enough to rush out, and take to either a
monastic life or a 99 years’ bout of intoxication.
Bear gently with us as we quote the sarcastic chat
of one of these screech-owls, who says—“ Another
of those unpleasant episodes which now regularly
mark the preliminaries of all matches in which tne
Australians are engaged in this country took place
at Lord’s to-day. The first objection of tne
colonists was the curt refusal to play, unless botn
the M C.C. umpires were changed :or nominees 01
the visitors (two N.S.W. men who—by accident, 01
course—chanced to be upon the ground). Atrei
this, two totally new wickets were pipoe
to suit Messrs. Spofforth and Giffen, and tne
whole of the pavilion was placed unreservedly at


the disposal of the Australian colonists now in
London. The English captain having won the
toss was about to send in Messrs. Grace and Steel,
when the Australian captain, amid approving
cheers from his own men, objected to Mr. Steel’s
bat. This having been ganged and found correct,
Mr Murdoch objected to Mr. Steel himself; that
gentleman, it was urged, having made the bowling
of the Australians his particular study, his pre-
sence on the English side was a manifest injustice
to the colonial team, who were loud in their de-
mands for British fair play. Seeing there were
20 000 present, who might proceed to acts of vio-
lence If the Australians declined to play, Mr. Steel
made way for Mr. Studd, and the two men were
actually proceeding to the wickets when the Aus-
tralian captain again intervened, and said that
before commencing the match he must ca'l on the
M C.C. to guarantee that there should be no ex-
pression of public feeling in favour of the Eng-
lish, or adverse to the .Australians, and that all
such cries as ‘Go it Jumbo,’ to Mr. Bonnor,
1. “ Speak to me, Clifford I 0 speak ! Did you
find a house with seven rooms, wash-house,
copper, bath, garden, and paddock, plenty of
water, gas laid on, in good location, within two
minutes walk of tram, good drainage, and very
moderate rent ? 0, for one word ere conscious-
ness forsake her seat.
2. “ Once you have really made up
your mind to shift,” quoth Mr. Euca-
lyptus Hapworth, “ the carpets should
be caretully taken up.”
- *
3. “And the pictures carefully taken
Jowself.^ SCe t 0 theS ° Uttle detai]B
4. “Then draw out all the nails. The
tenant who comes after you might object'
to seeing the walls disfigured with nails.”
6. “ No, Archibald Ferguson, it must not be; you
must carry the baby, and I will take that dear old an-
tlque vase. You are so clumsy, and are sure to fall
and break whatever you have in your hands I"
7. “I fed like one
who treads alone some
banquet, hall, deserted.”
v\ 8. “ The carpets,” continued Mr. Han-
worth, “should be well beaten before puttiug
down. Let your wife do this, as it is uo t a
very pleasant job ”
!). “My dear, I must decline to go on
tacking down carpets, with hot tallow
dripping on my head.”
(How irritable shining-hoiue doe* make tomo poopfe!"
| 10. “ Georgie, dear, what are \
| you going to do with ma ?"
ii Georoi*. (not so irreverently
| as would at first appear); “0,
hang ma I”
11. He: 11 Why, you see, the fact is. my dear, I have knocked
your mediseral teapot off (he top shelf, and broken —■"
She : '• 0, my prophetic soul I My teapot ?’*
He (bitterly): “No; merely my head r
12. Personal item.—Our artist will
make no change in his present unostenta-
tious way of living.
A Moving Spectacle.
Bully for (the (little bandicoot,’ to Mr. Ban-
nerman, &e., he at once suppressed, these things
oeing apt to unduly excite the extremely ner-
nuu 8 of the delicately-reared Colo-
nials. This being agreed to, the match was about
m oegin when Mr. Murdoch stepped out once more
ana requested that the match should be played at
one Orleans’ Club, before visitors invited by the
Australians only, as the presence and effluvia of
nh- classes was most offensive and strongly
oDjected to by several most distinguished ladies
a Dd gentlemen from Darling Point and ColliDg-
tho » T l3 ' B being a matter of sneer impossibility,
me Australians threatened to start for home by
me next steamer unless the match was entered as
£ ame 311 favour of themselves, and this
I~' of course, consented to in order to avert the
mo+iu catas ( ro Phe. Later advices declare the great
® n £land v. Australia is not to take place
thL a 8 t “, e n , OQ3 ination of the home team is left to
vrm,„j Btra L ian captain, who will also select the
naan “’ ? nd Provide umpires, scorers, bats, halls,
vaas, and every other requisite for the match.”
Insults such as these can be wiped out by ber-lud
alone, and our War Department should at once see
about placing the Wolverene on wheels and trund-
ling her along to blow those blarstid Britishers off
the face of the earth entirely.
From the “ Journal of Thomas Raikes,
Esq., 18311847”: “Lady H.’s description of the
cholera in Russia was really frightful; but the
remedy used there with constant success was 20
drops of laudanum and 20 drops of spirit of am-
monia in a wine-glass of peppermint-water, which
never failed of success in the first instance.” Per-
haps the microbes of cholera have an educated
taste, suitable to the nineteenth century, and ob-
ject to remain in the company of a person who
smells of peppermint.
From an English paper“ An ongineman.
from Chesterton, familiarly known as • Mad Jack.’
arrived home in a very wild state from drink, and
commenced to dig a hole in the garden, in which
he proposed to bury his wife. Mrs, Rowley (Mad
Jack(swife), being in good health, did not assent
to this proposal, but her husband forced her into
the garden grave, and when she would not lie
down quietly and he buried, hit her a brutal blow
on the head with the spade. Owing to the unwill-
ingness of his wife to proceed against him, ‘ Mad
Jack ’ escaped with a fine.”
A cheery bigot who worships the Presby-
terian God in St. John's Church, Wellington, N.Z.,
deprecates the idea of Christians insuring premises
—as believers, they should commend the buildings
to the protection of the Almighty. This kinder
reminds one of precious Mr. Rutherford, who
opined that it was a heinous sin to counterwork
God by seeking to cure sickness. “One should
have,” said be, “a sort of gladness in boils and
sores.” The Wellington ass, doubtless, similarly
supposes that it would be profanity to seek to pro-
vide against an act of Almighty arson.
A good yarn is told of a wealthy station-
owner on tfie \yesterp border of Queensland, Some
years ago he was out on the run one day, accom-
panied by a stockman. They had taken no tucker
with them from the station, and as the afternoon
wore on the hired man commenced to grumble.
Quoth the boss, “I wouldn’t give a d— tor a man
who can’t live on grass for a day or two.” “ Well,
I ain’t goin’ to do that; so we'd better part com-
pany,” said the stockman. According'y he was
paid off next day. A short time since the boss was
driving down to Birdsville, and one evening
brought up at a fencer’s camp, where he concluded
to stop for the night. Before taking his horses
out ot the buggy, however, he discovered that his
hobbles were missing. Thinking he might be able
to borrow a coupie of pairs from the fencers, he
walked over to the camp, and addressing himself
to the only man visible, the following dialogue
ensued:—“Good evening." “Good evenin’, sir.”
“Could you oblige me with a couple of pairs of
hobbles till to-morrow ?—l’ve lost mine.” “ Sar-
tainly: here y’ are,” (producing three pairs). : ‘Oh,
thanks, but two pairs w 11 bo sufficient.” “You’d
better take the lot.” “ But I don’t require them.”
“ Oh, yes, yer do, boss! Yer so d fond o' grass
yer’ll want a pair for yerself, cos I’m d if yer’il
get anything here in the tucker line.” It was hie
old stockman.
In the way of piety combined with resig-
nation to “the will of the Lord,” the noble Hiber-
nian can concede many points to all-comers, and
then haul in the prize. Sometimes, however, an
exception turns up, which, according to the best
authorities, goes to prove the rule. There is a
story told of a farmer living up Queanbeyan way
who rejoices in the Celtic patronymic of O’Some-
thing-or-other a man in what may be called
“purty aisy circumstances,” or, as he aptly de-
scribes the situation in speaking of his social
position. “ I’m a farmer, and a purty sthrong
farmer at that:” meaning, of course, that he is on
the verge of squatterdom, but not altogether re-
cognised as such. Old O S. Is the proud father of
as line a family of boys and girls “ as you’d wish to
clap eyes ou especially the two eldest buys, who
were the apples of the parental eye. One of the
young men, however, was cut down in the llower
of his youth, the loss beiDg keenly felt by the old
man; and, shortly afterwards, the other boy was
taken ill, and his case was considered very critical.
It was an anxious time for old O’S.. and meeting a
neighbour one day who inquired kindly after the
health of the young man, the affected parent re-
plied, with some emotioa, “ Oh, then, ’tis very bad
intirely he is; and if it should plaze the Lord to
take away poor Mike as well as the other one,
begorra. He can take the lot of them.” Thus.
you see that there are times when even pious resig-
nation fails to All the book.
The special who is doing Queensland
Sugar and the Kanaka for Granny is a quaint
mixture of Conservative and Radical. He believes
in nigger labour, and thinks that coolies should be
introduced under conditions that would prevent
their entering into competition against the white
man outside the canetields. He is a tirm believer
that the planter is the best friend of the kanaka,
to whom £l.B for three years’ hard labour is (or
ought to be considered by the islander) a princely
remuneration. But, whilst staunch t,o those com-
mercial Interests whereof Granny is a buttress,
ho is, singularly enough, rough on the parson.
“Whether,” says he, “the gospel of hard work-
earning bread by the sweat of the brow—ls not the
best civiliser of the kanaka is a question I leave
to others; but if it bethought desirable to Chris-
tianise the boys, I would like to know, as a matter
of curiosity, why it should be deemed absolutely
necessary to carry out the conversion of the
kanaka on his native Island, and absolutely of no
consequence to attend to his spiritual wants when
he becomes a labourer on a sugar plantation ? . .
. . There is not, that lam aware, the slightest,
the faintest attempt made by the ministers of
religion here to Christianise the kanakas on the
plantations. Ido not know of any cases whatever
in which they visit the kanakas.” For our own
part, we conceive that this non-visitation by the
minister of religion must be the one measure of
sweetness in the kanaka’s slave life up North,


JJIUBNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL
H
FURNITURE, HATSTANDS.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
»nd
Library furniture, centre and^Tni
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE COAiRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : w*n worth vr>f
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. *
WALL CABINETS for Choice ChrmT~~gr~
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradlev
Newton, and Lamb. y '
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG~HAmr
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants'
smoking: rooms, &o. 18
BEDROOM SUITES complete in
and very handsome designs, with 7-iw
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for slntrio
rooms. Gr>.at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney w
£1 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM
J Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table ana
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEV
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WAROROBE, 4ft, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABIE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL om>’
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
HEAP FURNITDRE.-Pine Tables, fromTTta
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d..; Washstands from 12s 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.: Wardrobes, from sn«
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboarda -
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEV-
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
f.
f/ l\
Til
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL TABLES, ele L
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush,
finished in
/"IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
"■“DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
_LF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW BTYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Verv bandv and tnex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-Bt.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
JNING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
st
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-snore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). ,
AGATELLK BOARDS, Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTUN, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early Enghsn,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery-
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’f'onnell-streets.
B
B
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamo.
EDSTEADS, all kinds’and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates-
. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
BRADLEY,
nell and Spring streets
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each
BRAnLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street. _
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
G
SOCIAL
If “ three removes are as bad as a fire,” it
certainly has not proved so in the case of the
Sydney Owl Cub; and the fact is only another
proof of how th.se old ad«gos get knocked over
every time they are tested ia real life. There's
that humorous proverb about “honesty is the
but we will go slow; for we are honest ourselves.
And although that particular line of policy has
not as yet pushed us very far up in the world, still,
in the irjt<-rest* of morality, we will not discour-
age others. If you took all the rich men in
Sydney has their policy but there; we really
must stop—it is dangerous to meddle with these
time-honoured maxims. We had better leave them
alone, all except the one the Owls have so oom-
pleielv upset. Th°ir removes have marked an in-
crease' of success every time, until at last the Pro-
testant Hall became too small—to say nothing of
its ridgy floor. For their opening hyginx of this
season, the Owls ohose the new Masonic Hall The
gallery there is so convenient and cosy, and alto-
gether th«re seemed to be more room, notwith-
standing the large company. In taking the chair,
their president, Mr. G. W. Tate, announced that
the Owls being a social body, intended to have no
programmes—the inference being that pro-
grammes tend rather to cliquishness than to foster
a social feeling among friends. So they do. For
those who go for no other purpose than dancing,
the programmes are convenient, and enable them
to secure the best partners, but there is likely
to be more general friendliness without them.
In the concert, too, the charm of speculation
was added to the pleasure of expectancy. Messrs.
Shepherd and viaxted did most of the accompany-
ing. and the opening song was Herr Von Sandon’s
“Galatea.” Miss Maggie Alderdice, who looked
dainty enough in a tucked white lawn with a bird
at the throat, sang a serenade nicely. Signor
Giammona accompanied himself as he sang
“ Mamma, No,” and Mr. Ward gave “ Out on the
Deep.” Dr. A. Burne recited “ Casabianca,” as an
English, Scotch, Irish, Frenchman, or a dude
would say it—the last, of course, being in a lan-
fuage seldom heard out of the Zoological Gardens.
t was a clever and well-studied performance.
“ Queen of the Night ” was trilled by Mrs. Solo-
mon, a pretty brunette, who would have looked
even more so had she raised her bright eyes now
and then. A catchv quartette by gentlemen—
“ The Three Chafers”—was well sung, and when
the four singers suddenly stopped in toe full flow
of their melody, solemnly looked at one another,
and then walked off the stage, this ending was
effective enough to cause an immediate encore.
and the piece was partly repeated. Herr Francik’s
violin selections, ac •ompanied by Madame King,
were sweet, and afterward? “Shrike” chanted a
comio song Mr. 8. James gave “ I heard a voice ”;
Siguor Vittorini rolled out “The Bugler” with
great spirit, every word being heard with power
and distinctness. “ Vashti,” by a lady followed,
and then Mr. Harry Leston gave a recitation in his
rioh native language—which he naively oalls
“Italian.” After an uproar of applause, he came
on again, and gave “ The Controlling Influence of
Drink” with equal success. “Yellowhammer”
piped a ba lad, and then refreshments were passed
round, and dancing began. It would be quite an
open question who wore the handsomest dress,
but several in the room might have a claim.
Mrs. Griffin wore one, an ivory ottoman
broche, trimmed with white plumes and line
lace, and the skiro in their silky flounces
edged with lace, and all dotted with large golden
pompons. Mrs. Solomon wore another delightful
creation, of garnet broche, panier bodice, and
cream corded silk skirt, bunched with artistic care.
Mrs. Joseph’s costume was beautiful, being all
satin, the cardinal bodice glimmering above a
lovely amber skirt, with a su tpicion of pink in it.
Its brunette wearer could dance, too. Mrs.
Burne’s cream brocade, with a flash here and there
of faint purple ribbon, was another source of
admiration. But the married ladies did not mono-
polise all that was good. A little blonde looked
well in white, with strawberry ribbons; a clever
dancer was all in tile-coloured fatin; a really rich
drees was all of blue broche, with high collar and
broad bands of white beading whic i gave it a
brilliant finish; a Kedfern young lady wore a nioe
ivory broche and veiling skirt; and a handsome
§irl, who kept her head the wrong way when
ancing, wore a very pretty toilet of deep blue
satin, wif h front breadth and hack drapery of eoru
figured silk, ecru gloves. A Prymont young iady,
with short h lir done like a boy’s, was chdrming in
her blue, the veiling skirt flounced upon one side
and the other side draped with satin panier from
the bodice. A North Shore visitor was very lovely
in clover-pink veiling, with finest white lace edg-
ing, and white flowers in the hair. Madame KiDg
wore a rich apple green satin, decked with red
flowers, and covered with black net. The hyginx
closed about 3 a.m.
. * •
Early in August, the grandest wedding
took piaoe that has ever occurred in New Cale-
donia. It was the wedding of Miss Higginson,
eldest daughter of tho “Nickel King,” with Mr.
Pellaton, engineer of the Company. Nearly 400
guests were present to demolish a lunch given at
4 p.m. in the large room adjoining the town hall.
The purveying was done by Mr. Bonane, steward
of the clu , champagne, Clicquot, and the finest
w nes were freely flowing, and the bridal cake was
a monument of confectionery genius. The hall
was specially decorated and upholstered in a way
seldom equalled in the older colonies; and the
dresses of the ladies were brilliant enough for the
salons of gay Paris itself. At 9 o’clock the ball
began, with the band from lie Nou playing dance
music, and two hundred ladies whirled around to
its strains. All the old colonists were there. Mr.
Higginson not forgetting one of them in his broad
invitation, he being one of the oldest himself.
Everyone was glad to see Mrs. Porcheron, the
wife of the late Mayor, an aged lady, who looked
like tho mother of all. Altogether, Mr. Higginson
made it a grand affair. Ten years ago, ladies were
a scarcity in Noumea. Now, the rising generation
is beginning to outnumber the males, and anyone
who saw them thst night would say that the
growing belles bid fair to rival in beauty the fair-
est of their Australian sisters.
* * *
Balmain School of Arts was, on Friday, the
scene of the Collingwooa Cricket Club’s second
annual ball, and a pleasant one it was. Only a
few months ago, the club changed its colours from
crimson to the yellow and black also taken by the
rowing dub, and made famous by Beach, and so
the new colours were worn by a lotof members on
Friday with a considerable amount of pride. Mr.
K. Neilson, hon. sec. of the C.U.C., though not
great in stature, is one of the demons of the dis-
trict “ behind the sticks,” and, in the ballroom, as
genial a fellow as ever looked after the comfort of
the ladies. Flags, and a large “ wel.ome” worked
in purple rosettes, adorned the hall, the floor was
prepared, and Shapter’s band kept striking up the
music from 9 o'clock till nearly 5 in the morning.
After filtering through the dressing-rooms—the
ladies' being distinguished by the luxury of a look-
ing-glass and the gentlemen's by having no seats,
which teaches them to roost on one foot while they
shoe the other—the company was found large
enough to quite till the hall, and gay enough to
turn the head of anyone bnt a thoroughly har-
dened reporter. The young men of Balmain are a
singularly blessed fraternity, not only because of
the festive scenes gladdened by beauty’s presence
in which they so often revel, but because they
themielves are the objects of so much tender
solicitude from the native eirls. On this occasion,
the gallery was full of gii Is. quite, more than full;
and no one supposes that girls come to look at one
another. If they didn t come to look at the young
men, what d d they com * for ? Kvery time there
Is a dance in the School of Arts, there is a proces-
sion of Balmain girls up to the doors: those who
oan. get in; those who can’t, Btand outside and
gaze io with modified pleasure. Even in Paradise,
all the angels cannot get Inside at once, and it s
just the same at Balmain; so they crowd round
the doors. There were some capital dancers to
be seen whirling through the throng ; none
better than a local young lady in dart blue
velvet bodice, over a flowered skirt of white India
muslin. The cousin of a well-known bicyclist from
Darling-street was neat and cheery in a red-cii cled
black net dress: and from near the Council Cham-
bers cime a young lady looking well in a nice
cream veiling costume, which was elaborated by a
number of orossbands sloping seductively off to
one side, and some pink ribbons here and there
Miss Herring danced airily in her pink; and Misses
Prout in cream. Two Darling-street sisters ca ve
—one in ruby and pink, the other in cardinal and
pink was a shade lighter in dress, but no one was
lighter in dancing than either. Misses Neilson
looked extremely nice in white lawn and blue
rinbons, in keeping with their fresh and brigiu
young faces; and Miss Wilkinson had managed a
p culiarly neat fit in her peacock bodice °nd tasty
cream veiling skirt. A striped lavender dress of
sensibly light material for dancing was worn by
Miss Flynn of Newcastle, who had brightened it
with raspberry-coloured broohe, and altogether
made it and herself very charming. A little bru-
nette in blue satin and white lace from Beattie-
street was a favourite; and a young lady from
Kegnolds-Btreet, enjoying her maiden ball, looked
as pretty as heart s desire in her pure white dress
and dainty flowers. Another pretty girl was Miss
Barrell, in white tinselled grenadine and straw silk
skirt—a single Barrell. who is sure to go off. An
evcol ent supper provided in the large back room
by Oldlam.
• •
When Oscar started knee-breeches he was
laughed at. But Oscar laughs last. Men are really
recognising that they are sightly and convenient.
The spread of athletics has had much to do with
this. Footballers wear them everywhere. Old
country tourists walk in them. Bicyclists can
hardly tolerate any other. They are the really
correct wear for tennis playing. In many old
country places, sea-side towns, and even in cities,
they are at this moment recognised as conven-
tional morning wear. It is but a step for them to
become conventional evening wear. To object
that all men have not good calves is forceless.
Everyone knows that, and everyone would soon
become used to actual demonstration of the fact.
Moreover, our forefathers wore them, just as our
lady ancestors wore huge hoops; and if the less
sensible be revived, the more so can be at any
time. But, why suppose ? They are now actually
seen in London drawing-rooms in the evening.
They are the coming change, to vary the long un-
disturbed monotony of man’s dress suit. We only
wanted to break the news gently.
* * *
“ May tears never dim the lovelightof her eye,
May her life be all Spring weather ”
was the pretty wish of Gerald Massey to his wife
many years ago, before he took to grey hair and
spectacles, and while a long way off from the tem-
ple gate of fame. No bride could leave the altar
with a prettier prayer from the hearts of her
friends, and numbers of them wished it, though
they may not have said it in the graceful poet’s
words, to the bride who was the centre of attrac-
tion on Wednesday week, the 30th, in Bt. George’s
Church. A large assembly of ladies, all “nods
and becks and wreathed smiles,” as usual on such
bappyloccasions, gathered to witness Miss Fanny
M’Leod married to Mr. David Carnegie Simpson
(resident engineer, Cootamundra railway), and the
church was elaborately decked with greenery.
The aisles were arched with leaves, and a massive
cable depended across from one gallery to the
other. The service was read under a large arch of
foliage, interwoven with white roses * nd lilies,
and from the top hung a horseshoe on a bridal
ribbon. At half-past one, the bride, a sweetly
pretty girl, entered on the arm of her father, Mr
John M’Leod, of Dunvegan House, Ultimo, Her
dress was a dead white ottoman silk, beautifully
made, with long train edged with simple
frilling of lace, and the front of skirt flounced
with Limerick lace; the wreath was of orange-
blossom and jasmine, and the tulle veil finely
broidered. The bride also wore a seed pearl
brooch given by the groom, a handsome diamond
bracelet the gift of Messrs. M’Credie Brothers,
and a gold bracelet presented by Mr. Kahlo. The
bridesmaid-'. Miss Christina M’Leod, Miss Jessie
M’Credie, Miss Maggie Neilson, and Miss Beatie
Donald, were a quartette of beauties whose entry
caused a rustle through the church. They wore
skirts of pale heliotrope silk with kilted edging,
bodices and drapery of heliotrope nun’s veiling
caught up with violet velvet rosettes; poke bon-
nets lined with violet velvet and trimmed with
violet pansies, «nd the pale heliotrope ribbons were
fastened in a large bow under the chin with gold
brooches given by the bridegroom. In the wno'e
of these dainty bridal dresses, Miss Walker’s artis-
tic taste produced a harmony of colour and effect
that would have delighted the soul of Gerald
Massey himself. A number of family relatives
were among those present in the church, and some
really beautiful costumes were displayed. Mrs.
John M’Leod, the bride’s step-mother, wore a
handsome seal-brown dress of ottoman cord com-
bined with brown and gold brocade, and bon-
net with brown feathers to match; her aunt,
Mrs. Forbes, wore a brown and old gold,
with brown velvet bonnet and tuft of old gold
feathers ; Mrs. M’Kay, also an aunt, a black cos-
tume and black lace bonnet. Mrs. John Harris
wore dove silk and heliotrope broche with long
train, cream lace pelerine, and pretty bonnet to
correspond with her dress; Mrs. James Barnet, a
very rich black satin, with trimming of black and
gold, black bonnet to match; Mrs. Matthew Harris,
velvet broche in a pretty shade of deep grey and
ardoise, white lace cape, bonnet with tuft of pink
feathers ; Mrs. Charles Kahlo, a black broche
velvet, stylish and rich, bonnet matching; Mrs
John Taylor, a prune satin dress trimmed with
gold lace; Mrs. Donald (Newcastle), a fine black
satin dress, with cream and pink bonnet; Mrs.
Neilson (Wallsend), ahandsome black broche, with
cream bonnet; Mrs. Noble, a nut-brown satin and
broche. with cream lace bonnet; Mrs. T. H. Saps-
ford, a shot-silk costume of amethyst and gold
tints, very tastefully made; Mrs. Cullen, a
pretty dress of chocolate brown, with trim-
ming of chocolate and gold brocade; Mrs. Alex-
ander Dean, a costume of that pretty grey
known as ecosse, bonnet the same; Mrs. W. Smith,
black broche dress, and small hat tufted with pink
feathers—her fairy ike little daughter, with long
flaxen hair, wearing white cashmere, and a large
Leghorn hat with wheatear trimming. Mrs.
M Donald (Balmain) wore a rich black satin dress
and a cream bonnet; and Miss M’Donald a delicious
dress of apricot pink veiling in the Mary Anderson
style, with cream hat and feathers. Miss Maggie
Bmith wore one of the most recherche costumes
there, a skirt of cardinal satin, kilted, and polo-
naise of smoke-ooloured cashmere; straw hat,
with bouquet of deep red daisies. Mrs. H. Creer
adopted a ladylike costume of dark-brown velvet
and broche; and Miss Creer a dark shade of elec-
tric cashmere, princess bonnet, and gloves to
match. Mrs Purkis wore a costume of brown
cash mere, and velvet bodice: Mrs. Frank M’Leod,
a dark grey, with broche of two shades forming
the trimming; Miss Maude Turner, a ruby cash-
mere and cream lace. Miss Bella Watson looked
stylish, and as lively as usual, in a pretty
checked silk dress, and straw bonnet with apricot
feathers; her sister wearing a peculiar and very
trying shade, only redeemed by a very pretty
bonnet. Miss M. M’Credie’s fawn cashmere was
brightened with bouquet of deep-red poppies at
the throat, large hat similarly adorned. Misses
Jackson, three sisters, looked neat and nice in
pretty fawn costumes; and so did Mrs. Hammond,
in a brown dress relieved with primrose silk; and
Mrs. J. M’Donald, in prune silk and cream bonnet
with marabout tufts. Miss Kahlo wore a hand-
some costume of cocoa-brown cloth, set off with
cardinal; and Miss Dean, a checked grey silk, with
satin vest front and skirt tablier of deep sea-blue.
Miss Bradbury’s dress was a nice black satin, and
her small hat trimmed with ruby velvet and paie-
pink tips. Mies Sutherland also wore a neat black,
of silk, and a quantity of mauve gossamer. One
of tun most stylish costumes was that worn by
Miss Weekes, an animated brunette; it was of
white cashmere, with a feather ruche down the
breast, and the plain skirt was bordered with
rows of gold braid, with which, and golden
butterflies, the bodice was also ornaqjented;
gold bonnet trimmed with white gauze and
golden butterflies, long tan gloves. , For breaK-
fast, the company drove to Nithsdale Rooms,
where Callaghan had spread the tables, and some
merry speeches were made. The Rev. G. Sutner-
land, who had performed the ceremony neatly
described as •* collecting all the heart's sweet ties
into one knot of happiness,” was proposer or tne
“ Bride and Bridegroom.” and the “ Bridesmaids
were proposed by the best man, Mr. J. B. M Kenzie
—the other groomsmen being Messrs. Bell, Wood-
ward. and Taylor. “Absent Friends,” ‘ Host and
Hostess,” and other toasts all came in turn, and
the feast was livened by the music from a band
provided by Mr. Needs. After breakfast, the
temptation to stroll into the ball-room adjoining
was too great to resist, and two or three hours
dancing followed. Mr. and Mrs. Simpson started
for their honeymoon to Moss Vale and Melbourne,
amid a shower of good wishes from their many
friends.
* * *
A very enjoyable entertainment, under
the auspices of St. Peter’s Ath etio Club, was held
in the local Town Hall on the evening of Tuesday,
12th inst. The chair was occupied by Mr. W. Ed-
wards, the Mayor, and there was a large attend-
ance. Some choice selections were played by Mrs.
Neil, and the Misses LeeJer, Turner, and Guide;
and the vocalists were Messrs. Fewings, Clark,
Davenport, Elliott, Barry, Leeder, and H. Lipp-
mann, all of whom sang with spirit, and obtained
encores. Messrs. Bidwell, Halverston, and Smith
recited. During the interval, the ex-Mayor, Mr.
Judd, presented the prizes to the winners at the
recent sports gathering, held on the St. Peters
cricket ground.
• • *
The seventh of the Newtown Private
Socials was held Friday last in the Oddfellows’ Hall,
Newtown. Over thirty couples put in an appear-
ance, the fair sex, as usual, having a majority.
Petersham sent a pretty blonde, Cavendish-street
represented by two capital dancers, two sisters
from Wilson-street looked charming, a lady from
the city (in the vocal line) danced well, York-
street represented by about the best dancer in the
room, Alice-street sent three sisters, all capital
dancers, Paddington sent a jolly brunette, Pitt-
street a pretty blonde. Glebe Point a charming
blonde in cream and lace, Bent-street the ever-
obliging little lady, Stanmore Road two sisters,
splendid dancers. The music was splendid, being
in the hands ot Kopff and Austin. As these Socials
are growing in popularity, the next, on 17th Sep-
tember, will, no doubt, be one of their largest
gatherings.
■ • •
The Town Hftll, Petersham, was on Friday
the scene of another of those pleasant reunions
which have so distinguished that pleasant little
society, La Coterie, since its birth. On this occa-
sion, however, La Coterie took a higher flight, the
entertainment consisting principally of a farce
and a drama. “loi on Parle Fran<jais” was the
old familiar friend that made us laugh, if only
from the force of old associations. When we were
a boy but, there! we will keep in the present
century; life’s too short for recollections. Major
Regulus Rattan, by Mr. C. Alderdice, was a very
creditable performance; and so was tho Victor
Dubois of Mr. Tom Godbolt. Mr. Spriggins, in the
hands of Mr. P. A. Jenkins, also came in for a good
share of approval. But the sterner sex was
crowded out in this little arrangement, the ladies
doing all the trade. There was Mrs. Spriggins -
delineated by a talented lady, whose nom de
theatre, Bella Clava, enveloped its wearer in a veil
of mystery which we yearned to penetrate, until
we heard there was a “ Mrs.” at the beginning
of it, when all things became dark. Miss Wilson
enacted the part of Angelina Spriggins with
ease and graoefulness; and Miss Williams was a
vivacious Julia. There is a maid-of-all-work
in this piece —Anna Maria —which character
found a charming expositor in Miss Gregory.
We have since ceased to wonder why it was
that certain dukes among our ancestors sought
Cinderellas as their brides. How true it is that
the greatness of genius will assert itself, whether
it be the parlour or the kitchen great! A piano-
forte solo, very ably rendered by Miss Turner—
who, by the way, also contributed the overture
with much sucoess—hyphened the farce on to the
the second piece, “ The Chimney Corner,” a con-
ception which revealed the peculiarities of three
generations of Probitys in an amusing manner.
Giving place to the dames —of whom, in this piece,
there were two—it is to be stated that the fair
anonywia before referred to acquitted herself
most successfully as Patty Probity, while the
Grace Emery of Miss Wilson was distinguished by
the same consistency which marked this lady’s
previous performance. Mr. Tom Godbolt’s re-
presentation of old Solomon Probity was of a
character rar6ly seen among amateurs, and his ob-
literation of seif in the whimsical nonogenarian
deserved the approval it met with. Mr. J. T.
Craven as Peter Probity, Mr. T. W. Beves as
John Probity, Mr. John Barry as Charles Chetty,
and Mr. E. Fewings as the detective Sifter,
were all good in their several parts. With
a little more care, the histrionic talent
of La Coterie ought to come out strong.
The entertainment was witnessed by a large and
fashionable audience. On the descent of the cur-
tain, dancing was commenced by the majority,
and, with the musical assistance of sundry gifted
amateurs, the evening was concluded in an enjoy-
able manner. Many tasteful costumes graced the
room.amoDgst which may be mentioned those of
the Misses Alderdice, composed of white grass
cloth; Miss Leeder, in white tarletan and cerise;
a lady from the Glebe in a cloud of pink, whose
dancing was perfection. Two visitors from the
city in blue and wnite did sad execution in one
particular corner; and a little lady of Croydon
looked very charming in similar colours. One
exquisite figure was adorned by a pink satin dress
with deep lace flounces. The wife of a prominent
MP. appeared in black silk, trimmed broche,
and cream lace. Two ladies from the South-
ern city looked very pretty—one in helio-
trope satin with flounces of the same mate-
rial edged with cream lace, and wearing flowers
at the throat and breast; the .other simply
attired in pure white, tastefully enlivened by
coloured ribbons. A beautiful littlo dancer from
across the road bewitched in a pink cashmere
princess robe cut low at the throat, with a bunch
of flowers at the breast. From Ashfleld came a
sprightly belle robed in a sea-green costume flow-
ing with lace, cut low on the neck and fixed up
with flouncings edged with the same material. A
noted singist from over the water looked very
stylish in a black broche satin. The hall was de-
corated by a plentiful dado of wall-flowers, who
appeared to find more pleasure in looking on than
in venturing on a floor which was certainly not in-
vitingly smooth. Amongst them could be noticed
the ladies belonging to the parties of more than
one popular associate of the club, whose absence
from the revolving crowd was much lamented. It
is observable that Beach’s colours are not much
worn by ladies—perhaps on account of their ter-
rible conspicuousness—and we looked yearniDgly
and almost in vain for some sign of sympathy with
the Champion. But, when twinkling feet were
growing fewer, we sighted the familiar hue on the
becoming toilet of a lady who hailed from the
scene of the victory. We don’t know why we ner-
vously accused the ribbon of being pink, or why
we tried to break her arm, or tread on her feet, in
a vague anxiety to distinguish ourselves before
her. We only know that when she went, the
“gold turned to furze blossom,” and we closed
our note-book sadly and went, too.
* * *
Next Wednesday the annual St. Vincent's
Hospital ball takes place in the Exhibition Build-
ing, and, from the number of tickets already out,
the committee look for a really good festivity.
Even those who do not usually go to such affairs,
might well break their rule lor so excellent an
object, for St. Vincent’s Hospital is one of the in-
stitutions that are a redit to the town. A special
train will leave Redfern for all stations on to Par-
ramatta, at 3 a m., to carry suburban guests home.
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


w
E
8
T
M
E
D.
The TOWKSHTP of WESTMEAD is situate on
the Main Western Line of Rail wav, just bevond
the boundary of the Town oi Parramatta, adjoin-
ing the beautiful Government Domain, and sur-
rounding the. Westmead platform. It comprises
about acres of beau'ifully undulating land,
sloping towards the Park, and the soil is of the
richest possible description It was formerly
known as Oakes’ Orchard, and the orange trees
are still on the ground, yielding luxuriant crops;
but land in this locality has become too valuable
for orchard purposes, being needed for the exten
Sion of the to n of Parramatta. The Proprietor
of the Estate has, upon the Auctioneers’ recommen-
dation, decided to r.ell this township in small allot-
ments, on such terms as will come within the
means of struggling respectable working men,
lathers of families, and others. The Allotments,
as will be seen by the plan, are all carefully laid
out, in such a manner as to afford every facility
tor drainage, and thus preserve the salubrity of
the locality, and avoid the mistakes which have
been made in nearly all the suburbs near Sydney
(which threaten to become more unhealthy than
the City of Sydney itself.) The streets have been
laid out (itt feet wide, as provided for by Act of
Parliament. The price of these allotments, after
the first auction sale, will be from £33 to £4O each,
and the terms of sale are £L deposit and the re-
mainder by quarterly payments of £1 each with-
out interest; the title is Torrens’Act. Should any
buyer desire to pay for his allotment at any
earlier time than the above terms specify, be will
be allowed a discount at the rate of 5 per cent, per
annum. Westmead is admirably placed tor the
settlement of an industrious population, situate as
it is close to the large and rapidly incrcasiDgtowna
of Granville and Parramatt, >, and in the centre of
the large orchards for which the district is so
famed. Employment is abundant, and there are
openings for numerous industries, while even for
those engaged in business in Sydney the railway
tares are so cheap, and the trains from Parramatta
so frequent, that there is every inducement for a
family io live in this healthy district, rather than
pay a high rent in the crowded city.
The Auctioneers have been instructed to hold a
tale on the Gr< und on
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27th,
at 3 30,
of the choice lots adjoining the station, and a
special train will bo ei g><ged to convey intending
buyers to the ground iree of charge.
Lithographs are now in course of preparation,
and every lot has been marked out on the ground
by Mr. Surveyor Bishop.
MILLS and PILE,
AUCTIONEERS,
130 PITT-STREET,
and
GEORGE-STREET, PARRAMATTA.
Mr. G. A. MILLS, of the Parramatta Office, will
be on the Ground every WEDNESDAY and
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, at 3, to point out the
lots.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20.
THE QUEENSCLTFF ESTATE,
MANLY.
JUST BEYOND THE CURL CORL L AGOON,
having large frontages to the Lagoon Beach.
Q U EKNSOLIFF- ROAD
PAVILLON-ROAD
CROWN-ROAD.
107 CHOICE BUILDING SITES,
with frontages from 50 feet to 122 feet, by depths
of 150 feet to 407 ftet.
MAGNIFICENT OCEAN VIEWS.
Within easy walking distance of the Manly Pier
and the charming Fresh-watar Beach, recently
dedicated to public use.
MILLS and PILE hav6 received instructions
from the proprietor to sell by public auction
on lhe around, on SATURDAY, September 20
at 3 30,
The above
MAGNIFICENT ALLOTMENTS,
beyond all question the finest portion of the
charming marine suburb of Manly, well situate
on the slope of a bpautifqt hill, covered wiifi
ferns and native flowers, and commanding
such views as are to be seen nowhere else in
this locality.
Lithos. in course of preparation by Mr. Surveyor
Dansen, and every lot is marked out on the ground.
Photos, of some of the views from the land can
be seen at the Mart.
The terms of sale will be-
lt) per cent, deposit;
Balance in 18 monthly payments.
Title, Torrens’ Act.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers.
fV
SB
'*■ LIFE!
. --
Hiiie only infallible remedy for
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous aud
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of thesystem; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 128., or four quantities is one lor
365.; if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney, i
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and t 0., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Ericlrileld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
HT These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Purf in country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it Oi'T, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
518
I
►1
4 r
a
JrfyjC*
i
t i
a
wi»
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving: of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
j LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. (IIACE CURTAIN^
BT Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
I’he festivities to mark ihe railway open-
ing to Glen Inne3 were as great as the importance
of the event demanded; but they were not all
j y. The weather was biting cold, rainy ana
snowy. Visitors poured in by hundreds, till beds
Were above all price. A pound sterling was a fre-
quent offer fra bed, and five shillings was gladly
•paid for lodging room on a boarded floor for a few
Short; tioisy hours of the night. On the Tuesday
tttoVning of the opening, three crammed trains
Went from Armidale with the latest batch of
visitors, and the enthusiasts waiting for them on
the Glen Innes platform had the full benefit
of a heavy shower of sleet, followed by snow.
The Ministerial patty was met and cordially
welcomed by Mr. F. Utz, Mayor of Glen lines,
and taken in procession to Tattersall's Hotel.
Cripps’s banquet was attended by 350 persons, and
the waiters ever since are awe-struck when the
name of a Glen Innes man is mentioned. Mr J.
Martin proposed “Toe Governor of the fairest
«nd most beautiful portion of; Her Majesty’s
dominion.” We consider this a pretty strong
blow of the Glen Innes trumpet. There were
only fourteen other toasts proposed.. During the
feed the principal seat gave way, and the Mayor
and Minister Dibbs rolled ignominiously under the
ftable. and wc-re extrioateJ amid much unfeeling
laughter. At night, a ball took place in the engine
isheu, at which a lea Innes girl and a Tamwortb
beauty divided the honours. It was a remarkable
ball in many ways, but chiefly because the gay and
festive people who went to it wore their ulsters
and hats in the ball-room, and those who could
fight best got most supper. There was one brief
"onslaught of the local gentry, and the supper
withered away, leaving Dot one pieoe of cake
•upon another to reward the ladies who brave.l
*the icy passage from the ball-room in search of
sustenance. The merry wind swept through the
airy hall, and up through the half-made roof, and
raged round the gasoline lamps that flickered
over the cheerless scene; clouds hid the bare and
shivering shoulders of the northern belles from
their admirers’ eyes; an air of dispirit brooded
over the company, and many stole disappointed
away from a ball-room that was invaded by such
borean blasts. Outside one door, the locomotive
pit had beon carefully left uncovered, and a num-
ber of influential men, including the Hon. Dibbs
and some heavy, members of Parliament, success-
fully tumblel therein in a way that provoked
them to useJAnglo-Saxon language of the strong-
est kind that's made. A fair pine floor was put
down, the Town Baud played pretty well, and the
ball closed at 4 a.m.
** * *
Narrabri Oddfellows have a ball on 17th
September ... Ou the Bth September, a grand Eng-
li-h fancy fair, after the stylo of the Garden
Palace one. will bt? opened in Orange School of
Arts, and it will close with a ball on the 24th
Granville Dramatic Ciub gives its opening per-
formance on Friday, 12th September. ..Maitiand
tt.C. ball on 18th September.... Oa the 15th August
the bachelors of Paterson gave a fine ball in tneir
School of Arts, and a large attendance danced till
5 in the morning, Miss Ada Wilson being tbe good
girl who played most of their dance music. Th j
young men afterwards gave her a gold riDg.
Now, if one of them had put a plain gold ring on
the right finger-hbwever, that s Ada’s business.
The new Governor of New Caledonia, M. Le
Boucher, is a civilian who was there many years
ago as a very junior clerk in the Government
service, and bap risen by his own capacities. He is
popular, and on the Ist August a dinner of wel-
come was given to him by over .00 colonists.
Mdme. Le Boucher’s first levee was crowded, and,
though not a leader of foolish fashions, the
Governor s wife is a clever, genial woman, in
whose company everyone felt thoroughly at
home Mrs. Coffey of Woodlands, Woopahra,
gave a wedding party on the2oth instant In Tatter-
sail's hall Annual Oddfellow s’ b til at Urana on
19tn September .. Balls to rub off church debts
are quite an ordinary thing now; last instance at
Grenfell .. An unusual festivity in the shape of a
servants’ ball occurred at Hope House, Manly, last
week, the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Tedd. Ladles
of the house played dance music, and the health
of host and hostess was drunk at supper, their
consideration being evidently appreciated. On
the 14th, the Oddfellows’ anniversary was gaily
celebrated at Uralla by procession, dinner, and
ball.... Terrible row at Bulli, all because a local
editor called the wrong girl the belle of the ball.
The other girl’s young man, after raging round
for some time with Samson’s weapon in full play,
at last exploded. His explosion took place ar the
next ball, which was enlivened with a free fight.
Belle questio i still unsettled ...A pleasant re-
union was given by Mrs. Wangenbeim to sornn
forty guests, at her residence. Forbes-street, last
Thursday. Dancing kept up till 3 a.m., was varied
by tne fine singing of Miss Emma Wungea-
heim, whose voice has lost none of its tone
The Tamworth Oddfellows had an anniversary
banquet of some seventy members, and a bail
attended by sixty couples on the 14th August
The amateur dramatic club known as Bohemians
gave two performances in Melbourne for the
Austin Hospital, under the patronage of the new
Governor and the Bishop, and those two great
men’s wives. Audiences were very fashionable,
tickets half a guinea. “Leap Year’,’ and “Wood-
cock’s Little Game” were the pieces, and the chief
actors were Messrs. A. W. Robiosm and H. G.
Turner, and Mcsdames A. Cornish, L. L. Lewis,
and Leishraan—the last being specially good as
Mrs. Col. Carver .. .Miss Genevieve Ward gave an
afternoon tea on the stage of the Theatre Koyal,
Melbour e, to a number of citizens. She received
them in the bdudoir scene of “ Fedora.” Artists,
bankers, lawyers, journalists, and nierchants were
among tne company who sipped tea quite sociably
with the star—Although people are constantly
sitting down in a hurried way every Monday, the
Wool abra rink is very much enjoyed by the
members and visitors, of wUom tne better (and
handsomer) half are ladies. Last two Mondays
have been largely attended, and the evenings
finished with some extremely clever bicycling by
Mr. C. W. Bennett and others, on the floor. Such
feats is standi g still on the bike, vaulting to the
saddle, mounting Irom the pedal while standing,
&c., all performed with beautiful precision, are
not seen every day Last Friday, at the offices of
Messrs. Holdsworth and Evans, Mr. Josepn Rigg
received a handsome tea, coffee, and breakfast
service from his employers, and also a marble
clock and cutlery from fellow-clerks, on the occa-
sion of his marriage to Miss May Black. Healths in
champagne. Rigg has more rigging to pay for
now On the sth Sept., the Balmain Royal Ama-
teur Minstrels give their fifth complimentary per-
formance in the local School of Arts, and after the
theatrical part ends, there will be a little dance. ..
A prand concert occurs In the new Masonic Hall
on the 10th Sept, in aid of the Ophthalmic Hospital,
Miller’s Point. Very influential patronage is pro-
mised, and among the artists are Miss Annis Mon-
tague. Mr. C. Turner, Signora Fabris, Herr Fran-
cik, Mdme. Marius, &c.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“W.J.H.”; Much too Jate ....“ 8.Y.”: Cannot
make so much of such an item “G.M.”; If
you want such a rigmarole printed, your belt
way will be to start a paper of your own.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lady Loft us’ Reception (Govt. House).. August 29.
Lyndhurst Garden Party (Botany) August 28.
Glebe Private Assembly iGlebe -Town
Hall) I.:: August 29.
Windsor C.C. Annual Picnic (Tennyson) August3o.
Cyclists’ Union Sports August 30.
Banquet to Sir H. Parkes (Town Halil. .August 30.
Comp Concert at Deaf, Dumb, and
Blind Institution .."..September 1.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibtion) September 3.
Glasgow Ball (Protestant Hall) September 3.
Lidy Loltus’ Reception (Govt. House) Sept. 4.
Union Club Ball (Exhibition) September 5.
E.S.A. A. Club Sports September 6.
Railway Bail (Exhibition) September 8.
Bachelors Assembly (Nithsdale) September 12.
Vaudeville Quadrille Club Ball (Tat-
tersalls) .....Septembers.
oabur. an B C. Sports September 13.
Manly Wildflower Show... September 12,13.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest BeLle,—Did you observe in 1 at week's
cablegrams that Liszt, tne musical composer, had
been afflicted with total blindness? Poor fellow!
How we used to hate his name when we were at
school, and had to practice his compositions by
the hour together! And it was only when wo hud
leftschool, and were no longer compelled to labour
through his “RhaDSOdle,” etc., mat our haired
Changed to admiration of his genius, and it gradu-
ally dawned upon us that the great m-n had other
objects in view when writing his difficult music
than that of plaguing poor school girls. They say
that when Wagner died he (Liszt) was almost
heart-broken, so perhaps that has something to do
with his blindness.
You have often hoard Madame Cbarbonnet-
Kellermann speak of her great master, Mons. Le
Couppey. of the Paris Conservatoire of Music.
Well, the other day. one of Madamo’s Sydney
pupils went over to the Continent, and, whilst in
Paris, called on Moritfl Lo Couppey, who, w.ien ho
understood whose pupil she had been, received
her most cordially, invited her to play to him, and
pronounced her performance to be a credit to his
best beloved and most intelligent pupil, Mademoi-
selle Alice Churbonnet. So you 6ee even in Paris,
where there are si many fine musicians, Madamo's
talents were acknowledged and appreciated; and.
as everybody here knows, she is one of tho lew
first-class performers who has the art of imparting
her knowledge to others.
The principal themes of conversation this week
are the three forthcoming concerts and—small-
pox. Last week, it was nothing but the Hanlan-
Beach boat-race. And, oh! it was so funny the
other night at the Royal, when Beach was pre-
sented with a gold watch by Messrs. Williamson,
Garner, and Musgrove; he did look so awkward,
and seemed to wish himself -rnywhere but where
he was. When he tried to speak, he first scratched
the back of his leg and then his head, and at last
blurted out that he wasn't much of a speaker, but
when it was a matter of rowing, why, he was all
there. Modest, wasn’t it? And then he tried to
pull his fore-lock to the audience, but as he hadn’t
any to puil, we had to take the will for he deed.
But what roars of enthusiabm came from the
people! Now, I wonder—l Jus' wonder—it any-
thing like the same demonstrative enthusiasm
would have been shown had little Willie Sheppard
(he used to be little Willie, you know, dear, when
he went to school with us a few years ago), who
has this year taken rank as Senior Wrangier at
Trinity College, stood in Beach's place. I fear not,
as this is undoubtedly an age of muscle ; brains are
a secondary consideration. But, about these con-
certs. Don’t you think it very foolish to crowd
them alt into one week ? The worst of it is, thev
an? all to be so good that we positively c«nno"t
afford to lose one of them. To-night is the Vogrieb
concert; to-morrow, the Rita-Radcliff, and on
Friday night the Metropolitan Liedertafel are to
give one for ladies and gentlemen, which, I hear,
isjto be better than anything they have yet given
Our only plan will be to take a good long siesta
each day, so as to be fresh and ready to enjoy the
music at night.
“The Merry Duchess” is such a bright little
opera, and was given for the first time at the
Royal on Saturday night. I am half sorry that
I promised to tell you what I thought of Miss
Grade Plaisted, the new star, for opinions are so
varied concerning bor. For instance, when she
first made her appearance on Saturday evening
Ned exclaimed “By Jove! isn't she pretty?” I
replied that I didn’t think so. “Then you girls
never con see beauty in anybody but yourselves.”
“Oh, yes, we can.” I replied; “Fanny Liddiard is
pretty, and Nellie Stewart has a kind of saucy
prettiness of her own, though her nose is rather
small.” “ Well,now (afterthe birdsong), perhaps,
Mab, you will allow that she cansiDg?” “Yes,
she can sing,—though, for my part, I prefer a
steadier voice, where the tremolo is only heard
occasionally.” “ The tremolo ! why that’s just
what I liked about it—it's part and parcel of the
song.” “All very well, Ned, my boy, but, if I’m
not mistaken, we shall hear it all through the
opera.” He wouldn’t believe me, but I was right,
dear. Still, for all that, Miss Plaisted is an acquisi-
tion, and her acting is very bright and natural.
The dresses in the piece are very handsome. Nellie
Stewart, as the Duchess, wears a brocade of fawn
colour and crimson, fawn felt hat with cMmmn
plumes. I never saw Miss Liddiard looking so
sweetly pretty as she did in a pale heliotrope
satin, with cream hat, and feathers to correspond
with the dress. It was a charming costume, and
suited her admirably. In the circle there were
also many handsome toilettes. There was a pair
of black Jace dresses with short sleeves and enor-
mous bouquets on the left shoulders. But I never
like to see two dresses exactly alike—it looks too
much like a uniform, and shows want of idea on
somebody’s part. A French white silk jupe was
worn with a black velvet bodice laced down the
front and cut squarp. The sole ornaments were
small gold b. ads round the throat and in the hair.
A black silk grenadine, copiously besprinkled with
large crimson chenille pompons, was worn by a
dark lady, and looked very rich and stylish. A
novelty was a full bertha of real violets worn with
a white satin dress, and extremely pretty it was,
too, and the perfume from the violets was ex-
quisite. Mon are always finding hideous names
for our fashions. What do you think they call
those long loose j. raceful jabots? Kangaroo
pouches! How are we to wear them alter that?
Too bad, isn’t it?
In Brisbane they are far more Continental in
their ideas than we are here. It is no uncommon
thing at a c rtain fashionable watering place to
see ladies and gentlemen in becoming bathing cos-
tumes make for the sea just as naturally as if they
were all going for a stroll. And whi not ? The
ladies seem to prefer blue serge trimmed with
crimson braid and Tam-o’-Shanter caps to match
for their costumes, though I hear lhat this year
they are going to be still more gorgeous. As for
the gentlemen—well, I have nothing to do with
their fashions, but l have no doubt they look ex-
tremely beautiful in their sea-side apparel as
beautiful as nature will allow.
Fancy what horrid things they are saying of our
cricketers in England 1 That they don’t behave
like gentlemen when they are getting the best of
the game, and that they don't seem to realise what
bad form it is to exult over the misfortune of each
antagonistic batsman as he is dismissed Is there
bit erness in these complaints, I wonder? Or is it
that “ our boys ” are really forgetting themselves?
I don’t believe the latter a bit, but I do believe
this—that the English are very, very spiteful.
. Some man has been writing an article in one of
the home papers, advocating the practice of kiss-
ing acquaintances of both sexes when bidding
“ Good-bye,” &c. He says that lips were made for
kissing, and we should not neglect to use thpm;
but in case every other argument fails to over-
come our scruples, he is mean enough to say that
the girls who object to kissing are eithe-
too prudish or too painted. Now, I don’t
know how you feel about it, but I think I should
just bate a man wbQ could write such dreadful
things of us—so cowardly and far-fetched! Why,
he sitnply spoils his own cause by giving publicity
to such ungallant, not to say stupid, idpas. How
many of us are there who wouldn’t willingly stand
the odium of being dubbed either painted or
prudish rather that kiss every man, or, what is
worse, every woman, of our acquaintance ? There
is only sting whei'e the cap tits.
Here comes my faithful knie-htwith bouquets for
to-night’s concert, and, oh! thev look so lovely, I
really must leave off in order to indulge him with
half-an-hour’s small talk as a reward for his
thoughtful generosity.
Addic, addio.
yours ever.
MAB.
P.S.—The Rita-Radcliffe concert has been wisely
postponed till next, week. 1 he: r. M


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
_ , 14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of tnis.
Fours,
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
John Kelly.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, Der-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
i Moss 4c Cq., Sydney, General Ageuta.
A MEMORY.
The heart of Zachary Barry is sore within
him, and will not be comforted, because the Vic-
torian Banner is no more. The cause of Us
death he gives unconsciously in one phrase: it
took the same platform as the Protestant Stan-
dard.” We remember the birth of the Banner:
it flickered into the world as feebly a* it flickered
out. We were at I hat time engaged in wakiner to
ecstasy the living lyre'of a suburban paper, which
was largely patronised by persons of literary tastes
—in the trunk-making line. It was not a very
lucrative occupation, but it was great fun, for all
that. Ah! we were gay young dogs in those days
(only four years ago—whisky and chicken-hazard
age a man very fast), and little thought the winra
of life would turn so soon to vinegar. But this is
weakness; let us prooeed. The paper came out
only once a week, so that our task was compara-
tively light. After the Council-meetings were re-
ported in full—they had to be reported in full
because most of the aldermen were advertisers,
and if one saw his speeches were cut down he
would immediately withdraw his auvertisement —
there was only the leading-article to come, which
the proprietor always wrote himself—under per-
petual protest, however —and wo had to All in the
rest of the paper. The proprietor was a hearty
old gentleman, with white hair and a face like the
rising sun, only redder, and a laugh like a jocular
thunder-clap. He belonged to tbe good old school
of editors, who had to be locked up before they
would put pen to paper. His delight was to slide
out when we were not watching and sail down
town to see his political friends, who were many,
and talk over the situation. There is always
a “situation” in Victorian politics. It was a
highly interesting sight to see him standing in
the midst of a group of stout old gentlemen—very
podgy pillars of tne State, indeed—haranguing
them upon the burning question of the time, and
emphasising his remarks by poundingjon the pave-
ment with a stick which had a ferule as big as a
horse-shoe. A very hearty old gentleman, indeed.
All this time we would be in the upper room at the
office, spinning out stanzas to Delias, Lesbias, Zoes,
and Chloes, under cover of which classical names
it was our pleasant fancy to make amatory ad-
dresses to the Marias, Maggies, Mary Janes, and
Julia Anns of our acquaintance—addresses which,
now r hat we are comfortably married into a board-
ing house business, we have no hesitation in ad-
mitting were generally reoeived with a coldness
bordering on apathy. Generally, but not invari-
ably. There was the rosy-cheeked daughter of
the butcher over the way, who used to peep slyly
at us through links of sausages, and who, when
our signals became too demonstrative, would hide
herself behind a hind-leg of mutton, or shyly
retreat into the shade of a ham. Ah, little rosy-
cheeked butoheress, who throws kisses at you
now ?—who watches to see your round arm grace-
fully stretched to out down a “ pound of that?”—
who wakes in the morning from a dream of those
lips of yours redder than the juiciest steak ? Who ?
Perhaps the Flying Pieman. Eheu! So, one by
one, our romances lade away from us on the dusty
ways of life. Not soon shall we forget thee, O
little soft-eyed maid of the meat-mart! Not
soon, either, shall we forget thy bluff and
honest old father, who, when he discovered the
correspondence which we used to carry on
across the street by telephone-an ingenious ar-
rangement of jam-tins and twine, the fruit
of our own invention—came across with a
carving-knife in one hand and a meat-saw
in the other to procure information with regard
to the nature of our intentions. An illiterate old
gentleman was he, or he would have known that
Hell is paved with such intentions as those with
which he went away satisfied. But Jet us draw a
veil over these memories. They belong to the
past—to the days that are no more. Yet have we
one consolation in knowing that we have lived not
all in vain, and that if we missed a butchery we
made sure of a boarding-house. Well, it was a
good time we had then, though we thought but
little of it. Ah, ces beauxjours quandj’etais si mal-
heureux! When we were not writing love-lyrics,
we were embellishing police-reports, or eulogising
the enterprise of some new advertiser, who had
opened a green-grocery in our midst with a stock
of half-a-dozen withered cabbagts.a sack of spike-
eyed potatoes, a few bunches of wizened celery,
and a small assortment of other aged vegetables.
In this we saw an evidence of dash and spirit
which we were sure our readers would accept as
another overwhelming proof of the flourishing
condition of our suburb, and its attraction for
capitalists as a Held for commercial speculation.
After writing this, we would drop in casually on
the green-grocer, and see how it had affected him.
It rarely affected him to a pitch of enthusiasm that
might not be measured by mangel-wurzels, or, if
we preferred them, onions. We generally pre-
ferred onions, as we were fond of onions in those
days. Onions and rum. Now we care no longer for
onions. There was with us as co-editor and co-
labourer in the ways that were dark and the tricks
that were vain, a gentleman from Tipperary, with
a small moustache and a generous smile—one of
whose many affable caprices it was to get up in the
middle of the night and practice upon an unholy
instrument he called a trombone. He was a sort
of demoniac somnambulist, but the devil always
left him in the morning. It was a theory of the
editor's son—one of the most cheerful fellows we
ever met, and one of the most striking images
of the “Knight of the Rueful Countenance"
that our Tipperary confrere was punished
in this way at night for the liras he told
during the day. And he certainly told lies
enough to justify the supposition. Speaking of
the editor's son, reminds us that whenever he
took a religious fit, which he did occasionally, it I
invariably wound up with a seraphic spree. His
intoxication then took the form of Lara-like gloom
and Satanic obstinacy. He would coil himself
round the crank of the press and defy his Creator
in a manner that shocked even us. On these
occasions we could only disengage him with a
crow-bar and get him to bed with a windlass. But
he was a most estimable youmr man when not in
his hiccups—so we didn't much mind the trouble.
Thunder! We have almost forgotten the Banner,
which perhaps matters the less, as we suppose few
remember it by this time—except the shareholders.
It is a strange thing, is it not, how a mere word—
the mention of a name—will call up the ghosts of
the past from the deep Hades of the brain ? There
is no statute of limitation to lay them. Well, when
the Banner was started, two white-chokered and
bilious-eyed gentlemen of the Rev. Aaron Yollop
type came to the office every day to write it. They
sat in the upper room at the same table with us.
As a consequence, blasphemy would be rife at one
end and piety at the other. To do ourselves and
our Tipperary friend justice, we must say that the
balance was generally on the side of blasphemy.
Of course we were decorous enough to utter our
profanities under a whisper, but they were all the
deeper for this enforced repression. It is needless
to say that our opinions were the exact opposite
of those held by the reverend gentlemen. Anyone
looking at the table above might have seen some-
thing like this written on a slip at one end: “ His
Holiness the Pope is, we hear with profound regret,
in a very feeble state of health. The faithful will
join together in praying the Almighty to spare to
the Church the life of one of the most saintly of
the long line of saintly characters who have Ailed
the chair of St. Peter.” At the other end ihe
would have read something after this fashion:—
“ The beginning of the end is at hand. Antichrist
is at his last gasp. The MaD of Sin totters on his
throne. The Beast with the Seven Heads is dying
in his lair The Pope of Rome is perishing by
inches in the heart of his palace. The true fol-
lowers of Christ, who defy the devil and all his
works and dance upon the doctrine of Rome, will,
we know, join together in thanking the Almighty
for thus visiting with His wrath one of the most
crafty, unscrupulous, and impious tyrants that
have ever disgraced a position that has been dis-
graced since tne beginning.” In the intervals of
writing, we used to send out the beer-jug. The
clerical scribes looked coldly upon this custom at
first; but one duy when our triend, in a burst of
Tipperary generosity, asked one of them to take
a glass of beer, he replied that “ the day was hot,
and he thought he would.” And he did. And the
others did. Then two jugs used to go out regu-
larly, and the Banner gained much thereby. But
tbe post is going. (N.B.—We live out of town.)
Well, all we have to say in conclusion is, that we
think the Banner was ruined by drink. The
editors couldn’t stand it. And it is our great glory
to think that we led them astray.
Some ferocious sentences were passed last
Devon Quarter Sessions. Five prisoners were
sentenced in the aggregate to thirty-live years’
penal servitude for such comparatively trifling
offences as stealing respectively two ducks, four
bullocks, seven fowls, an apron, and three small
pieces of jewellery.
M. Pasteur’s experiments with the virus
of hydrophobia are going on with unbroken suc-
cess. He has thus far experimented on 57 dogs,
19 of them mad, and 38 bitten by them under
uniform conditions. Out of these 38, half had been
previously innoculated, the other half not. The
latter, without a single exception, died with un-
mistakeable signs of hydrophobia, whereas the 19
others are about and as well as ever.
At a menagerie at Wrexham, Wales, a
keeper playfully tapped Nero, a lion, on the nose.
Nero resented the familiarity by at once seizing
the hand of the attendant, who endeavoured by
terms of endearment to make the animal let go.
Instead of doing so however, Nero placed one of
his immense paws upon the imprisoned arm, and,
seizing it nearer the elbow with his jaws, he vio-
lently dragged the arm further through the bars,
and with a jerk bit or tore the limb in twain close
to the elbow joint, and then greedily devoured
that portion of the arm and hand he had thus ob-
tained possession of. However, the keeper will
recover.
It was nothing but proper that the Queen
should confer the Garter upon the boy Prince
George of Wales, seeing that it is an Order that
has long ceased to be a distinction worthy of a
man’s acceptance. Like the Order of St. Michael
the Archangel, instituted by Louis XI. of France,
which came to be so indiscriminately conferred
that it got nicknamed “ Collier a toutes betes," the
Garter will soon come to be known as the “ De-
coration for any high-born I nincompoop.” The
only thing to be really feared, is lest some day a
man who has rendered great services to the coun-
try should be insulted with the offer of enrolment
in the most noble company of gartered faineants.
That would be too bad.
Marino, the Italian carabineer, shot for
murdering an officer, after conviotion became so
prostrate that it was thought he would die before
execution. When led up to tho fatal chair, he
threw himself down and screamed, half unconoious
from fright, while convulsively shuddering. Ap-
parently he derived but little comfort from the
unremitting consolations of the priest. Upwards of
AFTER, THE WEDDING.
MR. CLERKSTILL IS SOMEWHAT DISTRESSED TO HEAR TWO LADIES IN CONVERSATION
REMARK THAT “HE IS EXHIBITING CONSIDERABLE ‘BAD FORM’ IN DANCING,
AND MAKING HIMSELF SO CONSPICUOUS, WHEN EVERYBODY KNOWS HE ONLY
GAVE A BUTTER-KNIFE TO THE BRIDE, WHICH COULD NOT HAVE COST A PENNY
OVER HALF-A-SOVEREIGN.”
5000 spectators went to the place of execution ns if
to a race. Marino fell instantaneously, two balls
piercing the brain and six the lungs and heart.
Immediately after the removal of the body the
people rushed to dip their handkerchiefs in the
blood. A medical student took possession of some
of the scattered brains.
The molly-goodie who serves up the Cun-
dletonnews for the Manning River Tract says,
with what he intends for withering sarcasm:—
“We are now blest with billiard and bagatelle
tables in the town, and last but not least, a skittle
alley to improve the minds and morals of our young
men. Our Licensing Bench seem determined to
give ample scope for pleasure seekers. Of course,
no gambling will be allowed in the above places.’"
And why not a skittle alley? Does the M. R.
Tract’s “ own correspondent ” think because he
is virtuous there shall be no more beer and skittles?
A good square game at skittles is a healthy amuse-
ment, and if the exercise induce a craving for a
modest quencher, what for no? Hang all hypo-
critical Puritanism.
The Bathurst Free Press thus poses im-
partially anent the gate-money riot:—“That the
Australian team as a whole intended to fight for
money, quite as much as for honour and glory, no
one can doubt, and they may have shown a greed
that was distasteful and reprehensible, but the
Britions (sic) should have punished them for any
wrong-doing in a manner more dignified and more
in keeping with the character for ‘bonnie play’
which they have hitherto enjoyed. After this
occurrence, it is plainly to be seen that it is neces-
sary for even Britons to be reminded
‘ That of the great, neglecting to be just.
Heaven in a moment makes a heap of dust.’ ”
Which reminds us, somehow, of the story of the
husband, who, when a fierce Algerine sunstroke
smote his wife in a moment into a heap of calcined
dust on the floor of his verandah, rang for his ser-
vant and told him to bring him another “ B. and S.”
and sweep up his missis.
The world makes few graver mistaken than
in supposing a man must necessarily possess all the
cardinal virtues because he has a big dog and
several dirty children. We know a butcher whose
children are not merely dirty—they are fearfully
and wonderfully besmirched by the hand of an
artist. He has, in addition, a big dog with a bias
towards dropsy, who flies at you across the street
with such celerity that he outruns his bark by a
full second, and you are aware of your danger
only sifter his teeth are buried in your leg. And
yet the father of these children and the owner of
this dog is no whit better, to all appearance, than
a baker who has clean brats and a mild poodle. He
is not even a good butcher; he hacks a ribs and
lacerates a sirloin. He talks through his nose,
which turns up to such an extent that his voice
passes right over your bead, and you have to get
on a table to tell whether he is slandering his dead
mother or swearing at yourself. If that man
possessed a thousand young ones, exaltedly nasty,
and dogs enough to form a sub-Atlantic cable of
German sausage, you would find it difficult to
make us believe in him. In fact, we look upon the
big dog test of morality as a venerable mistake-
natural but erroneous; and we regard the dirty
children as indispensable in no other sense than
that they are inevitable.
Did we eat one another There is no
doubt about it. The unwelcome truth has long
been suppressed by interested parties, who find
their account in playing sycophant to that self-
satisfied tyrant. Modern Man; but to the impartial
philosopher it is as plain as the nose upon an
elephant’s face that our ancestors ate one another.
The custom of the Fiji Islanders, which is their
only stock-in-trade, their only claim to notoriety,
is a relic of barbarism; but it is a relio of our bar-
barism. Man is naturally a carnivorous animal.
This, none but green-grocers will dispute. That
he was formerly less vegetarian in his diet than at
f (resent, is clear from the fact that market-garden-
ng increases in the ratio of civilisation. So we
may safely assume that at some remote period
man subsisted upon an exclusively flesh diet. Our
uniform vanity has given us the human mind as
the ne pin# ultra of intelligence, the human face
and figure as the standard of beauty. Of course, we
cannot deny to human fat and lean an even greater
superiority over beef, mutton, and pork. It is
fdain that our meat-eating ancestors would think
n this way, and, being unrestrained by the mawk-
ish sentiment attendant upon high civilisation,
would act habitually upon the obvious suggestion.
A priori, therefore, it is clear that we ate our-
selves. Philology is about the only thread which
connects us with the prehistoric past. By picking
up and piecing out the scittered remnants of our
language, we form a patchwork of wondrous de-
sign. Oblige us by considering the derivation of
the word “ sarcophagus,” and see if it be not sug-
gestive of potted meats. Observe the significance
of the phrase “ sweet sixteen.” What a world of
meaning lurks in the expression “ she is sweet as a
peach,” and how suggestive of luncheon are the
words “tender youth.” A kiss itself is but a
modified bite, and when a girl insists upon making
a “strawberry mark” upon the back of your hand
she only gives way to an instinct she has not yet
learned to control. The fond mother, when she
says her babe is almost “good enough to eat,”
merely shows that she herself is only a trifle too
refined to eat it. These evidencesjmight be multi-
plied ad infinitum; but if enough has been said to
induce one human being to revert to the diet of
his ancestors, the object of this paragraph is ac-
complished.
Touching that colossal American statoo of
“Liberty enlightening the World,” of which we
so lucidly, so learnedly, so exhaustively, so—[Here,
this isn’t the Down and Gumtree Jernil.—Ed.
B.]—well, anyway, to which we alluded in a recent
issue, it appears that there is a big hitch just at
present over the erection of a pedestal. Herein
lies the difference between the Amurrikuns and
ourselves. We erect a pedestal first, and then go
nosing about afterwards to find a statue that will
fit it; the Amurrikuns first catch their statue, and
then haDg out subscription-lists to buy a pedestal.
The amount required to erecta foundation for the
great Bartholdi statue is over a quarter of a mil-
lion, and the amount scooped in up to the present
date is only a paltry one hundred thousand dollars.
This statoo, by the way, is the gift of the French
nation to America in commemoration of some-
thing or another that no one remembers anything
at all of now, and the people of New York are
lamenting that a six-barrelled earthquake didn’t
swamp La Belle France the moment she first
thought of making such a present. Luckily, how-
ever. the spirit of enterprise promises to pull the
New Yorkers through, and the proprietors of a
patent medicine have benevolently offered to do-
nate $#5,000 to the fund provided they be allowed
to place upon the base of the pedestal the word
“Castoria” in job-type letters, the said word to
remain in situ for one year. This happy thought
has opened up a whole world of similar ideas, and
it is now reckoned that instead of being a white
elephant to the State, Bartholdi’s great statue will
prove to be a most important source of revenue.
For example,providing the “Castoria” genius is
allowed to decorate the pedestal with his inspired
ad., announcements touching Mother Buncombe’s
eye-water could be plastered over the colossal eye-
lids for 25,000 dollars per annum also; tooth-
powder and neuralgic cures could be tatooed
round its jaws; chest protectors could cover the
breast; liver pads could be hung in festoons lower
down; corn and bunion removers might decorate
its feet, whilst round the flowing folds of the
drapery could be carved the dread legends, “ What
is this disease that is coming upon us? Like a
thief at night it steals in upon us unawares.”
“ Down again. Try our seven-aDd-sixpenny pants.”
“ Ask your bootmaker for Clump’s patent boot-
protectors, and be sure you get the right brand.”
And as we don’t exactly see why America should
have the sole monopoly of this brilliant idea, we
respectfully suggest that R. B. Smith form, him-
self into a select committee to deal by that lump
of granite at top of King-street even as the New
Yorkers are about to deal with the 141-ft. effigy of
Bartholdi’s champion goddess.
History repeats itself simply because hu-
man nature is the same yesterday, to-day, and to-
morrow week. As it was in the beginning, so will
it be in secvia seculorum, tQ wit, that the army
contractor shall be a damned rogue and the com
missary official his aider and abettor. During the
Egyptian campaign, as of old in Marlborough’s
time and Raglan’s time, there was muddle and
worse than muddle—brickbats served as forage to
the charger, musty bread served as rations to Mr
Thomas Atkins, delay, peculation, waste—the re.’
suit of it all being a K.C.8.-ship to the commissary
and a fortune tor the contractor; while for Mr
Atkins it meant the thorough undermining of his
constitution, and the pleasant prospect of a year
or so on a pension of sixpence a day, and the rat-
tling of his pauper bones over the stones from the
workhouse to the cemetery. “ Only the other dav
(says a London paper) we read of a man who was
wounded at the Redan receiving 6d. a day for two
Sears, and at last dying in a workhouse. Now we
ave a survivor of the famous charge of Balaclava
dying in a County Hospital, his pension of six-
Sence per diem having lasted only two years after
e left the army.” Yes, it’s everlastingly true that
Tommy Atkins is
“—Jest the grist thet’s put into War's hoppers
LGftenants is the lowest grade that helps pick un
the coppers; w
The Ginerals git the biggest sheer, the cunnles
next, and so on,
Tom never gets a blasted mite of glory ez we know
on.”
In days when the rights of Chairmen are
questioned, and the Lord knows what powers mav
be claimed for a Speaker, it is a juicy thing to
know that Adelong is alive to the situation
Patriotically do we immortalise Mr. Spencer Groves
of Tumut.and reluctantly do we forego any allusion
to Herbert of that ilk who now writes in the Con-
temporary. Wo’ll even be more learnedly gener-
ous for once, and say nothing of Grove’s Correla-
tion of Physical Forces, but, just for the sake of
Tpby (Punch being dead), quote him in full
Listen, Taylor, and fancy a Chairman like this in'
the turbulent halls of Adelong while you can
barely get a hearing in M«cquarie-street:—“ a
Model Chairman: \t the excited meetings re-
cently held at the Royal Hotel for the purpose of
nominating a new progress committee, Mr. Ken-
dall, as chairman, certainly proved himself the
right man in the right place. The remarkable pa-
tience rare tact, and judicious firmness, coupled
with the most courteous demeanour, which he dis-
played in the discharge of his onerous duties, won
for him not only the hearty thanks of the respec-
tive meetings over which presided, but the warm
respect of the whole community.”
Competition among English dentists is
now so keen that you can buy half a set of teeth
for £1 Is. In many dentists' windows you see
placards calling your attention to “Our Guinea
Jaw Which reminds one that an animal, known
in commercial circles as “ The Guinea Pig.” is at
present overwhelmingly plentiful, and that, in
floating a company, you can, for a consideration
be enabled to place on your advertised list of
directors titled individuals, the mere mention of
whose names is sufficient to extract money from
the pockets of those who love a lord. The English
“Guinea-pig” is a person very different from the
Sydney Guinea-pig.” In Sydney about 10.45 a.m
you see si| very-haired, fresh-coloured, well-shaved
old boys, in black coats and carefully toned white
waistcoats, either wending their way across Hyde
Park on foot or being driven down town by grimy
servants in antediluvian shandrydans, “to attend
the board meeting.” These old fellows, though
they grasp up all the directors’ fees, aren’t in abso-
lute want of them. They are disgustingly rich,
and they attend board meetings because they are
largely interested in bank stock, and like to look
after their own investments. In England, lords
dukes, and even princes, become “Guinea-pigs”’
because they are hard up. So many of the nobility
are hard up, that there was more than a mere spice
of truth in the observation which a satirical paper
the other day put into the mouth of a title-hunt-
ing heiress, who remarked that a certain nobleman
‘was pretty rich—for a iord.” Very recently
the writer became aware of a case in
which a man who thought about floating a piece
of pastoral property was told by a go-between
th«t he could have the Duke of on the board
for £lOOO, and that an introduction to Prince
would cost 500 guineas.” The Duke, it was added,
would for that sum go on the board for certain—
that could be guaranteed-but ’twould be neces-
sary for the squatter, in dealing with the Prince, to
pay down £525, and take his chance as to whether
or not he’d have to fork out an additional £lOOO or
so on account of His Royal Highness. Some very
eminent “Guinea-pigs ” of high rank in the aristo-
cracy have played out their little game to such an
extent that the mere mention of their names in
connection with a financial enterprise is sufficient
to provoke the eloquent expressions, “Phew!
Ouf!” But, to return to the dentists. When the
face has fallen in, owing to the jaw having long
been toothless, these gentry remove the depression
by mqane of india-rubber springs, which are both
technically and commonly known as “ plumpers.”
Everything is false now-a-days. Bracelets are
often as hollow as the hearts of those who wear
them. Hair, teeth, embonpoint, tournure, are all
frauds; so that the female form divine is a thing
Which owes its charms unto the arts
Of Worth or David Jones,
Who, to deceive the guileless swain,
Too oft do deck mere bones,
And fleshloss maids with waspish waists,
Sylphs’ figures freely give—
Maids far too seraph-like for earth,
Because too thin to live.
Matters were bad enough when, in kissing your
girl, you had to do it gingerly because of the
rouge. They were bad enough when, after Kissing
her, you were debarred from smaoking your own
lips, because she might think you were enjoying,
not the abstract kiss, but the more concrete gly-
cerine. Once upon a time, the breath of Evan-
geline was “ sweet as the breath of kino that feed
in the meadows.” Now, the breath of the maiden
of Grand Pre is redolent of Florida-water or
“ cachou aromatise.” Once the lovely tremulous
elasticity of Belinda’s cheek was due to springy
muscles, to bounding arteries, and an unstained
skin. To-day, or rather to-night, she proceeds to
lock the door and soak her grinders in a tumbler
of water ten minutes after she has presented for
the vespernal salutation of poor trusting Reginald
at the front gate a cheek which derives its interest-
ing pallor from rice-powder, and its rotundity
from india-rubber “plumpers.”


During the Spring
THE misery, shame, and suffering, often be-
queathed as a sole legacy to children by
rents, is neglected Scrofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary poison at this season, and
thus remove the most prolific cause of human suf-
fering to clear the Skin of Disfiguring Humors,
Itching Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and
Loathsome Sores caused by it, to purify and beau-
tify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no trace
0 f the disease remain, CimcuitA Resolvent, the
ne w Blood Purifier, and Cuticura and Cuticuka
SOAR* the great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, are in-
fallible. The spring is the time to take them.
After three months’ use of cuticura
Remedies, and twelve years of as constant
suffering from Humor of the face, neck and scalp
as was ever endured, I can say that I am cured,
and pronounce my case the most remarkable on
ecord. I have been so elated with my success, that
I have stopped men on the street who were afflicted
and iold them to get the Cuticura Remedies
and they would cure them. This is why lam so
grateful to you, for I believe them to be the best
and greatest discovery of the age, and that they will
cure all who are suffering with these diseases.”
Hon. WM. TAYLOR, Boston.
Cleanse the Blood
I HAVE U*ED your Cdticuba remedies in sev-
eral cases of Eczema, Moist and Dry Tetter,
and cured them all. YourCuTicußA Resolvent, so
far as my supply allows me to test it, has, in my
hands, exceeded in efficacy and efficiency and alte-
rative compound (blood purifier) I have ever made
use of iu an active practice of 30 years’ duration.
E. N. EGKER, M.D.
JACKSONVILLE, PA.
HE. CARPENTER, Esq., Henderson, N. Y. t
• cured of Psoriasis or Leprosy of twenty
years’ standing by the Cuticuba Resolvent
(blood purifier) internally, and Cuticuba and Cuti-
cuua Soap (the great skin cures) externally. The
most wonderful case on record. Cure certified to
before a justice of the Peaco and prominent citi-
All afflicted with itching and scaly diseases
should send to us for this testimonial in full.
Clear the Skin
As A SPRING MEDICINE, Mood Purilier,
Diuretic and Aperient, no other so-called
blood purifier or sarsaparilla compound is for a
moment to be compared with the CimcuuA. Re-
solvent. It combines four great properties in
one medicine, acting at once upon the digestive
organs, blood, kidneys, and bowels.
FRED ROHRER, Esq., Cashier Stock-Growers
National Bank, Pueblo, Colorado, writes: “ I
am so well pleased with its effects on my baby that
I cannot afford to be without it in my house. It is
a wonderful cure, and it is bound to become very
popular as soon as its virtues are known to the
masses.”
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, tho New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skim Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
It. Towns &■ Co., Sydney, Consignees.
COTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Babj
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G~easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, ana
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiere
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticdra, 60 cents; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Putter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.R.I
Willm-ore’s Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN*
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
rtsitors. 100 nrst-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
H7T
I
4.3^ U '
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
ICLA-W OX2O--£^TS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
fie// and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
W ALL the latest music in stock.
H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOT NEW SOUTH WALES,
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.VV. Caterers to the A.l C &c &c
T H ®s^’k“fdro d fSmon“mt®on8 ntUndertaken Balls ’ Weddin * 8 ' Banquets. Dinners. Luncheons
~ DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both ior Ladies and Oentlemen are the finest in
Menu dai ‘y- Booms for Dinner-parties upstairs ’ tUe ,lQeSt
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 am. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. E. TOLLEMA.CHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 108. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
SINGER & CO.
i£»\
mm
m
V/
W. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders. Chronic
Disease, Impediments t© Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health. See.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devons hire-street.
Surry Hills, Sydney.
y//
BICYCLES, TRICYCLES,
FIRST-CLASS, LATEST,
BEST MAKES and STYLES
BALL BEARINGS AND PEDALS.
PRICES UNDER ENGLISH COST.
INSPECTION INVITED, AT
229 CLARENCE STREET.
DDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
C3T- UNEQUALLED SAFETY. |»~ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. 0T GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
BT LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPEB.
ZA
/"///
s
K
3KT,
/77/Z/
07,
//,
tm
**" BIMPL o° F MA - VIPL ' LATION - SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELBS3NES3 OF MOTION. %3T FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates. Digrams. &c. to be obtained tt
HIDSON BROTHERS. Revolt- street, Hedfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-street.
yitmi’s Mm, k
Kibby’s Bbirts at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit, quality or finish.
Underwear for Winter, large variety, lowest
prices.
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &o.
KIBBY & CO., 96 King-street.
£looo_for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great’’MALA BA It” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES,
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
f JIHK “ Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thunk-* to their
numerous patrons for (he cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict attention. coupled wl h thorough integrity,
tomakqthe “Malabar” Consul!ations by far the
most tyrnulac of any in the colonies.
First horse ...
Second ditto ..
Third ditto - ..
Starters divide
Non-starters..
£lOOO
400
200
200
-*OO
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers wo have arrHUged to make our Shares but
• 'S. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand P unds.
We shall send also a single tieket to any address
<nn receipt of 55.. which will entitle the owner to
bis chance of the big prize.
Tickets sont by return post. Prospectus free on
application, hnclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
oooe to every subscriber.
Tiokets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
£lo,ooo.—lff EL BOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.j
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
•offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
•drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, ono is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan ok Distribution :
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OJO, by far the large-1
•offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £300;
•and our prizes are far in adv ance of all competitors
tor public support. Our drawing takis place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it wRI take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, rend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets seDt by return post.
Address— J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s BuildiDgs, Castlereagb street,
Sydney.
P.B. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
■of the winner of our first gran t prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in thin grand Consultation.
T
HE LUNDON CONSULTATION COMPANY
herewith submit their Programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP.
to be run for NOVEMBER 4th, 1884.
Capital, £3OOO, iu 5000 shares of £1 each,
to bo distributed as follows:
First Horse .. £2OOO
iteoond „ JOOO
Third „ 500
iStarters Divide 750
Non-Starters 750
otiIUUU
All prizes payable 24 hours after race. Result
posted to all subscribers, and advertised in leading
weekly papers. Manager,
THUS. THORLAND,
Globe Hotel,
ALBUHV. N.s.W.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY. Regis
tei’ed Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
ttan moet Modern Methods.
Office Hours-10 a.m. to 4 pm.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases ol
Women.) ..
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq , M.P., President P.o. Box 6T3.
Ladies' Waiting-room. No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
It. 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received toy
•very Mall.
-nr At ARCADE. ORORGE BT.. 4S* STONE V.
SOLE IMPORTERS OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
L .
SOLE AGENTS FuR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
Madame Bayard, 7 Southampton street, Btr-i*v , writes: —
_., . _ , October 2,1852.
Before going to bed, as much for the sake of health as of beauty, it is only right to* al tend to several little things of the toilet; well brush the hair;
abstain from using pomade, as it sometimes proves injurious to hair which is already too greasy, while it soils the linen of the bed, and gives a dirty
look to inside of the hat, and if ladies would but freely use Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush, night and morning, the most stubborn hair can be
rendered smooth and glossy, beautiful, soft, and agreeable, while the Brush will also assist its growth, and remove scurf.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH.
An Honest Remedy
PRESCRIBE!* AND USED BY OUR BEST PHYSICIANS.
Which has won its way to Royal favor in England, been cordially indorsed by the
Prince and Princess of Wales, the King of Holland, and Prince Biamark, and
written upon by the lit. Hon. W. E. Gladstone, is now brought to the notice
of the Australian Public. It cures by natural means, will always do good,
never harm, and is a remedy lasting for many years. It should be used
daily in place of the ordinary Hair Brush. The Brush Handle is made
of a new odorless composition resembling ebony, a combination of
substances Producing a Permanent Hectic-magnetic Current which acts im-
mediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always
be tested oy a silver compass which accompanies each Brush.
NOT A WIRE BRUSH
e Bristles.
But
Jt is Warranted to Cure
Nervous Headachd In 5 minutes!
Bilious Headache In 5 minutes!
Neuralgia In 5 minutes! Dandruff
and Diseases of the Scalp! Pre-
vent Falling Hair and Baldness!
Promptly Arrest Premature Cray-
ness! Make the Hair grow Long
and Clossy! The continued use
of Pills, etc., works Irreparable In-
jury. Ask any Physician
Will positively produce
a rapid growth of hair
on bald heads, where the
glands and follicles are
not totally destroyed
PROPRIETORS:
The Pall Mall Electric Association.
Saratoga.
“1 cheerfully testify to the merits
of Dr. Scott's Electrie Hair Brush.
It cures my headaches Witliih a
fewmlnutes. itißiihescelient
Hair Brush, well worth the
prion, hsiab frptll ltd eUfd*
tfve power*.’*
Jas. It. (Thapman,
Mayor.
&
s
o
<4
(9
4
%
is*.
o'-'C-v*
<>
a
i>
&
r^i
«5>
cV
85
<:-
as
p
«
O
vv
m>;
0
*v
<2
[From
Itev. Dr.
Bridgemßn.J
Brooklyn.
“Gentt: l
have never before given
a testimonial, but am v .
willing to encourage the use
of an honest remedy. I am
so pleased with your Hair Brush
that I deem it my duty to write
you recommending it most cordial-
ly. My hair, about a year since, com-
menced falling out, and I was rapidly be-
coming bald; but since using the Brush a thick
growth of hair has made its appearance, quite
equal to that which I had previous to its falling out. 1
have tried other remedies, but with no success. After this
remarkable result I purchased one for my wife, who has been
a great sufferer from headache, and she finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy. A. C. Bridgeman,D.D.
ALL DEALERS WILL REFUND THE PRICE
IF NOT AS REPRESENTED
Many thousand similar Testimonials mn be seen at our dffice.
No. 1 Hair Brush, s'*
No. 2 Hair Brush, 7/8
No. 8 Hair Brush, 9/6
No. 4 Hair Brush, 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush, 13/6
MENTION THIS PAPER.
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH, F^fkUSs.
We will send by mail, on receipt of the price named, with Is. added, either
size of this beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W. or Queensland.
Request your nearest Druergist or Fancy Store to obtain one for you, and be
sure Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
MONEY RETURNED IE NOT AS REPRESENTED.
As soon as you receive the Brush, if not well satisOed with your bargain, write us, and we shall return the money;
What can be fairer?
Remittances should be made payable to PALL MALL ELECTS!3 ASSO3IATION, 54 Margarst St., Sydnav. P.O. Box N0.‘221.
They can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Cheques should be Crossed Union Bank of Australia.
Liberal Discount to thb Trade.
Send for a Circular of Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh Brush, Electric Corsets, and Belts for Ladies and Gents.
Dr. NirseojLSON PiiiCK, M.R.C.-8,, Mount Pleasant, Deeds, writes: — A patient of mine has been using Dr. Electric Hair Brush, she having
suffered from neuralgia, and informs me that she has received considerable benefit from it. As I am troubled with nervous headaches, I should
be glad iff you would send me one.
WOLFE’S 1
SCHNAPPS J
Buy Whole
Bottles.
w. mm s co.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit and
Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 4®B
ALBERT HOUSE. TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last live years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer aad Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
£ 3
SPIIING F I F L D
P II I N G F I E L I)
IIINGFIELD
INGF I E L D
GFI E L D
FIELD
FIELD
IE L D
ELD
L D
© .cV
PER MONTH.
No interest*
Suburban Homes.
Business Sites.
<5 per cent advanced to assist pur-
chasers to build.
CHARMING VIEWS, CULTIVATED SOIL.
Oranges and Vines growing on the Allotments.
The subdivision of Ibis far- famed vineyard »ud
orangery, formerly known as Ellenger's Orchard,
will enable business men engaged in Sydney to have
their residences on this charming property,
Numerous trains to suit business men. Season Ticket, ts. per month.
Springfield is situated about a quarter of a mile from Guildford,
:> miles from Granville, o miles from Parramatta, and 10 miles from
Sydney, on the Great Southern Railway.
Plans as above, or from
FITZ. A. BOYD, on the Estate. Springfield, Guildford
TAYLOR a HARRISON,
iPhina, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.)


THE
IGNO
IPisiZD-©-
IIBLII AID CO.’S
FAMOUS
IMEigrnon
PIAITO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a 1 old
on the public as the Mignon has done sin e
its introduction Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua—blazoniDg forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
Instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinkiDg public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sates of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
Has toiind its way into every town almost of all
the colonies-in Victoria aha New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in Now Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
ran be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australis.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadjon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. *
MOULTON’S
rlmS JpOMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
KUIT PILLS. We mean isured, not merely relieved, and
ve van pro ye what we say. There are no failures and uc
'asappomtmeuts.' MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
trfelA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nwrty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
tfa e LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit)
ioey are as nearly perfect us it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price 1., 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
• _„ „ REGISTERED,
A 8 AFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CUBE for Nor-
th?!; T £ usan( f General Debility, and all complaints
from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Genera] Prostration, &c. By its tonio
foP ing effects it at once removes all craving
ur Alcohol. By its richness inobnsnhorous and
TnmPPSSISj I vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
tho NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
Kalosystem, i s . gd 0 r 2ns. a case.
Proprietors, MARSH ALL BF OTHER?, M.P.S.
manufacturinj,. and consulting Chemists, 10* ard
■ v > : MaTl ret-«trAßt, "ear H~de Park. Sydner. and
Tc'ii“ trtlt ’ Circul .ar-quay. TAKE NO SUBSTI-
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
fesiofes, With the gloss and freshness of
yoiitli, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
broWn cOIOr, Or deep black, as may he desired.
By its iVs'e' light or fed hair Way he darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness Often', •
lih'ough not always, cured.
It cheeks falling of the haii, hiitf stifm'i-
fi!tes a! weak and sickly groWth to' vigoV; It
fire vents and eures scurf a’lid dandruff, am.
h'eall nearly every disease peculiar to the
Scalp. As a Ladies' Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
Silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
, IvfR.GV Pi B RICHER writes from Kirby, (>..
July 3,1882: “ Last fall my hkir commenced'
falling out, and ill a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a battle of
Aver’B Hair Vigor, which stopped the f&lb
iug of the hair, and started a new growth,
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but tor the
use of your preparation I should have been
Entirely - bald.”
HdvniS, proprietor of the McArthur
{Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair,
I speak of it from my own experience. Itl
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from ISoston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer's Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
fit., Charlestown, Mass., April If, 1883, says :
n Twd ye'ars* ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinflled very rapidly, and 1 Was
fast growing bald. On using Ay Ell’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new gtbWtll
commenced, and in about a month niv head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, hut now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
id tifd efficacy of AYER’S Hair Vigor. It
heeds but :i trial to CtmvJaee the most skepti-
cal of its vatltie;
prepared hit f*
DrJ C. Ayer & Co., LoWefl, Mass*
Sold by all Druggists.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR in a most cool-
ing, healing, and refi’eshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE O T TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change iu red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Eleiott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
'•V;
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR- F- WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
either Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform. ’
DEAFNESS !—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford.
Auokland, New Zealand.
W
Office.
'ASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
C.ases for Sate, Apply Publisher, Bupidm?
S,QLL /£*
BLEND
2\_
jX
(]WDEj
4£cis
COLLIE BLEND WHIBKY.-Thi» 18 a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, wdtb ptouanoy and delloacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Bolc
Agents. _
JAMES MACGREGOR,
&T 308 GEORGE STREET.
'VeiEBR*t&L
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD BCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
W HA N UFACT L UHE N SOT O ’|H| E C^» BaiT “
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gcorge-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS tci
order, well made, well shrunk, and a porieat fill
guatanteed.
*
///
HOT WATER N BATH S
HAIR DRtSSINCAWICMSKINC establishment
137, 139 K 141 OXFo'RD\£ r
HALF HOLLOA f r THUHSOAY
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline*
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. I£W~ CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is tha
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosnhodyna
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Bubsti»
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
is
fV
as
&
O
2SS
'T
o
n
07 09
■>
*
4
\
<*lo
to>
g®
Art
r
3,
7
>0
a
$
*
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
Tlx® ZE3©liafble 23uLgrgri.es!
PROCURABLE ONLV AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
|3gr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT JN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
;Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,’
‘VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Qas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD iOBIS 5 A& B Macau?* rie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABE SICK.
If YOU are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.’
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERB
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siekness or suffering or doo*
tors’ bills to pay.
eakNervousMen
'X
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform lire’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
,Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treat ment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19th century.
ARTICLES MENDED CANNOT SB SEPABATED.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.. 203 Pitt St. (Only) Sydney,
AMERICAN
NOVELTY C® ONLY
I HAVE TRIED ALL
jX KINDS JOHN
THIS IS THE BEST
rm
i /
SAVE THE PIECES l
Use Pearl Cement, the
greatest American
Discovery of the 19th
century known
to fail —for mending
China. Crockery Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the American.
Hovelty Co., 203 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for whatever
you may require
whether the article is
in theCatalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything.
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy known for
fiving instant relief.
'rice Is bottle; Is 6d
by post.
Send 2d. stamp for
272-paged Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
MANUFACTURING HATTERSj
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE!
NEWEST SHAPES.
STOUT AND STEAK.
She was an “officer,” or a P a K e *
something—one of those stalwart y° u 9* “5,™
who smell so very nasty on the stage, and *
nice off it. Well, a fine, tall youDg fellow
mashing her, and, at length, she agreed to vo witn
him to—fatal spot 1-Coogee. [We trust there-is
nothingof a giddy nature in this ltem.otberwise
Bn. B. 1 She met him at that popular tryst-
ing place “opposite Bowden’s,” and was surprised
to see no buggy and pair of ponies. olnn
Up Hunter-street until they got to the colhn-s op,
and there he engaged her in
minutes passed ; ten minutesi passed. Then, be-
ginning to grow impatient, she said, pointing to
the colfins in the window, If
hearse, order it out. Nev-er mind
a sunny day like this; and a pair will, it tekes
too long to black-lead the leaders. P e
with the utmost good humour; *“£, ■ ffiat
moment, the Coogee tram stopping, he handed her
in. “Ah,” she said, when seated, this is very
pleasant, even luxurious. There s a navvy in thfc
other corner, and an old woman, with two rod
herrings in a paper, opposite. Ah, here comes a
bov eatinff bread*and-treacle. I suppose a doff will
get in directly. What a good thing I refused a
seat on Captain M‘Musket's drag for this delight-
ful entertainment." During this harangue all he
did was to stroke his long yellow moustache, show
his white teeth, and, unavailingly, endeavour to
start the usual small talk. Nearing Randwick, he
produced a bag of tarts. “ Have one, hesaid.
“I can’t afford,” she replied, glancing at
her gauntlet gloves, “to pay los. 6<L lor
a penny tart,” “I am sorry,’ he remarked
(eating one), “that you won’t have some , for
I went a long way down George-street to get
them fresh.” ‘ I see you spare no expense,
she said, hysterically. N 0,., he , replied, after
consideration: •‘l'm pretty liberal, take me all
round.” She gave a slight groan, after which
there was a long pause. At length she said, In a
kind of desperation—” How are we going back r
“By the ’bus,” he said, with a smile. Then she
squeezed herself up in her corner and said no
more. Arrivedjat the hotel, lie called for brandy-
and-water and a cigar for himsell, and the sherry
of tho country for the lady. He then commanded
that within three-quarters of an hour be served
steak and fried potatoes and bottled porter.
« stavl don’t go, waiter,” cried the lady, as he was
departing; “is there such a thing as tripe in the
house?" “No, Miss,” replied the waiter; “we ve
no call for tripe here.” “No cow-heel, either,
waiter?” “No, Miss.” “I’m sorry for that, was
the smiling rejoinder, “ because when I come out
with a gentleman" (great emphasis “he usually
calls for tripe and cow-heel. Tnat will do, waiter.
“Thank you, Miss,” and he went out with a puz-
zled air. A walk before the banquet did not very
much improve thinffs, though she could not help
noticing that he looked very picturesque as they
walked aloDg the cliff. The dinner was little
more of a success than the walk. The gentle-
man ate grilled steak and drank bottled porter
with an air of great enjoyment; while the
lady, declining steak, crumbled a piece of bread,
and ostentatiously rang the bell tor a glass of
water. This the waiter brought up with the cheese
and celerv, and the lady was rather surprised that
the servant dil not cast scornful looks at her com-
panion, who commenced on those viands imme-
diately. The gentleman wound up by a terrific
draught of porter out of a large glass mug; then,
wiping his lips on his napkin, smacked them with
an air of great onjoyment, Now, Miss Zoe, said
be, rising; “ come along.” . Bu£ b , u’
she faltered. “ Oh, never mind the bill, said he.
She sank into a ohair. “He has no money to pay
It.” she sobbed; “ oh. why did I ever come i Then,
fearful of being held responsible by the waiter,
Bhe tripped hurriedly down after the gentleman.
He was watohing for her (suspicious circumstance)
at some distance from the hotel. “Sit down, he
Bald, almost roughly, pointing to a seat; I have
something to say to you.” She made a ieint of
saying that she would go on Sunday afternoon and
hear him in the Domain, but somehow there was
no ring in the sarcasm. “Now, listen,” he said;
“ you belong to a silly class of young women who
live simply for effect. You would like to takve had
tough fowl which you could not have digested,
and bad champagne which would have made you
sick, instead ot what I ordered— simply for effect.
You would have preferred a buggy and pair along
the shriekiDg tram-line-simply for effect; you
would have liked me to have made myself ridiou-
lous by a lot of meaningless attentions—simply
for effeot. All this, my dear, is hollow. I could
have brought you down in a buggy and pair; I
could have given you a barn-yard full of fowls,
and you could have swum in champagne, had I
chosen. But I did not. I wished merely to dis-
cover if there were a sensible, straightforward,
honest girl In your paste-board and watch-metal
world. I find there is not. You do not know my
right name. There it is, on my card. My carriage
Is yonder. It waits to take you to Sydney. Good-
bye. lam going back by the’bus.” Sayingwhich,
he raised his hat very slightly, and strolled away.
When he had gone, she glanced at the card. It
was that of one of the richest men in Australia!
Then upon the Spring breezes there floated, in a
rhythmic cadence, the words—
“ Missed him! D .”
Trade was brisk on the trains on Saturday
morn, and the Redfern platform was thronged
■with a very mixed assortment of passengers, when
a lady who looked like the cnaste Susanna’s maiden
aunt came tripping along, leading a poodle that
was of the female persuasion, and in a decidedly
interesting way, indeed. Calling one of the porters
—a verdant new-chum—one side, the lady begged
him in a whisper to purchase a ticket for her four-
legged companion; bur the porter, after running
here and there confusedly, managed to get back
just as the train was about to start, and told his
fair customer of the disappointment. Noticing
that Johnny-come-lately had a kindly face, the
lady smilingly observed, “ It's too late now; but if
You like, i’ll make you a present of my poor deab
i'lora. Be kind to her, sir. for my sake.” Then
Bhe stepped into a car full of fashionables; the
train moved on, and the grateful porter, hang ing
onto the step, roared out, “Begorra, mam, Oi ll
luk afthur her jhist az if she was th’ turst lady in
th’ land. And luk here, ma’am, ye’ll not go short,
aither, for Ol'il send you a pup as soon as iver she
has wan.” And all thistime, Flora's former owner
looked indignantly at her fellow-passengers, and
wondered wnoever that horrid, low man could be
addressing. As if she didn’t know, you know.
Little Bailey has a friend—one solitary
friend-buried way up in the Northern wilds of
Queensland; and so intensely lonely did his friend
feel when Bailey left that he hired a black boy
named Tommy, a fresh-run Myall, to sit out in the
back -yard with him on a log and pitch circus-
poster yarns to him just as his gay little bantam
companion used in happy days of yore. This new
Mus Achates was a simple-minded child of Nature,
but had so far conformed to the usages of polite
society as to consent to wear a cotton shirt and a
pair of moleskin breeches, both articles being at
the time of his engagement about seventeen
spades darker in hue than their dusky owner.
Not being aware of the limited nature of the
heathen's wardrobe, the mistress of the house
ordered him to take his shirt and pants into the
kitchen «nd tell Bridget, the general utility lady,
to have them washed immediately. A few minutes
after this there came a succession of shrieks and
yells from the back premises that would have
scared the soul out of one of the mummied
Pharoahs, and on rushing out to ascertain the
cause, the stark naked form of Tommy was seen
shinning over the fence while Bridget accelerated
his movements with the business end of a clothes-
nroD Finally, the lord of the soil got clear, and
then turning round, the indignant slavey ex-
claimed, "Oh, holy Vargin, mam! but its nairiy
dead wid th’ froight I am, lur that baste av a nay-
aur ioosht walked inter me kitchin wid his bnches
in wan hand an’ his shurt in th’other fur me t’
wash, an’ bad luek t’ the other stitch he had on-
Bavin* yer prisince—but an owld leather belt an a
rasr av a red necktoie.’* Tommy washes his clothes
in the creek after dark now, but Bridget declares
she has had the “pulpertashin av the heart ever
*moe that dreadful raoruio*.
A most lady-like, becoming toilette is here shown, of mauve shot-silk, with a
collar two inches high, made of red velvet, and trimmed with light coffee-coloured
laoe. A small three-cornered kerchief of the lace is put round the neck, the ends of
which disappear under the jabot. The latter is of lace, gathered close several times at
the upper edge, and mounted on a band. At the lower edge, the jabot is gathered
once more, and closed with two rows of lace, put one above the other; small silk
pendants are fastened on the jabot, and trim the edge of the bodice like a fringe.
Th® above shows a pointed velvet bodice, trimmed with a satin pleating, set on
with lace falling over; corresponding lace ornaments the sleeves and slit, which is
about three inches deep. A Moliere [?]hu, made of lace material, hides the button
close in front, and is adorned at the throat and waist with bows of satin ribbon. This
bodice, worn over a rich lace skirt, is very effective and stylish,
“Extensive preparations are being made
in London to receive the cholera,” says a morning
paper; which is pretty nearly as clever as thb re-
mark made, not long since, by an alderman—
“ Gentlemen, infestuous disease is riding rampant
through the district.”
Mrs. Amy Barnett, of New Jersey, recently
cut her three babies’ throats and then her own.
She screamed out that the devil had told her to do
it. Then she (we hope gracefully) died. At about
the same time, in London, a postman stole a £5-
note out of a letter. When arrested he stated that
the Lord told him to do it. Both these parties
were members of the Harmy. Mrs. Barnett did
not immediately connect her unfortunate eontre-
temps with the tuneful body alluded to, but the
postman distinctly informed the Judge, that the
“Captain” of his district had told him that if he
didn’t wear the unifoi'm of the Harmy he would
never go to Heaven! He wore it for one night,
and, as a preliminary step to glory, he went to
gaol.


p URE
COUNTRY MILK.
Mil K SUPPLIED by the
& Ice Co., Limited,
h^Food
upon as being
always puke,
WfirSf froui the country districts, as
una City contaminations.
Jilii is ei th Outtep.
gPPftd irom a ?i lfa L ctUrecl at their own depfit
butter-makers in the
■™, - daily, Sundays excepted,
»e e Si '»«; oitv / e hvery is made. Butter by
y ' ty > d aily; suburbs, three times
F,esl >F 00 d
& ice Co., Limited,
STKEET.
TUDY ECONOMY
and
ive your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. tiepstfrs neatly exe
out*.*
%
lias
H
4
8>
O
a
o
W.
MARK
TRAOI
<-o
Or
V:
'w
X>
<2
£>
Zl^cs
crg§?
t*
o
o
N
D
BULB-DOG ALE.-IT is no* the Clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extr
profit represent the common been referred *
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTBi
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOO!
BROTHERS & CO,
p EAPES and SHAW
le*
Respectfully invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS
as follows
Ho iUIiU WO*
Qn d Children s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
j -l-CXjrj, n _ comprising- a very choice and eleg-ant assortment, as follows
n A i a YViij
♦ Ta ILOR-MAD s£ ulsters,
SUinea »
hf®j I>olm^ Ctl ’ a Uls ters, from ss. 6d. to 30s.
TjAot! ls ters. Now Cloths
CUVETS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
’’Eaj.
Es
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
L \diew WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER 3, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
have now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
lDspe otior. N S READY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
01 the various classes of goods enumerated below.
With itX? r coats, cut long,
I TAL!AN CLOTH, 258., 305.,
&tv|| d % lsters - linbd wool ' 3os -
an? ]® t OCK OVERCOATS, 635.
ov^, po tVP v ere oats, suitable for
Drees Suit, 425-, 505.. 555.
KM b f TWEED -SAC SUITS are
Xoth Lt TY !° r , CUT, FIT, STYLE, and
I ° 6 ® Ur Passed lor Good Honest Value
,v AS FOLLOWS :-
•’ 505., 635. the SUIT.
u;'„n Black Doeskin, 255., 30s.
KKu&to 6hrunk aDd wGli matle ’
wlannSsac (w % 3ig
c °ate Vest - 30s.
est of England Broadcloth),
Cfi/T 6 ’Tls.’ed. and 16s. 6d. per pair
° TEMSfis JACKETS, 255.
S V toto e^io Tlann GOWNS, i
111 °6s. toSfi® ’ cotctl Knioker,
in Felt,
Quilted
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d. ,
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. 6d ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, Is. 6d., Bs. 6d.
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats und Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, m every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
<S ansa SHAW,
Ko S BIKEBT.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
olff Sz> Son’s
H
ie h;
adf r *
331 a H Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
<1
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
2nTo-w Open.
HOTEL,
f of King, and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
% .
\ WBcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
a
ft
Oor>\
NS
v ir~ N, - SX^TT^
T HE ONLY GENUINE TINTAGc
TOBACCO.
& 8®
consume, in manufacture, nearly three
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
Cosj , into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
h, Ueror ’ Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
1 ry and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
6r * of Pi »e a CTjrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
u «ROR» TOBACCO WORKS. HYDE PARK.
VjSi,
SYDNEY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
Americaii gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beveragfe in Australia; it has no fiVal; the ottener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOETNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADE
MARK.
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting- of Pine
Wool Wadding-, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None gennine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
Charges strictly/WOo£/?A7£
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURBCON DENTISTS iogMARKETST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Tbe practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnifleient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. K IE BY7
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT :n. cLertaJ^er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
N.B.
Mr. James -
Manager for over ten (10) years.
SWANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
They dear the complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs.
SWANN’S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &e.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
SWANN’S suitable for both sexes ;
SWANN’S gentle, yet thorough in their
SWANN’S action.
SWANN’S Sugar-coated,
SWANN’S and
SWANN’S Easy to Take.
D buy no other.
Price Is., 35., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS
(Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P.S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
■ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
, W m F u D v« vegetable ingre-
dients. I consider them a most valuable aperient.
“Fred. Wright,
“Drug Analyst.
1 Sydney, June 19th, 1884.”
■in
lßltP!pnjl;[,V!^
m
rRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 168. 6d. All garments hand- made, and
horoughiy shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
ydney. Samples and diagrams for s«
orwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
637" THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
O&LY ilOTii^S,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
300 Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Exp crt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, th erefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “U'higkey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
©aSy Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
, AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
ET C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM& CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, Ac.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MlLK-
brand»
-Gold Medal
343 ansi 345 SCent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
/
PREMIER
gsew Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
PURE TOBACCO.
Irand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu
itured by
NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 310. RENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
BtFone
afteb before MOUSTACHE and WSISKEES-
Boyd's Beard l.Hxlr did this,and
I toiU da it on cither bald head or
' bare /arc. force* heavy Mous.
tarhc in from 3 to 4 mocks and never
/ails, 20,000 young men already ' r ' il>h trd'.
Copyrighted. to ear full beards, having need l to rpVS . fyJ _
3 plcts. No injury, easily applied, certain t» effect' I ‘ ollscrv(l tion.
each, 3 for &i. M. , post paid, sent under coyer,l'™ > sndneu 'N A'. )K*
Frank t)ous>a», SoU Agent,BoV^O££ :i^2^mLlLd
®#s9j
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
Browlm?°DlSSf(C? h ona h ßoom Furniture, also
Office Fux-niture, all of good quality and repson*
able in price. Inspection solicited.
C O,
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
gar- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reeelvo prompt attention.


jl-gZLj mlm '.cisv ■X'* -
Q-old. J* eT^relle^y
iHEGI3TEK,ED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
MM DIAMOND JEWELLERY. CAFE SU WATCHES, k
LATEST FASHIONS. 1
T7v r -^.'T , CS:EE3S, 30s. EE-^CSS-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attend*^
‘cJii
■WHAT IS ltf ? I
ASK YOUR OOCTO
JB. JLmM mm^
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE t 6 *
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOT# 1 !
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING Sti° r
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMARKET SHOP-
Come Early and Secure Good Fashionable Clothing for |<
J. J. RYAH, 760 George Street, Hay** 1 * J
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Eruifc
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRIT Ss SOHS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
t*ORW42
OH
:,.nrrs
mum
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as largo
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverane should com-
pare LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they -Will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LOKNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
, AGENTS.
HIGGIN’S
Prize M edal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
rNILBEY’S BILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
ITT Gilbcy’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Jan be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER At CO., Solo Agents,
816 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, EREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T OATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A- MINT <N and SONS’
Edinlmigfl Pale d as.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQUABIE-BTKEET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
■* 1 :
'lgfg
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
block, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
m and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE’S l* r f
STEAM
H. P. GREGO^t
'I |p | "j* T§ *f
SYD^E^
, trnfl *****
ARE SOLE AGENTS *
,x n gri
and have in Stock a»
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED *°S>*
j
TANK OR LIGHT
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & clB °
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMP S
VACUUM PUMPS c OB
' J
-BND FOR PRICES AN° A
CATALOGUES FOR_^
PAINTS.
OILS-
£
PA
Office
: 330 *gf***,
stored
r //
n.t*- f >ai ' terriB
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, tliao^ 0 '
Manufacturer of all kinds of A:rated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. _
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /E rated and Mineral Waters; also , another Gold Medal for L/qu eur
