

W3B AHE IAKTO
GRAND PREPARATIONS
r tie
(rHONV HORDERN AND SONS,
Blaise emporium, hayisiirkey, only. '
CHRISTMAS IMPORTATIONS are arriving by every opportunity, and we have determined to make a Display of
I Goods hitherto unequalled.
: ils ignments of Carpets, Floorcloths, and other goods connected with House Furnishing, are already to hand, and in
|jj these we are making Special Prices for the Christmas Trade.
I ni. not he forgotton, for DOLLS and TOYS of every description will, as usual, he a prominent feature in our
L RIiJSTMAS SHOW, and these particular goods will include many of a perfectly unique and novel character.
y ec ial Lines in our IMPERIAL CLOTHING, for Christmas, and everything requisite and desirable for CHRISTMAS
GIFTS and PRESENTS will he found in the most delightful variety.
WHOHV HORDERN AND SONS,
* Palace Emporium, friajf market, Only.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
tw UNEQUALLED SAFETY. SST" EXTREME SIMPLICITY. tW GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
iW LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
sar simplicity op manipulation. m~ smoothness and noiselessness op motion, es~freedom
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Reilfern,
Sale Agents far
The Otis HfglraiiiG Elevators.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTS US and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
EST Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD ©R£€S, 8& 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF Si
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
m
m
Z 2.
Mrs
'f*
mi
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH OSGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
TWiST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
■9
TOBACCO
YOX POPTJLT !!! This mighty powpr has built the DTYSON’S great, Tobacco Factory. How? The
voice of the people declaring- the YANKEE BOODLE and { ONQTJEKOK ’iobaccos their own
demanded the supply—Dixson and Sons.responded—and nonce a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
the southern Hemisphere, and consuming the hulk of all the Imported American Leaf Tobacco,
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX}
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXi
CXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'XXxVxyyxxxy vxvxxxXXXXXX •
XX
XX
XX
XY
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
MEMO, to you from
To Residents in the Country,
You cannot do better than send down to us for Goods
whenever you want something nice and tasty, differed
from what you can get in the country stores.
SST* Send down to ua for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and Prices-
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
is, icid, iii mm mßifl
397 GEOROE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGE 4 - 1 * 1
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY &
IMPORTERS OP
CO., ENGLAND.
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery
0#
. •Wal
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricun' 111
Implements.
ENGINES*
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
" " — —
Bpeolai Sfaaam, CeiTvttVtug«\,
T?Otqq
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal
MACHINERY. gfiro
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting »h d
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. Qoi
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Sa^ 0,
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural' Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land .„ j*{k c
Hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Thresn
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
COACH Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings.
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on
masury s ceieDratea vjoacn ooiourß* -
hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanize ,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and D a
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters
. jooJS'
Particulars and Prioe Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
357 Searga Street, Sydney.
CO'
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pi**' s
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
ji
C WATER’S system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing then 1
j prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GL
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
qV O,
ye 1
C&r Our introduction of Glove-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great Sd°
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
■W- TXT. CATERv. >
193 and 195 PITT STR®^
SHEARSBY & GO; f .
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe
Trousers from 21s. to 40s. '^
W~ N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at . rMw
W, Sseassby & Cq.j Albert Souse s Temple Court, & 1


OP
A Special Enlarged
Issue!
MAGNIFICENT COLOURED
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHED
Picture Supplement,
By W. MACLEOD, Esq ,
“ Tracliod I”
A CHRISTMAS CAROL,
In Black and White,
DRAWN BY L. HOPKINS.
A REGULAR BUDGET
Ute, Yarns, ana Fun!
NOTHING TO EQUAL IT!
Price—6d. only.
Agents will please send In their orders for
extra copies.
Advertisers will please note that only a couple
of pages will he allotted to extra advertisements.
Thus their announcements will have the grandest
display attainable in any Australian Newspaper,
and will be seen and read by more people than
advertisements in any other publication in these
Colonies.
Special rates on application.
THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 82.—New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1884.
Prioa—«d.
Grapes from Thistles.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER C, 1884.
any gentleman is desirous of enjoying
Dice active intellectual exercise, we would
counsel him to lollow our example, and ex-
pound to the public some novel system of
Political economy which has only just come
*° a head and still requires the process of
threshing out. An ingenious correspondent,
w hose letter we print below, has propounded
a Pestilent problem,, intended to be a poser;
one>hioh—all the more on aooount of
the difficulties it presents—demands to be
honestly met and fairly disposed of: —
“ November 19th, 1884.
“ I want light, so I write to you. lam no
Republican, no dynatnitard. I am a pauper, a
whaler, but I earn (and mako literally) my bread. I
cannot say that I am a follower of Henry George,
although I can see his drift and would approve of
him if nature had not made me, rightly or wrongly,
a Tory. So please tell me if I have taken false
premises or made wrong deductions in the follow-
ing:—Squatters, large leaseholders, are, as far as I
am concerned, land-owners. Now, good seasons
and prosperous times in perpeluo would knock off
half the hands (of my class) employed In the bush-
lam unable and very unwilling to navvy. I And
that whim-driving, sheep-driving, burr-cutting,
and rabbiting are congenial employments. If the
rabbits were ten times more numerous (none at
all here), I should be in a constant lucrative job.
SIR W. JERVOIS, K.C.M.G., GOVERNOR OF NEW ZEALAND.
But it is penal to propagate rabbits, and I keep
within the law. I do not think any law could
render indictable the carrying of burr and thistle
seeds. By placing them in advantageous positions
they would germinate, and increase, and cause the
employment of hundreds of men. This would be
in a small degree, I opine, giving the land to the
people. I know a weed in Florida and Texas which
I could import at a cost of 2s. 6d„ and which is a
terror. In five years it would (in the fashion I
hint at, but, pending your advice, do not advo-
cate) give the land to the whaler, and allow him
to share the squatter's thousands. The still small
voice says that there is something diabolically
crooked in my logic. Just winnow it for me. In
the meantime, there can be no harm in exhibiting
to the Lord and the Devil (Pope, too, if he is any
good) a double-barrelled prayer for more rabbits.
—Yours, Phil.”
If we were content to rely upon alleged
revelation for guidance, we could “ knock
out ” our correspondent in “ one round.”
“ Cursed is he who soweth tares in his neigh-
bour’s field ” applies with crushing direct-
ness to the suggestion made. But as a
wicked and perverse generation has arisen,
which is not content to be ruled by mere
texts, and sinfully persists in requiring to
comprehend the reasons which can be ad-
duced in support of any dictum, it is requi-
site to treat inquirers as intelligent beings,
and to reinforce “old saws ” with “modern
instances.” The letter we publish is a very
serious matter. It indicates that, in the
mind of the educated labourer even in
bounteous Australia, a sense of hopelessness
has taken root and begins to germinate
shoots of absolute Nihilism. For the con-
ception of our correspondent is Nihilistic
alias Anarchical, beyond all doubt. The
hopeless lover cries:
“ If she be not fair to me,
What care I how fair she be! ”
And the tramp or “whaler” of Australia
says, in effect, the same thing:
“ If the land be not fruitful for me,
What care I how fruitful it may be.”
And he revolves schemes of equalizing
matters in such fashion that if he oannot
hope to attain comfort by honest toil, he
will establish a common grade of discom-
fort, careless though he ruin the country in
the process. He threatens, in fact, to employ
the horrible expedients of a war—a servile
war in this case—and. like partizan leaders
in regular warfare, if he cannot enjoy pos-
session of a country, he will ravage and lay
it waste, so that his antagonist shall not
enjoy it or derive any advantage from it
either.
* * *
We will not here enter into the very re-
condite question whether war is under any
circumstanoes justifiable. It is sufficient to
know that at the present stage of human
development wars are inevitable. If wars
be inevitable, there may just as properly be
wars of classes ; and, indeed, all the indica-
tions of reoent times are that, with the
spread of comparative intelligence among
the masses, national animosities diminish,
and a tendency for like classes of different
countries to make common cause with each
other increases. This can be best illustrated
by considering extreme cases. Let us take
as examples the extreme representatives of
the privileged orders, and the extreme re-
presentatives of the orders whioh regard
themselves as despoiled and oppressed. In
the first instance, we have the three
Emperors—of Russia, of Germany, and of
Austria apparently compromising and
patching up their national differences,
and leaguing together for mutual offen-
sive and defensive war upon the demo-
cratic portion of their own subjects.
In short, the depotio monarchs of Ger-
many, Russia, and Austria have orga-
nized themselves into a sort of orowned
‘•lnternational Bociety ” of three. If we
may believe current presages, the nations
are to have peace, if possible, murder that
monarchs may have leisure to wage, at the
head of the privileged classes, a war against
the down-trodden but upheaving olasses.
That word “ International,” in fact, fills the
bill; for the example to be quoted as to the
seoond case, that; is to say the tendency of
the operative classes to range themselves in
line independently of race distinctions, is
precisely “ The International ’’—that society
in which are affiliated men of all European
countries, with the common object of im-
proving the condition of the workers, and
overcoming by organization the instinctive
resistance of aristocrats and capitalists.
* * *
While declining the inquiry whether wars
are, under any circumstances, justifiable, it
will be easy to lay down cases in which they
are obviously unjustifiable. Thus, speaking
generally, it will not be disputed that a war
is unjustifiable when it is undertaken to
accomplish something whioh couldjprobably
be arrived at by less destructive procedure.
The anarchists of European countries in
general and the Nihilists of Russia are re-
presented—by their enemies, certainly, but
we have seen no effective denial or dis-
claimer as satisfied that the regulation of
human affairs, as at present organized, is so
utterly and hopelessly evil and productive
of suffering, that the only resource is to de-
stroy everything, and by sweeping away ex-
isting establishments and systems, clear the
way for a fresh departure altogether. It is
not possible for any person of orthodox
leanings to denounce this condition of
mind as absurd, or nonsensioal—because
there is the warrant of Holy Writ for the
fact that, under just such conditions, God
Almighty himself, on one occasion, turned
Nihilist, and acted precisely on the Nihilistic
plan, employing water in lieu of dynamite,
and assassinating at one catastrophic stroke
all mankind except a single family, the head
of which, although the bestman then living,
was so little worth saving, that he got
drunk and made an indeoent exposure of
himself the first moment he could get seme
grog after his escape.
* * *
The eduoated “whaler” who addresses
us, and who mingles, queerly enough, the
Tory sentiments implanted in his mind in
early days, with Nihilistic conceptions in-
spired by his later circumstances, proposes
praotically to ravage the country in order
that, for his brief day, the persons who have
obtained preferential possession of it may


A bang at the door, a yell of “ come in ”
(this from us), and a youngs dark, good-looking
man was beside us. “Mr. H. Henden, Aeronaut, ’
was on his card. From the time we scooped the
tobacco outot our father’s pipe and sat on a gin-
case to blow soap-bunbles, aerial navigation pos-
sessed for us a weird fascination. Kven now our
nose has a distinct tilt from catching on a clothes-
line in one of our early efforts to fly. And there,
sitting in front of us, was a mau who had been a
dozen times up above the clouds higher than
Mount Hanoi It was bitter, “is it not Very
dangerous if’ we said. He smiled. ‘‘Not muon
more than going to sea when you know your
work properly,” he replied, “lou flop yourself
carried in a direction you don’t want to go. You
ascend or descend till you get a current of air
going your way, and you accompany it whether it
likes it or not. You keep your eye on your baro-
meter, so as not to fall too rapidly, come to the
earth as gently as a feather, heave your anchor,
and walk out as if you were going lor a stroll on
the Block. You then roll up your balloon, hire a
c rt, and go home.” “ But look at the number of
accidents,’ we remarked. “There was that poor
L’Estrange here—always going up, and always
coming down head first. We were present when
his balloon burst.” “Well,” he said, “it couldn't
well help it considering he had its neck tied with
wax-end. Don't you think something in you
would give, if your neck was tied that way ? "
Then the young man left, first telling us that he
was going to make various ascents in Australia
and show the people what “ ballooning ” really
meant.
“ Another of them d —-d actions,” said a
Western editor, rushing into hie sanctum one
morning. “ This comes of tryiDg to provo rela-
tionship between that other ink-mauler and
Brown’s dog- You se >, Brown could not possibly
overlook it this time.”
There is nothing neater in pretty tea sets
and dinner sets than is to be seen any day at 403
and 404 George-street. In another week new lots
of recent importation will be opened, and the rush
for the holiday season will set in in earnest. Bray
Bros, are fully prepared for it, and already feel the
premonitory symptoms.*
THE POPULAR ERAIO
WHISKY
I
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.-YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot boast of geld medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
u m mm,
when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley p
SYDNEY.
T
Coughs and Colds.
|HB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
v PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
•S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Siigli Bottle Dejartmoßt,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO to
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET’
where you ean obtain for
edL
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
)f such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
MT> or WHITE, only Bd. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Thi host Wholisomr or all b»v*rag*s.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHISKY
is. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. id. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. id. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
is. id. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Jfarket Street, Sydney.
be compelled to share with him the profits
they derive from their monopoly of the
“ natural opportunities ” of the soil. The
work he proposes to create is absolutely
non-productive. If the squatter prosper
and make a great deal of money, by using
the common property, land, and paying to
the owners—the community—far less than
the land is worth to him, he might set up an
establishment at Potts Point, for example,
and, living up to his income, expend it in a
retinue of flunkeys and in perpetual outlays
for luxurious indulgence*'. According to
the dictum of the new school of political
economists, this would be wrong. The corn,
munity should receive the full return
yielded by its property, the land-less only the
amount actually earned by the lessee by his
personal exertions or productive ingenuity,
and less, also, the amounts earned by the
persons who assisted in the development or
application of the “natural advantages ” of
the soil. Thus it would be everybody’s
interest that the country should be in the
best possible condition to yield copious re-
turns. And the man who “sowed tares in
his neighbour’s field,” or introduced a plant
which is “a terror” —to use our correspon-
dent’s figure—would be so distinctly the
enemy and scourge of his fellow-men that
there is little room to doubt that, in tin
new codes which such a change of social and
economic arrangements would have called
into existence, he would find, what *he
misses at present, a penal enactmenl
which would touch him sharply enough.
Of oourse the community would gain no-
thing and lose something by permitting its
tenants to attain such superfluity of incorm
as would induce them to withdraw able-
bodied men from productive occupations t<
discharge menial functions. But the munej
so squandered would be quite as usefully
expended as any which might be disbursed
to pay wages to men who made work for
themselves by propagating rabbits or dis-
seminating destructive weeds.
• • •
Our Tory anarchical friend claims to
have a right to share in the proceeds
of the land. And this claim he evi
dently thinks we are by previous utter-
ances debarred from contesting. Very
well. Let us examine it a little. We have
maintained that every human being born on
this earth has an original title to draw a
living from the earth inlreturn for his pro-
ductive industry. And it does not matter,
according to the principles we have es-
poused, whether his exertions be applied
direct to agrarian husbandry, or to making
boots. The measure of a man’s rights is the
degree of his usefulness. Division of labour
is a necessity. Not all men can be tillers of
the soil. Some must work up the raw pro-
ducts, the grain, the wool, the metals, the
timber, and so forth, into articles required
by the rest. But the exchange of the pro-
ducts of each man’s labour with the pro-
ducts of every other man’s labour must
be fair exchange. If one man by working
a year at husbandry can produce iflve hun-
dred bushels of wheat, and one man can, in
the same time, manufacture five hundred
pairs of boots, then the value of a bushel of
wheat is exactly one pair of boots —putting
out of the question, to avoid unnecessary
complication, the cost of material, of seed,
and the wear and tear of tools in each case.
And this fair exchange can only be main-
tained under such conditions as prevent one
man taking advantage of another by com-
pelling him to exchange the product of
more than one day’s labour for the product
of one day’s labour only. Now it is quite
undeniable that if one man owns, or holds
possession of at a value inadequate to main-
tain due proportion, the land, which is the
only source of all things whioh are abso-
lutely necessary to everybody’s actual ex-
istence, he can insist upon having the whole
five hundred pairs of boots in return for just
so little corn, or meat, or other staple of life,
as the maker of boots can manage to live on.
Consequently land monopoly is destructive
to the essential fulfilment of the maxim
that the man who occupies himself in
any industry which adds to the common
stock is entitled to share and share equally
with the man who works direot on the soil.
It is, however, especially to be noted that
the common and natural right to share
is distinctly contingent upon this condition:
the industry exerted must be beneficial in-
dustry. No man has a right to claim some-
thing for nothing. Now, our correspondent
does not claim something for nothing in the
sense of demanding a living without labour-
He is willing to hoe burrs and noxious weeds.
Hoeing burrs, eto., is a productive industry,
just as clearing the forest, rooting old stumps,
ringbarking trees, and clearing scrub is. And
the man who works honestly at any of these
occupations is entitled to as good a living as
the man who ploughs the soil, or tends flocks
and herds, or sinks shafts to reach a mineral
lode. The removal of natural obstructions,
or the preliminary labours of the husband-
man or miner, are all productive work. But
what sort of relation will that man hold to-
wards the community who sows weeds, or
blows up public Jbuildings, or fills up a
shaft. His act in this respect necessitates the
withdrawal of somebody’s labour—whether
it be his own or other men’s does not matter
—from beneficial industry, to work which
need not have existed but for him. He con-
fers on society a counter claim against him-
self. Whatever burrs, or other mischievous
weed or tare, he sows in his neighbour’s
field, he may justly be required to eliminate
without being entitled to receive anything
for executing the task. When he shall have
undone the effects of his malicious stupid-
ity, he has still his living to earn. Now, a
man can sow in a day as much as'will occupy
him a month to eradicate after the seed has
germinated. Therefore, in a condition of
society in which the rights of individuals
and of the community were fairly and ra-
tionally adjusted, the man who sowed ~a
detrimental and prolific weed would not
be entitled to any share in the produce of
the land until he had extirpated the pest,
and also done a fair day’s work at produc-
tive industry. Suppose he occupied his
time one day in picking to pieces half a
dozen pairs of boots belonging to the com-
mon stock, and completed the week by
making another half-dozen pair with the
material. At the end of the week the com-
munity would be none the better off for his
exertions, and would owe him nothing.
Thus the disseminator of tares or burrs could
in a short time, by active exertion, extm-
quish his natural rights to receive an
equal subsistence for his labour, and, more-
over. hypothecate his labour to society to
such an extent that, taking only the mate-
rial calculation into consideration and leav-
ing out of the question what punishment
he might deserve for the moral deflee-
iion, the community would be justly en-
titled to compel him to labour without any
return until he had executed all the useless
work created by his own wicked act, and
had also earned by productive industry
enough to reimburse the community for the
food which kept him alive while he was
undoing the mischief he had wrought. In
other words, he would merit a sentence of
so many months or years of hard labour on
the plainest diet; and, in a society con-
stituted on intelligent principles, ie would
undoubtedly get it. We trust we have satis-
fied our correspondent.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Progress of the Press
After a campaign of some years, in which we
have had to wage almost single-handed with our
“ Plain English,” it is only a fair deal, when for a
change wo come across another paper bent on
furthering at all costs the cause of a real as
against a shoddy progress, to say that the indica-
tion of a true .Liberalism, as expressed by the best
men who have seized the Democratic Social idea,
is finding its way into more papers than one.
With the corruption of {Australian politics, and
with the necessities ot taking commercial possibili-
ties into consideration, the advocates of a true
Liberalism hitherto, have, whilst saying their say
contrived to steer clear of that canny caution
which less whole-souled advocates deem suitable
in dealing with the most pressing sooial wants
of the time. Amongst the journals which
come to hand, none show more clearly the
continued spread amongst ,the people of views
which only a few years ago were denounced
as dangerous, than does the Kapunda Herald.
Being a thorough advocate for as much of the
Georgian land proposals as it can see applicable to
an immense territory with a sparse population, the
Herald says: “ There are martyrs in the struggle
against absurd conventionalities as in other causes.
The man who disregards artificial refinement and
follows nature with discretion is ridiculed and
often out by society, and his motives are con-
tinually mistaken.” The age of martyrdom, the
Herald will find, is by no means passed, when, to
assert actual rights is to raise the bitter hostility of
unoultured and unculturable wealth —a wealth that
in our short history has still found time to exhibit
all the unscrupulous greed of an old aristocracy
without any of its stately charities. A man says
“ the earth is the Lord’s and the fulness thereof ” to
the pious Dives who grabs river f rontages and city
blocks; and he pleads poverty, the necessity to
live in localities and in houses where his children
need not die of small-pox, or fever; but Dives is
before him, him down with the “right B
of property.” His first argument is “ absolute
right" to the land; his second, to bribe and coerce
land legislators; and his third, to howl against re-
formers, and call every protest of the suffering
and unorganised people classed as Labour “con-
fiscation.” The ICapunda man is right; but if he
will only remember that that portion of the Aus-
tralian press wbich~still follows the monopolist
“gag” is daily losing its influence, whilst the Aus-
tralian and the English thinking public only look to
the “martyrs of conventionalities” here for an
indication of advanced opinion, he may take heart
of grace that the martyrdom will be short lived
enough.
Crushed Again!
On Monday there took place a municipal election
for three of the city wards-Cook, Phillip, and
Brisbane. Asa rule, a municipal contest is of but
slight public interest, except to the ratepayers of
the particular section. Monday’s, however, pos-
sessed more than local significance, for among the
candidates for the first two wards were two men
whose names a few years ago were babbled
familiarly from Carpentaria to Queenscliff,
bandied from journal to journal, whispered
in private, jeered at in public, held up
to well-deserved ridicule by grave speakers
and able writers as shocking examples.
Their names were Mr. G. L. Carter and Mr. John
Davies, C.M.G. Both were defeated. We wrote
the last sentence with a sob—of relief. For the
case stands thus. In Cook ward, for which Mr.
Davies tried, Mr. Withers had a majority of over
100. It may appear a narrow one, but consider the
circumstances. On the side of John Davies, Esq.,
C.M.G., were the Orangemen, the Good Templars,
the Salvationists—all those who, as if to give the
lie to the widely-received notion of gradual
human progress, combine to cherish a fad, or keep
alive the flame of religious bitterness and racial
hate. One can guess with what zeal persons so
constituted will throw themselves into a cause.
Political and religious fanaticism aro to-day just
the same in essence as they were at any stage of
the world's history, whether ten or ten thousand
years ago. They would be the same in substance
but that the constantly growing good sense of
humanity has [drawn their.teeth, on losing which
they make up for the deficiency by the foulness of
their breath. Mr. Withers, on the contrary, had
to depend solely on his good name and the common
sense of those he would represent. Common sense
is an admirable attribute, but it frequently makes
a man so tolerant that he will scarcely walk across
the street to record his vote.jiSo, on the one side
was uncompromising zeal; on the other, compari-
tive supineness. Zeallostin both cases. Neither Mr.
Davies nor Mr. Carter]w as returned. Will it be a
lesson to them ? We think not. Men like this never
learn—not even to spell. But we think it teaches a
lesson. We think it teaches that the publio have
not forgotten the facts brought out at the trial
Davies v. Harris; that the said public object to
be represented, even in a small way, by ignorant
and designing men, without even the discernment
to see that the pinchbeck titles they obtain by
subserviency merely subjects them to ridicule—
that, like aD anthropoid climbing a tree, the higher
they go the more they are exposed; that not even
being presented with diamond rings, or enjoy-
ing the distinction of warning one man against
another, and subsequently appearing on the latter’s
side in a speculative action, is the proper avenue
to public honours. We think it teaches this, and
much more; but we shall be content with this.
Tub RATES OF SUBSCRIPTION tO I'Hi BULLETIN
are—For one year, 34a.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, os. od.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per Inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. od. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inoh.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows : —On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 oonsecutive insertions, 36 per
oent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Advertiser” wishes to know the taxa-
tion per head in Germany and in N. S. Wales,
Some subscriber may be able to say— ‘ Wager’ :
We object to settling wagers; still we can assure
you that Prince Albert did not lead the troops at
Inkermann, and was not the first in the charge ot
the Six Hundred. He had a better billet at the
time, and stuck to it. Of course ’twould be differ-
ent now. If a great European row broke out
to-morrow, Albert Edward would be the first
on the (law i-tennis) field “S.”: Received.
..“Orangeman”: You should have struck him.
We have the best authority for saying that John
Davies, Esq., C.M.G., never started a subscription
to erect a statue to Joe Brady, and is not likely to
do so "S.N.”: The lines are good, but some
time ago we came across some remarkably like
them on the very same subjeot, Write something
local, and send along ... “P. O. S.”: May use
Percy Northoott ”: You can obtain the informa-
tion you require by writing to any of tV.e com-
panies having steamers on the New Zealand line.
“w. H.” (Gunnedah : Received “W. G.
Bell”: The biographical sketch of Henry George
by Henry Rose, cannot, we believe, be obtained in
the colony. William Reevep, 185 Fleet-street,
London, is the publisher. The price is a shilling.
“lndignant”: “Do we pay for poetry ? ” Yes.
“Why didn’t we pay you?” Well, because-be-
cause—er—oh. the fact is, “Indignant,” some cor-
respondent sent a rock through the window, and
we wanted something to mend it with. We pasted
it with the writing towards the street, Put the
neighbours complaining that their goats gave no
milk since ’t.was put up, we had to cover it with a
piece of tarpaulia ...”Anxious” : For literary
talent like yours there’s no great opening in
Sydney at present. Try Timbuctoo "Sailor ’:
We have, of course, heard the rumour that the
Wolverene has been warned for service on toe
China station ,to reinforce our squadron there.
We believe it to be a canard. On the lace of it,
it’s not likely the Imperial Government would
weaken our defences while foreign affairs are so
unsettled ...“Friend”: It’s the first we ve heard
of Sir Henry Parkea’ claim to the authorship of
“The Burial of Sir John Moore.” Itsoertainly
notin his published works.... Owing to pressure
on our space some letters must remain unanswered
till next week.


Messrs. Cameron, Bros., and Co.’s Mam.
moth. Tobacco Factory.
Many years ago, the senior partner of Messrs.
CameroD, Bros., and Co visited Australia ia order
that he might personally study the tastes and re-
quirements of the tobacco consumers of this
country, with a view of further extending, by
more judicious catering, the then growing busi-
nesswith his firm’s large Virginia factories; and
although the result o( hi, visit associated the
ame of Cameron with the best brands of tobacco
throughout the Australian world, the Cameron
Brothers energy did not cease with this achieve-
inent or success. In 1872 they determined to trans-
Messrs, Cameron, Bros., and Co.V Mammoth Tobacco Factory.
a Portion of their labour and capital fnra
who la ’ an( * inveBt the same among the people
ihdiißt 80 many years previous patronised their
is *2i cry ’ And the subject of our to-day’s sketch
This reBu lt of their efforts in New South Wales,
how jToat factory, employing over 300 workmen,
len»*v. lBtnbu teB its famous brands throughout the
tiro breadth of New South Wales; and,
our siLt not for our intercolonial blockade lines,
thft colonies would to a large extent enjoy
acenn*' + efit of its productions. Highly glowing
yona?u 1 ?. re frequently given of industries be-
do tho 6 hmlts of New South Wales, and seldom
colon v 0 hear of the manufactures of our
The at deserve more than a passing notice.
in«r Btry now under review furnishes a tell-
in its \i dence °t the strides this colony is making
boons ®* nu f a oturing. One of Nature’s greatest
m an is its tobacco. Wits have built their
test reputations upon its pleasures, while
even the sober philosopher or historian has not
hesitated to unburden his sobriety and drop the
gravity of his pen under the genial influence of
the pipe. The manufactory of Messrs. Cameron
an J Co - is replete with all the latest ap-
powers of genius and a knowledge of combined
on ly to be gained by much experience and a
S t ?
The entire process is one of the most ingenious
and interesting to be seen in any part of the
{SaiJS
and enterprise, that they have gained their present
foothold. The capital required in working this
business is enormous. The number of hinds em-
ployed necessitates an outlay in the matter of
wages alone of many hundreds per week. That
their labours here have been most liberally re-
warded and appreciated is proven by the universal
public patronage extended to them, and it only re
mains in this place to give a general idea of the
manufacturing process. The first object to attract
the visitor’s attention on entering the imposing
building at Liverpool and Pitt streets will be the
commodious offices and spacious sample rooms
adjoining. The other portions of the ground floor
being taken up with the engineers’ departments,
containing a 30 h.p. engine and three large Cornish
boilers, and a box factory replete with every ap-
pliance for making the various boxes in which the
tobacco is finally packed. To give in.detail a full
description of the various departments would
necessitate more space than we have at disposal.
Suffice it to mention that the Virginia leaf and
strip tobacco (which, by the way, comes not from
agents, but is supplied by their head establishments
in Virginia) is imported packed in hogsheads, hav-
ing been thoroughly cured in their Virginia fac-
tories. The tobacco, on arrival at the Sydney
house, is taken to the sorting-room and moistened,
then carefully classified; after which the leaf is
is sent into the " Stemmery,” where it is divested
of its stem or stalk, thence into another depart-
ment, the “ Casing-room,” to receive its flavour-
ing. After this treatment, the tobacco is placed
upon swinging air-dryers to remove all fermenting
tendencies, and prepare it for the next process of
humouring,” ail of which operations require the
careful superintendance of practised hands and
managers who have served long apprenticeships
to the business in their Virginia factories. Recog-
nising as they do that improved machinery and
improved processes and treatment enhance the
quality of the product, the firm has supplied its
factories throughout with the most approved
appliances and methods of treatment. After the
tobacco has been subjected to a satisfactory
“ordering” test, the portion intended and pre-
pared for Negrohead and Twists is sent into the
Twist-room. Here is a small army of men, and
the rapidity and deftness of the workmen at this
employment are really surprising. The remaining
portion prepared for “lump” and “fancies” is
sent into the Lump-room, where a large number
of girls are busily engaged at rows of benches
in the exercise of cleverly manipulating the plant
into various and innumerable styles, weights,
and sizes of “ figs ” and “ plugs ” known as “ Caven-
dish ” and “Aromatics.” After having undergone
the above processes, which ure completed chiefly
by hand-work, the twists, lumps, and fancies are
packed in large drawing boxes and sent into the
press-room. Here commences the mechanical part
of the prooess. This room is filled with hydraulic
presses of all sizes and shapes, with pressing capa-
city ranging: from 100 tons to 2000 tons; hand-screws
of various sizes and designs, iron-preparers, iron-
finishers with their companion carriages innumer-
able, bewildering masses of belts, pulleys, scales,
hydraulic pumps of various patterns, and other
implements required to perfect the work meet the
eye at every turn, while the whirl of machinery
tends to confuse the visitor. In this department
the various styles and grades of tobacco are sub-
jected to such varied and intricate treatment that
anything like a lucid description of same is beyond
our power, as is the whole of this great com-
bination of skill, judgment, and mechanism,
from the “sorting” department (where the large
piles of raw material in initial stages of pre-
Btion present the appearance of enormous ant-
to the foreman’s table in the press-room,
where the beautiful and symmetrically finished
tobacco i 9 being “tagged’—that is, each “fig”
yeoeivinif a small “enamelled” pape •
5f r ia and name 01 the brand under which
Tifnnmn r- o er ®> |l av , e been so many imitations of
Messrs. C. B. and Go. s productions, that they find
it^ ce ? Bary to adopt this means of protecting
themselves and the public against deception. The
whole, inciudinsr the artistic stenciling and label-
of the boxes, must be seen to be appreciated;
and the Arm, unlike most other manufacturers, do
not profess to have any secrets about their manu-
factory, and always gladly welcome with Vir-
ginian courtesy any visitor who is sufficiently
interested in the industry to look over their estab-
iishment. The excellence of their tobaocos Is
chiefly attributed to their long experience in the
business, and the unceasing: carej they take from
tne selection of the best crops of leaf to the box-
ing of the manufactured article. Since 1842, this
firm has been manufacturing especially for the
Australian trade.


Personal
Items
A certain) Australian millionaire was neatly
“ had ” recently. He gave £ll3O for pictures the
market value of which was nothing like as many
shillings. However, art is long and life is short.
The remains of the late General Todleben
have been transported from Riga to Sebastopol
and interred in the cemetery called The Graves of
the Hundred Thousand, where 100,514; soldiers were
buried during the siege.
A New York writer sarcastically says of
Lotta;—Every year that is added to Miss Lotta's
life seems to add two inches elevation to her skirts.
If she remains on the stage about four years longer
under the present system, her petticoats, &c., will
have to be worn almost exclusively above her
waist.
Bentleys announce the early publication,
In two volumes, of “Edmund Yates, His Recol-
lections and Experiences,” narrated by himself.
We have already made extracts from a book of
similar character, recently published by James
Payn. The latter contributes “London Town
Talk” to the Melbourne Argos; but, judging
from the style of thing he has of late written for
our cabbage-garden contemporary, he has reserved
all his lively anecdotes for his book.
As the book to be published by the Prince
of Wales’two elder sons is edited by the ltev. J.
Neale Dalton, the numerous Australian admirers
of the youog Princes may be sure of one thing—
that the publication won’t afford the slightest idea
of what Prince George and his less demure
brother really think ot anybody or anything. It
is understood, however, that a whole paragraph is
devoted to sounding the praises of Burdett Smith
and John Davies. A foot-uote to the paragraph
in question states: " We really mean this to be re-
gaided as sincere.”
Sir Samuel Wilson’s alleged organ, the St.
STErnEN s Review, says that ‘.‘every pure-bred
THAT SYMBOL OF AUTHORITY.
Re the ceremony establishing a British Protec-
torate at New Guinea, the report sayeth: “ . . . .
800 Vagi was selected for the position of head chief
of the Motu tribe. To make his appointment
more distinct, he was presented with an emblem
of authority in the form of an ebony stick with a
florin let in at the top. the Queen’s head being up-
p»rmost, and enciroled by a band of silver. And
photos, of the scene were taken, one of the groups
representing the Commodore shaking hands with
Boe Vagi, who stood with his emblem of authority
in his left hand.”
This is all very pretty, and very
impressive. And yet we are tor-
mented with some rather grave
misgivings regarding this same Boe
Vagi and his symbol of authority.
Is it not, we ask, quite on the
cards that directly the Commo-
dore’s hack was turned, Mr. Boe
Vagi sought a retired spot, and
with his little butcher-knife picked
that two bob out of its setting ?
And having with all haste sought the nearest
public house (it is also quite on the cards that as
there are missionaries m New Guinea there are
also public bouses), may he not, we ask, have
bartered that two bob for the strong water of his
white brother?
Is it not, we continue to ask,
quite probable that on returning
to his home later on, with a
strong odour of Juniper berries
about his clothes, he naturally
began to exercise his newly ac-
quired authority by whaeking
Mrs. Boe Vagi with his “ symbol’”
(minus the florin), just to try it
like? And that Mrs. B. Vagi
wrested the symbol fro® her
hubby and let him have it h©fc
over ihe head and shoulders, i»
still within the bounds of pro-
bability.
Irishman ifl a miserable, cowardly our, who will
•whine and yelp fpr mercy if tackled. We hope
that when Salmon Wilson returns to Australia the
Irish will ask him about his reported connection
with the rag in question. Ever since the statement
quoted appeared, men with Irish names have beeu
calling at the office of the Review, which is edited
by one Allison, who resnects his miserable carcass
and is always “out.” We’d like to soe him wrig-
gling in the hands of —say—Mick Rush.
Things are getting pretty desperate with
that literary mourning coach, the Victokian Re-
view. Mortimer is now laying himself out to
write regularly in its pages. He appears to think
that he will in that way keep down expenses.
That shows the thickness of the obfuscation under
which he labours. Wny, however he does it, he
will be at the cost of ink and paper. Both may be
bad, but they certainly meaa money. rormeriy
the people who sent him in articles, stood the
racket of those items. The result is that Mortimer
will be out more now than formerly. And the
twenty-seven readers will be also ‘‘out more
than formerly. A dashing genius is Mortimer.
Nemesis is a cruel deity. A oouple of years
ago, whan the Government of Sir Bryan O’Logh-
lei brought in a big railway construction scheme,
Mr. Berry stoutly opposed it. The soheme now
pat forward and carried by Mr. Borrys Go-
vernment is practically the same. But Nemesis
had another shot in the locker. When Sir Bryan s
scheme was before the House, Mr. Berry insisted
that a schedule should be submitted, showing the
order in which the various lines were to be built.
He tabled a motion to that effect. The other
night, Mr. Wrixon tabled a motion in [the same
words, in reference to the railways now projected.
This motion Mr. Berry had to declare a needless
piece of obstruction. And the only one to laugh
was Mr. Mirams I But what was Nemesis doing ?
We wish Alfred would “ come out of that
hat ” He passes our office often driving a pair of
chestnuts, and his appearance quite spoils the look
of the turn-out. That hat has been an old friend
of ours for many years. There was a legend
formerly that Alfred used to comb it with a hay-
rake, but now it is known that he smooths it with
a lawn-mower. It is a comical low-comedy kind
of “cadie," with no poetry whatever about it,
and its roughness would put a badger to the blush.
Many times we have been tempted to send him a
new one—but we have refrained. We have quite
enough gore on our shoulders already. And we
know, on receipt of the bandbox, that Alfred
would die of joy. He is usually extremely unwell
after receiving the first instalment of Chnsinas
In the case of the Irish Crown Proseoutor,
Poitou, against the newspaper edited by Mr.
O’Brien, M.P., in reference to statements that
Bolton had “glided from cell to cell” trying to
induce prisoners to commit themselves and each
other by conversations, Lord J ustice Barry said,
“If MrJßolton glides from cell to cell, he (his
Lordship) held he was doing a thing that was not
his duty, and it was not only beneath his duty, but
an act of a most censurable character.” W e wonder
how Lord Justice Barry would have characterised
the conduct of a Minister of the Crown who went
into a prisoner’s cell and drew him into a conver-
sation, having first posted a short-hand reporter
outside the cell door to take down the poor
wretch's admissions. We’d like to hear Sir Henry
Parkes on this subleot.
Sir Anthony and Lady Musgrave gave their
gubernatorial presence to a Brisbane entertainment
the other day, and when there was nothing else to
bo done, the distinguished pair started down the
centre of the floor on their way home. Hereupon
the grace and beauty of Brisbane also got on its
welt and trotted down the floor on the way to its
little den. The local newspaper men inform the
grace and beauty that the illustrious pair should
have been permitted to pass off the scene before
it stirred its welt; and eloquently adds, “ His Excel-
lency cannot be pleased to have himself and Lady
Musgrave elbowed and jostled by a crowd of 200
Brisbane citizens, however conspicuous for grace
and beauty.” What we want to asii is: “ Did his
Excellency escape without losing a ring or a hand-
kerchief or something ? And did Lady Musgrave
similarly escape ?”
They were filing gaily up to the refresh-
ment-room shortly after the fourth session ot the
eleventh Parliament met, when senator Harry
lievien observed to the gay corpse-planter, Mel-
ville: “Look here, Nin., I regard the use of
whisky as the true temperance principle. When
I work hard all day, and sit up here half the night,
till I’m quite done up, nothing braces me up
better than a tot of good old Jamison or Glenllvot.
Itassists nature—you understand that, don’t you?’
“Not at all,” replied the cherry-case contractor;
“but, on the other hand, I used to find It made a
perfect fool of me altogether.” That’s precisely
what I say,” cried Harry, “it ass sbt nature.
Right here the conversation ended, but. as the
brace of senators separated, Ninny mentally re-
solved that, if he ever had the chance, he’d make
Harry's coffin out of the knottiest and most un-
comfortable whtte-ant-eaten wood that could be
found in all Australia.
Leiba Deutsch, an alleged Nihilist, has
been sentenced to 13 years in the mines for at-
tempting, in 1876, to kill one Gorenovitch, a
brother conspirator suspected of treachery. For
this attempt three men—Malinsky, Meidansky, and
Drobiaskir —were hanged in 1879. Deutsch would
have been hanged too, had he not escaped to Hol-
land, the Government of which would only extra-
dite him conditionally on his being tried as a non-
political prisoner. Gorenovitch himself was no*
called, because be has lost entirely the power of
speech. The criminals, having killed him as they
thought, threw petroleum over him and set fire to
it, in order to prevent the recognition of his body.
He consequently presents a creadful spectacle,
being without hair, oars, eyes, nose, lip*, or
tongue, and is obliged to wear a mask. Deutsch
defended himself with great courage, coolness,
and intelligence. He acknowledged having had a
share in the deed, but denied that it was pre-
meditated. When he wished to give reasons for
its perpetration, and to introduce political matter,
ho was stopped by the President of the Court.
The Maoris seem to be born orators. Two
or three weeks ago, Wahanuq the great chief of
the Maniapoto tribe stood before the bar of the
New Zealand Parliament to plead the cause of his
people. The Wellington papers say that “ a more
perlect picture of composure than Wahanui pre-
sented as he gave a bow to the Speaker, and a
pleasant smile all round, could hardly have been
witnessed.” Also that “ his remarks were to the.
point, his voice clear and musical, and his speech
enforced by appropriate gesticulation, but, above
all, the gracefulness with which he comported
himself was especially noticeable.” We should
say that this exhibition must have been rather a
shock to the civilised representatives present. To
be taught decency and courtesy and self-com-
mand by a savage—and a savage whom you have
wronged, and intend to wrong still further—must
be rather a galling thing. Wahanui pleaded with
the Government against the Native Lands Settle-
ment Bill, and appealed to the House “not to be
carried away by a desire to obtain land, but to
consider what was just and rivht.” Wahanui is
now a man of middle age. He will be very fortu-
nate if he has land enough left him for a grave
when he is ready to die.
Th@ notorious Wainwright case has just
been freshened up in people’s minds by the
rumour that Charles Wainwright is now iu Mel-
bourne, and likely to figure, under another
name, in a police court. All intelligent
students of murderous lore will remember
that Charles got seven years as “accessory
after the fact” to the crime for which his big
brother Henry made dear o d Marwood's acquaint-
ance. That was the Hoxton murder, a gruesome
tiagedy, which excited more than the usual
amount of morbid interest, for two reasons. One
was that the discovery of the little affair was
entirely owing to the murderer’s carelessness (in
carrying about the “remains” in a loosely-tied
parcel), and the other was that Wainwright en-
joyed a considerable popularity and reputation
among his own set. Poor beggar I He was quite
the pet of the ballet at the London East-end
theatres in his palmy days, and frequently figured
as a successful reciter. Even the night before his
execution he gave the warders “ The Charge of
the Light Brigade.” they say. But then “they
say ” such a lot of things. A year or two ago it
was announced that brother Charles had pegged
out, announcing that he was the Hoxton mur-
derer, and now the same gentleman is announced
to be about to toe the mark at a Melbourne police
court. We never believe newspapers ourselves.
Max O’Rell remarks that the Englishman
is indisputably cut out for founding colonies, but
decidedly not for making love; for he has no
abandon, cannot forget himself, and passes his life
in mounting guard at the dooriof his dignity. It
wants more wits to make love than than to lead
armies, according to Ninon de l’Enelos an
authority. If you go to the theatre, you will hear
the jeune premier declaring his flame to his lady-
love in the same tone that we should say to our
neighbour at table, “ Will you kindly pass the
mustard;?” In short, M. O’Rell considers the Eng-
lish women in general to be charming, delicious,
and all the more attractive because they are a
bit prudish. He further intimates that a poor
fiddler can only scrape horrible sounds out of the
finest Stradivarius; which is as good as saying that
we Englishmen are. metaphorically speaking,
poor fiadlers. M. O’Rell’s volume is full of flat-
tering appreciations of Englishwomen. The most
beautiful, he considers, are, as a class, the shop-
girls and the barmaids; the aristocracy, as seen in
the Park, does not show to advantage. “ With
the exception ©f delioious, rosy, and blonde chil-
dren,” says M. O’Rell, “ you see in the carriages
scarcely any but disagreeable and stupid faces—loto
balls, which cast upon you dead indifferent looks.
They are the laces of boas in course of digesting.
No smiles, no graceful gestures of recognition
from carriage to carriage: it is the museum of
Madame Tussaud out for a drive—a solemn and
stupid procession.”
The Earl of Malmesbury has published two
volumes of personal memoirs, which seem to be
tolerably interesting. He recounts how Lord Bea-
oonsfield kept in tho Pkess a newspaper to exalt
himself and depreciate his chief, Lord Derby; how
Napoleon 111. wanted to marry Lady Clementina
Yilliers, and was snubbed; how he lied and
shullied; how the Queen forbade anything that
would lead to a war with Geimany in defence of
Denmark; bow Mr. Gladstone opposed the Repeal
of the Taxes on Knowledge; bow Lady London-
derry went to Court covered with birds, and got
entangled in the Queen’s dress; how Mrs. Norton
kicked Lord Melbourne’s hat over her bead; how
Napoleon ITT. proposed to England an offensive
and defensive alliance, together with the Com-
mercial Treaty, in 1860, and how this was accepted
by Mr. Gladstone, but rejected by a majority of
the Cabinet; how the present Lord Bath is very
uncertain in his political opinions, and how he has
shown it; how Princess Edward of Saxe-Weimar
E laces implicit confidence In Zadklel’s Almanac;
ow Mr. Bright, in 1869, was perfectly inefficient as
a man of (public) business, and hardly ever went
to his office: how intimate the relations were be-
tween Sir Algernon Ilorthwick and the late Em-
peror of the French. Here is one of his yarns:—
“November 30tb.—Mr. Bentinck called and an-
nounced the death of Lord Fitzhardinge, whose
last words were: ‘The angel of death is hovering
over Berkeley Castle, and if you don’t feed those
ducks in the lower pond, I'll be d d if you
don’t lose them all.’ ”
Some new letters of Sydney Smith have
just been brought to light. Here is one sent to a
friend who had asked for a reserved seat in Bt.
Paul s Cathedral:—“To go to St. Paul’s is certain
death. The thermometer is several degrees below
zero. My sentern es are frozen as they come out of
my mouth and are thawed in the coHrse of the
summer, making strange noises and unexpected
assertions in various parts of the church; but if
you are tired of a world which is not tired of you
and are determined to go to St. Paul’s, it becomes
my duty to facilitate the desperate scheme.”
Moore was invited by Smith to “a breakfast of
philosophers at ten punctually—muffins and meta-
physics, crumpets and contradiction. j' Here are
some of the Rev. Sydney’s recipes for curing low
spirits:—“lst, Live as well as you dare . . . 4th,
Take short views of human lile . . . 9th, Attend
to the effects tea and coffee produce upon you;
10tb, Compare your lot with that of other people
. . . 12th, Avoid poetry, music, serious novels,
sentimental people; 13th, Do good; 14th, Keep
good blazing fires; 16th, Believe me to be very
truly yours, Sydney Smith.” This most loveable
of clergymen wrote thus to a friend after a certain
public meeting on the Catholic Emancipation
question:—“l slept at the Tiger Inn the night
before, and asked the servants what they thought
of the Catholics and Protestants. I must inform
you of the result. Tbe chambermaid was decidedly
for the Church of England. Boots was for the
Catholics. The waiter said he had often (God
forgive him) wished them both confounded to-
gether.”
Gerald Massey, poet and philosopher, de-
livered a discourse on Robeit Burns iu Sydney, on
Sunday last, and, at the conclusion of the lecture,
said that be had heard of the movement afoot to
erect a monument to the memory of Kendall. “ I
am told,” said Gerald, “that he, too, was some-
thing of a sinner in his lifetime, but that should
not be a reason for not subscribing anything td
put a headstone to bis grave.” “ Let it be ddne,”
continued Gerald, “ as a token of your sympathy
and forgiveness.” To all which, so say all of us,
But to the rest. Maesey is not the man wb.will
duck under to when, to lurthef a righteous object,
we fire asked to gulp down such drivelling as thiss
“ I have receivbd a letter to-day from someone who
must be what.is oailed. a ihfeditiiti, who writes of
a visit by Kendall, in the spirit, aiid says—
‘ There is a quiet, subdued, pttrifled look about
him, as though he had been on a long, long
jourtley, and had what we call ‘improved.’ There
is a manly, selbcontalned, quiet dignity about
him; and he even seems to me to smell sweet and
pure . This is evidence corroborative of the change
—not to you; but it is evidence to me.’ ” We have
marked a few words in italics, and, if Spiritualism
will kindly descend to the region of such human
sense as God Almighty has seen fit to range within
terms of Time, Space, Matter, Motion, and Force,
which are the unescapable conditions of rational
thinking, or, if he will openly say that the “me-
diums” have ever told anything not translatable
within those terms, we are prepared to listen. But
not till then. A tomb for Kendall, by all means;
for he sang us a beautiful song not measureable
in cash. But do not give us any more of this,
which does not “ smell ” by any means “ sweet and
pure,” even when shown by men of culture.
Henri Rochefort and Captain Fournier
bad a duel at Plessis, on 10th Oct., over an article
written by the former re Tonquin affairs. Swords
were the weapons. The duel was a c orps-d-corps
fight—that is to say, the adversaries were in close
quarters, as though armed with daa-gers. Simul-
taneously M. Rochefort was cut in the neck above
the left clavicle, and Captain Fournier stabbed in
the side. The latter lost a great deal of blood, but
not only retained consciousness, but shook hands
in the most cordial way with M. Rochefort and his
seconds, and complimented the former on his
good swordsmanship. M. Rochefort did not re-
move his coat, but opened his shirt-collar and
stuck a handkerchief on the out he received. He
was in excellent spirits in going, but was much
concerned for Captain Fournier on his way back.
It is stated that both gentlemen were very much
in earnest, and that t >e fight only lasted 10 sec.
The scene of battle was the spot where Rochefort
fought M. Fourton. Rochefort has for a long time
refused to fight anyone, whether tie aggrieved
party had a good cause or not, but he gave way to
Captain Fournier, ns the vicarious champion of
the French Government. It is a wonder be did
not recognise that he was playing a game in which
he took all the risks. If his enemy killed him the
Government would be rid of a caustic critic; if he
killed his enemy the Government would not be in
tho least injured. The proposal, indeed, reminds
us of William Cobbott’s answer to the man who
sent him a challenge, that he should chalk a life-
size figure on a barn door, and if he struck it in a
vital part, Cobbet would engage to consider him-
self killed. Rochefort could with his pen inflict
far heavier wounds upon the Government than he
has inflicted upon their champion with his sword.
If the Gallio sense of humour were only equal to
the nation’s sense of wit, some French Mark Twain
would long ago have ridiculed this kind of duel-
ling out of existence.
The crystal spring of our luck la now get-
ting so thick that it almost amounts to muddiness.
We encountered Larry Foley the other day eating
sprats and crackers at J. D. Young’s. We noticed
at once that a change had come over Laurence—
quite an aesthetic glamour surrounded him. He
was bandolined and be-diamonded; and it was a
treat to see -he being the cynosure of every eye—
the digage manner in which he hid away the sprats
and conceale ■ the crackers. Various attempts
were made by the perturbed proprietor to distract
Larry’s attention from the sprat tin; but when it
subsequently dawned on J. 1). that nothing but a
fire could move him, he sat himself down in dispair,
and began talking to Alderman Meeks about tin
and the belles-lettres. Edging up to the banquet,
we said, “ Hullo, Larry, how’s the pub. getting
on?’ ’•Well, d’ye see,” he replied,” I’vo
give it up.” “Whatl” we exclaimed, starting;
Y ‘ Surely you’re not the new art critic on the Rum.
“ Wbat’s that ?” “ Oh, the party who writes about
the Chiara-oscuro.” “ Who was she bred by ? ’
inquired Larry. ‘‘Bred by .” *’ Well, d’ye see,
I forget, d’ye know, but I saw that thero Carac-
tacus run somewhere.” “ Well, what about your
match with Farnan?” ‘‘lt’s a cornin’ off, but
mum's the word—d’ye see ? eh? jouknow: twig?
humph!" he said, knowingly. “Do you feel
pretty confident this time ? ” “ There’s a goin’ to
be a dray and a sack a waitin’ outside, ana we 11
shovel in it what’s left of him after the fight.
“ But Miller gave you rather a take-down, Larry.
We never saw a man look so much like raspberry-
jam before.” “ Well, d'ye see, you know, he s
pretty big, but I’m game to box him for a thou,
when he likes.” “ You’re pretty well now, Larry,
aren't you?” “Rosy.” “And you like being
pretty well?” “Whatthe lOf course I does.’
Then we wouldn’t box Miller if we were in your
place.” At this juncture we retired, quickly fol-
lowed by a cracker, and, we believe, a slice or
sausage.
Hans Makart, a pupil of Piloty, and tho
painter of “Charles V. entering the .city of Ant-
werp,” died about three months ago at Vienna.
The news was not carried to Australia by any or
the telegraphic services. It came along among
the rut of things in the newspapers. As the dea&


John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
®®RB, 90 "Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
e Purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
*wvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
,* w Mill Plant, &c. No commission oharged for
UTing. tier* Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
1
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for Xmas and New
Year’s amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
eariy as possible, and we will forward the infant
as soon as received. Post iree, Is. 6d.
*
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal ;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two flit Is. each.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
' y H
m\\m
170
R.BURGIS
TAILOR .
rag
/.*Js
< \d *=t n a i
*
\ ;'S: ii'Fiiii,, % r :
y\\ ffv.iW
:ir
??ll- ■ ■
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 1,70 PITT-STRE ET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for
forwarded to any part of the colony
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
b&* * eU %W^ceV<* £l
Liahtnipg and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
MANHOOD RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Curb of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &C., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney.
m
.COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using: a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
,
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard, against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
W. H. CHARD AND CO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
T IBERAL ADVANCES made on 'VOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
S 3
II
*
c:
&
HOI
■U
r.
&
w%
ft
*
Q
INVALUABLE
•UrrERINo
TP°!*
TO
to
[on
Ss
u
efi
in
in*
Ne
[Vou
s oe
LIV
5S
Ge
felt)
ft!
•ha
FU
i tsPECIALLY s
IPTID FOR T
Colonies? 1
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
COCERUE H CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson&Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang 1 Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Priees.
BRUSSELS CARPETS AT Ss. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. fW CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s PhosDhodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M'SHARRY,
Contractors.
C. B. NODim,
Gun & Cutler.
|3P“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading: Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All Roods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
an y European workmanship.
v^;h-^ So 1? A »ent for Australia of the celebrated
do£“of "S"'a, C ltolr. 0eso "“ ; *‘ so An * <,to Bor -
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
m
2S
r.;
First Prizes ana Exhibit ten.
MR. F. WARE.
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Lauurhin* Gas
-‘Ether Spray, Methyiine, and Chloroform.
ISSnceofufS
I
he only infallible remedy for
-//ERybi/sjDEßiLijyf
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of thesystem; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
£j. on£ L J n cases at or four quantities is one for
<S6s. ; if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney. I
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
ITJI O ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
try IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
tSF” Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
fid. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE S TREET, SYDNEY.
N
*
c>
rr
AS
£
©
o
&
Royal
Sydney
Arcades
6
man was one of the first artists in Europe, and as
about the period of his death the fall of a stump in
the North of England was sent trembling along the
wires to us, the Melbourne Arqus observes that
those who supply our cablegrams have *» queer
conception of our wants. The observation is per-
tinent But though a conception be queer, cannot
it be true ?
Sir Patrick Jennings, most puissant Knight
°f J* 1 ? Papal order of St. Gregory, has just pre-
sented St Mary’s with £3O worth of Mass music by
Hummel and Weber. And now the congregation
at the Cathedral is scratching itself to know
whether the correct thing would be to present
Sir Pat. with a vote of thanks, or chop off his
head and throw it into our lovely harbour. Quite
a number of people are of opinion that the bulk
of our churches stand in far greater need of a
r ®^ u l ar choir than they do of music Scarcely one
of them can raise a double quartette of singers,
and not a single Catholic church In the city can
boast of an organ which can lay claim to being
nnythmg but a used-up broken-winded “ bag o’
whustles.” From year to year the same old pro-
of Mozart’s “12tb,” Haydn’s “Imperial,”
and vv f^ r ln **(3.» j 8 put forward in abed-quilt
or P.’Ckfork sort of fashion, and the stylo the
musicWmurdered would lead one to Imagine that
the Idea of the clerical authorities who tolerate
the misery is simply to disgust the faithful with
the things of this world, and cause them to not
care a cuss how soon they step out to the land of
the Great Hereafter. Jealousy amongst the
singers is one of the principal causes of this dis-
creditable state of affairs, and we fear this will
never be remedied until some genius who unites
the marvellous musical skill of a Mozart with the
shrewd business tact of a Bennett, bobs up, and
composes a Mass whioh will contain at least one
separate solo for every vocalist in a choir, Then
rfel,?n supreme in the organ loft, and the
faithful down stairs will feel mad enough to drag
the hair out of the plaster on the walls, and scalp
their beloved pastor. It is only fair to Sir Patrick
Jennings, however, to state that he is quite an
authority on musical matters now, and we believe
he practices four hours every day on the big
bassoon, when there isn’t a funeral in the next
house. Like the “Pinafore” crew, he “means
well, but he don’t know.”
This story is extant —if not In choioe
Italian, at least In Australian of a vivacious
character. A man who had worshipped at the feet
(or say foot—it would take three men to worship
at all of them) of Dan O’Connor for many moons,
having experienced reverses through the agency
of extract of malt in elongated “ goblings,” made
a sudden resolve to apply to the “ j»ynil ’’ one for
assistance. Not havlDg the money to be “at every
picnic,” he conceived the idea of addressing Danin
verse; and we have been favoured by the author
with a copy (much stained by tobacco) of his
effusion. Here it is:—
To Daniel O’Connor, Esq., M.P., J.P., P.P.,* &o.
Alas 1 to me it is not given
To bask in thy soft, lustrous eye.
To gaze upon thit form that heaven
So rarely gives Mortality I
O bright Apollo! thy sweet voice
Was fashioned by the gods above thee;
No slave of a barbaric race
Could see thee, Daniel, and not love thee.
Thy beard’s one whioh with silver rime
The pixies, Dan, have purely painted;
A face that’s far more than sublime,
One that’s so picturesque and “ sainted.”
How often have I followed thee
In all thy legislative flashes I
And what a joy has been to me
Those Andalusian silken lashes!
If I had gold I’d scatter pounds,
Adonis, you know, ev'ry minute;
And if you wanted tenners, zounds!
Sweet member, how would you be “ in it?”
Sad. desolate, your kindly heart
These lines will touch, DaD, I’ll be bound;
And go, if you're inclined to “ part,”
Just seal it up and send it round.
Ho “ copped” a tenner.
* Picnic Patron.
Mr. Monoure Conway, who recently visited
Australia on a lecturing tour, has retired from his
jfllnistratioDS at South-placo Unitarian Chapel.
London, where he hue preached for twenty-one
years, and has published a volume of “ Farewell
Discourses.” The last of these entitled “ Apolo-
gia,” is a modest and singularly graceful sketoh of
Mr, Conway’s spiritual autobiography, showing by
what gradual stages he has progressed from boing
a Methodist itinerant, warning people of the
■wrath to come, and preaching the gospel of salva-
tion by the blood of Christ,” until now he finds
himself no longer able to oall himself a Theist,
even in the most liberal sense of the term. The
first lecture, “ A Gnostic’s Apology,” is more
general, but to the same intent; and the other five
are In keeping with It. Let this passage be a
earn pie;—“Some say that the practical sphere of
thought and feeling to which religion has been re-
JOgated by the loss of ancient speculations is small,
prosaic, unpoetlc. We have no more any angels
and archangels, no sublime abyss of Infernal
spirits, none of the vast visions of bell and heaven
that entranced the gaze of Dante and Milton. Well,
the human religion Is as yet In Its Infancy; per-
haps there are visions to come later; but even now
we are realising a new world around us, long
overshadowed by our star-gazing neglect. From
their hiding-places new Bibles are comlDg, scrip-
tures of every race and age, and the great
oratorio of humanity swells through them for
the first time. Our canon is vastly enlarged
and enriched. Heroes and sages come from
their graves; we are no longer bound to think of
half the hermes and sages of our race as pagans
burning in hell: we lovingly walk with Zoroaster
beside the Euphrates, we listen to Buddha beneath
the Bo trees, we gather witn the youth of Athens
to listen to Socrates and Plato; and Jesus, who for
fifteen ceuturies was taken from us by Theology,
made into an unloveable high (priest and fierce
judge, has come forth to our fearless research with
all the sweetness and love that melted the heart of
Mary, and all the eloquence that charmed men
from their idols. For ono, I do not think that in
all my orthodox years I ever got so much joy from
Gabriel and Michael, and other angels, as in these
last years I have got from communion with
puddha, whom I then knew not, and Jesus, whom
l only dreaded. If our old heavens have grown
dim, we have gained a fairer earth. And if we no
longer expect a millennium, we have gained the
secret of further creation—have learned the law
°f development, by which the best can be selected
and the good furthered. We have gained powers
oi healing, of soothing pain, of increasing happi-
ness, which the past fabled in miracles. Our
science and poetry road wonders In insect and
flower greater than superstition ever found in
Planet or angel.”
• • *
There is a curious conceit of Edgar Allan
Po* ’s that seems to have escaped bis biographers.
lo attack a man of talent is the easiest way of
arriving at celebrity—for fools. The scorpion
never have attained the honour of being
™ade a constellation had it not stung Hercules in
the heel I” ...Mr. Walter Besant, the novelist, is
apout to take unto himself another paitner—a
uterary one—ln the person of Mr. Pollock, and a
R?l^ nove l from their joint pen will shortly appear
|u the monthlies. In the firm of Besant and Rice
” lr ’ B° Ban t who did most of the literary work,
bhil 6 the arrangements with the publishers and
editors were managed by Mr. Rice There are
fnree peers of the realm who have exceeded the
of ninety years—namely, the Earl of Buck-
“ghamsbire, the Earl of Stradbroke, and Viscount
‘Veraley, each of whom is in his ninety-first year.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ federal
cialty Union, Sydney
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
MINSTRELS and Spe-
and Melbourne. Novel-
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Theatre royal.
Under the direction ot
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musorove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, iieo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
SUCCESS OF ALL SUCCESSES.
TURN OF THE TIDE,
Every Evening till further notice.
TURN OF THE TIDE
affords the most entertaining and complete even-
ing’s entertainment, perfect in every detail ol
dramatic construction, full of emotion and comedy
stirring incidents, thrilling situations, and brilliant
scenic effects II! ,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
J. R. GR&VILLF,
B. N. JONES
and the _
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
PRICES: Dress Circle, ss.;. Stalls, 35.: hamily
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
B W
Lessees
OPERA HOUSE.
E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
This and Every Evening.
Grand Production, by
MAJERONI and WILSON S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
of LUSCOMBE SEARELLE’S NEW OPERA
BO BA OIL BOBADIL MAD L
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast
Miss Grade PUisted Miss Ranees faville
Miss Minnie Desmond Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Chas. Harding Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. F. Wentworth Mr. Oily Deeriog
Mr A. Davies Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUBCOMBE SEARKLLE.
Leader .. ... ••• ... HERR KDSTKR.
BOBADIL. BOBADIL. BOBADIL.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open
19th, 1885.
tlon to
DATE, MONDAY. JANUARY
Share or Let. Terms on applica-
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTB HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
It is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
500 people, and h:«s a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
Grand Balloon Ascent
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
SATURDAY, DEC. 6th, 1884,
Under the patronage of
HIS EXCELLENCY
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS, K.C.8.,
JOHN HARD lE. ESQ, THE MAYOR,
and Alderman of Sydney.
MB. H. HEN DEN, aeronaut to the Crystal and
Palaces, London, will make his
first ascent in his splendid new Balloon “The Gom.”
Gates open at 1 o'clock. Ascent to take place at LUO.
Admission, Is.; Reserved Chairs, 25., to the en-
°*MrJDha§. Austin’s Sir Joseph Banks’ brass band
Business- Manager—Mil. C. F. STRATTON.
O
RANGE VOLUNTEER FIRE BRIGADE.
Grand Handicap, £lOO.
Ist Prize, £7O; 2nd, £l5; 3rd £10; 4th, £5.
TO BE RUN AT ORANGE, JANUARY 26, 1885.
AMATEUR CUP, £lO, and numerous other events.
Entries for Grand Handicap and Amateur
Cup, £l, to be sent to the Secretaries not later than
January 4th. Acceptances, £l, to be in by Janu-
ary 22nd, 1885.
CHAS. SLACK, I Hon.
R. NEW ALL, ) Secretaries.
At the Royal Furnishing Arcade
THIS MONTH.
THE MONTH OF DECEMBER.
Attractive Good* at Attractive Prices for
Everybody.
OUR SHOW-ROOMS have been altered in order
to make more room and display our magnifi-
cent stock to better advantage.
OUR COMPLAINT always has been “insufficient
room,” and at Christmas time especially, when we
are so busy, and when our display is unusually
large and attractive, we feel the benefit of any
alteration that will more room for our Christmas
show.
Our System of marking everything- in plain
figures is faithlully carried out, and thus intend-
ing buyers are enabledjto walk through the vari-
ous departments and show-rooms and compare our
prices
Our Prices this Christmas month are exceedidgly
low—lower than they have ever been in former
years.
We have, therefore, to urge the necessity of
Bending orders in early, particularly tho-e from
the country; for, under present prices, and taking
into consideration our magnificent stock, we shall
have a very busy month.
Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
428 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
I
N
D
N
G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite or
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 30l
Castlereagh- street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can ail be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
SDring floor, &c. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OP THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, caie of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the »nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
3d.; 100 tickets, 315.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 31s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 13 hours, 30th August,
1877. Six Lessons, 31s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
The Vienna Confectionery
and Cafe,
54 and 5G William-street,
Next to Lawson's Large Furniture Warehouse.
SPECIALLY
ESTABLISHED FOR PRIVATE ORDER TRADE.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN of Sydney and
its environs are most respectfully informed
that we have commenced BUSINESS at the above
address, and will be happy to attend to all orders
that we may favoured with, diligently supplying
requirements in a superior manner and of the very
choicest description and variety.
WEDDING CAKES, BIRTHDAY CAKES, AND
CHRISTENING CAKES, TARTS, Pastry, or
Jelly, &c. &c—VIENNA CONFECTIONERY
AND CAFE.
For ICE-CREAM, go to the Vienna Confectionery.
Beautiful Effects in CAKES and ICE-CREAMS:
see Photos, at the CafA Lion or Deer group—
Flowers and Fruit Basket—Ducks, Geese, and
Swans, with young—Pigeons in Nest—Angels'
Post—Nicely comparisoned 4-horse Carriage-
Water-mill in full working order, splendidly
illuminated—Amour at play with Pigeons—
Amour with Horn of Plenty—Lohengrin, &c.—
These and other elegart devices will decorate
our patrons’ Tables at moderate rates.
For CHOCOLATE, come to us: we will supply
you with the best Chocolate in the world.
BON-BONS, PRALINE AND FONDANTS.
PATISSERIE and DESSERTS.
TEA, COFFEE, and CHOCOLATE always ready
GREAT ASSORTMENT
OF
FANCY CONFECTIONERY.
LANG BROS. & CO.
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED]
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CHARLES 11 ui CO.,
375] George-st., Sydney/
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
COLES
s^:
MX
i'S
/(,
%
CkistaUswlarMs
EDWARD R. COLE
HAS pleasure Id announcing that he has just
received a Magnificent Assortment of
UmsOtwYtarM
from the principal English, American, and Conti-
nental Manufacturers, comprising all the
LATEST and MOST ELEGANT DE3IGNS in
Floral Cards
Plushed Cards
Fringed Cards
Hand-Painted Cards
Photographic Cards
Gelatine Cards
[Floral Fans
Compressed Flower Cards
Mechanical Cards
Folding Cards
Satctaets
&c., &c., &c.
The Stock, amounting to
£3OOO,
is of the Choicest and Most Varied Description
ever shown in Sydney, representing the pick of
the London, American, and Continental Markets ;
and many of the designs are unrivalled for beauty
of finish and execution, in order to clear out
this immense stock of Cards, they will be sold at a
small advance on manufacturers' prices, and less
than Sydney Wholesale Prices.
EDWARD R. COLE,
Wholesale and Retail Card Emporium,
BOOKS, MAGAZINES, and STATIONERY,
Corner of George anil King-streets.
jTHEY WllL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
S
lathurstst
PRICESREOUCED
rHEY WILL WEAR BETTER THAN NEW
UNITED STATES, AMERICA.—The under-
signed having successfully represented seve-
ral American manufacturers at the International
Exhibitions held In Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide,
New Zealand, and Calcutta, is now at the World’s
Industrial Exposition, New Orlians-the most ex-
tensive ever held—which will be closed on the 31st
May, 1885. He is prepared to execute orders and
commissions in this country requiring secrecy, ex-
perience, and intelligence in their transac.ion.
Reference: O. M. Spencer, United States Consul-
General over Australasia. Write freely to Jno.
Hogan, Australian journalist, Exhibition Build-
ings, New Orleans, La., U.S.A. Note: Cut out and
preserve this advertisement for reference.
A Substantial Christmas Present
A Block of FREEHOLD LAND,
200 feet deep, adjacent to Railway in the thriving and rapidly-increasing township of
Riverstone,
For £5 in full, payable ss. a month. No Interest
Secure some for the children while the lots are at £5, as the land will soon be that price per foot
The new Works about starting will empJoy 1300 to 400 extra handß. Land is sure to go ahead at once.
SEND FOR FLANS FROM
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Only a few lots remaining. Don’t forget the full pi’ice is JBS, and this is payable at
ss. a month.
St. PAUL’S LAGER BEER
Sole Agents —LESLIE, McKELLAR, & CO.,
247 George Street.
tJCataielZOTV Ssz^grJC?
Z,sd
AtfSt /&?A' <?"■* ■■ _
/>yv'jj&


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 26th November, 1884.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions and Re-
pairs to the Woollahra Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Pubiie Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions and
Repairs Woollabra Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under- Secretary, Depart-
ment of Publio Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock
a.m.,on Wednesday, the 10th December, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154 , 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST^
SYDNEY.
ST" HOUSEB FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either fob Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
UST RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £2 los.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
Christmas Gifts! Christmas Gifts!
THE ORIBCTAL GOLD COMPANY have,
with their usual thoughtfulness for the
general public, Imported, speoiallv for the Xmas
season, a great variety of the most novel and et-
qmslte goods which cannot fail to suit the tastes
ot the most fastidious. The goods, which have
been carefully selected by their agent from all the
best manu factories, are well worthy of inspection,
each article possessing some special charm of its
own, and nothing can be more adapted for grace-
ful and elegant Christmas Gifts than these beauti-
ful gems. Note our pricelist, and
Remember the Address :
47 4 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Lad H e ®’Ki har f d i om ® orlental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 155., 20s.,and 255. each;
g Bl *™* Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. 6d.,
os., Bs. 6d„ 9s , and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 80s.; Ladies’ very
Necklets.set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £6
rio= to Vc 8 ' . a ,J? air j Ladies’ handsome
HnMod ’m° % : Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaine.*, 80s. each ; Ladles’
choice Lockets and Necklets. 17s. 6d., 20s , 225.
2/8 ‘ -? d, A^° B Q’ 4os.1 Handsome
G «°J Kb ?F B . 78 - hd., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Rings, from 2s o<i. to Bs. 6d. each; Solid
a«r£?i d nT e< l dl , n & “d Keeper Rings. 10s. eaoh.
Gent, s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
n fa ,S. ed . ,® r y Btai glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert..
Same as above, except that this w'atoh is
patent keyless
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
£2 2 0
£2 5 0
£2 15 0
£4 5 0
£5 5 0
..£3OO
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lexer, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
*f c , e . d crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
Celebrated English Patent Lever,‘extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert .. ..
[ Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
1 Levers
> Ditto ditto, compensation balance '
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
" ith
"MSfbSHSS 1 ™ b * l *‘ W W,tll ,4 15
Oracle 6 * 1 ™ jewelled ’ of the highest
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
and Socket d ’ with ° rlental Gold Chain
£4 10
£6 5
£3 8 0
£5 5 0
£6 6 6
w . 4 £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected-about 35 Der cent
mc C nT n Par «4 d V ith prices When wholesale P
men s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold lor £5
m most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
7“s;Mni8 ur “ - ’Ssns
Gen 78 8 Rri rle s^ al «a old la , s n ka Diamond RiDgs, 6s. 6d.,
VOMkJS&'iSaX! ss&m. &&
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buckle on
Rood luck rings,’ &c., &o ? from ss. to
’ Gen !i 8 r . ,c , h chased engraved and
S oi t in (3 aad i i Vn k Suite8 * 78 -. 7s. 6d., Bd.T
os. oa., 95., 108. f and 13s. od. per set 1 * sum a ««
above, only half sets, 3s„ 48 °and ss! per set ?
“ir eBt Amer . ica “ Patent Spring Solitaire
stones’ 7s Hd er B« efc a« Ge in tB ele J ?tt 1 l ?, t Seale . real
S°°f, 8 ’ Ji 8 ’ Sd A 9s - 10s - and 12s. Bd. each ;
ft® ntB eJ ®fi a °t Compasses, latest designs, Bs.
h o f»;i D v, d oi 2 i' 6d ‘ eac £ : Gent 8 Oriental Gold All
«^ t f’ D h dso , m i 3 Patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each-
Gents veryDatest Araerioan Rolled Gold All
aCtflsol 3SSf" T, ‘° our or<le ''' m - M "
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
mM aT e . n l° tbe art. It looks like
v .l B * 88 heavy 88 F oJld « and it is more enduring
than nn^wiK Pert can d ?. tect the difference, and
i b ®“ ?m ly by,the severestftests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal In design and
ap ,2 eara ? ce those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
oflthe Cost of the genuine'goods.
o^iH D i l a e^ e fK4 that K W . e do not Pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals:
ni 1 . 0 , a ®rm that it is so perfect an imitation
t£ Jon Q Ster ln § ff o ]^ BB to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
?i° B ®®t inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect Is it, and so
iaf.K® has our trade become, that jewellers through-
colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
gM° dB J° r , the l°™ customer. But we a"
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
liviu l wi f h the P u hiio. All of our Oriental Gold
£uih el i ery j is rnaae to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anvthino-
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, wifi
price Dt POST FBEE ’ and at our risk, on receipt of
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
« I h t Der K , artlcleB . re-pack them at once
B ®° d them back to us. If this is done within
feW > by the firBt P° Bt
alter receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
®*P e P ded 0,1 postage. You can keep any one
mnniiv ?!? d ♦h tUrl ii t^ e , reBt > and we will refund the
money for the articlesjnot retained. Fair dealing
Is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
E -l a “ lne our catalogue, and send In your
order for what you may|requlre.
Company have been ap-
pointed Sole Agents for the AUTOPHONE- price,
305.; also for the ROLLER ORGAN-price, 40s.
UttleSruments wlthoutoneof tbeB « charming
IST THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Jr.*'
W THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thhatrb Royal-" The Turn of the Tide . p 8
Opera House—“ Bobadil ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—Montague-Turner Opera,. ib.
We eat it out the op'ning night—
“ The turning of the Tide
We saw the gall’ry’s oalm “ delight,”
The actors’ looks of wild affright;
We had no money to get “ tight."
So we crawled home and—died.
• • •
On Saturday night, in the “Royal ” oirole,
you might have inconvenienced a few people by
Slaying a game of rounders; but if you were satis-
ed with bop-scotch, or a mild game of blind-
man’s-buff, you would have been in nobody’s way.
Stalls and pit were well filled, but the gallery was
little more than a fringe of aggressive larrikinism,
punctuated here and there with a working man
and his missis. Before the curtain rose, the people
in the stalls and pit had a good deal of quiet enjoy-
ment all to themselves. The Olympians, pour
passer le temps, kept folding their programmes in-
geniously and dropping them from aloft. The
funnei-shape affected by grocers in securing sugar
appeared to be the favourite one; and it was
Eieasant to notice how the unassuming, bald-
eaded men below revelled in fun when the apex
of one of the cones touched their heads. The
number of pieces into which they venomously
converted each programme showed how much
latent energy there remains in a middle-aged man
after a week’s hard work.
• ■ •
Burnand’s famous oomedy-drama in four
acts and four tableaux (this is from the bills),
“ The Turn of the Tide,” was the piece. Some im-
provement might have been made by adding four
more tableaux and omitting four of the acts.
This, however, by the way. The author is, or was,
the editor of Punch. After the first act, the
thought suggested itself that it was the Melbourne
Punch he engineered; the seoond, that it was the
Sydney Punch ; the third, that he was a policeman;
the fourth, that he was a Hottentot.; but the last
(there were five) proved he was a country Mayor.
From beginning to end there is an absence of
sparkle that is more than phenomenal—it is alarm-
ing. And yet the performers were, without ex-
ception, capable, while the mechanical arrange-
ments were really creditable.
* * *
“ The Turn of the Tide ” has been seen
before in Sydney, so that a mere outline of the
plot is called for. Mr. Assheton (Mr. Harcourt)
has a chateau and a daughter (Miss Novaro). He
is fond of both, but has to leave them, as death
took a sudden fancy to him Philip Earnscliff (Mr.
Boothman), a young author (we love young
authors, they are so delightfully natural and un-
affected), either falls sick or gets run over byafur-
niture van, or “biffed ” by a Cockney prize-fighter
on the Continent for a holiday (the chateau is in
Brittany) near the old “ Manoir.” He is taken in
hand by the Assheton's, with the usual result This
should be a warning. Whenever a young man
lands on his head at your door always shunt him
into your neighbour’s house or send him to the
lockup. If you take him into your own, well—
send your wife and daughters into the country.
Philip and Miss Assheton see and love. He never
tells her he has a wife in England, until he gets her
in a cave, and the rising tide is pretty well up to
their ears. Odd, is it not, how little even the most
devoted husbands, when away from home, say
about their wives? But, bless you, the women
pay them out when they get off the chain. Still,
when a man gets his mouth half-full of salt water
and things, with no boat handy and not even a
junk of firewood to get straddle-legs on, the
amount of truth he manages to fire out before cir-
cumstances compel him to shut up shows how
much good still remains in our fallen nature. We
know this by experience. We fell into the Wool
loomooloo baths the other day when the tide was
out. On being scruffed out and scraped, the num-
ber of solid, authentic facts we freely ventilated
was nearly getting us chucked in again.
* * *
They are saved. Philip returns to Eng-
land. But his wife has had quite enough of him.
She had previously loved a sailor who went to
China. The Chinese removed the best part of him,
and stuck it on the longest pole they could find
this side of the great wall. Philip has sense
enough to take the hint, goes abroad—to Switzer-
land—with a chum, witnesses a coach accident,
prances to the rescue, finds his wife spread out as
if a circus elephant had sat on her while he was
digesting a ton of hay, and, with the help of
others, carries her on to the stage to die. We
would have felt cut up about the poor lady but
for the suspicion—of which we could not wholly
disabuse ourselves-that her injuries were not
mortal, and that, judging by appearances, many
plates of fried tripe and trotters would be nego-
tiated by her before she reached Nirvana. Then
Philip embraces Miss Assheton, preparatory, of
course, to marrying her, the black curtain falls,
the gods give a valedictory howl and toss a lot of
miscellaneous artioles into the pit, and we find
ourselves in the street—a homeless outcast with
an abnormal appetite.
• • *
The dialogue of the piece never reaches
even respectable mediocrity. It is bald and jejune.
When Mr. Assheton, before his dtath, looked affec-
tionately at his daughter and sententiously re-
marked “ So like her poor mother” the originality
of the expression caused a riot in the gallery which
was promptly suppressed by a sturdynodman who
offered to fight anybody who didn’t like it. On
inquiry, it was elicited (D.T.’s English, this) that
he had just done a “stretch” for hitting his own
daughter over the head with a quart-pot. And
there was a mother-in-law, Lady Templemore
(Mrs. D’Arcy Ri ad), in the piec e. She was what an
American writer would probably call a “snorter.”
Of course she was quite unnecessary to the action
of the play. Equally of course, she was an im-
possible creation. Did such women really ( xlst in
any number, there would long ago have been
a social upheaval in comparison with which the
bloodiest days of “ September” would have seemed
tame and uneventful. And Greville had a part
from which be extracted all the fun it was capable
of yielding. He is still the same. Change is nature’s
universal law. Nebulous clouds become systems,
twist about one another, produce life which
varies and perishes. Hut Greville—you’ll find
no change in him. As he was in the begin-
ning, he is now and ever shall be, world with-
out end. A . Where are we? Yes, of course.
Lady Clara, Philip’s first wife, was taken by Miss
Jenny Watt-Tanner. Sometimes you felt a little
distressed at her misfortunes, especially when you
remembered how inhospitably the Chinamen
(thank God, the French are giving them “ toko! ’)
treated her first love. But the feeling was evan-
escent, and quickly gave place to a fixed desire to
take her by the back hair and drop her in front of
the Waverley tram just when it was snorting up
the Paddington hill, so that ’twouldn’t smash her
up too rapidly; This, we need scarcely say, is the
author’s, not the actress’s fault.
• • •
,We have done. Someone, we suppose,
t*ill have to answer to a Higher Power for putting
on the stage “famous comedy dramas in four aots
and four tableaux ” and employing meritorious
artists and scene-painters in their production. The
hay of reckoning may be a long way off. Bob
ingersoll and Tom Walker say it’s all “rot,” while
JJavy Buchanan and Bishop Barry appear unde-
cided. But it would be at variance with the
eternal fitness of things and a libel upon the moral
government of the world to suppose that this sort
or thing can go on for ever.
** « *
The Turners are with us again. They toed
the mark at the Gaiety on Saturday, and, “sup-
ported ” by an oddly-assorted team, routed “ Fra
uiavolo ” with considerable slaughter. We were
uot there on Saturday, having been asked to a
n« Wa ii ” in Woolloomooloo. The solemnities
usually observed on those pad occasions affected
8 so much that we remained abed all Sunday, and
li W f as M° nd ,ay e ven ing before we could take the
the^cTaiety r ejre * * Jn e ' ren * n 8' we went to
* * *
The Turners are pretty well known in
Sydney by this time. Their voices are, if anythin?
° ® a j;® r tha ? when we last heard them. But where
did they pick up their henchmen? What wool-
sheds, wharves, and blind alleys did they raDsack
for their chorus ? One steady look at the warlike
fellows during the opening chorus induced a quiet-
looking, farmer-like man sitting near us to stand
n } a * l , e t° r the door. He merely said, de-
jectedly, Thank God, there’s Oriental gold to be
bought in Sydney. I’ll go back to the hotel and
change my jewellery. There’s no knowing who
you might meet going home.” They did not strike
us in the same way. It was their uniforms fas-
cinated us. The life those tunics have seen 1 the
bar-rooms they’ve visited, the waists they’ve en-
ciroled, the police-stations they’ve— eheu!
* * m
There was a payable house, which hailed
Miss Montague’s appearance with something like
fervour, and kept up an animated conversation
or relapsed into moody silence when Lord Allcash
(Mr. Clayton) had the “flure.” He is an Enghsh-
man travelling in Italy. If (say) one Englishman
out of three were like him, there would be an
Irish Republic in a month. “You know quite
enough already,” he remarked tenderly to bis
iWife (Miss Lambert), an opinion in which the
audience heartily joined He sings, too. So do we
We have a lease of our house, nut for some reason
or another the landlord is constantly at us to take
a tenner” and live in Balmain. Allcash's wife
is devoted to him—during the day-time. At night
she doesn’t mind going on the balcony to join in
madrigals while he's asleep. This seems to be a
peculiarity of Englishwomen in Italy. A great
many English children speak Italian. Miss Lamtert
saog passably, and acted so well that you felt it a
duty to go home and assault your wife—just for
being a woman.
• • •
Mr. Balfour’s Lorenzo is a performance it
would not be fair to classify on one hearing. It
grows upon you. So do pimples. There are
people who like pimples—on others. We must
hear him again. We go to Melbourne to-day for a
long holiday. He is, of course, sure to be alive
when we come back. The Beppo and Giacomo of
Messrs. Templeton and England were amusing
scoundrels. If there were many Italians like
them, you felt that the Papacy was safe. Mr.
Farley’s Matteo was—even. (This is from the
Herald.) And so we come to Diavolo, as most of
us will come sooner or later. Charles’ voice, as we
said, appeared to us clearer and mere resonant
than when we heard it last. Then, however, he
was at the fag-end of a pretty trying season. His
higher notes are sweeter, and demand less appar-
ent effort; his lower, more robust. He sang
“Young Agnes” so well that an encore was de-
manded and accorded. But vi iss Montague, after
all. was the chief draw. She is not a Patti, but you
can always hear her with pleasure, which is a
precious side more than can be said of others who
put on a deal more “ side.”
•* # •
To the New Masonic, Remenyi continues to
attract crowds. This is not so much to be won-
dered at, except when we remember what a
“frost” Wilhelmj was. Ever since we heard the
latter, we doubted whether the master-pieces of
art, literature, or melody could ever be thoroughly
brought home to people whose time is mostly
occupied in making a living. Remenyi, if his skill
is less than his predecessor’s (which many deny)
has a far juster estimate of the public’s likes and
dislikes. Like Artemus Ward, he takes people
into his confidence; tells them, in effect, that, if
the figures of George Washington or Judas
Iscariot awaken no pleasing emotions in their
minds, he is not above showing them “ Old Dan
Tucker,” or General Tom Thumb.” And, con-
cerning these concerts, it is only fair to say that
the young pianist, Luckstone, has created an im-
pression far more that favourable.
** * *
There has been no change at the Opera
House—“ Bobadil” still reigns. Things go a deal
more smoothly now that practice has rubbed off
the angularities inseparable from a first night. A
couple of hours spent there during the week al-
most induced us to think the author’s talent was
developing. Many stages may have to be passed
through before he can scribble a “ Don Giovanni ”
or a “ Roberto;” but (we have been out to the
public-house many times, and smoked till nicotine I
could be expressed from our system, but unavail-
ingly. The sentence will have to go unfinished.)
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of th
Theatrical Profession.]
The gifted Rainer, after playing in Sydney
for two weeks, and making something under
twenty millions, and nearly exhausting his gigan-
tic stock of solid silver (or block tin), has migrate
to Maitland, where he opened on the 2nd inst. wi
an entirely new and original entertainment, en
titled “ Rainer’s Panorama of the American War
This gorgeous entertainment was, we learn b
telegraph, an enormous and unprecedented su
cess, and its refulgent proprietor, whilst seated
close proximity to the box-office, on being aske
by an enthusiastic admirer of a show which, if noi
“thrilling,” is far from being “pernicious,” t
“put a name to it,” replied, “ImDounded you
cow, did they ? This is no longer a free country.
And re East Maitland, how about the “ Workin
Men’s Social Club Minstrels,” who give, to-night,
grand entertainment, with innumerable corne
men (at the Mechanics’) assisted by a local ventilo
quist, to whom “Ain’t it lovely, T.” is a tner
tyro ? Gerald Massey, by the way, commence
‘at the West” on the 9tb, and does three consecu
tive pitches—which, we trust, will be appreciatec
by those rustics there, whose ingrained love for
dog-wrestle or a cock-fight is proverbial... .Anc
of course, you have all heard of Majeroni’s luck
He bought a play from Mr. George Leircb, whos
other name (there is not the slightest slab of an
arriere pemte about this) is Walker. It seems tbai
Signora Majeroni left this invaluable manuscrip
drama behind her at the hotel in Adelaide, and we
learn that “telegrams were sent to the manager
of the hotel in Adelaide. Search was made, bu
nothing could be heard or seen of the MS
until at last the housemaid confessed that she
had found a parcel of paper and pictures
and, having thought that it was of no value, hac
thrown it into the dust-bin. The dust-bin had
been emptied the day before. The dustman waf
sent for, but nothing satisfactory could be gatherec
from him.” Not the play, certainly, while butchers
are buying paper for Id. a pound.... South’s Opera
Company seems to be at Cooma. and the agent, we
learn, is Louis Dubrenil. This little Frenchman is
quite a card, and, in emergencies, can go on as
anything, from Frederick in “The Pirates ” to the
King in ‘Maritana.” Louis has one favourite
exclamation when disappointed—one derived from
that classic drama by Paul Meritt and Augustus
Harris, Esquires, entitled “ Youth,” and rendered
familiar by that gorgeous comedian, Mr. Greville.
Tne nearest Louis can get to it, however, is “ An-
otherinjustireland!” Poor old Jimmy has had a
sad time of it; but will pick up at Christmas, as he
and the fair Edith are engaged for the pantomime
at the Royal.... And let us tell you that Jessie
Gray opened (she is leading lady to Mr. Dave Clin-
ton’s company—we forget where Johnny Hall is)
at the Academy of Music, Adelaide, where Wybert
Reeve has been doing moderate business with
‘Fraud,” “The Hurricanes,” and “The Money-
Spinner.” Oh. and of Miss Ivanova, who is at
the Royal with little Dunning’s mob, the Ade-
laide Licensbd Victuallers’ Gazette has the
following:—“Miss Ivanova lacked the chic of the
bouffe actress that wants to keep Boccaccio’s
vices prominent, for we can safely say there was
never a suspicion of a wicked wink about her eye.
She made a modest Boccaccio; such a person in
fact that we could take home and introduce to
our family without fear of contamination.” We
think so, too; but we can’t answer for the fair
Ivanova. Annie Leaf does Fianoetta’s old part;
and we understand she was to have had Gracie
Plaisted’s part in “Bobadil.” But-Hardin# can
tell you ail about it 1.... w e learn that Miss Fanny
Leslie is “resting ”in Sydney. Fanny is, we are
given to understand, a great admirer of forensic
®*°Qiienc e - And this brings us at once to the fact
that I 1 rank Cates, who is becoming rather a bore,
has been giving recitals at Glenelg, accompanied
on the piano by a distinguished lady amateur in
spectacles .. That truly gorgeous combination,
the Helen Vivian Dramatic Company, at latest
was at Gawler (S A.). So Helen has carried out
“ er d're determination to still act, reckless of all
possible contretemps, in a district where turnips
arc noted for their phenomenal size. Re this his-
trionic organization, we may quote two lines
trom a letter recently received by an “ eminent
crl, ic ” from Miss Jenny Horan, one of the com-
pany. They are as follow—“ Don’t grieve for me;
as long as I’ve got my wooden-soled clog-boots,
lil get back. lam hungry, but happy. To-night
we are patronised by the Mayor; and a rumour
nutters round the company that we shall eat. Fancy
eating with this company. It is an idea that is fanci-
ful and weird Tra la-100 I” Yes, and about Bris-
bane, the papers have been nightly hysterical over
the redoubtable Radcliff and Madame Pauline Rita,
who are now back in Sydney and give a
great concert presently, &c. “ For further par-
ticulars, see small bills.” And the Lanyons?
Head? Nothing like it I Been playing at the
freemasons’ Hall, Wagga, and the Riverine Stab
grows hysterioal (in a column) about “ Formosa.”
It s the same crowd, and Duff still in the com-
pany-which is a good bearing—especially for the
classical combination.” By the way (we are
using this, it reminds us, too often) the ancient
agent seems to be no "longer with the fair sisters.
Can he be dead ? No I he is too old to die.—
He cannotivanish from this sphere
(Or, so we are advised)
Who is a century, or near,
And is quite fossilised.
We said, once. “ Seek the silent tomb.”
The tear welled in his eye;
He answered, with a dash of gloom,
“ I must live, or I’d—die!”
...Thady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, is elo-
quent on the subject of Miss Alice Sydney Burvett,
who, we learn (with astonishment) from the Miner,
is the world-renowned and England's most bril-
liant pianist®; soloist of the London Crystal Palace,
Alexandra Palaoe, Promenade Concerts, Covent
Gardens; from Paris Conservatoire of Musio,” &c.
and Miss Alieo is doing fairly well. Some confu-
sion, however, was occasioned (the performance
being msthetioally termed a “recital ,r ) by a burlv
gold-grubber, after sitting out three of Miss B.’s
pieces, calling loudly for “the man to come out
and talk. He wanted to hear once again all about
the young miscreant who stood upon the burning
peek when a b but he had fled.” Respecting
tableau 5 of the Labertouche entertainment at the
new Masonic Hall, the Rum has the following:—
The miller and his wife are grieving at the death
of their child, and are making a wreath of im-
mortelle ” (sic) And a man whom we don’t
know, and probably never will, and don’t care if
we never do, and would possibly be sorry if ever
we did, has sent us a paper from Boston (what
does he mean by it?) from which we learn that
Madame Thel has been playing in “La Jolie
Parfumeuse; ’ and Clara Morris has been giving
them Bclot's “Article 47;” and, at the Howard
Theatre (this will interest the little fourth of the
pig three musketeers), they have been doing
’Kerry Gow,” with a real anvil, and a mule to
< “ aw . off Ihe killed and wounded It’s all bosh
about Gilbert and Sullivan having' had a row ;
it s quite true Bt. Leon’s Circus has been at
I ambton; you can take our word for it that Mrs.
Langtry has been appearing at the Savoy; we will
kiss the book respecting the Balmain Minstrels
haying recently given a show at the Burwood
School of Arts; and, if you don’t believe that Miss
buoy Ashton’s Co. played “ Lady Audley’s Secret ”
at the Temperance Hall, Kiama, “spit in our face,
S? x lu ® horse.”.. Intelligence nas reached us
that Mrs. Henry Wood never got a penny for the
dramatisation of her novel, “ East Lynne,” and,
f. he ~w h ole, we are deuoed glad to hear it.
That s a11.....Mr. Dion Boucicault is in treaty with
J. L. Williamson to arrange in Australia tor the
production of his new pieces, the “Omadhaun”
and Robert Emmett.” He will be accompanied
by one of the finest Irish com* dians in America,
Mr. G. Reynolds, who, by the bye, is a brother of
Bishop Reynolds,! of Gawler, south Australia.
They will only remain in Australia for a few
months, returning in time for New York season.
Boucicault will have three companies on the road
next season. The author declares “Robert Em-
mett to be his finest work.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Legislative Council of Tasmania does
not appear to have much respeot for the press.
During the last session, a kind of reform bill was
introduced and passed through the Assembly*
Among other provisions, it contained one extend-
ing the franchise to editors of newspapers. The
Council promptly eliminated this proposal. The
vis inertias has always been opposed to the vis vital.
The intellectually dead could hardly be expected
to have much sympathy with the living. But the
path of progress has always been and always will
be over the necks of these old stumbling-blocks.
• • •
THE “AGENT.”
We saw an “ agent”—oh, so seedy,
With lantern jaws,
And hair that was unkempt and weedy—
It seems because,
Though offered millions to seek pastures fresh,
Ho will belong to the sublime “ perfesh.”
We said, “ There's nothing in this ‘ caper,’
And * wholesale houses,’ true,
All yearn for you!
Go back and be a draper I
1 ook at your shoe, from which protrudes a bunion,
And you are redolent of poverty and-onion.
“ Come down this little little lane;
It is not that
We’re proud—but, to speak plain,
That fearful hat
Would play up with our credit —just stand steady
Which is, in thunder, bad enough already.
Now, own that your career amongst the ‘pros.’
Has been most sad,
Your luck d d bad ;
And this accounts for that abnormal nose,
That voice that's non-harmonic,
That hiccup that is chronic,
A nd that emaciated suit of clothes.
" We’ve'known you long, poor soul, in this fair
land 1
You did not wear, now, in
Past days, a poor brass pin,
A ud sorry rings which stain with black your hand.
x.ook at your heels, when you walk far, you cry
out;
When you sit down,
We’ll bet a crown
'J’he toes near knock your eye out!
A .iu hang up beers; from barmen you oft copit,
jt ud all for what ? Now do, in sulphur, stop it.
Go back to trade ! It favour will acoord you ;
And listen here
(There’s no one near),
Pome gold we will afford you.”
* ■ e paused and thought, and then he said—
As one who moves in fear and dread—
“ What you say’s true,
’Tis good of you;
Put, oh 1 no longer urge me, please,
S j bean agent's a disease."
• * *
Mr. Froude, in a London magazine artiole,
8 mounces I the atrocious theory that England
. -uld do without dukes. This is too dreadful. The
l nought of Merrie England without its Duke of
i arlborough, for instance, gives us the cold
i ii \ ers. And if a dook in his ancestral home is a
4 -oature for the gods to envy, what does he’.not
i ,>come when he travels ? Why, he becomes very
much more so. The little halos which surround
, ucal presences in the old world develop new
» rillianoy this side of the line. Their glory makes
vs glad. Edinburgh’s glory made the whole
* mntry glad, and left it even gladder. Another
* nse in point is the Duke of ——. But no matter.
•> Ce’ve said enough to explain that we’re real mad
v ith Mr. Froude. There would be a quarrel if we
met that bad man. And if he stood by his senti-
ments and showed fight, we would like to behave
•t roperly and consistently—which! means that we
-would like to stiok up our pair of “ dooks" and bid
him “come on.” Herein lies the gist of our argu-
ment—an Englishman cannot do without his
dooks.” The most aristocratic of our office boys
will now play [softly upon the comb ;while we
warble:— ,
Dear Mr. Froude, don’t think]us rude
If firmly we decline
To entertainideas so crude
And primitive as thine ;
' The English lord or earl’s adored
* By all the human race,
Then tell us—can the world afford
To do without]” your Grace ?”
That title grand throughout the land
Is held in silent awe—
For Froude, of course, you understand
Our sacred social law ;
And when guests meet to drink and eat,
Youlrise, sir, in your place,
And, gazing meekly at the meat,
Proceed to say your grace.
I We trust so—Ed. B.]
* * *
From Southern Russia comes some good
news at last. The Jews there are becoming
rapidly Christianised. They have established a
“ National-Jewish-Christ-believing Bociety” with
a capital of no, that's not it. It is simply a
society open to all Hebrews. Its object is to
acknowledge the divinity of Christ, and, while
regretting that their fathers crucified Him, solace
themselves with the reflection that His sufferings,
after all, were merely a part of the Divine scheme
ordained from the beginning. Is there another
object? Well, yes. You see, in old times,
the spirit was not only willing, but the
II was strong. In these, even the spirit
appears unwilling, while the fiesh is as weak
as water-gruel. So that when a howling
mob of fanatics swarm up your front steps, while
the Cossacks sent to disperse them hang round
your baok door to keep you from getting away
that road, your ideas on Christ’s divinity are apt
to undergo a radical change. You open your mind
to conviction, if your head’s not first opened with
an axe. As a civilising agent, there are few things
can come up to a Russian knout. With the Ro-
manoffs on the throne, we predict a prosperous
career for the “ National-Jewish-Christ-believing-
sooiety-limited.”
* * *
Mr. E. Monteilore writes as trustee of the
Art Gallery, suggesting that in connection with
the matter of encouragement to oolonial artists by
getting coloured supplements executed in Eng-
land in lieu of in Australia, it should be mentioned
that Mr. J. R. Fairfax, one of the proprietors of
the Bydney Mail, has presented at different times
to the Art Gallery a plaster cast of Canova’s
“ Boxers,” a collection of silver medals coined at
the Royal Mint, reproductions of original ivories
in national Bavarian collection, and a reproduction
of some of the celebrated Bayeux tapestry. These
Matrimony.
(BEFORE.)
HOME.
donations are, doubtless, of some sort of value
in the way of helping infinitesimally to assist
in cultivating the artistic sense of those who
visit the gallery; but if colonial artists are
denied the substantial encouragement of com-
missions to draw for the colonial illustrated
papers, when a more important work than ordi-
nary is required, and are not given the oppor.
tunity of making so useful an addition to their
income, the oasts and medals might as well be
Matrimony.
(BEFORE.)
THE TEMPTER.
kept in England for the benefit of the artists who
are applied to when there is unusually remunera-
tive work to be done. Colonial artists nave to live,
like other men, and no matter what the native
talent of the colonial youth, he will take to brick-
laying sooner than to art if he have assurance ot a
steady employment lat the former, and the pro-
spect of having all the more important and re-
munerative jobs in the latter denied to him. Does
Mr. Monteflore imagine that a race of Australian
artists can be brought into existence to sustain
life and support a family by smelling at Mr. Fair-
fax’s medals, in the style of Oscar Wilde having
lunch by contemplating a lily in a gIaES of water.
A BLACK EYE.
An unmistakable, bulgy, disgraceful black
eye. And on such a man 1
* * *
Here are the facts. He was a man of an
unusually solid understanding; of probity, from
fair to medium; and of sobriety strictly incalcul-
able. His was a judicious mind, that discounted
his own errors, and never flinched from tackling
the knottiest problem. For his own satisfaction
(though not necessarily for publication) he dived
into curious crannies for detailed knowledge, and
did not neglect to familiarise himself with the best
generalizations, that his thinking, as Emerson
says, “ should oome full circle,” or, as Shake-
speare adviseth, that he might edge his kingly
soul divinely, and, ultimately, under Bacons
written instructions, “ marshal his thoughts into a
handsome method.” But, in his case, there came
that subtle thrust of the enemy which persuaded
him that, by taking thought, he oould add one
cubit to his stature. It only needed a little alcohol
to rear his mighty stature from 5 feet 6 inches
above the level of the sea to fully six cubits and a
span-say 9 feet 3 inches-the stature of Goliath of
Gath. When at that altitude, Wisdom is at its
zenith; and the world is welcome to some rare ob-
servations in philosophy, which do not appear
altogether symmetrical next. day. It was in one
of these beatific stsgts that this thinker called into I
a Redfern beer-palace to cool his parched tongue,
home Irishmen were discussing the future of tne
ould counthry.and the opinion was unanimous that
there could be no continuance of the bolar sys-
tem unless justice were done to that down-trodden
country, and done shortly. It was at this stage
that the philosopher's vertebral column began to
lengthen out visibly. His attenuated hands began
to grow brawny, his legs, which in their normal
stage, are conscientiously and assiduously re*
served for private commiseration only, became
massive beneath him, and his voice, from a husky
jerkiness just redeemed from inaudibleness by d
flourishing cough, turned to a ferocious bass. “ I
consider,” he said, “that Ireland is the corruptest,
the most contemptible, the most —” Then those
patriots arose in their might. They swarmed up
that giant’s limbs by kicking foot-holes in his legs;
they clambered on to his shoulders with the rims
of pewters, they removed his beard, and distri-
buted hifl ears as spoil; they pulled him down on
the floor, and did a clog dance over his stomach
and the small of his back, and having failed to pull
out one of his legs, wound up by seizing him by
the feet and dusting the walls of the bar-room
with his body generally. There was a hazy recol-
lection next morning of a hundred wild Irishmen
flying out of the bar; of a landlord scrufflng some-
body by the neck and calling him a royotous ag-
gravatin’ ould scoundhrel, and of a head and face
becoming the victim of misplaced pavement.
And there was the distinct achievement—a gor-
geous black eye, and a nose unfit for publication.
• • •
His truthfulness, we have said, was from
fair to medium; and it was, therefore, becoming
that in its distribution he should set an example of
thrift in using it. Like all other virtues, this should
begin at home, and to whom could he better impart
the results of his wisdom than to the partner of his
bosom ? He, therefore, did not detail to her the
whole truth about the black eye. That is, he did
not tell her the whole truth at once. He merely
said that on his way home the night before he had
seen a man attempt to strike a poor woman who
had foolishly expostulated with her husband for
having spent all his week’s money in beer; that be
had attempted to make peace by explaining to the
woman that beer was a necessary of life, whereas
children were not; and that as her husband had
earned a week’s wages, he belonged to the class
entitled according to Henry George to the whole
of the fruits of his Idboilr, and that her duty was
clear that she should apologise. And that Upon
this, the infuriated woman, “who (unlike you, my
dear) appeared to doubt the soundness of my
reasoning, raised a spade and inflicted the wounds
you see. The ungrateful husband, then, evidently
raging for more beer, sat upon me and rifled my
pockets: and hence you will have to tell the milk-
man and the baker, thisjmorning.'that—”
* * *
Musing on the hardness of a flat-iron in
impact with the back of his head, he darted
through the gnte and wandered disconsolately into
the city, his hat down over his eys, ftnd gloom
down over his soul. “ Hullo, what’sthis ?” shfluted
the chief proprietor as the dismal scholar sat down
in his editorial chair and proceeded to read over
the summonses of the day. “ What’s what ? What’s
who ? What’s when ?” returned the editor, throw-
ing double-barrelled hostility into the sound eye,
and facing round, “ What's up ?” “ What do you
mean, sir. by coming into this office with that black
eye and that disreputable nose ? Am Ito have this
paper disgraced, my staff degraded, and How
did you get that black eye, sir ? I insist on an ex-
planation, or it is instant dismissal. The idea of a
man of your attainments to—to come here and—
and Explain, sir!” roared the proprietor,out of
breath. Adjusting the bit of raw beef comfortably
over his eye, the editor licked a twopenny stamp
and made a covering for his blistered nose, think-
ing, poor man, that he would remove it after
a while and get some proper sticking-plaster,
he said that he had been the victim of a vile con-
spiracy got up to damage the paper. That the
proprietors of the opposition paper were at the
bottom of it. That, on account of his stern silence
on the Parkes and Webb case while it was sub
judice, some violent partisans of one side had been
put up by the opposition paper to charge him
with drink, and induce him to offer some opinion
on the case. That he had resolutely refused to
drink—had not, in fact, tasted liquor for some
years—and “ this is my thanks, sir,” he said scorn-
fully, “for standing by your best interests; it is
for this that I have made your paper a power in
the land, and made a centre from which radiates
the soundest political and social views But why
do I tala ?” he said, scornfully, resuming his seat,
and beginning to write, while the proprietor was
gasping out, “ Well, of all the infernallest impu-
dence that,” etc., and the article had got so far as,
“In the dissemination of truth, there is a vile and
malignant error creeping abroad, that occasions
may arise when a slight deviation from facts may
be permitted. This is a damnable and insidious
error. Truth should radiate ” (At this stage
the Redfern publican entered the 100 m, accom-
panied by a policeman, and said, “That’s him; I
give him in charge,” and the learned gentleman
radiated up next morning at the court with a
stamp on his nose, and was fined for assault, and
stealing glasses, and being an habitual drunkard,
and sent to gaol for contempt of court-in falling
to account for the stamp on his nose—that being
plainly a premeditated affront to the dignity of the
Bench.)
I A good part of Mr. J. B. Patterson’s racy
aeech at the Castlemaine banquet was taken up
rith a comparison of the London policeman with
he Melbourne one. Mr. Patterson found, whether
y experience or not doesn’t matter, that the
iondon bobby, instead of running a well-dressed
ran in, searches for his residence, and carefully
arries the sot home. The statement raises some
ateresting reflections. First, it is highly desirable
hat Australians in London should dress well, so as
o entitle themselves to that courteous treatment.
sut, second, is not the Melbourne bobby as
ourteous to a well-dressed figure as a London
me; and, if not, why not? On Mr. Pattersons
uthority, it must be answered that he is not, or
here would be no comparison; and the reason
vby he is not, appears to be because, despite the
hining broadcloth the Australian sot wears, the
>obby knows his man. The British sot, when
lober, tips the courteous bobby; the Australian
lot, when sober, moves, from his place in Parlia-
nent, that enquiry be made into the laziness ana
nefficiency of the police force of the colony.
When a rising township in the backblocks
letermines, by and with the advice of the execu-
;ive council of leading citizens, to send a couple
Df its most polished members as a deputation to
;be seat of Government on any momentous local
auestion, the subject of expenses is wont to oe
mooted modestly, but cogently. The general
practice is to circulate the hat, and give eacn
deputy, before the meeting breaks up, the full oi
his flat of half-crowns. Having got the money, no
mostly goes. Only two cases occur to us in wmen
the deputies did not appear, with carpet bags ana
a clean shave, to execute a departure at tne
proper time. In one case, the money found in tne
hat after circulation came to ninepence only, ana.
as the distance to be travelled was not much short
of 700 miles, the deputies alleged that they became
very sick in the course of the night, and that tney
were compelled, most reluctantly, to forego tne
honour of representing the rising township beior
the Minister. In the other case, the deputies were
quite satisfied with the amount of money founam
the hat, but they squandered it in hard drinks
over the way, and were in such an agony of neao-
ache next morning that, to protect them from
themselves, they had to be tied down on stretcher*
Casualties of this kind were accounted, however,
as being rare, until the other day. It seems J t
out westward in Queensland it is the rule for
puties to knock down the contents of the hat, an
let the sacred cause rip. To meet the extremity,
the hat is kept until the polished representatives
come back. This Queensland plan has many
merits, and the rest of Australia, puzzled simimriy
with fuddlers, should keep an eye on how h-
works. It is working in Blackall now. M •
Ciewett held his hand out when be, came baca
from Brisbane. He perfoimed his duty wen m
the capital, and made the Minister tremble at tne
prospect of incurring the wrath of ’„ a do
so he believed his townsmen would not a one
the handsome out of tne hat, but would gne him
a recherche banquet besides. But they didn tspea
of a banquet, and when they brought the hat ou
and turned it up there was nothing in it. This is
Queensland plan. There are some good points iu
it, but it seems a little hard upon the deputy.


Woman Items.
Eighteen hundred oases are set down for
hearing at the approaching sessions of the new
Court of Divoroe in Paris. The vast majority of
the suits are at the instance of men.
Elizabeth Hurst, 30 years of age, has been
charged at Nottingham with having three hus-
bands. Curiously enough, the witnesses of the
first marriage also witnessed the third.
A Matrimonial Advertisement.— 1 14 A good-
looking young man wishes to meet with a rich and
beautiful young lady, with a view to matrimony.
He would consent, if necessary, to live with his
mother-in-law.”
A San Franoisoo girl earned money for the
food cause at a churoh fair by standing on her
ead in acrobatic costume. The performance took
plaoe in a tent, to whioh the spectators were ad-
mitted singly on payment of a dollar eaoh.
A man who married a widow has invented
a device to cure her of eternally praising her
former husband. Whenever she begins to descant
on his noble qualities this ingenious Number Two
merely Poor, dear man; how I wish he had
not died.”
“Why, dear, did youTstop so suddenly
when you were talking to Mr. is.?” “Well, you
know how particular I am about having every-
thing to match, and all of a sudden I remembered
that the gold setting of my teeth would not go
with my silver looket.”
Yelled the lady leoturer : “ Get married,
young men, and be quick about it, too. Don’t
wait for the millennium, hoping that girls will
turn angels before you trust to one of them.
Pretty things you would be alongside of angels,
wouldn’t you, you brutes ?”
Beiva Lookwood, the female candidate for
the Presidency, is a plucky woman. This clause
in the U.B. Constitution would trip up most poli-
ticians in petticoats: “Neither shall any person
be eligible to the office of President who shall not
have attained the age of thirty-five years.
Mueh of the false hair used comes from
China. The dealers draw their main supply from the
prisons and execution grounds; “ no Chinese lady
would ever consent to part with a single hair ex-
cept under the pressure of grinding poverty, and
as to the men they would as soon sell their lives as
barter their queues.” There is room for as much
tragedy in a hairdresser’s wig -cut off, say, from a
oonviot to adorn a courtesan—as ever Hamlet
found in the gravedigger’s skulls.
There is hope for the hairy. Bearded girls
will hail with joy the prooess termed electrolysis.
An ordinary galvanic battery and a fine needle,
the latter attaohed to the negative cord, are all the
instruments required. The number of cells needed
depends upon tne aotivity of the battery, the deli-
oaoy of the patient’s skin, and the strength of the
hairs to be removed. The needle, whioh is a fine
flexible one, is introduced into the small saok
whioh holds the root of the hair, and by means of
the galvanio ourrent the point from which the
hair grows is effectually and completely destroyed.
In England, a lady has been charged with
stealing children. It appears that her husband
had a passion for babies, very unusual with the
paterfamilias of ordinary life, and, as she was
blessed with none of her own, whenever she found
that his flagging affections needed a stimulant,
she stole a very young baby, which was always
considered by “ papa” to be very fine for its age,
and presented it to him as his offspring. After six
years of domestic happiness, however, the system
has broken down, and it is only too probable that
paterfamilias will be deprived of all his little ones
at one fell swoop. Such wholesale bereavement,
if not absolutely unparelleled, may be certainly
considered as very unusual.
When John Brown first entered the ser-
vice of Prinoe Albert, the little princesses, hearing
their father address him as “ Brown,” used the
same form in speaking to him. The Queen cor-
rected them, and they all addressed him as Mr.
Brown,” excepting the Princess Louise, who, im-
perious even in ohildhood, persisted in her right
to use the name as her father did. One morning
the Queen heard her, and informed her that if she
again addressed Mr. Brown without a handle to
his name, she would be sent to bed. The next
morning, when he presented himself in the royal
apartments, where the family assembled, the
miss said, flippantly : “Good morning, Brown!’
Then, as she saw the eyes of her queen-mother
fixed upon her, she rose, and, with a curtsy, oon r
tinued: “ And good-night, Brown; for I am going
to bed.” And she walked Iresolutely away to her
punishment.
“A funny arrangementp.of departments
has been made in one of our largest dry-goods
establishments,” says Clara Belle in the Cincinnati
Enquirer. “One storey of a capacious wing is
devoted to underwear. Now, that may seem con-
gruous, at first blush; but you oan see reasons for
the blushing being kept up when I explain that
one side is filled with men’s garments and the
opposite one with women’s. Well, there is one
compensation, and that lies in the unusual beauty
of the undergarments worn this season by New
York belles. Delicate pale blue and pink is trim-
med for the purpose with Oriental lace. I never
realized how the angels must feel in their enve-
lopes of soft, ethereal cloud until I got into an
India-silk suit, and so forth. They are too fragile
and delicate to be-rudely washed in a tub, but are
cleaned by the same professional hands that re-
juvenate kid gloves and lace curtains. Night-
gowns are also made of the same delightful stuff:
and if ever I could hail with ecstasy a midnight
fire that would drive me suddenly out of my bed,
burry me for my life down a dizzy escape-ladder,
and compel m© to faint in the grip of the fireman,
just now is the juncture. I’ve got a mauve nipht-
gown, with faint roses woven m it, and a delicious
pattern of lace round the edges, that is nothing
short of a fairy vision.”
Monsieur Max O’Rell, in his “ John Bull’s
Daughters,” attaches much importance to the
practical want, for love-making purposes, in the
English language, of a second person singular.
Yet Alfred de Musset, his poetic compatriot, as-
cribes a magic value to the words I love you,’
which M. Max O’Rell regards as very prosaic.
Musset dwells rapturously on the moment when:
“ On entend ces mots si doux, Pour la premiere
fois—My dear child, I love you.” How these lines
can ba made to scan, is a puzzle; but,all the same,
there was something in the expression, ‘I love
you.” whioh charmed the most delicate and subtle
of modern French poets. The application of
minute scrutiny to the “way of a man with a
maid ” occupies much of M. O Rell 8 book, which
will teach his countrymen, who, as a rule, do not
understand the comparative familiarity with
which they are treated by Englishwomen to whom
they have been properly introduced, not
to misinterpret as affectionate advances what
are only meant as polite attentions. .This
awkward error is one into which many
foreigners are likely to fall. Yonng girls in
France are kept so much to themselves, and
voung men are so completely separated from them
that when the latter finds himself, through some
accident or fault of supervision, alone in presence
of one of the former, he feels himself called upon,
as a man, to make a declaration of Jove. M.b ran-
cis Wey, in bis clever study of English life,
“ L’Angleterre et la Vie Anglaise,” tells of the
astonishment be felt when, having one day been
asked to take a drive in the Park with a lady and
her daughter, he found that—the mother being
Srevented by sudden indisposition from keeping
er engagement—he was expeoted to accompany
the daughter alone. He prides himself on having
at onoe understood the situation; and he assures
bis readers, with a solemnity whioh, a’though
creditable to him, ia all the same a little oomic,
that he said nothing to the young lady which he
might not have said to her in presence of her
parents. It did not occur to him that had he
“done otherwise, the young lady might have had
Matrimony.
(AFTER.)
HUSBAND.
something to Bay on the subjeot. M. Wey re-
spected the confidence placed in him by an En-
glish mother. It did not. however, strike him
that the important factor in the case was the con-
fidence plaoed by the mother in her own daughter.
Borne Frenohmen have been known to take offence
at being left alone with English young ladies,
seeing in the apparent carelessness of the parents
or guardians a sign of disbelief in the power of
those gentlemen to fascinate. In Sardou’s comedy,
“ Leg vieux Gargons,” a young lady, finding her-
self alone with her lover—a lover to whom she is
Matrimony.
(AFTER.)
WIFE.
engaged ’to be married—reproaches him with
having ventured in her presence when he knew
that there was no one with her. “ N'est-cc pas que
e'estbon d' Stre ensemble ?” pleads the young man.
“ Je n’ai pas dit que ce n’est pas bon, replies the
young lady in good epigrammatic style, “J ai
dit que ce n'ttait yas Men r This explanation and
declaration on tne part of the inqinue is always
received by the audience with an amount of ap-
plause whioh is intended partly, no doubt, for the
nioety of M. Sardou’s language, but principally
for the very oorrect sentiments of the affectionate
yet indignant heroine.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
The Herald’s summary from Europe re-
counts how “ dirty workmen washed their hands
in the holy water” during the row at the Chapel of
St. Nicholas in Paris. We kuow no holier use for
water than to wash dirty workmen In the in-
quiry relative to the death of Ellen Bell at the
Glebe, a chemist gave evidence that Bell, the bus-
band, had got a prescription made up which was
taken from a book known as “The Fruits of
Philosophy.” As the woman’s death was ascribed
to abortion, it may be inferred that “The Fruits
of Philosophy” contains recommendations and
prescriptions for bringing on premature confine-
ments. As a matter of fact, it contains nothing of
the sort. Dr. Knowlton’s system is one of preven-
tion, not of removal, and is simply hydropathic.. .
The new crews for the Nelson and the Diamond
will leave England for the Australian station by
the troopship Tamar early in November....“ I
never tasted animal food in my life, ” says a pro-
minent vegetarian. Did he never drink milk?
The Rev. Mr. Chalmers believes tho total popula-
tion of New Guinea to number not more than
200,000 soulB A burglar got into the house of a
lawyer. After a terrible struggle the lawyer suc-
ceeded in robbing him The Orient Co.’s s.s.
Austral has been again laid on the berth for Aus-
tralia, and should have sailed on the 12th Novem-
ber The Jewish community here propose to
commemorate the centenary of Sir Moses MoDte-
flore by establishing an Institution to be called
“ The Sir Moses Monteflore Jewish Home,” for the
aged and needy of both sexes. Coutributions are
solicited by Rabbi A. B. Davis, and by M. Myers
Esq., of Myers and Solomon.
* * .
A correspondent suggests in an English
paper that a statesman or two should be hanged in
order to encourage their o dleagues to put the
British navy in fighting trim—ln the affair at
Lang Kep, the Chinese lost over 2000 men. 640
dead were counted in the village alone. In the
Langson Road engagement, the Chinese had 2500
killed, inoluding their leader The English Ex-
pedition has infused vigour into the commerce of
the Soudan. The tribes near Debbah are stealing
cattle from each other to sell to the British...
Among the cholera victims at Naples was an old
woman aged 103 years “Tommy Atkins” won’t
find it easy to get on a camel, nor will he like fall-
ing off. The “ ship of the desert,” in addition to a
pleasant habit of growling at his rider, of hissing,
and even biting at him, shows a decided cussedness
at times in committing suicide. He simply sits
down and goes out 1 here were 613 persons
judicially hanged in India in 1878. In 1882 the
death sentences numbered 417 A carpet from
one of the rooms in the ’Frisco mint was recently
burnt and yielded £5OO worth of gold Brazil
is declared by a leading finance journal to be
bankrupt —An English firm of wigmakers in-
dignantly deny that the hair of Chinese malefac-
tors is ever used in the trade. Imported pigtails,
they say, are turned to account to stuff " best
horse hair mattresses,” and for purposes of that
sort—At Warsaw, a young Hebrew succeeded in
getting a petition accepted by the Empress. It
was written on the back of a loan olfice pro-
spectus — Out of the 33,318 recruits who joined the
British army in 1883, 20,813 were under 20 and
another 4491 under 21 years of age! England is a
fine country for the working man and the pauper.
One out of five of those who die in London expire
either in the hospital or the workhouse. And at
Lambeth Workhouse, a surgeon who had made a
post-mortem on the body of a child left the body for
its mother to see, in scattered pieces, some of
them tied together with pieces of clothes’ line!..
A large contract has been taken in England to
supply 41b. loves of bread at 3%d. a loaf—the low-
est price ever known Mr. Laurence Olipbant, in
a sparkling sketch, unsparingly exposes the hum-
bug of Church Mission Societies. The English
Church Missionary Sooiety has expended in thirty-
three years upwards of £120,000 on “ missions ” to
Jews and Mahommedans in Palestine, without
making a single convert. The London Jews
Society spent £30,000 between 1877 and 1882 with
the same result! The license of the CafAdela
Rotonde, Palais Royal, Paris, is not to be renewed.
When founded, 1792, the tavern bore the name of
Caveau Casimir, and was the resort of Robespierre,
Danton, and others. Bonaparte went there
every evening Thus a ladies’ fashion journal:
First cut your liver into siloes about half an inch
thick, wipe it on a dry cloth, and then fry to a nice
brown in your fat.” Horrible 1 A German en-
gineer, by employing compressed carbonic acid, is
enabled to condense or expand the air in a balloon,
and thus asoend or descend at pleasure. Tne
reronaut oan thus go up or down till he
finds an air-ourrent going in the desired hori-
zontal direction. In time of war a balloon
will be able to reach the enemy’s territory and
ascend again without a fresh supply of gas
There have been no tenants or servants’ balls at
Balmoral for two years, as last autumn all such
entertainments were prohibited in oonsequence of
the demise of John Brown; and no sooner had
mourning ceased for “the Highlander,” than
everybody was again plunged into woe by the
death rf the Duke of Albany Mr. Hastings,
M.P., told the British Social Soience Congress that
nothing similar to the revelations of the report of
the Royal Commission on Prisons in Ireland has
been published since Mr. Gladstone’s famous
denunciation of the Neapolitan prisons. ..Fre-
quent lynohings of late have made the Sheriffs of
Arkansas indignant. During the past six months
nine convicted murderers have been taken from
their hands and hanged by the mob. The worst
of it is that the Sheriffs get thirty dollars for every
hanging, and that they are thus losing at the rate
of ss4oa year The reading-room at tho Vatican
Library is now open to students. No docu-
ment later than 1815 can be examined
Dr. Schweninger, of Munich, has discovered a
new mode of reducing the bulk of the human
frame. It is, never to eat and drink at the same
time, but to let two hours intervene. He has, it is
said, cured Prince Bismarck of a tendencj to
obesity in this way Gordon has struok medals
commemorative or the siege of Khartoum. The
metals used are silver for oflioerg, copper for
soldiers, and pewter for women and children, the
latter, he adds, having merited them by their
sufferings The fastest ship afloat is tho New
Cunard liner Umbria, whioh, on her trial trip, at-
tained the extraordinary speed of 21 knots per
hour, equal to 24 land miles. Horsepower, 13,500;
520 feet long, 57|broad, and 41 deep; gross tonnage,
8000....8ret Harte's Stanislow Convention has al-
most had its parallel in England, where some mor-
bid joker put sheep-bones into a coffin, laid it
down by a railway line, and gave rise to excited
yells of “orful murder 1” Upon seeiDg the re-
mains, the local medical officer of health gave
it as his opinion that they were those of a child
between eleven and twelve years of age!
Vanity Fair has had to retract and grovel for its
story of how Mr. Gladstone had been paid £lOOO by
a Treasury Warrant, to which money he was not
legally or morally entitled The daily expenses
of the new Soudan expedition are £B5 000, or
£600,000 a month The newspaper with the
largest circulation in the world is Lh Petit
Journal of Paris. 800,000 copies daily! ...The
French Government, considering it outrageous
that the poor should derive no benefit from the
splendid harvest have determined to use the liw
of 1791, and fix a tariff for bread, unless the
bakers very shortly make considerable red actions.
.. In the first half of the present oentury 3734 per-
sons, we learn, were executed in England and
Wales thus For murder. 616 ; burglary, 1235 ;
incediarism, 147 ; forgery, 736—An ordinary ele-
phant produces 1201 b. of ivory, worth £6O Eng-
land consumes 650 tons of ivory yearly, for which
it is necessary to kill 12,000 elephants... The
powerful Russian ironclads, Vladimir Monomach,
and the General-Admiral, have left Cronstadt for
the Pacific. These two ships, remarks an Knglish
paper, could overpower our ileet in the Chinese
seas, burn Hong Kong, levy a couple of millions
indemnity from Singapore, and then go across the
Pacific and destroy our coaling station at Van-
couver Island.
The Bishop of Dunedin held a council of
war lately to consider how best to circumvent the
“working man” and get him rousted into the
true fold. It was shown by various reverend
weepists that the typical Dunedin working man
was a lost sheep, and, if he wasn’t quickly caught
and ear-marked, he would get amonar the goats
and Satan would make roast mutton of him to all
eternity. Steps were, therefore, urgently needed
to “save” the poor brute at once. One reverend
expounder thought the New Zealand working
man was too well off to feel the need of spiritual
guidance, More bad times and a necessity for
free tickets for soup were wanted to bring him
round to a sense of his lost state. Another said he
found the working man in his parish, as a rule,
quite civil and always ready to donate a day’s pay
tor church purposes; he even went so far as to let
his children attend Sunday-school and get properly
primed in Scriptural history, but he drew the line
at attending churoh in person; seemed to prefer
smoking his pipe and reading the papers of a
Sunday to attending Divine Service and hearing all
about Jonah and the whale and other good things.
A good deal more was said about the working
man and his unhappy spiritual condition, but the
shepherds dispersed without coming to any con-
clusion on the subject. Might we suggest that an
experiment be mado by the Bishop and a few
clerical friends putting on a moleskin disguise
and taking jobs here and there at pick and shovel
work, giving their earnings to (he poor. In this
way they would come into closer relations with
the “ working man,” and be able to put a word in,
in season and out of season, for the benefit of the
true Church! We make no charge for this idea,
but would ask the Bishop to remember The
Bulletin when be puts up his next “ partition.”


By way of dropping a gentle hint to the
few who have not yet seen it, we would direct at-
tention to the upper floor of Bray Bros.’ china
warehouse, 403 and 404 George-street, where a
special display nf ornamental crockery and pretty
designs in cbinaware are tastefully set-out on view.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
I^t-gtreB^ , * lrCliaaSd from HocKIKGS 411(1
BRIEF MENTION.
The life of a politician in France is a risky
one. The poorer classes eat mules.
Scotchmen don’t wear trousers because
their feet are too big to get through them.
When a man in the pit takes a fit, don’t
shout out “ fire!” It’s water that’s wanted.
Spiritualism is spreading rapidly in Pen-
rith. Even Licensing Magistrates cannot check it.
The first Insolvent Aot was passed in 1649.
A millionaire was unknown previous to the pass-
ing of that Act.
In England, what we call a bailiff is known
as “a broker.” In Australia, it’s “the other
fellow” who is the “ broker.”
A Maryborough (Q.) editor oompares the
head of a rival to a turnip. The turnip season
must bavo been pretty bad up there this year.
A man walked into a Catholic chapel at
Lithgow and offered to fight the priest. He had
to be content with fighting the air with his heels.
Despite any remarks the Shoalhaven Press
may make, the Emperor of Germany thinks that
the peace of Europe is insured for some time to
come. „ ,
The staff of one of the Gundagai papers
was photographed last week. An old resident says
it is the best picture of Whittington and his Cat he
has ever seen.
Matches are now being manufactured in
England that will fatten infants who eat them
rather than kill. Luck goes dead against the poor
married man.
The Close of the Campaign.
A ’Frisco ohurch advertises for “ a minister
of the Gospel who can preach two strictly original
sermons every Sabbath, one in the morning for
saints and one in the evening for sinners.
Owing to leotures having been delivered
by the public men of Cooma recently, many of the
lunatics have to be removed from the local
asylum, through the overcrowding of the institu-
tion.
The Moruya Examiner complains that
the last number of another coast journal has not
reached t*e office. We suppose the other journals
complain in turn when the Moruya light does reach
them.
“ Billy,” said a scion of a Surry Hills
boarding-house to another boy, “ I heard mother
sav your little sister’s got the hoopinkoff! Ger
out-she ain’t,” replied Billy, “.she's only pizened
with fossfruß.”
The Moruya Mist informs the public that
the Rev. Percival’s flute solos is (sic) worth riding
miles to hear. There are a few who would ride
miles to hear the Rev. Peroivai preach the editor s
funeral sermon.
The Nepean Times remarks that Penrith
promises to be very unhealthy. The people don’t
attempt to connect that journal with this state of
affairs, although Christmas numbers are announced
as being almost ready.
The Cooktown Independent has some
spiteful little rhymes about us in its last issue.
As they possess internal evidence of having been
produced in the lock-up, we will let them pass tor
this time. But we would advise the writer, for his
own sake, to try and keep off it.
One of the Bega journals has the folio w-
ing:-“ Please give me a penny, sir.” This is a
pathetic appeal to the subscribers to dub up. Only
that we don’t understand the penny business. It
may be that there is only one subscriber to the
paper, and that the copper is balance of an account.
At Belfast, Victoria, they always acquit
every " dacent fellow ” whom the jury know, no
matter what he has done or how he has done it.
This paragraph appears in a local paper, and con-
veys a deal:—” The jury were then called upon to
take their places, and all but two went into the
dock.”
It is a noted fact that the hero of a thrill-
ing tale who has to get immensely rich in a few
years is, in most cases, a lawyer. To make him a
? arson, or an editor, would be to smash the tale up.
f the former, they’d never see him rich; and if
the latter—well, never sober enough to take an
interest in the affair.
South’s Opera Company played “ Mari-
tana” in Queanbeyan last week. The performance
was greatly enjoyed by a deaf and dumb man.
The company is now in Cooma, from which place
lunatics are being shifted to make more room in
the asylum. Harry Slmmonds sings “ Let me like
a soldier fall,” and then don’t seem to stiffen; so
they have prepared for the worst.
“ A Treat for the Orphans,” is the heading
of a paragraph in a Townsville paper. On reading
it, we learnt that the Stanley Opera Troupe had
“generously invited the orphan children to an
afternoon performance.” The poor little devils,
no doubt, felt then the real bitterness of being
alone in the world. If they had had fathers or
mothers, this would never have happened to them.
Philosophising upon the vioissitudes of life,
the Gundagai Times gives an instance of a man
" who some years back was public bellman at Sand-
hurst, and now ” (it remarks triumphantly) “ he is
one of the most successful herb-doctors.” W e have
known similar things ourselves. We knew a man
who was once a country editor: now he is a hod-
carrier. There is always a chance to rise in this
country.
Sic itur ad astra. “ Thus do we reach the
stars,” murmured a classic young 'gent., as he ad-
justed his 6)4 hat, trooped down the passage which
led to the stage entrance for pros, only, and
dumped half a “ bull ” into the hand of the Cer-
berus who sat on sentry at the door. Ten seconds
later the ballet star linked her arm in his, and said
devilled kidneys and “ cham.” would be something
heavenly. Next morn, that same young man’s
thoughts were wholly flxed on the “ sic ” without
the astra.
A man living in the bajk blocks of the
Darling some time ago purchased a sheep dog pup
of unquestionable pedigree for the sum of five
pounds. The dog, however, has turned out a fool.
“ Joker” (for that is the name to which the dog
replies) has therefore become the butt of inoes-
sant ridicule, and his poor master is like to suc-
cumb under the weight of rasping raillery and
bitter banter with which he is ever deluged. The
most unkindest cut of all, however, was dealt by
a righteously indignant scrub-cutter, who. when
he heard of this direful speculation, cried out:
“ It's a flaming fizzing shame ; five pounds good
money gone to the dogs—why, that 8 a hundred
shillings and then, After a moment’s pause for
for meditation or calculation, he wailed in tones
instinct with a sense of wrong, “Two hundred
booses I”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An elderly maiden, having had several
teeth extracted, and being asked by a female com-
panion if it hurt much, replied, “Well, I suppose
it did, but I was so excited because he had his arm
right round my neok that I didn’t feel but very
little pain.”
Letter-carriers in the South are complain-
ing bitterly to the Postmaster-General about a
new trouble that has come upon them. It appears
that of late several of them have been bitten by
dogs. When a postman knocks at a door out
jumps a dog and catches him by the calf. The
Postmaster-General promises to put a stop to the
trouble, and it is to be hoped, on the score of fair
play, that he will succeed. It is not the postmen
that stick to people’s letters; it is the sorters and
clerks and high-up officials in the carpeted rooms
of the office. When a carrier comes to one's door
he means, in nine oases out of ten, to deliver up
the letter, and it is not necessary to set a dog to
hold him on by the calf. We hope the Postmaster-
General will quickly suppress this crudely con-
ceived practice.
Ministers of State in Victoria appear to
have a bitter down upon that distinguished and
largely endowed body of men, the Justices of the
Peace. It may be that the Ministers themselves,
having been, and actually for the most part still
being, justices, know that magisterial elevation is
often the apotheosis of unprincipled villainy, and
act accordingly. Whatever the cause, Ministers in
Victoria year after year try to degrade the men.
Sir Bryan O’Logblen not long ago made them sign
a document with their own hands as proof that
they were able to write. The command made
several of the distraught men thin. Think of the
heads of families, long settled ip quiet happy
stupidity, roused suddenly up to the necessity of
taking lessons In penmanship! It was alleged at
the time that Sir Bryan was killing two birds with
one stone, and that his ill-will to the magisterial
bench took that desperate direction owing to the
arrival of a Hibernian cousin who had been a
writing master in county Clare. Certainly, that
new chum claims the honour of having polished
up most of the J.’s P. about that time. The other
week, however, Mr. Deakin winked at the country
and reached out for the national victims. He
began jokingly by asking them in what courts they
liked best to sit, and then when each man named a
court, he issued an order specifying that as the
only court where he dared sit. The magistrates
have been cursing and swearing about it in the
Melbourne Town Hall the other night. They say
the Minister has blasted their characters, for that
he means to imply that they went about from
court to court, not in the interests of justice, but
to help friends. The Minister says he meant exactly
that. Now, what will the next insult be ?
It is refreshing to find that in these days
of scientific and other enlightened ideas, the en-
terprising pickpocket contrives to keep well
abreast of the age. During the week from No-
vember 4th (Cup day) to November 11th, the
talented “lifters ” who favoured Flemington with
their presence succeeded in relieving a few other
visitors of £lOO in cash, £231 in bank deposit re-
ceipts, seven gold watches, 23 silver watches,
several gold scarf pins (including a £3O gem be-
longing to one of our smartest legislators here),
ana a lady’s diamond brooch, valued at 25 guineas
This does not represent anything like the actual
number of petty robberies pulled off, but only
those as to whioh information to the police had
been given. One ctievalier d'induetrie manipulated
no less than seventeen purses on the Cup day, and
another member of the craft, whose ideas took a
more religious turn, was caught holding up one
end of a lady’s hymn-book, in a Collingwood
church, with his right hand, whilst he picked his
fair partner’s pocket with the left. And this
reminds us that the very latest ideas in the thiev-
ing line is for one joker to fall into our lovely
harbour, and frantically yell for help to the
selected wealthy-looking by-standers on shore.
To divest himself of his superfluous clothes is the
work of a second to the well-dressed by-stander,
and to rifle his pockets as he flops about in the
briny is the work of but another second to the
drowning man’s accomplice on land. We wonder
—in point of fact, we are pained—to find that the
Nooze has failed to notify this fact to its 74,999
readers. Had it done so, 10 per cent of the natives
of Woolloomooloo would now be sporting their
“kerridges,” and preparing to add additional
lustre to the collective wisdom of the colony,
In the Min engagement, the first shot from
Admiral Courbet’s flagship, the Volta, was in-
stantly answered by a grape shot from the Yuen
Woo, a large Chinese corvette, which cleared the
bridge of the Volta of everybody except the very
man it was aimed at, Admiral Courbet. Courbet
at onoe took a terrible revanche. He sent a tor-
pedo-boat against the Yuen Woo; the torpedo ex-
Sloded right under her, and blew her bottom out,
rowning 300 men. The cowardice and incapacity
of the Chinese leaders were indescribable. When
the French tackled the forts, after smashing up
the vessels—which they accomplished in half an
hour—they shelled the batteries, and drove out
the garrisons, whom they then mowed down with
machine guns. The Daily News’ correspondent
says that in seven minutes the Chinese fleet had
practically ceased to exist.
Apart.
Why is it, my dearest one,
That the lonely, crying sea,
With its wreaths of tempest foam,
Separates my love from me ?
Cruel waves of blue and green 1
Heartless waves of leaden hue.
Rolling ceaselessly between
Me, who loves for aye, and you I
Who will bridge the heaving tide ?
Who will span its angry flow ?
So that I may gain the side
Of my love of long ago.
Who will launch a boat for me.
Fleet of sail and strong of prow,
Which will brave the angry sea—
Who will launch it for me now ?
If an eagle in a freak
Sent to me his pinions strong,
Then full swiftly would I seek
Him who loved me for so long I
I would fly from daylight’s birth
Till I saw the night depart,
Till I fell upon the earth.
And he clasped me to his heart 1
I would fly all night, all day,
’Neath the light of sun and star,
Till from my high, airy way
I would see my love afar.
Then with feelings wholly sweet—
Then with troubled heart at rest—
I would flutter to his feet
While he clasped me to his breast I
INA M.W.


Of late years, the new buildings of Sydney
have wonderfully improved in Style and ap-
pearance, and a worthy spirit of emulation
seems to stir our merchants. No doubt a
feeling of this sort actuated Mr. C. Bond
when he determined to erect his magnificent
new premises, an engraving of which is here
given to the readers of The Bulletin. These
buildings are situated at Nos. [297 and U99
George-street, almost opposite Hunter-
street, and, consequently, are in tbe most
valuable portion of the oity, [being close to
trams, all ’buses pass the door, and,all resi-
dents of our water suburbs must necessarily
pass within stone’s throw on their way to
and from business and home.
The buildings were designed by Messrs.
Backhouse and Lough, architects, of George,
street, but Mr. Bond supplied the] ideas, ac-
quired by him after a great number of years’
experience, for a High-class Merchant Tai-
loring Establishment, and, as a consequence,
the result is a place eminently adapted for
the purposes intended, of lofty proportions,
splendidly lighted, and perfectly ventilated.
The style is an adaptation of Grecian archi-
tecture, plain but proportionally exact.
The establishment stands out in bold relief
from the surrounding structures. It is built
of the best pressed iron brick on a solid
stone foundation, “trussed” and “girded”
throughout, and the front is stuccoed and
embellished with the best Portland cement-
There are four floors, each 25 feet in width
by 60 feet in depth, and the ceilings have the
magnificently lofty height of 14 feet from the
floor. They are all clear flats, no partitions
being used on any floor; and two of the flats
or floors have been let to Mr. Thomas
Gaunt, the Melbourne jeweller and watoh-
maker, who has taken this opportunity to
secure central and suitable premises for a
branch of his business, whioh he intends
establishing, here. The ground floor is of
course devoted to Mr. Bond’s exclusive use.
and here may be seen evidences of that
gentleman’s taste in the superior style of the
shop fittings and deoorations. Cedar is the
wood that has been brought into requisition
to supply the screens, partitions, etc., re-
quired in an establishment of this sort.
Mr. Bond’s private office, the counting-
house, and the fitting-rooms are composed
of panels of cedar highly polished, and
only those portions of cedar selected which
were of a very fine grain and beautifully
marked. The partitions are surmounted by
panels of artistically ground glass, in oblong
panes. The doors are similarly made, but
with larger glasses, on whioh are written
in gold the uses of the various rooms.
The fitting-room is also supplied with a
“prismatic” top light, which gives that
peculiar reflection so much valued for pur-
poses of distinguishing the quality of
woollen goods. From this room speaking-
tubes communioate with the workshops—of
which there are two, one occupying the
whole of the upper flat in the building, the
other taking up a large store at the rear.
These rooms are capable of accommodating
over one hundred workmen, the light and
ventilation being a special feature in their
construction.
Mention must here be made about the
magnificent show window. It contains the
purest crystal plate-glass, and Mr. Bond
asserts that the principal front pane is the
largest sheet of plate-glass in Australia.
Of oourse, a business to occupy such pre-
mises as these must be of very large pro-
portions ; but, like most successful affairs, it
was commenced in a very small way.
Exactly five years ago, Mr. Bond, who was
then an employee in a Sydney firm, recog-
nised the want of a first-class tailoring estab-
THE NEW TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
297 and 299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—
1
I
I
o.
>>;
*
a
n
n
lisbment, and with his characteristic energy
determined to supply this deficiency. He
secured premises, No. 295 George-street, next
his present establishment, and started with
a staff of three hands. Mr. Bond did the
cutting himself, and made a speciality of
1 frock and dress ooats. His reputation for
exactness and taste soon spread, and within
three months of his opening he had to employ
two more men in his shop, as,well as an
an increase of twenty workpeople. Business
gradually increased, and Mr Bond found it
necessary to enlarge his place of business,
which was done by utilising all the back
store. About this time, Mr. Bond, who
previously bought his woollens in Sydney
tried the experiment of importing his own
material, and consequently saving his cus-
tomers the middle profit. This plan proved
such a suocess that it was and is still con-
tinued: as well as gaining the advantages
already mentioned, all the newest styles and
designs come direct from the manufacturers,
who, knowing Mr. Bond’s desires, send him
everything novel as soon as the tweed comes
from the loom.
Mr. Bond was brought up in the West of
England, about five miles from Stroud, and
his early experience amongst the “ warp and
wept” now stands him in good stead. The
principal supplies come from Marling (West
of England), Gangiers (London), and the
largest Galashiels manufacturers. The only
Continental goods used are French and Ger-
man trouserings. The present stock consists
of over one thousand different varieties of
seasonable materials, in all shades, designs,
weight, and quality, and a stock is usually
carried val ue at £4000 sterling.
As well as being able to please the most
fastidious person in material, Mr. Bond has
over 1000 styles o f making, and, as patterns
are cut for every suit and carefully pre_
I served for future requirements, the ous-
I tomer need only be measured once in a life,
time.
The present business gives employment to
four cutters, two salesmen, and a book-
keeper in the shop, and thirty men are con-
stantly employed in the work-rooms. No
female labour is utilised on the premises.
The cutting staff has lately been supple-
mented by the services of Mr. T. W. Bond
and Mr. H. Wykes, the latter of whom has
just arrived from Paris, with the highest
credentials from the leading Tailoring
houses in that city. His speciality is body
coats and ladies’ tailor-made costumes
which are a fashionable novelty at home,
and, no doubt, will be appreciated here, as
our ladies no doubt like a well-fitting gar-
ment. Ladies’ riding habits will also be
made to order, and a beautiful selection of
cloths were specially imported for this
branch of the trade.
Mr. Bond has determined to keep his repu-
tation for perfectly-fitting garments, and
pays his cutters the highest salaries, and his
wages-sheet averages over £100 per week.
There are now about 2500 complete suits
made every year, and about the same num-
ber of additional pairs of trousers.
The suits range in prioe from four
guineas for an ordinary sac suit, to twelve
guineas for a superior dress suit; and, when
it is understood that Mr. Bond superintends
every branoh of the business, our readers
oan readily understand the energy and
ability of the man. Mr. Bond believes in
surrounding himself with the best work-
men, believing that the labourer is worthy
of his hire, and, therefore, backed up by
every man in his establishment, he most
justly beasts of having one of the most com-
plete merchant tailoring establishments in
the world.
Note the Address:
C. BOND,
The New Tailoring Establishment ,
297 and 299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Political
Points
Dr. Hearn’s Bill for codifying the Victo-
rian law has been dropped this session, and most
likely will be referred to a select committee next
session.
The new Tasmanian franchise extends the
voting power to all males earning at the rate of
£OO a year. That’s all right; but how about
people who get £6OOO a year, and don’t earn it ?
Emerging.
RE-APPEARANCE OF JOHN DAVIES (C.M.G), AND HIS FRIEND CARTER (G.M.C.)-See page 17.
It is stated that fifty-nine Russian pro-
vinces contain 19,674,723 horses. What has this to
do with politics ? Only that when David Buchanan
read it, he said, “ and our Parliament contains 113
asses.”
All the Melbourne correspondents of the
Victorian country papers tipped Mr. Cuthnert for
the Presidency of the Legislative Council. Yet
M‘Bain was elected. If it had only been a horse-
race, no one would have troubled.
The Queensland Agent-General is to have
a Board of Advice to help him, and £2OO has
been voted for the members’ fees. The Queens-
land Premier declined to make It a condition of
membership that the occupant should not enter
into a contract with the Queensland Government.
The Rum is in a mild fright lest Lord
Loftus should get a second term. Well, it’s only
fair to say that no one wants that-exccpt, perhaps,
his Excellency himself. But the Rum need not be
ungrateful. Its fashionable reporter always at
the Government House “ At Homes ” gets what is
left of the sandwiches.
The fiery cross is being carried round in
England. The Orangemen have constituted them-
selves the guardians of the Conservative cause.
At a TorF meeting at Liverpool, the Orange party
threatened that “ if the right of meeting was dis-
turbed, as in Birmingham, they would meet force
by force.” The platform was guarded, by picked
men of the Orange body.
Bismarck is trying to get France to aooent
a law of extradition in all points analogous to the
one Prince Orloff vainly asked M. St.
Hilaire three years ago to present to the Chamber
of Deputies. The Russian ambassador was told
t hat this demand could not be entertained, beoause
there was no guarantee in Russia that a surren-
dered refugee would be granted a fair trial.
Colonel Long, in his forthcoming book,
“Three Prophets” (General Gordon, the Mahdi,
and Arabi), asserts the belief that General Gordon
is the avant-courier of a prospective African Em-
pire, and asserts thsU G ord on in 1884 organised th
dis irganisation of Egypt. Since then the “three
Prophets” have been merely automatons by which
Great Britain sought to found an African India
The birth and marriage rates have been
steadily falling in New Zealand for some ln
1878 the birth-rate was at 42 in 1882 it was at 36.
At the same time, the death-rate is increasing.
The Vogelites attribute this to Sir Julius’ absence
from the country during these years. When Mr.
Lunden, M.P. for the Bay of Islands, heard about
the increase ia the death rate, he said: “Tellme
the country where people never die, and I’ll go and
end my days there.”
Whilst such hazy opinions as to what you
may and may not put in a newspaper about !a
public man are about, let us give an old editor s
definition of libel. He had a young writer on his
staff, and him he instructed how to hammer a
Cabinet Minister who was also a wholesale grocer.
“Write.” said the editor, “We consider that,
politically, an historical comparison between Mr.
and Judas Iscariot would be to the advan-
tage of the latter. At the same time, we respect
Mr. as a commercial man and private citizen,
and his superior Souchong is beautiful.” The
same editor said that you never wrote libel about
a man until you touched his breeches pocket.
We can all sleep easy of nights now. The
political future of New South Wales 'is being set-
tled by John Plummer in the Nooze and by The
O’Sullivan in the Shroud. Ib his articles, John
says a good deal that is true, and by no means new,
and a little that is new but is by no means true.
We have not read what The O’Sullivan is writing,
because we can appreciate it just as well that way.
In one thing, however, John gets ahead of The O’S.
He has his name printed in large letters. Perhaps,
though, this means a reduction in price.
Herbert Bismarck intimated to Jules Ferry
that China must not receive any blow from France
which would paralyse her governmental force
and unchain disorderly passions. She is a conser-
vative and pacific Power, and it is better for the
world that she should be allowed to recoup in-
ternal strength. France will, therefore, only be
able to hang on, so to speak, to the fringe of her
empire until the time is ripe for Bismarck to say,
Get out of the way of Germany at Formosa and
on the Red River, since your occupation is not
effective.
There has been a fitting ending to the
Pocketeroo—erysipelas—alleged land dummying.
There was fuss enough made about it some three
years ago, and, of course, when the new Land Act
comes into force such things will disappear with
selection in the Western district. People will
dummy some other way then. However, the
funeral of the Pocketeroo business was appro-
priately conducted by the Shroud. “Biilee”
Taylor wrote a leader about it, and “ Double-you
Bouble-you ” Wynne apologised for the same.
These things would bury even Cassar’s ghost.
Mimic Parliaments have been established
all over New Zealand. In Auckland, they have one
with 600 members. A Governor is nominated, and
Parliament i3opened by a “speech,” and Ministries
are formed and Oppositions contest the policies put
forth. Indeed, as the elder Mr. Weller said, “they
go on passing resolutions and woting supplies r ’
quite regularly. These mimic Parliaments have
their uses in gratifying gentlemen who would
dearly love to be legislators, but who are doubtful
about finding favour with constituencies. We have
some of ’em here. There am The O’Sullivan and
the Rev. John Osborne and Mr. Dalveen. Could
they not get up a mimic Parliament, and please
themselves ? They would please the people, too.
The Duke of Argyll recently declared, in a
letter to the Times, that “ in every case where the
subsequent action of the House of Commons has
been manifestly in accordance with public opinion,
the House of Lords has followed in the same
course without undue delay.” Upon which his
correspondent asked him to explain how it was
that the Lords had persistently rejeoted the De-
ceased Wife’s Sister Bill, in spite of its having been
seven times passed by large majorities in the Com-
mons. The Duke’s answer is that in this matter
the House of Lords had “special reasons” to jus-
tify their over-riding the will of the Commons, in-
asmuch as the question involved “ Divine, and not
merely human, law.” from which it would appear
that the House of Lords holds a brief on behalf of
the Deity, as well as on behalf of the Conservative
wire-pullers.
A well-informed German correspondent
says “ Bismarck has made Jules Ferry understand
that he must follow his (Bismarck’s) lead, or be
treated as an enemy. Germany wants to create
colonies in more healthy places than Angra Pe-
queiia, and has her eye upon a part of Madagascar.
France can, if she likes, absorb the North part of
that island on the condition that she helps Ger-
many to enter into possession of the Southern side.
In short, the French navy is to act on orders im-
posed by Prince Bismarck on M. Jules Ferry for
specific purposes. In return, China will be urged
to yield to M. Patendtre. Some time ago I wrote
that Prince Bismarck was egging on France to
open a gap in the Far East, by which he meant
Germany to enter in. He would rather use France
in drawing roasted chestnuts from the fire there
than Russia who wants to advance on to the
eastern limit of the Corea.”
In connection with the 'subject discussed
in the leading article in our last issue, the follow-
ing excerpt we have just come upon in Mr. Hynd-
man’s pamphlet—” The Coming Revolution in
England”—is singularly appropriate. Says Mr.
Hyndman:—“As to the Church of England, she
has stood so many shocks and sohisms without a
topple, that even the growing feeling against all
State churches may take some time to upset her.
Nevertheless, some of the rising young parsons
themselves denounce the alliance which the ecele-
siastical hierarchy has made with the mammon of
unrighteousness, and proclaim aloud that what-
ever modern Christianity may find it convenient
to allow, the religion of Christ means more or less
complete communism. How many of those auda-
cious young men will sink their principles in fat
livings and preach general subservience to snoring
labourers. 1 should be sorry to estimate. Enough,
that the ideas are abroad quite aoart from indi-
vidual backslidings. If religionists of any ‘stripe ’
wish fo gain a permanent hold on the workers
nowadays, they must combine the prospect of
material improvement in this world with the
promise of eternal happiness in the next. Other-
wise the indifferenoe of the mass will be too much
fer them, the singular success of the Salvationists
notwithstanding.
The Peer stood on the burning deck,
Whence all but he had fled;
The storm that meant his Order’s wreok
Roared round his puzzled head.
Yet masterful and mad he stood,
As though all threats were vaint
A creature of most noble blood,
But of a childish brain.
The storm raged on—he would not go
Without his leader’s word;
That leader, fooled by friend or foe,
No warning voices heard.
He called aloud: “ See, Cecil, see
How thick the people loom 1”
He knew not that Lord Salisburee
Was reckless of his doom.
“ Oh, let me fro," again he cried,
“ I surely can be spared?”
“ Nay, you must stay,” the “ Whip” replied,
“ Since you’ve remained * unpaired.’ ”
Upon his brow he felt the weight
Of unaccustomed care,
And tried to “ follow the debate,”
But ended in despair.
And shouted but once more aloud:
“ Oh, Ceoil, must l stay!”
But Cecil, still unwisely proud,
Would have his wilful way.
There came a burst, a shock, a jar!
The Peer—oh 1 where was he ?
Ask of the Chief who scattered far
Our old Nobilitee.
Dukes, Earls, and Barons went to smash
Amidst a grateful cheer;
But the crassest victim of the crash
Was that deluded Peer!
• • •
The Coleraine Chronicle, a wide-awake
Presbyterian paper, says that “for good or ill,
Nationalism is on the eve of acquiring omni
potence in Ireland. . . , Subjeot to the control
of England and Sootland, the Nationalists are about
to direot the destinies of Ireland in a far more
effective sense than has hither been accomplished.”


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
___ Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &0., &c
T" B«ngSffS : dsS.SafflSS* U, ” lert<U ‘“ ,0P “*“*• Banquet.,Dinners, Luucb.on,
o “ ueme - - “■» ■— ■”
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee In the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
~ . . November, 1884.
Y tne present we beg to announce to our Patrons and the Publio in general that our
New Premises, situated at 175 PITT-STREET, near the corner of have
now been opened under the style of GUNSLER’S CAFE. g 8t eet ’ nave
xr, ™? nkf * ul 0r support extended to us sinoe commencing business at 110
King-street some nine months ago, we now present to our customers a place which stands
unequalled in the colonies for extension, comfort, and elegance. P
CNSLER’S CAFE will supply a want much felt, forming in the heart of the citv a
most convenient resort for Ladles as well as Gentlemen, whose requirements have been
carefully studied in the appointments of the new Establishment.
We simply invite inspection, and hope that the fame and success achieved bv Mr
here^andmake GUNSLEIPS IS / 1 APPi Melbou ™ 6 about live years ago, may repea/itself
here, ana mane GUNBLER 8 CAFE the general rendezvous of the polite world of Sydney.
Yours, most respectfully,
Purveyors, Caterers, and Confectioners.
J. F. GUNSLER & CO.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Rupertswood! Rupertswood !!
1090 CHOICE BUSINESS AND VILLA SITES.
For Sale on the Ground,
On SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, at 3 o’clock
On Very Easy Terms—£l Deposit, One Shilling per Week. Interest, 6 per oent.
Free Transfers for Purchasers of ft Lots.
RAILWAY STATION AND SIDING AT ONE CORNER OF RUPERTSWOOD.
PUBLIC SCHOOL CORNER OF RUPERTSWOOD.
PROPOSED PLATFORM IN THE CENTRE OF RUPERTSWOOD.
RAILWAY FRONTAGES AT RUPERTSWOOD.
SPECIAL TRAINS at 1.55 on 13th DECEMBER to RUPERTSWOOD.
REMEMBER THE GREAT SALE AT RUPERTSWOOD.
SPLENDID SITES AND WIDE STREETS AT RUPERTSWOOD.
BLUE MOUNTAIN VIEW ALL PARTS OF RUPERTSWOOD.
SMALL DEPOSITS AND INSTALMENTS AT RUPERTSWOOD.
mr 40 ALLOTMENTS A 8 PRIZES AT RUPERTSWOOD.
How Can You Make Money on the 13th December ? By Purchasing at RUPERTSWOOD
Do not Walt till the Land is too Dear. BUY NOW.
Attend the Great Sale, 1090 Lots, 13th December.
Parents Should Purchase a Few Allotments at Rupertwood for their Children.
T. E. SMITH, CHAPMAN, and SMITH
Have received instructions from the Cumberland Building, Land, and Investment Companv to self hr-
publio auotlon, on the Ground, on SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, at 3 o’clock, P y ° Be 1 Dy
1090 Choice Allotments, on Very Easy Terms-£1 deposit, balano’e one shilling per week
Interest, o per cent* *
TORRENS’ TITLE. SPECIAL TRAIN ON DAY OF SALE, at 165.
Lithographs and Free Tickets at 468 George-street.
WILL MAKE YOl ll HENS LAY.
to*
%
iiinHiTC
An
J
m
m
SH A. ECCS
>rW: r'o/t/t
N=
OtTJ auT } hKt> Wtt
m> »■» m »5Lt nm
COSTS Sut
im
ton « <4
Ftocrj o» i 2 Fokvi^
gh.
iICUBIO BY c l rrr/fZ PA TINT
[ Mltn IAY
p*£**#rj CfWgVgr
*f£4*4.r *ll 0/3£ASls\
corns* o*s no Pot/cr^r
eo/vo/r/oM />oi/trxi
rut ,•*ojr fAofirAfiUL
sroc/y r/f*
WILL MAKE YOUR HUNS LAY.
T URTEI£AMT,SoIe Proprietor.
iuccsfso* TV CMA « r Aiten ter
• 216 State Street
HARTFORD. CMJ.S.
'Price-2oz. packets, 4s. Od. perdoz.; single pounds, Esj 2V6lbs., 45.; 61b. boxes, Bs.:
lOlb. boxes, 125.; 251 b. kegs, 21s. «d.
(Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ & CO., 32 Bridge-st., Sydney,} A |°s B .
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING CO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
\
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Faoslmiles of Handwriting for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
C3F" Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
I>l j Rofo
\j "a cut - er\grra\?eb ojp ©Jype
af pßofo-C.t) em icaf mecLry.
S’tl y rnounfecj 'Type fnigft arL( i-
car? Re yetl in ' o|?
ancj pr up fed "pro m. cup aay or di
nary prmlung prey. 4r) appear—
aip ce it - ryemffe/ very oiosePy
a coo*ob cut! ancj y to
super/ede fo a cyeaf - exfetpfl—
tßaf <sPoa) and oos Tty na_el“R.ocL
ij? enqra\?incj . V/e oar? opper
mcacenaeat/’ fo aft coßo
ye cut/ por , Price
■Pi/ff > or a.n_y
ncj par-pye. Qe/T our
e-sfl paafe/ anc| fVy y
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
The Federal Art Union.
TO BE DISPOSED OP BY SUBSCRIPTION, ON
THE ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
<£sooo Worth of Pictures,
In 10,000 Shares of lOs. Each.
COMPRISING
LANDSCAPES, PORTRAITS,
AND OTHER PICTURES,
By the Best English and Colonial Artists
The following - Subscribers have kindly consented
to assist the Drawing: Committee in the distribution
of the prizes
A. J. GOULD, Esq,. M.L.A.; J. A. MACKINNON,
Esq., M.L.A.: F. J. GIBBES, Esq., M.L.A.;
R. M. VAUGHN, Esq., M.L.A.
THE drawing - of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected
by the subscribers, who will receive notice by
three advertisements in the “Herald,” "Daily
Telegraph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon
as two thirds of the subscribers have been ob-
tained. When the drawing day has once been
decided upon, there will be no further postpone-
ment.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win
ners consider the prizes over valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in full to the sub-
scribers.
WINNING NUMBERS WILL BE ADVERTISED
IN ALL LEADING PAPERS.
Amongst the pictures is a “ View on the Thames,”
by Varley, the eminent artist—lor 50 years or more
in the house of the late Sir George Stephen, Knight,
Q.C„ Beputy-Lieuteuant of the county of Buck-
ingham, from whose sole surviving executor it
has been purchased. Authenticity of this picture
guaranteed by certificate from the Hon. Mir Alfred
Stephen, C.B , K C.M.G., Lieutenant-Governor.
Send crossed cheques, P. 0.0 , or stamps.
Apply to
J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
19 Hunter-street, or Box 600 G.P.0., Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that the date for draw-
ing the prizes may be fixed upon.
£2500.
TATTERSALL’S UUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Eurick’s Subscription,
5000 MEMBERS AT IBs. EACH.
Add 3d. for Membership. Registered letters only.
Address “Euriok,” G.P.O. Sydney. Close Decem-
ber 29th, Results posted; also this paper.
VENETIA WALT!?.
Ths Air to t* w*U mnrkai. Qjjuxofft Lowtuia*.
pp’F* cantabiU.
W IL^ I MT?o?o?'^ RI ?^ afl the Lar «rest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
£1 upward. *
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAS CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most impertant Copcimr
Instruments ever invented. The TrypoirißDh
3000 copies ; the Berrymaph, tho cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
THE
lb Davis Seng Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEBT MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Moder
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co,,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, tor
4|d. Fourpence halfpenny. 4M.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
F quire,
ull particulars,
W. BULLARD, 342 George-otreet.


F
URNITUKI SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
end
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamh.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gruat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Bpring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E :
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Eoonomic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile baok and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, fromlos.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
£
£
until
jQQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCABIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, «o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V_y just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(VConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Soreens tor fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
W Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
iees, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s tne pair.
171ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM —BIDE-
ij BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
JVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRB and DINING CHAIRS, all to
natch, on view at Show Rooms, O'Connell-Btreet.
INING - TABLES, with patent extending
1 sorew, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIB-
Patented.
D
’his chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Itting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
he occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
onstruction; works automatically. The above
ut represents only two of the numerous positions
hat oan be obtained, instantly, and with but little
ffort. It fit* perfectly every part of the body,
nd gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
o anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
amp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired,
’he frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
urable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
ilete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
rhen UJded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
,nd LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
s. 6d. extra.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
ve assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
nd other designs, which can be upholstered in
ny materials to meet the taste and requirements
f buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
71RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
-1 TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
alnut, an<f Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
OROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
)en to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
iMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black aadbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
► EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
" prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
ell and Spring streets.
W
ash STANDS, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
n< ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
bt INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
leY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest priees.
SOCIAL
The ball given by the American citizens to
the officers of the Iroquois, on Tu°sday se’nniyht,
In Needs’ rooms, was in every sense a
The picturesque apartments were nicely decorated
and were given to the committee, free, by Messrs.
Needs. About 120 cards had been issued, and
were all acoepted. Among the guests w er ® ®. lr
Alfred Stephen, Sir James and Lady Martin, Lady
Manning, Professor John and Mhs. Smith, Aider-
men John Young, T. Playfair, J.Taylor, D. O Con-
nor, Messrs. J. M. Purves and R. B. Smith, the Hon.
Mr. Norton, Consul Kahlo, Vice-Consul Dr. Slate,
Mr. Unwin, the Mayor and Mayoress, and a number
of officers. A full orchestra under Mr. Ernest
Needs provided splendid music, and all the officers
agreed that it was very seldom their privilege to
dance on such a floor. Pretty programmes were
provided, opening with a march, which is a usual
item on American programmes, and fln'shing the
last of the twenty dances about three o’clock. In
spite of the hurry with which itwas organised, the
oall was equal to any during the season for enjoy-
ment Such a crowd of pretty faces was surely
nevtr seen before in the space of a few hours,
There was Miss nussell, tall, fair, and graceiul,
attired in an underskirt of the palest amber, over
which was rich Spanish lace, bodice of black satin,
and garlands of pale pink roses and long grass
looping up the draperies here and there. Stars and
Stripes met ourgaze almost everywhere. One fair
creature wore a coronet of stars, while her sylph-
ike waist was encircled by stripes. We ardently
wished we were those same stripes! Miss H-mer,
ancingi n white satinette flounced to the waist,
wore a tiny American flag at her side, but, in case
her own Union Jack should feel slighted, she
found a place for it also. Mrs. Smith wore a
French white satin, profusely beaded with white
crystals and pearls. Mrs. Cantor, black Spanish
Jace draperies over white cashmere, garnished
with magnificent long scarlet ostrich plumes. A
dainty piece in a snowy white tulle, full skirt, with
Bhort crimson satin basque, opening over a waist-
coat of tulle, and laced across with crimson cord,
found many admirers. The Mayoress wore
a deep violet sat'n, with train of same coloured
velvet. A train of striped dark and light
blue broche, over a pale blue skirt with
lace flounces, was very fine. Marabout feathers
composed the head-dress. Quaker-like in its sim-
plicity, but very quaint and uncommon, was a
dove-coloured silk, over which fell in graceful
folds the same colour in tulle. Mrs. S. Evans
looked very sweet in blue satin and white lace,
with Elizabethan collar. Miss Dearborn, in
white satiu, was a perfect stellar attraction
to a crowd of admiring satellites, and bore
her honours with a calm and queenly grace.
The Misses Sandeman, always warm favour-
ites in any Sydney ballroom, once n ore glided
with perfect grace over the floor, wearing
Bimple white, but with effective style. Mrs.
A. Bennett wore a handsome black satin ;
Mrs. Alderson looked irresistible in a beau-
tiful pink; Mrs. Kobert3 wore cream satin
and lace. A married lady from Woollahra looked
charming in pretty pale lavender; and Miss
Kahlo’s dancing almost made one forget to notice
that she wore all white and a smile of perfect
Seace. Pale blue satin was Miss Young's choice ;
!rs. Kahlo tried tlack velvet and long tram ; Mrs.
oimpson donned a cream and pale pink bodice,
with train of black velvet, a very grand arrange-
ment. The very palest of green satin soft-
ened with pure white lace, was profusely be-
decked with flots of pink satin ribbon. A black
tulle skirt was worn with a bodice so richly em-
broidered with black bugle beads that it would
have been puzzling to find room enough between
them for a pin’s point. It looked almost like a
bodice of glass. A magnificent cream broche was
made just as it should be, without a particle of any
other material to mar its own shimmering loveli-
ness. Rich and handsome was a rose-coloured bro-
caded satin, caught up over a deep ruby skirt and
trimmed with rose-coloured chenille fringe.
Charmingly simple was a pure white tulle, with
stripes of satin running down the skirt. Over a
cream broche skirt was a bodice and long train of
bronze satin, which was worn by a tall lady with
splendid effect. If a man didn't admire the little
fairy in white satin, who glided about so gaily,
carrying her bouquet of white flowers, he wouldn’t
be fit to live. We are awfully fit to live. Some
line jewellery was worn, but pearls still hold their
own. Compagnoni catered in good style. Ladies
complained that the champagne was rather dry;
but, judging from the manner they managed to
put it away, we should be inclined to conclude
that it was themselves that were dry, pretty dears,
and not the champagne.
+ * *
A most enjoyable dance was given by Mrs.
J. Pearce, of Uißhppthorpe, Armidale, on Novem-
ber 19th. Girls all jolly, bachelors equally so;
dancing kept up till 2 a.m. The grounds were
prettily decorated with Chinese lanterns, and the
dancers enjoyed the shady nooks. The hostess in
black broche looked well, aud saw that her guests
enjoyed themselves; her two little daughters
looked very pretty, and it is doubtful which had
the most dances. From Hambledon Hill (Singleton)
came a young lady in white and pale-blue, danced
extra well, and with eyes that charmed her
partners. The tall daughter of the late Under-
secretary for Public Instruction looked her best
in white and cardinal, and her dancing was much
admired. The honour of belle rested among three
young ladies - a fair daughter of the aforesaid late
Under Secretary, the eldest daughter of the Hon.
John Richardson, and a young lady from Sydney,
once an Armidalegirl. A yoimg lady, daughter of a
Public School Inspector, looked very nice in black
broche, with pale-blue and pink ribbons, and also
contributed some good music. Mr. Littlejohn was
M.C., and all loft .highly delighted with Mrs.
Pearce’s pleasant party.
• • •
Men are now wearing bangles in New
York—men, because dudes have worn them for
some time. But it shows the irresistible strength
of fashion, when muscuiar, sensible, man-like
beings bow to a craze essentially so feminine. The
bangles are mostly of sliver, seldom gold, and are
closely woven chains less than a broad, and
always quite plain. On the streets, in boating
crews, at athletic grounds, these chain bracelets
are getting to be seen. Rings, also, are profusely
worn by some. This is a sort of revival. Jewellery
was plentiful many years ago, but the style
became so snobbish and vulgar that gentlemen
could only be told by t.hoir simplicity of style.
Two years ago, a gentleman’s attire for evening
dress was so plain as .almost to appear poverty-
stricken. His tie was plain white lawn-silk and
satin ties being left to waiters and servants—his
shirt studs were.bone, and his waistcoat had plain
buttons. Most men wore no rings at all, and their
watch-chains were mere threads. But fashion
never stands long, and now there is a full reaction.
The cat’s-eye stud was started; it was worn in the
centre of the shirt, and surrounded with diamonds!
at a cost of often over £5O Or a large solid gold
or diamond one was worn. Some wear five or six
valuable rings, gold waistcoat buttons, double
watch-chains, and-bangles. Some of these be-
iewelled beings are actually men. Some of them
are only the other thing. And as they Sit with
legs crossed, idly sucking the head of a gold or
silver-tipped cane, and staring before them
through a single glass bound in a slight silver rim,
they look goigeous, and wealthy, and snobbish,
and vulgar,
They were only the frailest shoulder straps,
and a modest man couldn’t look at them without
honing they were reliable, for fear of some thrill-
ing accident. In fact, a really modest man could
hardly look at all. It is seldom a lady emerges so
far. However, if obvious personal charms be any
excuse, perhaps she was justified in wearing what
mav be lightly referred to as a very iow-tide toilet
at this particular ball. The average man, in his
reprehensible preference for tangible beauty over
that which Is merely conjectural, does not flee
from temptation as he ought, and the gallant officer
appreciated the company he had acquired. As the
waltz struck up, she urged, “Come, let us darce.”
“Oh, no, not up here,’’ he said; “what would
people say ?” “ People say! ” she echoed; “ why,
you’re going away to-morrow.’’ He was unmoved.
‘‘Ah, dol ” qu th the beauty. “Aw—no,” he still
replied. “ Well, then,” said the lady with the
shoulder-straps, and she put her arms on his
shoulders and looked full in the warrior's eyes,
"if you won’t dance—kiss me.” There was one
moment of desperate hesitation, and then the
gallant officer made three distinct attacks.
* * *
A correspon dent writes Society has some
queer usages. If one man gives an entertainment,
then there must bo a “return.” It seems to me
that this “ return ” is paying your host the very
poor compliment of not accepting his entertain-
ment as it was meant—as an act of genuine hospi-
tality. It seems to imply that you think he wants
some repayment. And, in any case, the mode of
such repayment is eminently curious. Does in-
viting to a ball, which costs hundreds of pounds, a
man who cares nothing for dancing, give him any
satisfaction ? Or if you compliment a lady who is
absolutely irritated by music, unless it is good, by
asking her to an indifferent concert, does she feel
any better for it, either in person or in purse?
Aren’t these comnlimentary affairs a sort of one
for our guest and two for ourselves ? If an enter-
tainment must be repaid, would not a handsome
present be a common-sense return, an honester
rubbing out of the debt, a more tangible evidence
of the donor’s good wishes, and a welcome keep-
sake of the pleasures gone by ? And to all these
last few questions we should be inclined to answer
a general “ Yes!”
* * *
Being the last large ball of the season,
perhaps wo will be excused for dragging in poor
Terpsichore. Usually, we let her rest; in fact, our
mention of this classic lady’s name hitherto has
been so infrequent as to amount almost to neglect.
It might seem so. Butif we, too, made a set at those
useful phrases "votaries of Terpsichore,” and
“light fantastic toe,” and the “ wee sma’ ’oors,”
what would the solemn commercial journals do
when they had to describe a dance? They never
look at the girls; they absolutely ignore what they
wear—why! there would be nothing left for them
but “ the room was tastefully decorated ” and
that pyrotechnioally brilliant statement that
“everything passed off very successfully.” We
are good at heart, and would not rob the dead-
beat dally man of his only stock and store. But
this being, as said, the last chance of the season,
we really think we might be allowed one little
Innings with the nimble Terpsl. So come, classic
girl:—
Age cannot wither nor can custom stale
The charms that youth and fashion find in thee;
From first star-twinkle on till day-dawn pale,
We caper at thy call, Terpsiohorel
Through winter months, when in the chill night air
The diamond dewdrops sparkle on the grass,
Thy votaries have gathered, young and fair.
Before thy shrine the giddy hours to pass.
How oft beneath that mammoth chandelier
Have small feet numberless and noiseless slid;
How oft in shady corners—none to hear—
The friendly gloom the tell-tale blushes hid.
But time goes by, and nothing much can last,
And all things pass away—and so must we;
Live as we like, demurely, dull, or fast,
A life of penance, or a life of glee.
And so-although, thou gayest of the Nine,
Goddess of flying feet and happy heart!—
We've for a season frolicked round thy shrine,
The Winter’s gone, and so—we now must part.
It is delight to worship thee, sweet Muse;
It is intoxication—though not liquory;—
But now thy pleasures for a time we lose;
The Summer’s come, and so, ta-ta, Terpsichore!
The Mayor and Mrs. Hardie paid the committee
who invited them to a return ball the compliment
of coming early, so that dancing was started be-
fore 9: and they were still there when Sir Roger
de Coverley closed the programme on the stroke of
2. Society does not usually indulge in large balls
so late as the end of November, and so the tine
attendance of 330 persons at the return ball must
be taken as a genuine token of the Mayor s popu-
larity. With some aid from a committee, the ball
was chiefly managed by Messrs. John Williamson
and Richard Teece, upon whom fell most of the
anxiety and work. Thoughout the evening they
were very zealous, and the ball proved an excel-
lent one. Compagnoni spread the supper in good
style, and a by-room was used, for ices, ooffee,
ohampagne, etc. Messrs. W. H. and E. Needs acted
as Masters of Ceremonies, in which office they are
well experienced; and the band played some pretty
tunes in a distinctly indifferent manner, the time
being uneven to a perplexing degree. Now, we
don’t object to these estimable musicians playing
slow time; we like it. But we feel irritated when
they issue some of their notes in undue haste, and
keep others back till they are too late to use. They
are like the notes of the O.B.C.—make you lose
your balance. Twenty dances were on the pro-
gramme, and several extras were given. The
company was comprehensive, the face of almost
every man there was that of some one well-known
about town, and naval officers were present, we
might say, in profusion. vVe do not desire to mis-
judge the girls of bydney, but are probably safe
in saying that most of them when dancing
with an officer experience an amount of beati-
tude surpassing any other joy to which they
can reasonably look forward either in this
world or elsewhere. “How nice they do dance!”
said one young lady. It was indifferent
giammar, but her enthusiasm allowed no time for
strict accuracy. Nearly ail the officers have the
same long step, and there is a popular idea that
when they get out in the sunny Pacific, where the
spicy breezes blow o’er the ooral isles, they heave-
to and practise. The only man who could at all
compare with them in popularity was the muoh-
jewelled Hanlan. And certainly his “run” of
partners made ordinary men mad with envy. But,
anyhow, in a Sydney ballroom it’s good to be an
officer, speckled over with gold buttons and other
indications of valour. Sale and Dare had adorned
the hall in a more elaborate manner than usual,
and the addition of red and blue scarf draperies
above the festoons of leaves had a pretty and ar-
tistic effect. The upstairs rooms were resorted to
by many, and the windows were always filled with
faces looking on the scene below. Among others
present were: the Hon. G. R. Dibbs. Hon. W.
Triokett, Hon. E. Barton, Consul Kahlo, Messrs.
J. P. Gar van, M.P., J. Sutnerland, M.P., John See,
M, P., W. Hezlett, C. A. Goodchap, J. Davies,
C.M.G., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., Aldermen Taylor,
Palmer, M‘Coy, Carter, O’Connor, Withers, Playfair,
Messrs. Woolcott (town clerk), Clarke (city auditor),
Lines (city treasurer), W. uay (returning officer),
&c. The Mayor was accompanied by Mrs. Hardie
and family, and Mr. and Mrs. L. Alderson. A, few
of the attractions of the floor and the striking cos-
tumes may be of interest. Miss Lines wore white
satin bodice piped with red, and satin skirt hung
with cream Madras lace, aud looked very bright
and handsome; Mrs. J. H. Davies, a handsome cos-
tume of ruby velvet bodice, the cream skirt, hung
with tulle was flecked with ruby to match; Miss
Clarke, a beautiful dress of black lace skirt, with
amber satin bodice. Miss Williamson looked
delicious in a light cream toilet, and Miss Davies
wore cream; Miss Prescott, a sedate toilette of
black lace, decked with old gold ribbons and kilted
hem of gold. Another amber satin bodice was
Miss Hordern’s, worn with white skirt in several
flounces. Miss Miller’s was one of the most charm-
ing toilets to be seen, and was like a fleecy cloud
of white scudding over a Summer sky—it was
tulle or something, and had nice white ruohe trim-
ming. Her apparent mama wore a lovely blue-
dove, brocaded with pink flowers. Mrs. Evans
was in the daintiest of white satins, trimmed with
fine lace. Miss M‘Coy’B garnet satin garb was
also rich. One of the most perfect in taste
was Miss M'Leod’s toilette of ivory-white satin
and ’ace, with long white silk gloves. Fair
Miss Milson wore black and yellow combined.
Miss Skarratt in pale blue, and her taller sißter in
striped cream satin were the most graceful dancers
oq the floor. Miss E. B. Smith displayed an elabo-
tate and costly oostume of cream brocade, with
tablier and trimmings of flowered silk. A Mel-
bourne visitor, Miss Wilkin, was admirable in a
black toilet; and Miss Etheredge was in black.
Mrs. W. Wiley wore one of the most delicately
pre»ty dresses in pink satin and veiling, and her
dancing was, if possible, even prettier still. If a
charming ball-room bouquet were wanted—here
are the flowers for it: Miss Jones, radiant in white
flounced raiment, with blue sash; Miss Florrie
Hardie, in doru satin and short white skirt, whose
dancing was admired; Miss Alexander, a delicious
dancer, in a pretty pink dress; the Mayor’s nieces,
Misses Florrie and Lou Brierly, light and pretty, one
io blue, the other in pale gold and plain white
skirt; Miss Young, in white veiling classioally
draped, and bordered with silver braid in Roman
fashion—just a tinge of bright cerise here and
there; and then there was Miss Major, a vivacious
visitor from the South Coast; but we will tie up
the bouquet with a thread of rhyme:—
At green Kiama on the sea,
Where gracious slopes are hilly,
There grew a flower fair and free,
A very graceful Lily;
And critics few, of taste, we think,
Would try their hearts to harden
Against that pretty flower in pmk
Grown in the Southern garden.
Many dresses were elaborate beyond anyposslble
space we can give to description. Mrs. J. H. Burne
wore a beautiful pale lavender broche garnished
with line lace; Mrs. Eastway, a rich garnet satin
and white lace; Mrs. F. M'Donald, a toilet with aB
many glittery oolours as a handful of opals; Mrs.
Woolf, a black velvet bodice edged with small
square tabs, and white lace skirt, large bust
bouquet of red roses; Mrs. A. Bennett and Miss
M’Carthy, both blue; Misses Bond and Carter, all
cream; Mrs. J. Spencer, a magnificent trained satin
of cloudy pearl colour, setoff with pale pink; Mrs.
Hinten, a beautiful combination or ivory figured
silk and ruby velvet; Miss Harris, a slate-blue
robe damascened with a ficelle coloured pattern;
Mrs. Thompson, a rich coloured dress. A petite
Hebrew lady, about whose history hangs a haze of
interesting romanoe, looked lovely in a dress of
white veiling. Mrs. J. Plummer wore a handsome
punch-blue silk, with a dado aad other trimmings
of darker blue—quite a work of decorative art.
Miss W eekes wore a stylish black all studded with
'stars; Miss Hudson, a very pretty toilet of lavender
and pink striped satin; Mrs. F. Bennett, all black,
with vivid crimson plumes; Mrs. Ovenden, black;
Mrs. Pemell, pale-blue and white lace: Miss Kiss,
light pink; Miss Day, cerise and blue; Miss Fischer,
bright rose pink and white; Miss JBriks, blue—in
fact, it is evident only a portion of the charming
community can be mentioned just now.
• ■ •
On the 16th instant a great novelty opens
in Melbourne Town Hall, being a combined Shake-
sperian show and Christmas bazaar. The place will
be fitted up like a huge snow cabin, with ice-blooks,
stalactites, having stalls in odd nooks, all illumined
with the electric light. Business is to he conducted
by stallkeepers all dressed in Shakesperian garb,
and there will be “ tableaux” from the works of
Immortal Will. It is expected to be the finest
thing seen for years in Melbourne.
♦ * *
On Wednesday, 26th November, a grand
ball was given in the Orange Bchool of Arts, to
celebrate the birthday of Miss Maude Kite, of
Glenroy. Some 75 couples assembled to honour
that charming lady, and enjoy themselves. Music
was supplied by the local volunteer band, who
performed well. Dancing began at 9 p.m., at half-
past four next morning they were still at it, though
the darkness had long since turned into light.
Sexes were pretty equally divided, mainly owing
to the importation of a number of Sydney mashers.
They were highly esteemed—by themselves; and
the girls found them rather useful. The hostess,
in black silk, and her four daughters dressed in
tucked white india muslin with different ooloured
sashes, and looking particularly nloe, were unre-
mitting in their attention to guests. Bathurst sent
its contingent both of ladies and gentlemen, and
very well the former looked; one of two sisters,
in cream and old gold, securing the pride of place
against all-comers. A petite figure in green, from
the same town, in white satin bodice and muslin
skirt, being an excellent waltzer, had many
admirers. Bathurst may be the City of the
Plains, but it is not a city of plain girls, by a long
way. Carooar was not behind, either, and a fair
representative from Coombing Park achieved a
triumph almost as great as Ezekiel himself. Local
girls, despite the glitter, the fashion, and the style
of visitors, held their own; and a dress of black
net, beaded, and cut low at the neck, looked
charming; while two sisters, one in blue and one
in pink, were pretty girls, of whom a good deal
was seen. The sister of a Coonamble squatter, in
white with heliotrope trimmings, and a lady
in blaok silk with a wreath of flowers the
length of skirt, were both in the front rank.
An Elizabethan costume was nice. The wearer of
a white satin corsage and muslin skirt enjoyed a
great number of dances. From Clifton Grove
came a very pretty blue, showing off the wearsr’s
symmetry; and a white dress with green band and
another of white and puce, looked charming.
During the evening, Dr. Warren, J.P., thougnt
himself warren-tod in proposing the health of Miss
Kite, which was heartily imbibed, the male seotlon
starting the usual idiotic “For he,” &o. Then
Mr. G. W. Waddell, J.P., thanked them, and the
ball was resumed until they couldn't dance —in
fact, could hardly waddell—aHy longer. All sin-
cerely wished Miss Kite a life of airy happiness,
and a long string of admirers.
• * •
An impromptu dance given by some Tam-
worth gentlemen was held in the Oddfellows’ Hall
on the 25th ult., dancing kept up till nearly four
o’clock. Simple white tucked dresses were worn
by some of the best dancers and prettiest girls in
the room. A newly-married lady and her sister
were charming in pale blue and cream lace. A
capital danoer wore the same colour, and her hair
in a coronet. Two Oaklands sisters captivated the
ardent youth t_f Tamworth—one wore pale blue
and ivy wreath, the other looking regal in black
satin. A local bank manager’s wife was the pink
of perfection. Music good, and the whole a treat,
■ • •
It is wrong to despise the dude. For two
reasons he should not be hooted at: he is amusing,
and, being harmless, he can hardly do much
damage. There „ are weak-minded, tottering-
brained, spindle-pinned young men who are
naturally subject to mania of some description;
and, not having minds strong enough to invent,
they must be imitative all the time. If, in their
poor watery way of trying to think, they choose
to imitate the Cockney fashion plates issued by
cheap London tailors to office youths, and think
they are dressing like the British nobility—why
hoot at them ? Moreover, as they think—God
spare them I—that these funny little Cockneys
they copy are really fair samples of gentlemen,
their mania has at least a commendable basis of
good intention. Their aim is pure. Besides, if the
dear dude chooses to have a tiny neck, and tiny
toes, and a jimp waist like a girl, inside his stays,
and to cuddle a cane—it’s only the girls’ business.
The dude seems a funny product of Nature; but
he won’t hurt you, and he is cheaper and more ac-
cessible as an amusement than the monkeys in the
Zoo.
* * *
The Temperance Hall, Uralla, was on
Tuesday week the scene of a pleasant reunion.
The town will soon lose its name of Sleepy Hol-
low. The monthly dances were brought to a ter-
mination on the occasion by a fancy dress ball.
Over thirty couples put in an appearanoe, the fair
sex, as usual, having a majority. The town fur-
nished the belle, who looked exceedingly pretty
as a Starlight Evening. Two sisters, as Nancy Lee
and a Flower Girl respectivrly, looked charming.
A Highland Las-ie from Kentucky, and also a
Spanish Gipsy from the cathedral city, were
greatly aamired. Amongst the sterner sex, the
characters most admired wereiAthos,Claude Duval,
Dick Turpin, and a French Troubadour.
(For continuation of SoeiAJi* see next pavej


At Mr. R. S. G. Macdonald’s station, Bal-
naßowan, Rockhampton, on the 20th November,
Miss Charlotte Maud Macdonald was married to
Mr. Henry Fane De Sails, youngest son of the
Hon L. Fane De Salis, M.L.C., of Bydney. A large
party of friends assembled at Balnagowan, the
ceremony being performed about noon by the
Mr. Diggens. Amongst the guests were Mr.
L. Fane De Salis, Mrs. Faner, sister of the bride-
groom, Mr. and Mrs. Diggens, Mr. and Mrs.
Broome, Mr. WF. Berkelman and the Misses Ber-
kelman (four), Mr. and Mrs. J. Hose, Mr. and Mrs.
R Ross and Miss Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Dalzell, Mr.
Macdonald, Captain and Mrs.
Bundle and Miss Bundle, Dr. and Mrs. Macdonald,
Inspector and Mrs. Stuart, Major Feez, Mr. J. 0
Browne, Mr. Finoh, Mr. Le Coutour, Mr. O. F. Hill
Mr Davis, Mr. Gavin, Mr. Griffiths. The charming
bride was elegantly dressed in cream satin, and
was attended by six bridesmaids: Miss A. Berkel-
man and Miss Macdonald, in white and pink; Miss
B. Macdonald, and Miss Kundle, in vrhite and blue;
Miss E. Macdonald and Miss Violet Broome, in
white and tartan. The bridgegroom was supported
by Mr. G. L. G. Macdonald, brother of the bride.
The guests, numbering about fifty, sat down to a
rechercht breakiast, and after “ample justice
had —we mean, after they had all eaten
enough, the happy couple departed for Rock-
hampton, amid showers of rice and shoes.
The bride s travelling-dress was a shot surah silk,
trimmed with maroon satin. There was a party
in ths evening, and danoing was kept up until an
early hour next morning. Some very pretty oos-
tumes were worn on the ocoasion, notably Mrs. R
8. G. Macdonald in lavender silk richly trimmed
with lace, Mrs. Broome in a lovely blue satin, Mrs
Faner in pale pink satin, Mrs. Arthur Macdonald
in cream and cardinal, Mrs. R. Ross and Mrs. J.
Ross in handsome black silks, Mrs. Rundle in black
and crushed strawberry, Mrs. Dalzell in black
satin, Miss Berkelman in heliotrope silk, and many
others too numerous to mention. The presents to
the bride were handsome, and the bridegroom’s
gifts to the bridesmaids were pearl rings, gold
bangles, and Maltese orosses. A novel feature in
the proceedings was introduced by the Rev A
Diggens, who photographed the whole party (with
the bride and bridegroom as central figures) dis-
posed picturesquely on the flight of steps leading
to the house, presenting a brilliant and well-
blended parterre of colour, and bright, happy
On the evening of
Friday, the 28th No-
vember, the bachelors
of Blayney and Car-
ooar gave a dance in
the Academy of Music.
About fifty were pre-
sent, and with good
music, good refresh-
ments, and good dano-
ing, all managed to
enjoy themselves until
a late (or rather early)
hour next morning.
The honour of belle
was voted to a petite
danseme in pink and
cream lace from ** The
Hut.” The chosen
colours of Mephisto-
pheles were worn by a
buxom matron, who
looked immense. A
tall young lady from
Bathurst looked and
danced well. The rest
of the dresses were
varied in style, some
being more curious
than pretty, but their
wearers seemed
pleased with their
looks. Some of the
dancers were worthy
of notice, as their
style was at least
unique. The dancing
of the English gentle-
man from Fernside
was matchless—he ro-
tated in one spot for
half an hour at a time,
as though he had got
into a maelstrom and
couldn’t get out. A
member of the Peer-
age was distinguished
by the fiery elan and
dash of his dancing.
At times it reminded
one of the Charge of
the Light Brigade, so
furious was the pace.
Many visitors from
Blayney, Bathurst and
Cowra were present.
There was also a splen-
did specimen of a Syd-
ney masher in lull
blast. He was duly
appreciated by the
ladies. The whole
affair went off so well
that the ladies of Car-
coar hope for a repe-
tition of it ere long,
and they live in hope
even if they have to
die in despair.
There was a time when wedding presents
were spontaneous offerings of good will, but that
day has gone by. Now they are a thing of neces-
sity. as much apart of the ceremony as the service
itself. In Wales, the old custom used to be tor
the engaged couple to announce their intention
to marry, and invite friendß to bring out their
gifts. It would be a good plan to revert to this
custom. The old cards wich R.B.V.P. could still be
used. It would stand for Responded silver plate.
** * *
The Juvenile Ball annually given at Niths-
dale will be both plain and fancy dress. Dancing
commences at 8 p.m. sharp — At a church concert
in Maitland last week, a number of bouquets were
thrown from behind screens on the stage itself by
friends of the singers. This ingenious method of
ensuring applause, irrespective of merit, cannot
be too highly commended—ca ’ it?....At Cobar. a
concert in aid of a brass band fund was so noisy
that most of the singers could not be heard. It is
seldom the unfortunate population of a township
revenges itself on the brass band in anticipation.
....Tennis is very popular at Levuka, and a public
tournament among ladies and gentlemen caused
great stir. Ladies provided tea. It was to last a
month The Acorn Lodge of Druids had a grand
torchlight procession in Parramatta, and last Wed-
nesday week a picnic to Clontarf, where over 400
persons landed. After a good day’s sport, all re-
turned gaily up the river in the Balmain steamer.
Glad to give the Acorn men acorn-er The first
annual dinner of Melbourne Caledonian Society
on Saturday last. 200 present, including the Gover-
nor. Hon. J. M’Bain, chairman.... Same night,
Lucy Chambers received at the Town Hall, a bene-
ficial concert. Most pleasing item—casket of coins
from her pupils Last week, Old Colonists’ Asso-
ciation dinner was held in Melbourne, 70 present.
.... Race Club ball at Gunnedah recently was a nice
affair, Singleton brass band; some wore fancy
dresses Dairymen’s Protective Association
annual picnic at the Sir Joseph Banks last Wednes-
day week gathered a large number; Smith oatered
a good dinner, and Mr. Coward took the chair.
Chief toast was “ Ladies and Dairymaids.” Seems
to us this is rough on the dairymaids. Or,
looking at it in another light, perhaps the dairy-
maids are rather particular Melbourne Deut-
scher Turn Verein had a dual entertainment on
24th Nov., first gymn»stic performances, and then
a ba11... .Eastern Suburbs A.A. Club are going to
have a picnic ... A grand Irish fair opens on27th
December, in St. Benedict's Hall. We hope It will
be fair.... Rev. Charles Btrong had a very warm
reception at the annual oonversazione of Scots
Church, Melbourne....At the Portland (Vic.) de-
r?on D r tr HQ°Pi Bady L och made a short speech.
Wear, dear! Some thought a city official’s
daughter the belle of the ball on the 27th . At
talnm a r,f Chool A J t8 ’ a very successful enter-
t ° fc f wa ™& ven by the Public School pupils.
Won™™!? about the best... At a
Wollongong charitable performance, the tableaux
K£ i ;Sfer MISS "«-&togJS s
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Q^ R *” : ..f mn }r, fll « em noticed a fortnight
Armidale : Inserted; it was one day
e ? k •• • Terpsichore”: Wo at
e^ ei l^5 n A g you are * But, you see, we
n£r&)nfl nt e d lfc i and thankB ••••“Marjorie”:
Certainly, found a corner.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Metropolitan Liedertafel Deoember 4-
Sydney Liedertafel. Ladies Night (Ex-
__ nibifcion) «D6Conibpp o
TJSSS;fffw dB hiK?J? ual Juvenil « Ball. December 9.’
Industrial Exhibition opens December 15.
Mdme. Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Soi-
(Protestant Hail).. December 17.
Messrs. Needs’ Pupils’ Ball December 19.
The only Nooze was, on the 29th ultimo,
very laboriously facetious at the expense of the
B.M. Herald, thus: “ The SM. Herald of Friday
says that the supper at the ball given to our Mayor
on Wednesday night was supplied by ‘the Speaker,
the Hon. the Colonial Treasurer, a number of
members of the Legislature, and the officers of the
(now) American warship, the Compagnoni Com-
frfir tnie^ bIS Ti 8 V ll i d ?? d ’ a brilliant galaxy of cater-
ing talent. But is it proper for leading legislators
to become purveyors of oomestibies, and can’t we
have a few more warships like the famous Coin-
SSSffiJP 1 Company ?" In thesame issue, the Nooze
publishes an advertisement thuslyßedding of
every description—Palliasses from 7s. 61., mat-
tresses from 7a. 6d., bolsters from 25., pillows from
happy to certify that under your care for 10 weeks
l am Is. 6d. ; also, sheets, blankets, quilts, pillow-
slips, &c., at lowest prioes.” Which illustrates the
fact that a capable printer may make a typographi-
cal blunder, but it takes a confounded fool to dis-
cover that it is worth sneering aboi_t. [N.B.—Our
office-boy wrote this.]
Crushed Again! -(See page 14.)
\ N OCTOGENARTaN’S GRATITUDE,
-oL a fact.
George-street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen, —It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advloe, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making die myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours laith fully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Christmas is approaching at a wonderful
speed in every corner of the Empire upon which
the sun never sets. Its geniil influences are felt
alike under the tropical sun of India and in the
icy regions of far-away Canada. In burning India
they celebrate the festive season by picnics at the
sides of the rivers and streams, and the coolest
idea is—up to your neck in water, whilst you help
yourselves to oysters off the rocks. This plan has,
however, one drawback, for alligators and others
of a like mind want their dinner on Christmas Day
as well as Christians, and one or more of them
might be on the look out* We get on
pretty well here at Christmastide. We pic-
nic, we cricket, we launch our little skiff and
soud over the glistening waters, keeping our
weather eye well open for a “southerly buster ”•
we give presents and gifts to our sweethearts and
wives, and our oousins, and our aunts, and most of
us have found out by this time that there is do !
place for Christmas presents like Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket.* I
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— The dear old creat hall at the
University was quite thronged on the occasion of
the Musical Union concert, last Thursday night.
It was a great comfort to those people possessing
nerves that all the chairs were held stationary by
means of long battens, for hitherto they have
always screeched and scraped on the tesselated
floor to such an extent that one’s teeth were on
edge ail the time. I, for one, warmly approve of
such thoughtfulness. The graoeful banana trees
were arranged in front of the platform in such a
natural manner, that, if only a few bunohes of the
truit could have been fixed on somehow, it would
have been quite easy to believe they were grow-
ing there. After the chorus and band had leisurely
taken their seats, Herr Kretchmann made his ap-
pearance, an i, as I glanced from him to Mr.
Aipress and wondered whether hair had anything
to do with genius, a blast from the brass instru-
ments made me jump nearly into the stout lady’s
lap who sat next me. It was such a blast, dear;
hut I suppose it was intended for one Herr
Hretchmann generally manages to get together a
good orchestra, even although he fccomi elled to
run in < utslde t.al nt. The violins, 'cello, and
clarionet were all old friends, and played that
night as if they enjoyed their work. The
clarionet had an excellent part, and so had the oboe.
I oouldn t see who the latter was, but, if he had not
broken on some of the principal notvs, he wouldn’t
fui V hu? n^n S ni At bi s tone was power-
bit ha&h* 11 The mcliD ? d to ' e just a little
tut narsD. lhe violins were the malnstav of the
saMsfactor'v hnom’i and 'r* I ®, ba . BB Btrin *s some
w„2v??tory boomings. I don’t know how It is,
snoh 4 n 0 uf?^ 868 la ,, this ball always appear to have
Annnrt h J B / T* 7 80UQd - lt ia 88 «the IUSSI of
travel a great distance before reaeh-
nrohnatra perhapB ft is because we have the
U 8 aod the voices that this
X?i e , d effect i« apparent. I confess that I rather
I k don'V f m,.n h n U t apy ? efe ° t 8 ar e not so noticeable,
deflctto^w IDBin uate that this chorus was
hoH h„L Ve ' bu t you know it might have been if it
and Aladame Merz was in excellent
took n»r? d infhi d K 8 Bi ?S ln ff all the soprano solos
tt R ar m h ia tbe beautiful duet “I waited for the
fiord. Ihe young lady amateur who satur the
sweet* vniPH W wn!° P aln lully nervous that her nice
sweet voice was not heard to advantage. She
ah , e' r H Ver ’ ? through the duet bravely; and had'
she been less modest, she wouldn’t have been so
nervous about it, you understand. Mr Brown was
almost W ed K lD tttk L D * a)1 the te,or W B n
i, Bay ’ be .°ause his voice, though good
hanad ar i d y Buffle,en t culture for this music. A
ballad he sings excellently. I think evervbodv
enjoyed the ’’ H ymn of Braise;’ at any rate if
they didn t, they pretended to. In thf? second part
ol the programme, Mr. Alexander ttea plaved an
I'isten w]thnii U f 1 H« a - 8 people are never content to
listen without seeing, we turned our he.ds round
until our eyes rested on the organ loft, and of
course, got horrible crinks in our uecks. Miss
Querney accompanied Madame Merz ia her “ Freis-
fn| U ennr B ni l ai«n r a nice l y ’ J have Come to the paiu-
-52i^2? oluBlon ’ dear >tnat m y musical ear is sadly
of/n 0tl w e hi°h ,JOW WaS Jt . that Boccherini's “Miuu-
etto, which was so charmingly played bv the
strings Herr Kretchmann leading, sounded to ml
so out? I cannot tell how it is. lam sure, but iul
toelfrst Dar^o^toi 1 Ut ’ I £ ven Mada “ e Merz in
rne nrst part of the concert appeared to me to be
singing sharp. 1 must try and cure myself of this
detect, for I hardly think it’s auy use asking these
to o suit to ml tUn \Vh h fl e f r H V ° ioeB ai lu instruments just
to suit me. What do you think? Gounod’s
Funeral March of a Marionette” terminated tiie
h d u sP iri nice time, and oh, dear lit wal
“oonliKht night when we
got outside, and the handsome building, like
iight. r ° 8e Abbey ’ looked its very best by^moou-
I did not go to the fifth "Vogrich concert fnr t
attended "am? fa fry ’ Ut 1 SthStS well-
J“ ) t ® n A ed }, a i ld the music excellent. I was sorry to
miss the Appassionata ” sonata which, I believe,
Herr Vogrioh played, but I couldn't help It. I
asked a friend how the Chizlett Memorial Fund
concert went o fit. He replied that the attendance
was meagre: but I suppose he saw anxiety in my
eye, for he added with forced cheerfulness, “They
have great hopes, however, of clearing expenses/'
I was evidently expected to consider this very
satisfactory, but I confess I was much puzzled to
know how it would help along the fund at all.
where, I wonder, were the hundreds who pro-
fited by that worthy man’s patient instruction
whilst he was living, that they did not show their
respect for his memory by attending the concert ?
It would surely have been no great sacrifice to
have spent a few shillings in return for some plea-
sant music, especially when they knew their pre-
sence would have been taken as a mark of esteem
for the memory of their old master. I’m afraid—
I’m very much afraid, dear—that we are far more
eager iu testifying our approval of the man who
has spent his life in accumulating wealth thau of
one who has lived a good, industrious, and upright
life. But it’s the way or the world, and we can’t
alter it.
Do you remember the mite of a boy who used to
play the tin whistle so well in the streets late at
night when we were coming home from the
theatres, aud for whom you saved up all your
three-penny bits ! Well, 1 m sure you will be glad,
to k iow that at .last someone has perceived that,
he is ioo good fora tin-whistler, and has under-
taken to have him taught musio properly. Per-
haps, in years to come, when you have little boya
ot your own, you will hear more of this little
Natures musidau. It will be “Signor Alfonso
Pice loni, the greatest musioian of the age,” and
then it will give his biography, which will tell of
how a lovely lady ghat's you, dear) used fre-
quently to add a little sweetness to his child life
by regaling him with lollies aud small silver coins
late at night, when he ought to have been in bed.
You needn’t smile, dear, for more improbable
things than that are happening every day And
talking of whistling, reminds me to tell you that
mouth whistling is becoming Quit© ti drawing-room
accomplishment. Miss Kennedy, daughter oi the
late Sir Arthur, Governor ot Queensland, often
entertained h r guests on reception days by a
mouth solo, as we used to term it, and accompanied
herself on the piano As she sang only indifferently
aud iiid not shine us a pianist, she was determined
that she would not be a drawing-room nonentity SO'
cultivated the whistle, and, being such a novelty
we always looked forward to it more than to any-
thing else on the programme. And Mr. Isidore
liUCkstoiie f of th© Kemenyi concerts* fame.
whistles most bril-
liantly. I must say
both his tone and ex-
ecution put Miss Ken-
nedy into the ‘shade,
besides which he ac-
companies himself so
cunningly. But he
says that a man has a
better chance ihau a
woman of practising,
as the lftter spends SO'
much time in talkimr,
and you can t do both
at once. A very ill—
natured remark, I call
The French muslins
which I told you were
coming in foi summer
wear are so awfully
met that 1 should ad-
vise you to get some.
Imagine one with a
pale heliotrope
ground, covered with
bunches of deep pur-
ple graces, and the
short polonaise caught
up with purple ribbon.
Of course, you know
that in these soft ma-
terials the bunchy
polonaise is indispen-
sable, Stamped llamasi
are likewise very-
popular, but rather
expensive. I saw »
China silk made up im
rather a novel »tyla>
yesterday. The skirtt
was full and plain,
with one bold band or
sky-blue silk, about
quarter of a yard in
width, placed just
above the hem. The
long, loose jabot was
also of the silk, mak-
ing quite a striking
costume. For those
with colour courage,
the fashion of cover-
ing hats with wild
flowers, such as pop-
ples, cornflowers,
moon-daisies, and but-
ter-cups, Is tagcrly
welcomed. These
primary colours, how-
ever, do not suit all
tabtes, many piefer-
rlng —what shall I
call them? tame
flowers for their bats,
lsaw such a peculiar
dress at the ball given
to the office, s of the
niffht Tf Iroquois the other
®?r » ~ more like a fancy dress, beimr
Bllk Quilted petticoat, with a rich sateen
pompadour polonaise looped up with ribbons of
rwhf 1 ! 8 .! 00 ou *u'. waß 80 different from every
tho 6 hr dr i BB *jhat 1 couldn’t help noticing it. By-
4h®. H y u’ * quit® forgot to tell you about this ball
a ®d I liaven t time to s«y much now, excepting
there were some lovely girls there, so the
® OU H kar< lly help enjoying themselves;
were d riirht ?n ld me u 1 * 4 . 11 ® “ftuessedthey
Ume » ln 141 and were having quite a good
i Metropolitan Liedertafel give their concert
to-morrow night, and they have wisely secured
those 6 oVmp o L M i a ? i r w p * u . 1 1 lne Rita, and I thinlc
tnose of Mr. JRadcliff as well, though I am not
*V H at have , 4he other Liedertafel
Deen doing, I wonder, to allow such a chance to
« i ?o-l L 8r °h d have thou * ht they would
e w n 80 £ la d to have secured the services of
evprvhcH^f 1 n B K^ or * t,lelr lainous concerts. But
°ti£» to make mistakes sometimes,
put at the same time we can’t help deulorimr
them. Now, dear, good-bye, pioring
Your loving
MAR
p’™L r f£l fred is sitting to Gladstone
it'em of or in a tp?^l rait - ®f* lioUD copy, as this
interest quite a number
will emit goblin ehui kies at tho
mf-i», man hart their bodies hung, is
likely to be hung ” himself.
August Flowbr.—The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
live per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Sour
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of tho
stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food*
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands of
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. It coats only 3s. 6d. u>
bottle. Sample bottles od,


Think and Act.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel sucoeeded In preparing a
most delioious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give It a trial. Alrated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrio
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best oolours.
warranted Fast and Durable. Bach package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You wlU be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per paokage. Send 2d. stamp to Bex 181, G.P.O,
Sydney, and you will reoelve a Sample Card of
dolours, &o., so., by return post.*
THE KOOKABURRA,
Apres le Bal— Midshipman to sentry in the
steerage: “ Schentry, call me at four per annum 1’*
(Turns in in his boots.)
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
“ That is rather a shabby pair of trousers
you have on jor a man of your position.” “ Y es,
sir; but clothes do not make the man. What if
my trousers are shabby and worn, sir? They
oover a warm heart, sir.”
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 662 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
“ Papa, which do you like better, Aunt
Emma or her terrier?” Papa: “Well, but how
oan you compare Aunty with a dog ?” Youngster
(delighted): “ That’s just what I say. The terrier
is tho nioer of the two by a long way, isn’t it ?’
Lazy and dull feelings always precede
sickness, which nothing but Hop Bitters will
banish. Bead.
Scene: A grocer’s shop in Edinburgh.
Enter a small boy with a piece of flannel round his
throat. Small Boy (huskily): “ Gie us an unce o’
yer best tea.” Grocer: "That’s a bad cold you’ve
§ot, my boy.” Small |Boy: “Yer a liar! It’s the
regs o’ the measles.”
My mother drove the paralysis and
neuralgia all out of her system with Hop Bitters.”
—Ed. Oswego Sun. See.
Landlord.: “ Have you any family ?” In-
tending Lodger: “No.” L: “That’s right, for I
don’t let my rooms to lodgers with families ?” I.
L.: “Have you family?” L.: “Yes; four chil-
dren.” I. L.: “ Sorry to hear it, for I never take
apartments with landlords who have families 1”
Prudently break up your cold by the
timely use of Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, an old
remedy for Sore Lungs and Throats, and a certain
curative for Coughs.
“For the love of Heaven,” said a tottering
beggar, to a man who had been out all night,
“give me a few pence. I am hungry, and can
hardly walk.” “ No more could I last night,” re-
piled the charitable one, “ yet I didn’t make it an
excuse to beg. I wish I could oblige you with my
hot coppers! ”
The splendid virtues of Wolfe’s Schnapps
grow in celebrity, and the increasing demand for
this incomparable cordial shows the strong hold it
has taken on popular esteem in this colony.
He came,in very late, and, to keep his wife
quiet, related a trumped-up story of a narrow es-
cape that he had had, on his way home, from
being run over by a tram. “A second (hie)
sooner,” he concluded, “and I would (hie) have
been a dead man. It fairly took my (hie) breath
away.” “ No, it didn’t,” she said, turning.her face
to the wall.
I am quite willing to have it known that
BRISTOL’S PILLS and SARSAPARILLA cured
me of very bad disease, and that, when all other
medicine had failed.
ALEX. E. BLAKE, Lyttelton, N.Z.
The parson and his son—who is also his
curate—had been “ having words ” about a point
of ritual. Sunday morning, the curate “up.”
Text.—“ Fathers, provoke not your children to
wrath.” Sermon—abusive of parents. Sunday
eve, tho old ’un “ in the wood.” Text.—“ Have
pity on my son, for he is a lunatic, and sore
vexed1”
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peouliar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
“ YouVwould be surprised to see what a lot
of wedding;presents my daughter hadl” exclaimed
Mrs. Bascom, to a friend who had been unable to
attend the wedding. “And so appropriate and
tasteful as some of them were, too. You ought
to have (seen the handkerchiefs Mrs. Jones gave
her—lovely things, just as soft as wool—and every
one of them had her utensils marked in the
corner 1”
Marshall Brothers have completed ar-
rangements to supply a full set of Artificial Teeth,
upper and lower, at the enormously reduced price
of £5, perfect fit and quality guaranteed. Pain-
less extraction by Nitrous Oxide Gas. Please note
address-MARSHALL BROS., Dentists, 104 and 106
Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.*
She was a young housekeeper, and knew
more about the prioe of frills and furbelows than
of potatoes and pork. However, she resolved to
make a start with the butcher, and this was their
dialogue. She: “ I hardly know what to order for
dinner. We had veal yesterday, and lamb the day
before.” He: “How would a leg of mutton do,
mum, orlveal, or tongue? ” She, relieved: • Oh,
yes; thaf would do nicely. You may send a leg ot
tongue.”
Mr. DeOouroy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, K3T" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter ox record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
She was aesthetic, and he had bidden a
mournful month’s adieu to his club billiard-room
to spend hiS honeymoon with her—owing to cir-
cumstances entirely beyond his control—among
the lakes and water-lilies. It was a gorgeous sun-
set, with a mixture of claret cup and bloodshed and
whipped cream slopped about tho heavens and
reflected in the water beneath. “ See,” she cried,
“ the lovely lights in the pool there, how the red
plays upon the white, and ” “ Player yellow,”
he murmured, sadly.
“Young Calvin” wants to know if “we
believe that angels have wings, and why we think
so?” We think they have, H Calvin.” We never
saw their wings, but we know that when a young
man becomes perfectly convinced that he has met
an angel he holds her tight, as though he feared
she would fly, and always wears one of Summer-
field and Co.’s £3 3s. suits to measure. Eight high-
class cutters employed by Summerfleld and Co.,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney,
who guarantee a perfect West End fit. A splendid
pair of pure West of England trousers to order for
16s. 6d. The biggest stock of woollens in Aus-
tralia, Imported direct from the best mills. Pat-
terns, tape, and self-measurement forms sent, post
free, on application.*
They were crossing from the river Forth,
in Tasmania, to Melbourne, in a small steamer.
They had on board, as cook, a Chinaman. The
first day of their voyage, Ah Sing provided for
dinner a nicely boiled leg of mutton and caper-
sauce, off which some sixteen hungry passengers
dined heartily. Next day they were ail terribly ill;
not, however, from sea-sickness, for the sea was
quite calm. In the midst of their sufferings, Sing
came to them; he had discovered the cause of
their indisposition. In his hand he held the glass
pickle-bottle, whence he had taken what he had
erroneously thought to be capers. They were
Holloway’s Pills !
At the battle of Waterloo. “Shtop the
whar!” cried Napoleon; “who is that plays the
bassoon in your band?” “ Patsey Bolliver,” says
I. “I thought so,” said Napoleon; “go on with
the whar!” And the war against high prices and
poor goods is still going on by Summerfleld and
Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters, who have a
magnificent display of boys' clothing for their
Christmas trade. 3000 drill man-o’-war sailor suits,
with blue collar and badge, at English manufac-
turers’ price, 5s. lid. Splendid lines in our new
Greenwioh and Sultan styles, made from our wear-
resisting fabrics, in all sizes, at 8s. Hd. and 10s. 6d.*
and from pure wool rib coatings, at 12s. 6d. Coun-
try residents promptly supplied with illustrated
catalogue of styles and prioes, on application.
Only Sydney address, 235 and 237 Pitt-street. *
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than be glad to have ihit indent petted up fell
tecretariee of racing clube and manageri of
sporting event»in general,]
RACING.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
A.J.C. (Midsummer) • • • December 26.
Wallsend J.C December 20, 27.
Moonee Valley (V.) S ec i“s«*r
Canterbury Park R.C ol'
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January l.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting .. January 1.
Adelong J.C J “«wy 1, 6.
Bvdnev T C . ##••••••••• JB>nu.B»ry 22#
Burrowa J.C February 5, 8.
Cootamundra T.C ...February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian R.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual)...... •F®£ r l?/ , ’ ry I S*
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5, 7.
Hawkesbury R.C March 26, 28.
AQUATICS..
Brisbane Annual Regatta..., .*. December 10.
Snail’s Bay Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta ™ a s u ?£2Ltf
Hanlan v. Clifford iFwSZOXZFm
Clifford v. Beach February «8.
Ilrtji v T-Toril an ,»». •• • • •• MMCu wo t
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18.
Glebe R.C. Regatta December 13.
Gardiner Challenge Cup December 20.
Newcastle Regatta January 1.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS
Riverine Athletic'Club Sports, Hay Race-
course December 20, 27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney ... .January 1.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Armidale crieketers have arranged for
a two days’ match with the English Eleven, to
commence on 2nd March.
“Taking the whole history of the game,”
says an English paper, “the greatest names in
cricket are Urace and Spofforth.
The Pencil will have another chance of
making his mark. He is moving all right, but Mr-
Dakin intends to reserve him till the autumn.
The Noozb has a heavy crew in training
for the Press race at the coming National Regatta.
At latest, they were very |fit—for a good square
meal.
I. D. Walker, the well-known amateur
cricketer of Middlesex County, arrived in Victoria
by the Ganges, and it is stated he intends to spend
the summer in these parts.
W. G. George failed to lower the mile re-
cord. He was exactly 6seo. behind his set task,
and took 4min. 24 2-ssec. in getting over the dis-
tance. The day was a bad one.
When Farnan set-to with our Foley, you see,
He found out, as a matter of oourse,
That, though our own Larry was only a foal—he
Could hit like the kick of a horse.
“Last week,” recently said a well-known
jockey, “ I rode Bst. 51b., but Sunday’s dinner with
the missus and the kids got me up to 9st. 41b., and
I don’t know how I am to get it off again.
The cricket matoh, Adelong against Gun-
dagai, for the Engelen Cup, was concluded at
Gundagai on Saturday, the latter winning with
four wickets to spare. The Adelong team soored
154 runs in their second innings.
At Newcastle, the newly formed Mercantile
Rowing Club celebrated their opening day on
Thursday last with a procession of boats and a
feed. Mr. C. H. Hannell, who was a crack heavy-
boat sculler in his day, delivered the opening ad-
dress. „
On Saturday last, the University first
eleven played a matoh against thirteen of the
Corto Club, on Wentworth Park ground, the play
resulting in a draw in favour of the Varsity. The
■cores were: —Corio 70 (J. Molly, 44), and Varsity
65 for 7 wickets—Powell 22, Copeland 12, Lee (not
out) 10, Merewether (not out) 12.
At Emmaville, on 22nd November, R.
Devon and J. Hawken played a single wicket
cricket match for £2 a side. Four duck-eggs were
the result of the first four innings, and as half the
money in Emmaville was staked on the result, it
was decided to play on to the bitter end and finish
ttuf match. At latest they had completed fourteen
innings without a score, and were still at it.
The match between the English profes-
sionals and eighteen of County Cumberland came
to a conclusion on Saturday last, in favour of the
Manors bv nine wiokets. The scores were :-Cum-
lst innings 85,2nd 96; Britishers, Ist 173,
2nd one'wickot lor nine runs. The locals, taking
them all round, fielded remarkably well, and Nat
Neale particularly distinguished himself behind
the sticks. _ ~
At Singleton, the' third match for the
Woods Challenge Cup was played on Saturday,
tho Contestants being the Morpeth and Rovers
(’lubs The Rovers, In their first innings, scored
169— i'oder 38, Gould 27, Power (not out) 22, Mackay
18 Mather 18, Robinson 14, Parr 13. Morpeth, in
their first innings, scored 99—Wakely 25, Austin
*3 Hack 18. Tho Covers, in their second innings,
bad no wickets down for 80 ; Mackay 41, Maher 30.
On Saturday last, Messrs. Cox, F. Williams,
« rinrrAll rowed off for choice of boats at the
fuebeTowing Club regatta, billed for 13th Dec.
Shortly after the start. Cox and Durreli fouled,
whereby Williams got same ton lengths lead, but,
in a most manly spirit, he wont back, and the
three boats made a iresh start, with the result that
DJCeU a ptaoky win .from Williams, Cox
bringing up the rear.
Foley has placed £250 in the hands of Mr.
7 D Young in connection with the match with
Farnan but we have not the slightest idea that a
pugilist of Farnan’s calibre will enter into a bona
ii.ir mutch with a man so much his superior. So
far as Farnan’s proposal that he receive £5O to box
in Albury is concerned, is it likely Foley will he so
soft as ufadvance the £5O, and chance a bubble on
the Border ? We think not.
We wish the newly-formed Sydney Gym-
nastic Club the success which it deserves. It to
proposed to give three cups, for heavy, middle,
andfight weight amateur boxers, to be styled the
Sydney Gymnastic Challenge Cups, open to be
Pomneted for by members of any athletic club in
New P louth Wales, and to become the property of
anvholders \v ho shall win them two years in suc-
cession. The competitions will probably come off
in July in each year.
Get out vour “ gilt,” hoys. Tho winner of
a future Melbourne Cup has just been foaled on
the New Zealand Stud Company’s big farm. Onyx,
the dam of that staunchest and gamest ot horses,
n h ®j,. nV v and also of the promising colt Norden-
feldt fo? whom the Hon. James White gave 1200
guineas only as a yearling in January last, has
agafn produced a beautiful colt as her Pledge of
affection to Martini-Henry s sire. Musket. He
Muiiket a place in every race he starts tor.
At Peter Newton’s benefit in Melbourne
T ers and O’Brien had a rough set-to, and at the
ifnninsion O’Brien slipped and bioke his leg.
Farnan had a Set-to with Peter Newton, and got
«U the worst of the bout. Peter got on to him
when and where he liked, and finished the bout by
knookiu? him clean off his legs. During the set-
to Farnan once or twioe, when he missed a blow,
♦ nnmnletelv round, as we saw him do in his
A»h^ 6 wUh Jackson m Sydney. We do not think
he wilTdo it more than once should he meet Foley
*n the magio circle.
Ink versus slang slingers, on the Associa-
tion Ground on Friday last, resulted In a win for
the Press by 83 runs. The Bcores were:— Press:
Gibbs 10, J. Furley 5, J. O. Thomas 17. J. George 18,
— Crone 33, J. A. Hogue 19, J. Roberts 13, A.
Cooper 13, J. Osborne 3, W. Dusautoy 17, J.
MTndoeSl; sundries 6; total 173. Parliament: W.
Targett 33, Vivian 13, W. Teece 9, J. Purves 0, H.
M'Quade 13, W. Coonan 13, G. Merriman 12, S.
Smith 5, W. Clarke 0, Bell (sub.) (not out) 0; sun-
dries 5; total 90. Mr. Targett distinguished himself
by making head score for his side, and clean bowl-
iDg no less than six of the hungry ones.
The English cricketers are “doing” the
provinces and the yokels at one and tne same
time. On Wednesday and Thursday they played a
match at Windsor against twenty-two of the
Hawkesbury district. The Britishers went first to
the wickets, and treated the locals to some first-
class leather-hunting, as they remained in the
whole of the day for 308 at the cost of six wickets.
On the second day their innings was concluded for
258 runs, the big scorers being: Scotton 60, Briggs
57, Flowers 74, Attewell 25. The twenty-two were
then disposed of for 63 (Marr 13, Deane 11), and in
their second effort they ran together 51 for six
wickets, Johnston being the only double-figure
man with a well-earned 27.
The weather was as hot as the attendance
was meagre at the Narandera races on Thursday
and Friday last. Miss Wye won the Mile Handi-
cap; Louie oarried off the Prince of Wales Selling
Stakes; the Narandera Turf Club Handicap fell to
Student, Where’s the Cat a length away second,
The Spaniard third; Miss Wye made a second win
of the Railway Handicap; and the Maiden Plate
fell to All Gold. Things were made lively on the
second day by a breeze like the blast of a furnace
and a blinding sand storm. Clement won the
Flying Handicap; Victoria appropriated the Pub-
lic Auction Stakes; Miss Wye again distinguished
herself in the Town Plate; Letltla wen the Jump-
ing race, and Cynrio appropriated the Farewell
Handicap.
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Cyril Kings-
ley exhibited trick riding on the bioycle, in the Sir
Joseph Banks’ pavilion. Among other feats, he
mounted from tne step with right leg, rode on the
saddle with one knee, with both, and on bis feet,
keeping hold of handles. He vaulted into saddle
in a variety of ways, including lady-fashion; rode
round without handles, carrying a chair in each
hand; rocked the machine to the waltz musio of
the band; and finally rode one machine and led an-
other through a number of evolutions. A very
pretty trick was jumping off and touching the
ground ** ith one foot while the other kept on the
pedal and springing up again all in one movement
while the machine was in motion. He did not
stand on his head on the machine, as a daily paper
somewhat obfuscatedly reports.
Says the Australasian : “ The sensational
score of the season was made on the Back Creek
ground at Sandhurst on Monday. The lions of the
occasion were representatives of the M.C.C., and
their record was the mammoth one of 607 for
seven wickets. The runs were made at the rate ot
more than one hundred per hour, and Lawlor and
Boyle covered themselves with glory by sooring
189 and 155 not out respectively. Lawlor, who
played first-class cricket, made some brilliant hits,
and did not give a chance until he had reached 80.
Boyle, the old Bendigonian, was brought clean out
of his shell by his foot being on what may fairly be
termed his native heath. He hit hard and clean,
and, though he had a lot of luok, his innings may
be set down as a very good one. Blaokham 79,
Palmer 71, and Duffy 66, also batted well and vigor-
ously. The Sandhurst men were completely ex-
hausted at the close of the day. The wioket was
in first-class condition, and took all the heart out
of the local bowlers.”
Johnson’s Bay was remarkably lively on
Saturday afternoon, when, besides a flotilla of an
eight, several fours, and sculling boats galore from
the local shanty, representatives from the Sydney
and Mercantile Clubs put in an appearance. But
amongst the oarsmen, with very few exceptions,
the quantity was far in excess of the quality—a
fact, we think, a great deal due to the practice of
putting the veriest novice on a sliding seat. Ir
maiden races were restricted to fixed seats, we feel
pretty sure the coming generation of oarsmen
would show form ten to one better than if the
present style of pitchforking a raw recruit on to a
slide is persevered with. Teach a youngster good
style on a fixed seat, and in nine cases out of ten he
will take to the slide like a duck to its native ele-
phant, as our old friend, Mrs. Partington, would
say. Take, for instance, some of the old hands
who graduated od the fixture— P. J. Clark, A.
Finlayson, Tom Strange, W. Dind, George Brett,
and others too numerous to mention—where can
we find such form, with very few exceptions,
amongst the men who started rowing since the
advent of the sliding-seat ? We leave believers in
its early use to answer the question.
A correspondent writes to the Referee,
but carefully refrains from giving his name:—
“The Hanlan-Beach affair seems as great a mystery
as ever, despite the glowing account in the Sydney
paper, reproduced by you, and the equally glow-
ing description from a ‘special correspondent
which appeared in the SeORTiNG Life. Both
these effusions are evidently written by gentlemen
who may perhaps know a boat from a boot-jack,
but do not carry their aquatic knowledge very
much further. But I suppose editors will always
prefer in such cases a reporter who can do the
flowery’ on any given subject, without making
any very glaring mistakes, to one who makes it
his sole object faithfully to record the true and
actual phases and influencing causes of the strug-
gle and its result. The unskilled readers outnum-
ber the cognoscenti by about fifty to one, I
suppose, and there can be no doubt as to which
style of writing they prefer, so I suppose we must
always be content to find the columns which
should oontain an intelligent and critical descrio-
tion of what did actually cause one sculler to de-
feat another, filled with bosh about ‘looks of
terrible determination’ coming over the faces
of the competitors, while their ‘ teeth gleam
out white between their parted lips,’ and their
• grand muscular machinery is set in motion
amid the ‘roar of thousands,’ or the hush of
breathless expectation,’ as the case may require.
The two short notes you publish from private
correspondents are far more significant as to the
ration d’&tre of the affair than many columns of
the inflated balderdash before-mentioned. They
point clearly to the probability of an arrange-
ment,’ and, considering that now-a-days a profes-
sional seems to get as much, if not more, kudos
from the exeroiso of what is known as ‘clever-
ness ’ (heaven save the markl) than a hard-fought
victory can bring him, I should think your corres-
pondents may very possibly be right. At the same
time, I should like to remark that, in my opinion,
Hanlan may have been fairly rowed down, al-
though to the persons looking from the shore and
the steamers he, only a few moments before the
foul, appeared to be doing what he liked with his
man. I have taken every opportunity of closely
observing Hanlan’s style of sculling, and feel
pretty certain that what most people think is a
slow, easy paddle, involves a most severe exertion
of the back and leg muscles, and that the Blow-
ings ’ and stoppages, which during his various
races have led so many to think that he held in
reserve a tremendous amount of power, were, for
the most part, actually necessitated by the great
efforts previously made. I am not the only one
who thinks that in the great race on the Tyne, if
Boyd hadn’t cracked at half a mile, Hanlan would
have done so at three-quarters.—Yours very re-
spectfully, An Old Hand.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Subscriber,” Newcastle: Trickett was the
first sculler to affix to his name “ Champion of
the World.”
THE DEV. SYDNEY G. FIELDING
AS A POET.
An acute observer of humanity has re-
corded the fact that men are usually most vain of
those qualities In which they are most deficient,
and pride themselves chiefly upon their manner or
doing that which they are least able to do. It is only
by admitting this fact that we can understand why
Mr. Fielding was moved to exhibit his productions
in rhyme to a critical and merciless publio. kwi-
dently be thought his genius lay in poetry, we
sincerely hope that the observation above Quoted
is verified in his case, and that the art of Poetry is
that in which he shines least. And we think it
must be. If not, to use a phrase of his own, ugly
night” is about equal to the brilliancy of his cor-
uscating powers in any art in which he excels less.
We hoped to find that another poet had arisen in
the land, and therefore gladly took up his book;
with still greater gladness, the task of perusal
complete, aid we lay it down. Mr. Fielding may
be a poet, but if he possess the wings of imagina-
tion which enable a poet to soar above the
littleness of human life, it must have been the
moulting season when his stanzas were penned;
and if his ear be tuned to enjoy the musical flow
of metrical verses, we should advise him to employ
in future another tuner. The brochure oontains
about fifty pages of verse, and is entitled The
Castaway, and other Poems.” It is well named—
it was cast away often, sometimes with much
violence, as we read it. The title-poem, which
covers some thirty-two pages,ls a tale whioh affords
many splendid opportunities for the display of the
power of poetry. Its opening scene is that of a
vessel at sea, with sailors, clustering ‘‘around
her deck, telling of “ nymphs that dwell beneath
the sea and sometimes sweep at midnight o or the
placid deep.” Flying-flsh, perhaps. Two lovers,
who by force of ciroumstanoes, had been parted,
have met again on the ship, and spoon continu-
ously. Then oomes a storm: “ with bended mast
and shredded sail the nark bounds wild along,
and “ the raging tide rears a white orest on either
side,” but “ sinks exhausted down again,” “as if
such threat it did but feign.” Raging tides may feign
threats, but it is not permitted to mortals to do so.
But the captain is equal to the emergency; al-
though he seems to have been apathetic while the
storm was gathering, the shredded sails apparently
nerve him for action, and he is heard to shout.
“Royals—topgallants—lower away; some Bee all
clear to put about, and others by your topsails
stand. Cheerily, oh! lads, bear a hand! There
is something intensely natural about all this;
“ shredded sails ” should, of course, be lowered—
it would be absurd to leave them fooling round
the mast; and when a vessel, in a wild storm, and
1000 miles away from land, is rushing like a fright-
ened steed before a gale, it is always necessary
that she should be “ put about.” We only wonder
that the thing was not done before. And the way
in which the order is given, too, shows the cap-
tain’s vast experience of matters nautical, most
likely acquired while navigating (say) the Glebe
Island offal punt. The following lines must be
given in extenso
“ Still darker it grows, still harder it blows,
Still louder the sailors holloa;
Away to the leeward a hencoop goas,
And the cook is thrown upon his nose,
Ah a rooster he tries to collar.”
Barham wrote “ Btill rougher it grew, and still
harder it blew,” but his genius was not equal to
the hencoop episode. The bard stands on tiptoe
on a gin-case to write the next stanza, thusly > —
“ There is a rapture kin to awe,
That rises at the tempest’s roar}
A feeling tongue cannot impart —■
nor pen describe, evidently; but still the passage
is a mighty effort—the effort being to make “ awe
rhyme to “roar.” But the description of the
lovers’ position on the “trembling deck’ is
touching (in a double sense) in the extreme: they
stood ‘Mip to lip” and “side by side’’-rather a
strained attitude, as the experienced reader will
observe. The squall passes, “grog oh!” is served
to the sailors, and the bard testifies to the power
of the liquor by stating that the mariners imme-
diately saw “ meteors gleaming bright on each
mast. Part 2 (of the “ Castaway *’) tells how the
cry of Fire 1 comes "floating down on the mid-
night gale,” to the hero who reposes in his bunk;
he “rushes on the burning deck,” collars his
“ Helen,” plunges overboard, and suooeeds In
reaching a boat, whioh the lovers appropriate.
Three days pass, hunger tortures the pair;
the sun sets with " a sudden plunge,” and then
(also “ suddenly!”) “ evening drops her sHwry veil,
and “ ugly night” (intensely poetical this) oomes on,
and “faint as a misty far-away dream” the girl
goes to Bleep. Then we read “ there shot through
my heart a feeling of fear as it fell on the thwart.
It is not strange that his heart feared when he let
it tumble around in this loose fashion. Helen dies
after a few days, and some of the passages descrip-
tive of the incident approaoh effectiveness; but
stanza 15 knocks us out completely. The bard is
in fancy borne to a region where he feels the
cooling breeze ’ and “ sees again the maiden snow;
his girl comes, and lip to lip (again 1) they fondly
press,” while he leans "his head upon her breast
—a dual acrobatic performance difficult to under-
stand; but, even then, he is not satisfied, for he
says “it seemed so hot that place of rest.” This
does not seem right : “ cooling breezes and
“maiden snow” don’t usually grow in hot places.
The castaway is at length rescued by niggers, and,
as he had not then written any verses, they spate
his life. We can only afford space for one or two
flowers of verse culled from the minor poemß.
Thus he says •* No oypresß or willow shall bloom..
or throw their light shade.” Now, how oan he ex-
pect either of these trees to “ bloom ”? They don t
do it. And where did he ever see a cypress that
threw a light shade ? Farther, why does he want
to "rest on the tide of the restless sea ? The thing
is not reasonable. But these lines have a charm-
ing sincerity about them:
“ What is truth ?
Is the agonized cry of thousands here below.
’Midst all their systems, forms, and shams,
Oh, who the truth may know ? . . .
While the sins of the past rise before us,
They wrangle and fight o’er their creeds.
If we said a thing like that, now, we should be
called a lot of nasty names, and it is therefore re-
freshing to see the statement edited by the curate
of All Saints’ Cathedral, Bathurst. Not to put too
fine a point on it, we congratulate the bard on the
great adaptive ability he displays. He gives us:
“ Eternal sea, eternal sky,
Like the awful weight of th’ eternal sin,
Lay on my weary eye.”
Southey’s little pitch was:
“ The sky and sea, and the sea and sky,
Lay like a load on my weary eye.”
The line, too, “Seemed greater than I could
bear,” was once used by a Yankee man called
Longfellow. The off-hand, unprejudiced mode in
whioh present and past tenses are made to jostle
one another by the Bathurst bard, exoites our
admiration We give these two instances: " Slow
rose the moon till its mellow beam with lustre fill
the night,” and, “ But clear again the full moon
shone, and the passing shade is gone.’ . . lime
is obliging, Dast or present, according to the exi-
gencies of rhyme. From the foregoing we think
the reader may judge that Mr. Fielding Is not
likely to be looked upon as a successor to Kendal,
though at the same time we think it distinctly
probable that he may by some be considered as the
peer of Douglass Slauen, and the sausage-meat
bard who used to scintillate for the late P.
M’Carroll.


Now is the Time
IT is at this season, when the diseases of the
blood and skin are most active, that Disfigur-
ing Humors, Humiliating Eruptions, Itching Tor-
tures, Salt Rheum or Eczema, Psoriasis, Tetter,
Ringworm, Baby Humors, Scrofula, Scrofulous
Sores, Abscesses, and Discharging Wounds, and
every species of Itching, Scaly, and Pimply Dis-
eases of the Skin and Scalp, are most speedily and
economically cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
HUNDREDS of letters m our possession (copies
of which may he had by return mail) are
our authority for the assertion that Skin, Scalp*
and Blood Humors, whether Scrofulous, Inherited,
or Contagious, may NOW be permanently cured
by Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticora and Ctjticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally, in one
half the time and at one half the expense of any
other season.
To Purify the Blood
CHA9. HOUGHTON, Esq., lawyer, 28 State St.,
Boston, reports a case of Salt Rheum under
his observation for ten years, which covered the
patient’s body and limbs, and to which all known
methods of treatment had been applied without
benefit, which was completely cured solely by the
Cuticura Remedies, leaving' a clean and healthy
skin. Sworn to before the British Consul.
rH, DRAKE, Esq., Detroit, Miota., suffered
• untold tortures from Salt Rheum, which ap
peared on his hands, head, and face, and nearly
destroyed his eyes. After the most careful doc-
toring and a consultation of physicians failed to
relieve him, lie us<pd the Cuticuka Remedies, and
was cured, and has remained so to date. Sworn to
before the British Consul.
To Beautify the Skin
THE HALF HAS not been told as to the great
curative powers of the Cuticura Remedies.
I have paid hundreds of dollars for medicines to
cure diseases of the blood and skin, and never
found anything yet to equal the Cuticura Reme-
dies. Chas. A. Wildiams.
Providence, R. I.
YOUR CUTICURA REMEDIES outsell another
medicines I keep for skin diseases. My ous-
tamers and patients say that they have effected a
cure in every instanoe, where other remedies have
failed.
H. W. Brockway, M.D.
Franklin Falls, N.H.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICHRA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cutioura
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby'
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Priokly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 60 cents ; Boap, 36 cents ; Re-
solvent, Jl.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
©saGkAJ&rs,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW SOUTH ALES,
161 King-street (near Tramway), Sydney.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns of Dresses, Mantles, &c,,
And WEiGEL’d Journal or Fashions,
Containing the latest styles, are sold at the above address, and by the following’
agents :
Chippendale—Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, 131 Regent-street.
Newtown—Mr&. Griffiths, Milliner, Ac., 335 King-street.
Rrlnoipal Retail and
e Business—l6l king-st., Sydney (near Tramway).
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOa. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GOOLALTA WINES,
SII/V ER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU. WAIT!
GENT.’S 60, Is. 6d. } 100, 2s. Bd.
LADIES’ 60, 28. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Mu BM, LLO7I l CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
|OF” A Magnificent NEW STOCK was seleoted by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland
, ;A. » ■
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF TEA GOWNS.
„ t A m „ FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing'Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning: Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children’s
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frooks. (The most complete stook ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BRAGH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES' DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
|y An array beggaring description. Moderate prloes. Call and ask for Illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON ft CO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALBBU
BRANCH OFFICES.
BouTHUUi District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Y&fls
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Waggra W»gga
Hanging Book
Culoalrn
Cowabeo
Narander
Hulona
Carratnool
Hay
Wutirh District, N.8.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyn&an
Forbes
Condobiln
Nymasroe
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourko
Morpeth
Gunned ah
Narrabri
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central hurt:
Rockhampton
Boerantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
ttavenawooa Junction
Townsville
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
I WT rgenc.et in all varl* of tbe.fforltf.
roster’s
GUINNESS’S EXTRA BTOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT In the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINKI
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Comer of Bond-sweet.)
Prom the Strand, London.
rJdc ma eTr:
55
"O OAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
JJ of Stout selected with treat oare from the
beet of the brewings of the oelebrated Arm o£
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
oannot be excelled. To be procured every wbofe.
CAITBLL k CO.. Bole Agents.


FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
.... These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, inviting' to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic.
WILLIAM JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist.
Kruse’s Inseotioide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are Blok, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature In making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are oostlve or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach ©r bowels,
it Is your own fault If you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a oure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemio, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of.
the Stomaoh, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &0., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sißter, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
WeaKNervousMen
&
Whose debility, exhausted
Powers, premature decay
and failure to perform lire’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and Vigorous manhood in
JUI er stomach sruggmgHm"
.instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
l*tayslc*U Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods atad absolute thor-
ou*hnesfl. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physioian of N.B.W. Speciflo: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of Franoe and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &o. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 073.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 63 Castlereagh-stroet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
ONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
ou want to
a
ness
y
'V.
For the a
0///y
One
A*
A/\
(Jam
RNd
ted
IfiTOifS
One
LA
T
tfSf
&
0
usfralia
J
f/On
T
• «
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of ELM. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgov.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 PEtt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:
ROYAL HOTEL
BOUHKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western district. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-claes Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed,
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspeot the Establishment,
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGEH.
-§
m
A
DR.SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!I
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp 1
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
No. 1 Hair Brush .. ss. Od.
No. 2 Hair Brush .. 7s. 3d,
No. 3 Hair Brush .. 3s. 6d.
No. i Hair Brush .. 11s. Sd.
No. 5 Hair Brush .. 13s. 6d,
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
k Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
li.Bh.ed, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
Th® Brush Handle is made of a new odorless eompr*?ition, resembling ebony; a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
t immediately upon the Hair Glandi and Follicles. This power can always be
m tested by a stiver compass, which arioompanies each Brush.
k PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and lias added them to his Toilet
Lady A. CHURCHlLL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bandolph CLii. thill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—use s them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
&S" Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, «fc Felts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes' brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, G F Wills, M.D., M.R.C.S.
wr A Handsome
Unbreakable BEUBH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted.
From Dr. Lemprikrk, D.C.L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
Gentlemen.—l have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing "
I feel it my duty as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is
Your Flesh Brush is only one moro proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances ’The
rt is. ~
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money.
Yours faithfully,
C. Lbmpriere, D. C.L., Ac.
These Brushes oan he obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storekeepere.'or will ho forwarded
direct to any part otN.S.W. or Queensland lupon receipt or prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can he made in Cheques, Drafts, P-O. Orders, Stamps, or currency. Cheques can he
crossed Union Bank of Australia, tee that the name of Dr. Scott is on thefcox-without which
none aro genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.O. BOX £2,. ' 54 ..MARGARET STREET,
r - r ~:’
o I L/ h L i .
A TERRIBLE FELLOW.
We had been dining at the Diner de Mada-
gascar. We forget the day, but, for reasons which
need not be entered into here, we have occasion
to believe it was on a Baturday. We had gone-
commencing with the soup—religiously through
the whole programme. Most items in the minu
were in the French language, but that did not de-
ter us from our fell design; though we know a
man who went to the same place and had seven-
teen “goes” of sheep's tongues and spinach, be-
cause he was afraid, i resumably, of fracturing his
.iaw by endeavouring to pronounce any other Item
in the bill of fare. The landlord—a gentleman of
courtly aspeot-heaved a sigh of relief as we
called for our cafe noir; but we noticed that when
he gazed upon a gentleman immediately facing us,
who was, if we mav be permitted the phrase,
“knee-deep ’’ in salad, a pensive, if not disiurbed,
expression overshadowed the host’s features. The
other diner was a short, thick-set man, with dark,
piercing eyes, overhung with beetle-brows,a heavy
brown beard, and extremely swarthy complexion:
"a noticeable man” with a set of large white
teeth, at which the waiters, as they psesed and re-
cessed, cast uneasy glances, The expression on
his face was a combination of the fierce and the
genial—the genial predominating when he re-
ceived a pldt, and the fierce when he had finished
one. He was a man, it seemed, of epicurean tastes,
too, for he mixed his sauces with the hand of a
Master; and it was a pleasant pict ire to behold
him, later, set his lump of sugar ablaze with his
pttit verve, and allow the fire fall drop by drop into
his coffee-oup, gazing intently at the blue flame
the while, like an alchemist concocting an elixir
in the Middle Ages. At this moment the polite
landlord came round for lucre, and as we pressed
a duoat into his palm (none knew better than we
how well he had earned it!) we took the oppor-
tunity of whispering—“ Who is that gentleman
opposite ?” He replied with cmpremement: “ C'est
le captaine du Chandernagorrre.” “Chan ," said
we faintly. “ Der-na-gore,” chimed in the stranger,
in a deep voice. Then the polite laudlord leaned
over ana whispered something, and thb ceremony
of introduction was complete. French, of course,
we thought. Hem. “Et comment aimez-vous
notre beautiful harbour, mushoo ?” we faltered.
“C’est magniflque,” he replied, “un reve!” He
spoke the language with a lino accentuation and a
splendid Hibernian roll. “ Esher—” we recom-
menced, feeling rather hot, and rather humiliated
to find this stranger knowing »s much about the
Gallic tongue as we did—“ Esker ” “ Perhaps
we should get on almost as fast if we conversed in
English,” suggested the Capitaine, in a mild tone
that was rather disconcerting. “If you prefer it,”
we replied magnanimously. Then we said, 44 We
suppose many startling incidents occurred during
your voyage in the Chandernagore ?” “ Well, yes;
things were pretty lively. On the second day out,
the Marquis de Hay's lieutenant of gendarmerie
and his civil representative quarrelled. I said,
‘Gentlemen, I cannot permit thlsl’ and imme-
diately drew two swords ” “ What, two swords
at once!” we cried. An expression of annoyance
passed like a summer cloud over his remarkable
features. “I drew,” he said, eyeing us fixedly,
two swords from a drawer, and presenting one to
each of the belligerents, said, ‘Gentlemen, we will
adjourn to the quarter-deck and settle this little
affair.’ But they declined. I then put them both
under arrest, offering either or both satisfaction
myself in case they found cause to be dissatisfied
with the discipline of the Chandernagore.” “That
was kind of you.” “Yes; but it was thrown away
upon these gentlemen. Shortly afterwards, a man
tried to get up a mutiny. He was called aft. . .
The burial service on board ship is very impres-
sive ; and it was a solemn thing to see that man
peacefully glide by moonlight into the maw of the
expectant shark.” “ Had you a reliable lot of
officers?” we enquired, with a slight shudder.
“Yes, indeed; and a splendid Corsican boatswain.
But he was very hasty. He shot me through the
foot.” “Good gracious!” " Oh, it wasn’t his fault,
poor fellow; he was aiming at the Becond mate.”
** Ohl” “ Yes, I considered it my duty to give him
a severe reprimand, and with much emotion he
promised to aim better next time.” “ These,” we
said, gravely, “are, we suppose, merely minor in-
cidents in your eventful voyage.” “Mere flecks
of foam oompared to the thundering surge of the
tempest,” he replied, composedly. r ‘To the
thun ” “A figure of speech; a mere vocabu-
larlstic flower.” " You speak several languages,
we believe, M. le Capitaine?” “Seven only.’ 1
“But you are young yet,” we remarked, faintly.
“Sir! Then we melted awav, just as the Cap-
tain’s voice resounded through the room, orying,
“ Gar-ryon! Encore une demi-tasse.”


THE
IGNO
Piano.
1
-^T
SBF P
FAMOUS
Migrnon
PL^ITO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE JJIGNON
oan be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the bost.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had’on very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for firrt-elass work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
nicholsoiT and go.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
M
ATRIMONIAL.—Parents, the newly-marriei
and those about to marry, may obtain mud
envelope
Sydney.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
rKLIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
IOUSNESS * Prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
cbb&IA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
nearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
~i?L the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
iIE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit},
J-ney are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
SOJN7CASTLE < SS%
MANUFACTURING HATTERSj
GEORGE STREET I
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE |
NEWEST SHAPES. I
JTALIAN EMPORIUM'
FANCY CHINAWARE,
_ comprising-
TEA SETS, DEBBEKT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MAIIMOXT, 470 George-strect.
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
MT" N.B. Pattern* and Price* sent.
i non DOMESTIC paper fashions
JL v/ Vf VF shown in our Illustrated Catalogue.
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, BYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Champagne
Heldsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
*oie Aponte tor Hcldsiecb A Co.. Reims.
E USE IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with tbo newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Ccorgc-strcet, Sydney.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair: it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be a!so had in a golden coiour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. 1
ROWLANDS’ XALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glassy and per-
manent brown or black, whic'n colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni's)
rjiH
MENS
l H £.H ndersi E ne(l ' recognising the want of a
PIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
T, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
BTKEET (THE WEST END HOI SB) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has bad some yea s' experience
in the best houses in Lo dou, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he Jvisited' all the
principal Woollen Mills, inciudiog that of Hud-
dersfield, as w»ll as We>t-ot England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of tbe public will rece ve
the attention they deserve.
Tn conclusion, wo desire to siy that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perlect fit, and all in tbe latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End. House,
-^.Torala.aiaQ.’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
D , ( P^ pa r ed ?F°, m Dandelion, and free from the
sng ntest partiole of mercury or mineral substanoe,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they oan be
thoroughly reoommended, being a oarefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MAMES MACGREGOR,
(9* 80S GEORGE STREET.
mu r
°^9cohKV/l|i^
WHOLESALE
GROCEK
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LB~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
0T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-strnat,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
137“ Fashionable and First-olass GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfeot fli
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
<3
‘A'l
lA
O
o
lA
n
ft
n
3
o
%
V.
&
IV-
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
□T±a.@ lESolialole BvLgrgries!
s
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
t&~ BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 2 4s Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLR
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCB
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
1 STOCK
IMPORTERS
m
s
S V,
iil
%
'
IL
m, i, , as Sor+.
" t ” C| '»| allpr ’ -••
CAMERAS', Won
; Bq^
vnmERAo,, .! u iQn r;ih .
si- CARDS,CHEMICALS. f^JPpic
- W.JOHNSON fcS'ONS 'lwi*!
NITF.SILVER AND CHLOR.fiOkO


The Agonising Itching and Burning
tot eczema or salt rheum instantly relieved by a
■warm bath with Cuticura Soap and a single ap-
plication of Cuticura, the great skin cure. This
repeated daily, with two or three doses of Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new blood purifier, to keep
the blood cool, the perspiration pure and unirri-
tating, the bowels open, the liver and kidneys
sotlve, will speedily cure eczema, tetter, ring-
worm, psoriasis, lichen, pruritus, scall head, dan-
druff. and every species of itching, soaly, and
pimply humors of the scalp and skin, when the
Vest physicians and all known remedies fail.
HARD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, June 20,1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to
Inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent relief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness ani
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a casesimi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
cure, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory, b eadache
—a troublesome syqiptom in this class of malady—
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence in
its use I experienced a gradual return of health
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe my-
Beif completely cured.
If this testimony is of any service to you, use it
in any way you please.
Faithfully yours,
A. THOMAS.
[lf every individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent
and ward off its attacks, there would rarely beany
use for calling in the aid of the physicians. In all
ordinary derangements of the stomach, bowels,
liver, or kidneys, you need only a few doses of
Emil Frese's Hamburg Tea.]
Printed and Published by The Bulletin New**
paper Co, (Limited), U Pitt-rt., Sydney, N.S.VT.
A Bit of Dynamite.
Host of our readers have heard of Prince
Krapotkin, the Socialist philosopher (and
praotiser), who has escaped the Russian
gtols, after having his heulth thoroughly
attered by the severities experienced
there, only to be at present looked up in a
French prison for anarohioal agitatton.
Having heard of this desperado, who has
even dropped his title (most disrespectful to
rank, this), and signs plain Peter Krapotkin,
possibly our readers will soit of like, with a
certain shrinking of oourse, to know what
sort of blood and fire he writes. Well, we
are able to present a sample. It is the first
paper of a series addressed to theyoung, and
translated for London Justice. Listen :
“ AN APPEAL TO THE YOUNG.
44 By Peter Kropotkin.
x.
44 It is to the young that I wish to address myself
to-day. Let the old—l mean, of oourse, the old in
heart and mind—lay the pamphlet down, there-
fore, without tiring their >eyes in reading what
will tell them nothing.
44 1 assume that you are about eighteen or twenty
Sears of age; that you have finished your appren-
oeship or your studies; that you are just entering
on life. You have, I take it for granted, a miud
freed from the superstitions that they have sought
to force upon you; that you don’t fear the devil,
and that you do not go to hear parsons and minis-
ters drivel. More, that you are not one of the
fops, sad products of a society in decay, who dis-
play their well cut trousers and their monkey
faces in the park, and who even, at their early
age, have only an insatiable longing for pleasure
at any price. ... I assume, on the contrary,
that you have a warm heart, and for this reason I
talk to you.
44 A first question, I know, ooours to you—you
have often asked yeurself, 4 What am I going to
be ?’ In fact, when a man is young he understands
that after having studied a trade or a science for
several years—at the cost of sooletv, mark—he has
not done this in order that he should make use of
his acquirements as instruments of plunder for his
own gain; and he must be depraved, indeed, and
utterly cankered by vioe, who has not dreamed
that one day he would apply his intelligence, his
abilities, his knowledge to help on the enfran-
chisement of those who to-day grovel in misery
and in ignorance.
“You are one of those who has had such a
vision, are you not? Very well, let us see what
you must do to make your dream a reality,
"Ido not know in what rank you were born.
Perhaps, favoured by fortune, you have turned
your attention to the study of science; you are to
be a doctor, a barrister, a man of letters, or a
scientific man; a wide field opens up before yon;
you enter upon life with an extensive knowledge,
with a trained intelligence; or, on the other hand,
you are, perhaps, only an honest artisan whoso
knowledge of science is limited by the little that
you have learnt at school: but you have had the
advantage of learning at first hand what sort of
life of exhausting toil is the lot of the worker of
our time.
44 1 stop at the first supposition, to return after-
wards to the second; I assume, then, that you have
received a scientific education. Let us suppose
that you intend to be a—doctor.
“To-morrow a man in oorduroys will come to
fetch you to see a sick woman. He will lead you
Into one of those alleys where the opposite neigh-
bours cin almost shake hands over the heads of
the passers-by: you ascend into a foul atmosphere
by the flickering light of a little ill-trimmed lamp,
you climb two, three, four, five flights of filthy
stairs, and in a dark, cold loom you find the sick
woman, lying on a pallet covered with dirty rags.
Pale, livid children, shivering under their scanty
garments, gaze at you with their big eyes wide
open. The husband has worked all his life twelve
or thirteen hours a day at no matter what: now
be has been out of work for three months. To be
out of employ is not rare in his trade: it happens
every year, periodically: but, formerly, when he
was out of work his wife went out as a char-
woman—perhaps to wash your shirts—at the rate
of fifteen-pence a day; but now she has been bed-
ridden for two months, and misery glares upon
the family in all its hideousness.
44 What will you prescribe for the sick woman,
doctor? You who have seen at a glance that the
Cause of her illness is general anaemia—want of
good food, laok of fresh air ? Say a good beef-
steak every day ? a little exercise in the country ?
a dry and well-ventilated bed-room ? What irony I
If she could have afforded it, this would all have
been done long since without waiting for your
advice 1
44 If you have a good heart, a frank address, an
honest faoe, the family will tell you many things.
They will tell you that the woman on the other
side of the partition, who coughs a cough which
tears your heart, is the poor ironer; that a flight
of stairs lower down all the children have the
fever; that the washer-woman who occupies the
ground-floor will not live to see the Spring, and
that in the house next door things are still worse.
44 What will you say to all these sick people ?
Recommend them generous diet, change of air,
less exhausting toil. . . . You only wish you
oould, but you daren’t, and you go out heart-
broken with a curse on your lips.
44 The next day, as you still brood over the fate of
the dwellers in this dog-hutch, your partner tells
you that yesterday a footman came to fetoh him,
this time in a carriage. It was for the owner of a
fine house, for a lady worn out with sleepless
nights, who devotes all her life to dressing, visits,
balls, and squabbles with a stupid husband. Your
friend has prescribed for her a less preposterous
habit of life, a less heating diet, walks in the fresh
air, an even temperament, and in order to make
up in some measure for the want of useful work, a
little gymnastic exercise in her bedrc-om.
“The one is dying because she has never had
enough food nor enough rest in her whole life;
the other pines because she has never known what
work is since she was born.
44 If you are one of those miserable natures who
adapt themselves to anything, who, at the sight of
the most revolting spectacles, console themselves
with a gentle sigh and a glass of sherry, then you
will gradually become used to these contrasts, and
the nature of the beast favouring your endeav-
ours, your sole idea will be to lift yourself into the
ranks of the pleasure-seekers, so that you may
never again find yourself among the wretched.
But if you are a Man, if every sentiment is trans-
lated in your case into an action of the will—if, in
you, the beast has not crushed the intelligent
being—then you will return home one day saying
to yourself, f No, it is unjust; this must not go on
so aay longer. It is not enough to cure diseases,
we must prevent them. A little good living and
Intellectual development would seore off our lists
half the patients and half the diseases. Throw
physio to the dogs! Air, good diet, less crushing
toil,—that is how we must begin. Without this,
the whole profession of a doctor is nothing but
trickery and humbug.’ ’’
“That very day you will understand Socialism.
You will wish to know it thoroughly, and if a tru-
ism is not a word devoid of significance for you,
if you apply to the study of the sooial question the
rigid induction of the natural philosopher, you will
end by finding yourself in our ranks, and you will
work, as we work, to bring about the Social Revo-
lution.”
They put Peter into gaol for writing like
this.
The Queen has requested the olergyman a
Crathie Church to announce from the pulpit tha
all boohs borrowed from the Balmoral Royal Free
Library are to be returned. This Is a novel use oi
the pulpit, or rather a recurrence to an old custom
It Is capable of being Improved upon, remarks a
home paper, thus:— “The Crathie Pulpit Ad-
Tfißtisßß. Dearly beloved Brethren, Previous to
singing the second hymn, will you take notice that
on and after Monday next the coach from Ballater
to Balmoral will start five minutes earlier. Also
that Sandy Maopherson has lost a colley dog“which
answers to the name of ‘'Wallace;’ anyone bring-
ing the same to the head groom at the Castle will
be rewarded. Also that all copies of the sporting
papers containing an aocount of the late great fight
between Jaok Massey and Coddy Mlddings are to be
returned to the Royal Free Library at once. We
will now sing the seoond hymn.”
Between Assouan and Wady Haifa, the
rooky hills desoend to the edge of the Nile, and
then the reaches of the river, a mile and sometimes
more across, present the appearance of arms of
the sea. 80 vast are the stretches of water, in-
deed, in these that the strong North wind often
raises billows big enough to cause the Mahmou-
dleh, a steamer of over 200 tons, to pitch and roll.
The Nile, too, unlike every other river in the
world, is larger in volume of water 1500 miles in-
land than it is at the sea. As the British troops
moved up the stream, the banks everywhere were
lined with rows of grinning Nubians, voted unani-
mously by all on board as [the ugliest race with
whom the British soldier has yet come in contact.
But to see a Nubian lady to full advantage, it is
necessary to level at her a field-glass or telescope.
Then only is it. possible to observe the various de-
grees of expressive ugliness her ordinarily apa-
thetio face is capable or displaying.
Walking dress of deep ruby ottoman silk, with broad cream lace for trimming. From
underneath the lace collar fall long loops of ruby velvet, and the same terminate the
oasoade of lace down the front of the bodice. Ruby satin straw bonnet, trimmed with
bows of velvet and one large doth of gold rose.
The first oase deoided in the French
divorce court has been that of M. Mechard, the
author of "La Fiammina,” and Mdlle.
Brohan, the circumstances of whose courtship and
marriage created much merriment among the
lawyers. They met at a fancy ball at Arsene
HousBaye’s. He was attired as a sack porter at the
Halle aux Bl&s; she as a milkwoman just arrived
from the meadows. He wore a velveteen jacket
and fustian trousers, with a bright-coloured velvet
waistcoat adorned with silver buttons, and carried
a broad, grey, felt hat, from which drooped a sprig
of white lilac. She appeared in a striped petticoat
and blue stockings, with little cambric cap and
coloured flehu crossed over her bo‘om. Both cos-
tumes were complete, too complete, indeed, for
the sack porter wore shoes of such unoommon
thiokness that when by accident he trod upon the
fair milkmaid’s toes she turned in her agony and
gave him such a smart box in the ear, that while
she hobbled to a seat he followed her to apologise,
holding his cheek in his hand and reddening with
pain. But Cupid has many strings to his bow, and
this was one. They fell in love on the instant, and
were married in less than a month.
The wedding was hurried, the bridegroom
having to goon business, and wanting to take his
new wife with him. It was a wonder that he spared
the time to fall in love. He had never paid much
attention to girls, and this was shown at the cere-
mony. “ Now, John,” she said the day before, " I
wouldn’t get married at all if I didn’t think I
should blush at the altar. An unblushing bride is
my pet aversion. But I’m afraid to trust myself.
I don’t blush easily, and should as likely as not go
right through the ordeal as cool as a cuoumber.
What I want you to do is to say something start-
ling, shocking—improper, you know—the instant
we are ready to go to the altar. That will bring a
blush, and then I shall be oharming.” “ But wha—
wha—what shall I ” the numbskull stammered.
M Oh 11 mustn’t know beforehand, beoause I should
not get red. Only, don’t be afraid to put it strong.
This is important.” Well, when the time came for
her to be dreadfully abashed by an improper re-
mark, he gently, hesitatingly whispered,“ Are you
sure, my love, that your hosiery is suitable to th
occasion ? This was his idea of what would shoe
a girl at the altar. She was married with a blue
on, but it was one of anger at his failure to prov
himself a man to rely on at an important occasion
When first Mrs. Mackay, the wealth;
American’s wife, went to Paris, she gave a grand
ball. Now, this worthy lady had the not very
erroneous idea that money would buy everything
so she went for everything forthwith. A few
days before the date of the ball, her eve happenec
to light on the Arc de Triomphe, so off she posted
to the authority and demanded the Arc for the
night saying she wished to illuminate and decorate
it in order to lend extra splendour to her ball
which was to be held close by. The authority
gasped at her audacity, and informed her that
It was impossible to lend the Arc out on
hire. Then, in a tantrum, she demanded
him to name a figure for the whole thing, for have
it she would, it was some time before she recov-
ered from the shock after being politely informed
that all of her money would not purchase the much-
desired Arc. By the way, at her Parisian school
Miss Mackay was found to be a fine, sterling,
straightforward girl, who hated shams of any kind,
so her school-fellows decline to entertain the idea
that she marries for a title—and trust a school-girl
for finding out the weak points in her companion’s
character, if she have any. And, on dit, when Miss
Mackay first came out, her admirers were so
numerous that Mackay Mater was compelled to
apply to the Parisian police for protection.
One good point about the musical ama-
teurs of our country towns is that they are always
willing to give their valuable services in aid of a
case of charity or distress. If the general public
were as willing to patronise as the amateurs are to
perform, there wouldn’t be a single case *>f want
throughout the land. Only the other day a painter
up Bathurst way was daubing the second storey of
a barber’s shop, when two dogs got up a theological
argument near the foot of his ladder, and started
a free fight, the oonsequence being that the painter
came over backwards on his head, and sprained his
neck so badly that it was found absolutely neces-
sary to have him buried the next day. Hardly
was he well and truly planted, however, before a
prominent son of Apollo was found scooting round
the town, organising a grand concert in aid of the
painter’s widow and helpless family. Just as
everything was arranged, someone discovered that
the dead man was never married at all, and, in
fact, hadn’t a single relative in the world. Such
conduct on the part of the corpse was voted
contemptible in the extreme, but the irrepressible
amateurs are still worrying away at the pro-
gramme, in the fond hope that the next man who
steps out suddenly will be considerate enough to
have at least a grandmother on whom the talent
can lavish the results of their tuneful labours. A
bad case of this concert-giving mania broke out at
Warren lately, and a bang-up shivoo was held in
order to purchase a new bea-quilt for one of the
local sky-pilots, or a set of Abyssinian gold studs
for the poundkeeper—we forget which-and the
Sims Reeves of the district was wrestling with
“ Maid of Athens ” in a style calculated to make a
trnmcar-conductor weep, when a big shock-headed,
tangle-bearded “ironbarker” in the front seats
jumped up and yelled, “ book here, me gory Mr.
Allshirt, a fel er’s got t’be made ov somethin’a
d—n sight tougher than fat hem to stand such
muck ez that, an’ of y’ can’t give us ole Thatcher’s
‘ Bullock Driver,’ or * Marchin’ through Geor-
geeab,’ or somethin’ else that we can all jine in
with down here, bust me if I don’t wait outside
till th’ shivoo’s done, an’ punch yer bloomin’
head off.” The “ management ” prudently coaxed
tho disgusted “ bushy ” out next door to sample a
bottle of real stingo, and, while he was expanding
himself on the good old days when Ben Hall's
gang were on the roads, the affrighted tenor shot
home by the baok road, and hia himself down a
cellar.
Was it gay up Alpha (Q.) way a few weeks
ago when the bully-boy navvies drew their month’s
screw and laid themselves out for a little whole-
some fun and innocent recreation ? You better
believe it was. From Friday night till Monday
morn the whole place was stood clean up on end,
?P“P l3 ? Passing by would have a hazy idea
tnat he had stumbled across a drunken lunatic
asyluna let loose for a fourth of July celebration,
the whole place fairly floated in snake-juice and
tangle, and free fights were the order of the day:
fp en were stabbed, one seriously, another man
nad his cerebellum explored witn the business end
or an axe, a Chinaman's goat was playfully smearec
over with kerosene oil and then set alight, and
man who was suspected of having washed himsel'
on the previous day had his front teeth belte
hisi throat and part of his ear chawed oi 1
just (as the rollicking picnickers explained) t
take the b conceit out of the reptile.” Tw
tents were burnt down to the ground, and a selec ;
company of the revellers did a corrobboree rounc
the flames; Mrs.M'Pherson, of the Welcome Horn
Hotel, had her doors and windows burst into chips
the only man in the district who owned a white
belltopper hat threw it down a well for safety, anc
then hid himself up a hollow log; and strong men
who were never known to have wept before, bursi;
into torrents of tears on learning that the kanaka
cook, whom they intended to roast alive on Sun
day, nad escaped as soon as be saw the fun com
meneing. Gay I It was the liveliest time this world
has ever seen since Titus made a bonfire of old
Jerusalem.
. the 7 say in England ?” This
is the last they’ve said“ For the refreshment o '
the troops engaged in the new Nile picnic a spirii;
has been manufactured which is rum without its
alcoholic properties—a kind of liquor which will
cheer but not inebriate—exhilarate but not mad
aen. Great things are expected from the intro’
duction of this exhilarating but non-alcoholic rum
THE RUM RUM!
“ I do not sing of whisky wild,
Or brandy brown or pale,
My poet’s pen I ne’er defiled
W ith stout or bitter ale.
No port or sherry e’er from me
A single stave can win,
And ne’er my theme for song shall be
The stuff they sell as gin.
But there’s a drink that tempts my muse
And bids the numbers come:
A verse to thee I can’t refuse—
Unalcoholic rum I
“ No more shall gallant seamen roll,
Unsteady in their gait,
Nor try, when mad with alcohol,
To marlinspike a mate.
No more shall Tommy Atkins sleep
On guard-room wooden bed,
Nor shall he have at morn to keep
Wet towels round his head!
For there’s a drink that he may quaff
And yet leave passion dumb,
’Twill only make him sing and laugh—
Unalcoholic rum!
“ Lord Wolseley says it’s excellent—
The Staff have tried a glass.
Ah! what, from this experiment,
May not soon come to pass?
We yet may see the British troops
Abjure their daily *• drops,”
And find their joy in bowling hoops,
And also spinning tops.
But still there may be two or three
Who’ll look a little glum,
When on the festive board they see
Unalcoholic rum 1”
Moncure Conway on “ Blasphemy ”“ It
had often been said that the court-room is the
great school from which a nation learns truth and
justice. But it is more than that. It is a compul-
sory school, and is also able to teach the people
error, to familiarise them with injustice. In our
own time we have witnessed the power of Law to
stigmatise religious liberty, to browbeat mental
and moral indepeEdence, and cause a community
to cast odium upon truth and courage. This
nation worships to-day a man legally executed for
blasphemy, and at the same time punishes men for
precisely the same offence. There is not a man
living who ever said worse things of the estab-
lished deity and his priesthood than Jesus said of
the established deity and his priesthood. To the
devout worshippers of the very same deity, re-
vealed in the same Jewish soriptures, as that for
ridiculing whom we have seen men dragged to
prison, Jesus said, ‘Ye are of your father, the
devil.’ By placing a legal stigma on all who ex-
press their honest opinion and feeling, the Law in-
timidatesthought, terrifies parents into dwarfing
their children s mind, encourages meanness and
hypocrisy, and generates a race of moral cowards.
There never was a new idea about religion that
was not blasphemy till it became truth. The
word blasphemy >s made up of two Greek
words, and simply means a damaging speech.
A man cannot speak truth without damaging
error. If Christ had not damaged Judaism,
and Wycliff had not damaged Popery, and
Luther Ro nanism, where should we be now ? Our
Protestant Judges, themselves, might be in papal
prmons for heresy. Nothing is more certain than
that blasphemy is a fictitious crime, just as ficti-
tious as witchcraft, The like may be said of other
laws merely imported, not risen out of the needs
and conditions of our own age and country. Such
are the Sabbath Laws. If it can be proved that
one day of rest from involuntary labour in the
week is needed lor the health and happiness of the
poor, and that it can only be secured by statute,
then it might be justly legalised, the same as a
Bank Holiday. But every edict about such a day
arising out of its supposed sanctity, is not merely
HPju?t, as it were unjust to prescribe how people
should pass their Bank Holiday, but it is a solemn
instruction in error and intolerance. The great
judioial wisdom of the nation goes about the
countiy telling people what is false—telling them
that Jehovah made the world in six days, and
rested on the seventh; that he egotistically de-
clared nobody should ever work that day because
he once got tired and rested on it; and that people
have a right to force others to conduct them-
selves according to such notions, whether they
think them true or false. That is a solemn instruc-
tion by the chief moral school of the nation—its
Courts of Law—in a false and mean idea of God,
and in intolerance. There can be no spiritual pro-
gress so long as that deity—that tired, resting,
egotistical intolerant deity is upheld by the
acknowledged source of rectitude and truth."


mmm
i
Ingh/im’s
pP H pF\BI-\
w
Queensland Cure
H
;!>■■/
4V
in Coughs,
y i f
AtftP *** PREPARED ONLY BY
inch am
Rockhampton
St
umbrellas
Ji
s
TTJDT ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL. & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
dutiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
c. fTpridoyli CO.,
433 GEORGE STREET,
HAVE THE
largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
J3T" HATS MADE TO ORDER.
All the Best London Makes Imported.
438 GEORGE STREET,
. Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery .
Papers and Magazines received by
. every Mail.
*°YAL ARCADE. GEORGE ST.. 498 BTDNHY.
BULL DOG- ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling-, healthful, refreshing-, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants. —CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
•|'4OH J ® 9 N
‘jaa-HS-aiUoaS «6« 1>«« 81^
‘dpoudiaojj sjnpjfj pun yoog /nXoy
'HJ.IHIS "I "X
•qoßo *EO[ uazop jad *pg iiiojj spJBO
•azußinoipißd o% sno-tomna
004 ‘SJaqiO jo b pnß ‘tp.n»o ocqdßJilo^oq,!
'Hsuiti ‘niivs ‘awiiTosco auoai ‘aaisiTd onvh
ut pa tßidsia
joao Aautfa pus !)893j8'1 aqj,
*SpjDJ SDU/}S/Jt/J 'SpjDQ SDU/J.S/JI/Q
•spjßO S.JB3A M9>j pnß SBinwjqQ
qi paAßidsip ?ay jo sqaoAl aqi m®ja pub 'l'lVk-r
tl u9A9 aoj Aof b si jo y „
J. NOAKE,
IMPORTER OF
Cigars, Tobaccos, &c.
MR. NOAKE has, at the request of numerous
patrons, OPENED New and Centrally-
situated Premises, at
PALL MALL,
33 Hunter-street,
Next Tattersall’s Chambers,
where will be kept the Largest and Best Assort-
ment of
TOBACCO AND SMOKERS’ REQUIREMENTS
in the colony.
OUR SPECIALITY:
A BOX OF CIGARS
AT
WHOLESALE PRICES!
PEAPES & SHAW, George Street,
IXeREBY NOTIFY THAT THEY HAVE JUST RECEIVED, EX MAIL S.S. ORIENT AND
XX MIRZAPORE,
The Most Beautiful Assortment of Fancy Goods
it has ever been their good fortune to have to submit to the Australian Public, suitable
1 BUS Ml M M PEEWITI.
The Useful as well as the Beautiful.
SUITABLE WEDDING PRESENTS ! SUITABLE CHRISTENING PRESENTS
CHARMING BIRTHDAY PRESENTS 1
It is simply impossible in an advertisement to enumerate the endless variety, we therefore respect-
'hlly invite our friends io inspect our Windows and walk through our Showrooms and Shop, where
they will always iind attentive and obliging assistants to attend them.
T PEAPES and SHAW have also opened a charming variety of White, Cream, Ficelle, and Coloured
;'ACE GOODS; Beautiful Fabric and French KID GLOVES; An Exquisite Assortment of Ladies’ and
Children’s LONDON and PARIS COSTUMES.
r , r W e shall laud by the Lusitania a Special Shipment of Infants’ Children’s, and Ladies’ UNDER-
CLOTHING, for the Christmas trade.
Peapes and Shaw,
' GEORGE STREET.
Peapcs and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw’s “ Standard ” Ready-made Clothing.
x. SPECIAL NOTE.—We were the first to adopt the word “Standard ”as a brand, together with the
Mercantile Flag as our trade mark. We have, however, been copied by several other manufacturers
e suppose we may take that as a compliment to the excellence of this particular class of goods. We
' v ould simply suggest that customers should see that our name is on the ticket, as well as our trade mark
GENTLEMEN’S SUMMER
o TT 'STANDARD ’* TWEED
S(J ITS, EXCELLENT CUT and
WELL. MADE
355., 425., 455., 505.,
555., 635.
Sac Coats, 18s. 6d., 215.; Tweed Office Coats,
v, '6B. od. up
Wl *ck Alpaca Sac Coats, 10s. 6d. to 15s. 6d.; Cash-
’"•'re ditto, 18s. 6d.
Linen Duck Coats, militaryj[collars, 7s. 6d.
Yr., to 158. 6d.
Flannel Cricketing Coats, 18s. 6d. each
rjftto ditto Trousers, 13s. 6d. pair
Silk Sac and Dust Coats, from. 15s. 6d. to 31s.
Frock Coats, Nicolle’s Walking Suits
Summer Overcoats, from 365. to 50s.
New “ Antipluvium” Waterproof Coat, weight
■h., only 7 ounces, the lightest waterproof made
cite Linen Vests, 9s. 6d. each. 3 for 275.
jT® New “ dasher” White Dress Vest, button low
*ford Dressing Gown, specially suitable for this
climate in the summer.
p EAPES and SHAW, GEORGE STREET,
PEAPES and SHAW’S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweed Sac Suits, from 21s. to 35s
Boys’ and Youths’ superior Worsted Suits, 395. (id'
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweea Trousers, 7s. Cd. and
Bs. Gd. pair
Boys’ & Youths’ Alpaca Coats, 7s. Gd. & Bs. Gd each
Boys’ and Youths’ White Duck Coais. Gs. «d each
Boys’ Man-of-War Trouser Suits, 9s. Gd. to 18s Gd
each
Boys’ Blue Serge, Cheltenham, Imperial, Norfolk
Military, and other Fancy Tweed Suits, new
shapes.
CHRISTY’S HATS. CHRISTY’S HATS
We have now the latest Shapes for the Summer
Season, made specially light for us, to suit
the climate.
Black Silk Hats, Drab Pullovers, Drab Shells
Black, Drab, Brown, and Slate Felts, from 7s Gd
to 13s. Gd.
Soft Felt Hats, in all colours and shapes
RUSTIC HATS, all colours, suitable for cricket
Lawn Tennis, Boating, &e., Is. Hid. each
Cricketing Caps, Travelling Caps, Polo Cape, Fez
Caps.
£ra-v
PORTMANTEAU DEPARTMENT.
Trunks, Dress Trunks, Iron Trunks I Gladstone Bags, fitted and unfitted
or tmanteaus, every size and shape I Brief Bags, Deed Bags, Satchels. Rug Straps
Travelling Rugs, Silk Wraps, and Mauds.
PE APES and SHAW, Geobge-stkeet.
BAUBffIAMM.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Axe InT©"w Open..
Barry’s Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow on bald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry’s Florida Water!
The Original and the Best. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffiiungg and Go.
W. H. Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & AKIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Pood, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34, and 11b. tins.
It. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 a Bid 345 feat Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
'O’an.dertstisex,
84 HUWTE® & PKILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
I,HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
Ho. 23 §!©yai Areasle,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may he left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMI6S,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
pmm COUNTRY MILK.
THE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may he relied upon as being
ALWAYS PUKE, '
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Basitsa 1 .
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three time!.
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office ... 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
c. cobles,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER
2
«s m
Sole Agent. fo*
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUN
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIRE A RIW'3 in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o. '
Repairs by London workmen,
jay- c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE bTßii' E'i
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
FOR wrHilld AND IHVM.IOS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise, mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows.—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT;
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Rank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
t- Vo WAKEHAM, Manager,
SCOTCH WHISKEY /
pr* THE PREMIES WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Matured
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydne|
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daiy Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,009
Directors *
The Hon- Sir John B ay, K,C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas, Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq'
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilsoß.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nynsran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenliall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Es
Manages : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of Eng-land
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
' Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo!
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Si! ip Si ©line
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Erupt ions, Pimples, Blotches entire]}
fadeaway. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-stauding Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow It removes every kind o-1
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skir
clear, smooth, supple, a r d healthy. Suipbolim
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & WON
HEALTH.
STKKNOTH.
ENERGY.
TONIC.
GREAT BODTLY STRENGTH !
GREAT nerve STRENGTH !
'IKEAT MENTAL STKi'NkTh !
GREAT DIGESTIVE S I It KNOT H follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. U
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression.
&3., Is a remedy for Neuralgia. Cr est affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 82 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pe'pper’s,
Made solely by J. PEpPEK and Co,, Loudon.
Special y suitable for. the colonies.
PEPPER’S
TARAXACUM
AM PODOPHYLLIN.
A FLUID LIVER MED 10INK, MADE FROM
DANDELION AND MANDRAKE,ROOTS.
01 Great Value lor tho Colonies.
Good for Liver Disorder, Indigestion, Dyspepsia.
The best Antibilious Remedy. Without a partivls
of Mercury. Safest and surest Summed and Liver
Medicine. Clears the Head and cures Headache.
Regulates (he Roweis. Removes Heartburn. Fla-
tulence, Torpidity Bottles, 12 d iscs. Sold by
most Chemists. Insist that Pepper’s isstlppltod.
Xjoclfcyer’s
BUI.PHUE
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
//V TfJE
ACCIDENT
INDEMNITY C()y (LIMITED
EW.MOON Mctncu/ej
Place ‘


27" 27
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRANCH at
the above address, where the people of New South Wales can
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’ PRICE.
A First-class, Sound, Strong, Sterling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capped and
Jewelled, for £3 10s-, warranted f t or 5 years.
: •- v
27 27
ft® 5 * THE LONDON AND LIVERPOOL WATCH COMPANY.
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT 1
drink IT i
DRINK IT I
DRINK IT I
TAILOR H HMD,
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
348 GEORGE ST.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No, 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS H otel is centrally situated, being: close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
1 Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co. s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams; from all parts of the colony posted up.
tack thompsokt,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SADOON,
91 King-street.
jgSP N.8.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FEY
Bristol, London, and Sydney
An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter,
■Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
* ' niijnt
*0
Rlfjg
' KB
It; is»of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottlMhouM be carefully compares, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should corn-
pflrc LOR.NE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a diff erence
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EIGGIFS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has eocared 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
M. G. CHURCHW00D,
147 YORK STREET.
LBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Of Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCJtlKK & .€©*., Solo Agents,
376 George-stroeti Sydney.
WALLACH BROS
*
2TEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and [London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
s*B
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS"
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVtiTand SONS’
EdinburgnPale Ale.
afuw o&foae
Covvrinhted. '
»<HJ2IAC23rta4WHISSE23.
Boyd’ 9 Beard FHxirdtetthi*,and
trill do it on cither bald head of
bare face. Forces heavy JHont-
tarheinfro»i2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
i oear full beards, having used 1 to
mfoue afteb
m
Cirp'jriokted
3 pkU, No injury, easily applied, certain in effect, packets Is. 6i.
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,po&t paid, cent under cover, free from observation.
Lt.ddren, Frank Dougina, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., S*4my,ir.S. W-
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
ear wine and spirit merchant.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt at tent
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PABUT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory : COW PERWHAKF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S SHPffiOWE®
STEAM PUMPS-
H. P. GREGORY ft GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV®’
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PU^ f
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICDI^^
CATALOGUES FORWARDED
FREP-
BLEND
COLLIE BLEND WHIBKY.-Th£
of the PUREST MATURED
bining f ulness of body, with piquancy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL *
Agents.
IBS. ROWLiA^rDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
33anufacfur@r of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials,, arcs! Sifters, and Proprietor of Wigeris®*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Oniy Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
&C'
