

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 63.—New Series.
SATURDAY. JULY 26, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 36. 1884.
Foul Play.
It is to be hoped that we shall now hear the
last of the Irish School Book series, so re-
peatedly vaunted as furnishing Scriptural
and religious instruction to which Roman
Catholics can take no exception, because
these books were agreed upon by the Roman
Catholic Archbishop Murray and the Pro-
testant Archbishop Whateley, both of Dub-
lin. The S. M. Herald and its party have
perpetually flapped these books in the faces
of the Papist objectors to the present Public
School system. But “ Catholicus,” in [last
Thursday’s Herald, bursts up the whole
business. He denies that there was any per-
manent agreement to accept these books; and
shows by the following quotation from a pri-
vate letter by Archbishop Whateley, pub-
lished by his daughter, that the [[system of
which these books were part of the ma-
chinery was devised with the secret inten-
tion of proselytizing. Here is the extract:—
“ The great instrument of conversion, however
is the diffusion of Scriptural knowledge. For
twenty years large extracts from the New Testa-
ment have been read in the majority of the
National schools far more diligently than that
book is read in ordinary Protestant places of edu-
cation. But these extracts contain so much that
is inconsistent with the whole spirit of Romanism
that it is difficult to suppose that a person well ac-
quainted with them can be a thoroughgoing
Roman Catholic. The principle upon which that
Church is constructed, the duty of uninquiring
submission to its authority, renders any doubt
fatal. A man who is commanded not to think for
himself, if he finds that he cannot avoid doing so,
is unavoidably led to question the reasonableness
of the command. And when he finds that the
Church which claims a right to think for him has
preached doctrines, some of which are incon-
sistent, and others are opposed to what he has
read in the Gospels, his trust in its infallibility—the
foundation on which the whole system rests—is at
an end. Such I believe to be the process by which
the minds of a large portion of the Roman Ca-
tholics have been prepared for the reception of
the Protestant doctrines. The education supplied
by the National Board is gradually undermining
the vast fabric of the Irish Catholic Church. Two
things only are necessary on the part of the Go-
vernment. One is that it adheres resolutely, not
only in its measures, but in its appointments in
the selection of bishops, as well as in making Par-
liamentary grants-to the system of mixed educa-
tion. I believe I said the other day, that mixed
education is gradually enlightening the minds of
the people, and if wo give it up we give up the
only hope of weaning the Irish from the abuses
of Popery. But I cannot venture openly to pro-
fess this opinion. I cannot openly support the
education board as an instrument of conversion
I have to fight my battle with one hand, and that
my best, tied behind me.”
And this Is the system, mark you, respecting
which the Rev. Jefferis perorated the
other evening, by referring to it as “a
system ol education which is neither Pro-
testant nor Catholic, but is absolutely im-
partial in its favours.” !!!
* • •
Now, we daresay our readers pretty
clearly comprehend by this time that we
don’t care a snap of the fingers for the
Roman Catholic Church. We regard its
attitude in respect to this very matter of
education as illustrating an intensity of
bigotry, only equalled by the furious blind
bigotry of the Evangelical Protestants, who,
in order to strike a blow at heresy, would
just like Premier Stuart to disregard every
principle of civil and religious liberty, and
undo the work of generations of mar-
tyrs who had experienced what society
without these safeguards really meant.
We think — nay, we know — that, were
the Romau Catholics in the ascendant
as the Evangelicals are to - day, they
would surely abuse their opportunities quite
as much as the ultra fanatical of that grade
of Protestant would, aad worse than the
moderately fanatical. For the last-named
have at least a shadow of restraint upon
their infatuation. The whole tradition of
their sect operates against their drift to-
wards intolerance, and gives the lie to them
when they plead for the imposition of re-
straints which their forefathers struggled
and suffered to remove. But the Catholic
Church has no such liberal traditions to
contend against. Its traditions, in fact, are
in admirable keeping with the present policy
and conduct of the dominant Protestant
fanatics. The gag ecclesiastic, and the
lash of the civil power are weapons
which they have never scrupled to employ
when they could. They; could and would
employ them again, had they the chance
and the power, and they would not need to
repudiate the principles of the Fathers of
their Church to do so.
* * *
But our view is, that, formidable as is the
organisation of the Roman Church, and de-
structive to the liberty of dissentients from
its theology as are its methods, when it can
control the civil power and employ the law
to perform its behests, it is not dangerous
here in New South Wales. It is in a profound
minority. We don’t reckon the miserable
Orange organisation, which pretends to
combat and repress the pretensions of Rome
and which, in reality, does no more than
exasperate and aggravate old grievances
and confirm Catholics in their creed. Out-
side of, and aloof from that wretched gang
of trumpery conspirators in bibs and sashes,
stands the great body of free-born Britons,
who know and mistrust the Papacy, but
who —worthy sons of their sturdy fore-
fathers—do not fear it, aud blush with angry
scorn and shame when an intriguer in an
Orange lodge tries to persuade them that
they ought to be soared. The true, manly
Briton of to-day has a civil religion which
nothing can frighten him out of. He be-
lieves in freedom of conscience and of
speech. He is not frightened of Prelate or
Jesnit or Parson. He is not jealous of them
so long as they mind their own business and
their own flocks, and do not attempt to
place their hands upon the Ark of Civil
Liberty in order to find the material where-
with to gag or strangle one another.
• • •
At the present moment, the true Britons
of N.S. Wales do not forget that their fore-
fathers defied the fires of Smithfield when
the Papacy had it all its own way, and that
these doughty ancestors were not beaten
then, nor at any time when the Church of
Rome had all the chances in its favour, and
even a monarch at its back. And they are
not going to be scared now by the figment
of a bogie, raised by fanatics and schemers,
with no better material than an obsequiously
civil, although dogged, minority of Roman
Catholics. Liberty is in less danger to-day
from that minority than it is exposed to by
the insensate Evangelical majority, who,
following the impulses of unguarded and
unintelligent human nature, are striving to
revive the old villainy, as though the lessons
of the past had no sense for them; and who
intrigue to refuse decent consideration to the
Roman Catholics on one hand, and to perse-,
cute the free-thinking heretics, on the other.
And to accomplish these aims they would
fain employ the very same methods, and
adopt the very same ethics of misgovern-
ment, which were employed against their
own forefathers by the Established Churches
of past days, aud which have been so elo-
quently and movingly denounced and repu-
diated by their own most able and earnest
teachers and leaders in the time of their
struggles to escape the thrall of a dominant
orthodoxy—so-called.
“Hodge” In Movement.
The probable tendency of the admission of
agricultural labourers to vote by the Fran-
chise Bill when passed—as it will be before
long, despite the resistance of the
may be gathered from the character of the
mottoes on the admission cards to the an-
nual Whit Monday demonstration of farm-
labourers, Mr. George Mitchell, an influ-
ential writer under the nom de plume of
“One from the Plough” in the labourers’
organs, is responsible for these mottoes,
which run as follows, and are queer speci-
mens of deduction, albeit significant indica-
tions of what Hodge is thinking about
“ Thus saith the Lord!
“ 1 The earth is the Lord’s and the fullness there'
of.’ ”
“ Then why should we pay any rent ?”
“‘The cattle upon a thousand hills is the
Lord’s.’ ”
“ How is it we are obliged to give Is. per lb. far
beeff’
“ ‘ Man shall live by the sweat of his brow.’ ”
“How is it the poor farm labourers starve by it ?”
“ ‘ The man that does not work neither shall he
eat.’ ”
“ How is it the idle live on the fat of the land, and
the industrial classes are in a starving condition V'
“ ‘ Woo to the man that keeps back the wages by
fraud.’ ”
Most of this is wretched bosh, but it shows
that the usual results have followed the be-
trayal of trust by the natural leaders of the
people, the landlords. If these had not as a
class set themselves to grind the faces of the
poor, neglecting all the patriarchal func-
tions which pertained to their position as
holding the land in trust for the Lord, the
people would not have taken the bit be-
tween their teeth in this fashion, and run
into semi-senseless extremes, impelled by
resentment and animosity.
• • ■
The first French Revolution will, judging
by indications, be ere long emulated in Eng-
land ; and the philosophic and moderate
prophets and teachers, who have been call-
ing upon the privileged classes to abate their
exactions and do their duty, in lieu of derid-
ing every demonstration that they have
duties and responsibilities, will be jostled
aside by the eccentric energy of furious,
unreasoning, and uncompromising leaders
sprung from the ranks of the people them-
selves. Do any of the numerous people, who
denounce the tone of The Bulletin on social
and political subjects, for example, when we
brush aside the sycophantic trash which is
so much written about the noble order of the
Have-alls, and speak out plain necessary
truths about wbat the selfish monopolists
are surely bringing on themselves —does any-
one, we ask, believe for a moment that The
Bulletin principles will be observed by the
democracy, heated by victory, inflamed by
old grievances and recent resistance, and
ungoverned by real comprehension of the
principles of unselfishness and equal justice
wbeP; fls must happen soon, tho cl^sa
SIR WILLIAM ROBINSON, GOVERNOR OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.


TOOK, m, ft GUI’S
BRIAN BORU
BRIAN BORU WHISKY Is manufactured from
the fl nest Irish Grain, When well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported iu
enormous quantities to all parts of the world.
Australian consumers will find this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Whisky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENT,
THE LAIHMERMUIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
&
&
This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. do.
Brandy in case and bulk, * and **♦.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass’s Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALB.
JAMESYOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 35 Fiinders-street East.
Adelaide Office ; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
MF" PURE BUM,
Extra Strong,
tt. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Bottle Bejartnient,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
r ©d.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNKLISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
YERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. fid. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE port,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNBSSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street , Sydney .
G. B. KENT & SONS’ BRUSH WARE.
It having come to our knowledge that certain
inferior goods have been stamped with our names,
G- B. KENT and SONS—namely, Sash Tools—and
have been circulated as of G. B. Kent and Sons’
manufacture (we make only one quality, THE
BEST), we suggest that persons using our brand
of brushware should procure from responsible
houses only.
Wo have this day registered as our trade mark,
under the Trade Marks Statute, 28 Victoria, No. 9,
the name,
G. B. KENT and SONS,
and should we discover anyone, after this notice,
using our said mark, we will prosecute them under
the penal clauses of the said statute, without
further notice.
The registration of the trade mark applies to
all classes of our manufacture, namely
Fancy Brushes, as Hair. Hat, Cloth, Tooth, Nail,
Shaving, Bath, Ivory Goods, &c.
Painters’ Brushes, as Sash Tools, Ground Brushes,
Distemper, Stipplers, &c.
Household Brushes, as Brooms, Scrub, Shoe, Stove,
Furniture, &c.
Stable Brushes, as Horse, Spoke, Water, Dandy, &c.
Messrs. HENRY BROOKS and CO., 359 George-
street, will be happy to communicate with any-
one on the subject of our Brushware.
Signed and dated in Sydney this 14th May, 1884.
G. B. KENT and SONS,
11 Great Marlborough-street, London.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.; hall-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Hates are 5s. per Inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements Ids. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
obtain the control of the political machinery?
If any so believe, we know better. We re-
memoer the fate of the Girondists in the
French convulsion —we recall, we say, the
fate of these honest, capable, cultivated,
moderate, and intelligent reformers, over-
whelmed and overridden by the angry popu-
lace whom they had done so much to en-
franchise.
• * *
If the classes who now monopolise the
fruits of the earth in Great Britain, and
consume the nectssary share of the pro-
ducers in senseless extravagances, wild
rivalry of display and profusion, and luxu-
rious yachting in summer seas, while the
wretches who make the money for them
shiver and haif-starve in winter’s cold,
would but recognise that, as true patri-
archial leaders, they might rule for ever,
enjoying prominence and plenty, although
debarred from riot and profusion, they
might yet save their country. We fear it is
too late. We are almost certain that no
missionary effort would avail to convert
the blasphemous squanderers to a sense of
the true signification of that religion of
Christ of which they pretend to be the
buttresses. However, there is one consola-
tion. And that is that, looking back upon
the first French Resolution—that frightful
convulsion which, undertaken in the in-
terest of humanity and justice, became
distorted into an anarchy in which justice
and reason seemed alike lost past recovery
—the end was, after all, worth the cost.
The bloodshed w r as not, when one comes to
sum it up, one tithe of what had periodi-
cally been caused by the arrogance and
greed of rival monarehs, each hurling for-
ward countless thousands of men to avenge
a trumpery affront or steal a province. Out
of each such war mankind emerged more
debased than before. From the tempest of
the French Revolution the human race has
gained a permanent purification of the
moral atmosphere. Iniquities and systems
of outrage were then swept away, never to
be restored. Thereafter, the French peasant
ceased to be a dog whom his noble master
dealt with as he liked. French women of
the humbler class were never more the sport
and prey of the lords of the soil. All
Christendom felt the chastening, and was
purified in a measure by the vicarious
sacrifice offered up in France.
♦ * *
If, therefore, the storm must come, there
is no need for despair. Progress is a law of
nature. Metamorphosis is a form of pro*
gress, and the loveliest growths of human in-
stitutions have their roots in soil ploughed
by the share of revolutions and fallowed by
the decayed corpses of abuses which have
met with a violent death. There is another
rule which we do not remember to have
ever seen explicitly stated, but which is as
true as Gosjiel. That is, that if the for-
tunate were unselfish, there would be no
wretched; or, again, if there were no in-
tolerable injustices, there would be no
frightful insurrections. You can’t get up
any sort of considerable revolution among a
people who are, as a rule, moderately com-
fortable, though you scattered among them
millionaires to excite all the envy that
nature is capable of. Envy is never suf-
ficiently acute and general, at the same
time, to work a whole people up to the pitch
of staking their lives and belongings on the
chance of satisfying it. The majority of a
nation need to be intolerably situated before
they are sufficiently of one mind to try the
arbitrament of force—almost always un-
organised violence against organised and
disciplined repression. It is so easy for
rulers and great ones to render themselves
beloved, that it is a stupendous wonder
that, foi the mere sake of superfluity to be
added to superfluity, they persist in sacri-
ficing that ready affection and blindly im-
perilling the period of their pre-eminent
fortune.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Back to the Dark Ages.
The deputationists who applied to Mr. Stuaht to
suppress the Sunday meetings of the alleged Tree-
thinkers, in the Sydney theatres, suffered from
some confusion of mind, unless, indeed, they
knew exactly what they wanted but were secretly
ashamed to explain themselves. Their complaint
mixed up two entirely distinct subjects, and sug-
gested something additional to both these sub-
jects. They objected that the lecturers gave what
were practically musical entertainments, nnd that
they uttered blasphemies. They asked Mr,
Stuart to put a stop to the former as contra-
ventions of law, and they hinted that they
would be glad to see him commit the State to a
religious persecution of the lecturers for the lat-
ter. Underlying all this were tokens, sufficiently
obvious, that in the main the trouble was one of
competing professionals. The lecturers had suc-
ceeded in drawing larger congregations than at-
tend, habitually, any’church in this city. And
they had had this success, despite the fact that
people had to pay to hear them. The deputation-
ists well knew that it was open to them to charge
for admission to lectures at the theatres also; but
experience had taught them that even when they
held free services, they failed to attract “ a house.”
Mr. Picton, one of the deputation, is a direct
competitor of Dr. Hughes and Mr. Walker, and
had suffered the mortilication of having been
utterly distanced. Having failed to beat them on
anything like even terms, he row desires the as-
sistance of the civil power to silence an I persecute
thsm. This is very deplorable, but only what
might have been expected. Mr. Stuart, who is
certainly not less orthodox than his interviewers,
is fortunately a man of larger intellectual stature.
He penetrated the paltry passions which actuated
them, and recognised the danger to liberty of
conscience which compliance with them would
import. He analysed their confused complaints,
and shewed the distinction which they had been
Incapable of perceiving. The first question with
him was whether the Sunday lectures, so-called*
are in reality entertainments of the stage as de-
fined by law. He showed that this is at least very
doubtful. In the second place, he exposed the
fact that the deputationists solicited a revival of
blasphemy prosecutions. Now, it seems probable
that the lecturers have kept Inside the law as
respects their musical performances. It would be
very difficult to define what is, and what Is not,
religious or sacred music. There is no man living
who can classify sequences of notes or combina-
tions of chords into sacred and secular. The person
who set himself to make such a distinction would
be driven back upon the words which were sung.
And that would simply bring him to the old blas-
phemy question again. As for music, unaccom-
panied by words, who shall distinguish between a
church voluntary and a symphony with solos?
But, when one touches the essential point, the
question of punishing blasphemy, the difficulties
are still more serious. To be effective, it will be
requisite to revive procedures which the very
sects who now shriek for State prosecutions, have
all through their history condemned and de-
nounced. And, moreover, it will necessitate the
establishment of a State religion. It will be requi-
site to define what may not be controverted—for
blasphemy is but denial of some particular ideas.
Now, it is notorious that there is not a Little
Bethel in New South Wales where the deepest
convictions of the Roman Catholics are not habitu-
ally blasphemed. It can scarcely be reasonably
asked that some blasphemies shall be licensed and
others dealt with as crimes. Or, in other words,
that Catholics may blaspheme against the Protes-
tant religion, and Protestants blaspheme agai n st
the Roman Catholic faith, while Dissenters shall be
punished for blaspheming either or both.
What?
Mr. Trickett fairly cornered the Secularists
when, in r.-ply to them claims to be permitted to
send representatives to impart religious teaching
to children in the Public Schools, he showed that,
in effect, all they proposed to teach was already
provided for by the Act as part of the ordinary
course of teaching. The retort of the Secularists
will probably be that, although the Act makes
provision, as the Minister alleges, that “it shall be
the dutv of all teachers to impress on the minds of
their pupils the principles of morality, truth,
justice, and patriotism; to teach them to avoid
idleness, profanity, and falsehood ; to instruct
them in the principles of free government; and to
train them up to a true comprehension of th«
rights, duties, and dignity of citizenship,” no-
thing definite is, in reality, done in this direction.
And this retort will be absolutely true. But
we may permit the contestants to tight their
own battles in their owu way. What we desire to
point out is that the Minister's sword has a double
edge. If the Act makes provision for the teach-
ing above indicated, what more can be needed?
The catalogue includes all that is necessary for
citizenship, and, indeed, to constitute a good man.
If the Secularist programme, which is nearly iden-
tical, and, in fact, quite identical in purport, with
the requirements of the Act, does not come, as
the Minister declares, within the meaning of re-
ligious instruction, what does? What religious
teaching can there be outside of “ the principles
of morality, truth, justice, and patriotism”?
What, besides mysticism and phantasy !
A Juggle.
Mb. Piddinoton’s readiness to call attention to
the method by which the Treasurer has averted a
terrible deffeit, may have been prompted by good
and patriotic motives or by mere party spirit. It
doesn't much matter which. In giving publicity
to the device he has done good work. It is proper
that the people of the colony should know ac-
curately how their affairs are being financed*
There can be no doubt that Mr. Dibbs’ expedient
is an illegitimate one, Roughly stated, it is this:
Mr. Dibbs, as Treasurer, finds himself pinched for
resources. Casting around for relief to enable
him to balance the accounts of the colony and
avert the scandal of a terrific deficit, he remem-
bers that there have been surpluses heretofore
and that considerable amounts oI these surpluses
have been expended in railway construction
Thereupon he creates for himself a theory that all
reproductive works should have been constructed
with borrowed money. He effects a little juggle, cre-
dits the consolidated revenue with certain moneys
spent years ago on railways, and debits the loan ac-
count with the same amount. This is very neat and
graceful. It is done with a mere turn of the
wrist. There is no deception. And there is no
money. The bag has nothing in it, although
the dexterity with which it has been juggled from
under one cover to under another, and the solem-
nity with which tho transfer has been invested,
would impose upon most observers. The Trea-
surer has simply enabled himself to borrow with
decency from the next loan to recoup the loan
account for the sum he has transferred to consoli-
dated revenue. In other words, if the Juggler
desires to show money under both covers simulta-
neously he will have to borrow another bag from
a gentleman in the audience—Mr. John Bull.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Ronald You are a gentle idiot, and we
would like to print your verses if only to please
your mother. But we dare not. As the result of
experience, we may say that to do so would be to
ruin you for life. How many a young man have
we seen blighted by the publication of first at-
tempts in poetry, when the judicious administra-
tion of a pick-handle would have preserved him to
his country and the shearing-shed. Understand,
Bonald, we have no desire to be rough upon you.
your verses are as good as most we get, and we
will whisper for your consolation that most we get
are of an exceedingly woolly character. You must
recollect that, although Mary Jane may be the
“ flower of Jingeralong,” and though the name of
this township may be an alluring rhyme for
“song,” yet these are not sufficient grounds for
you to neglect your agricultural avocations in
order to let the world know about Mary Jane and
your affection for her. The world, we may tell
you in confidence, would be placid if Mary Jane
wore to cease suddenly and you were to die, When
you do write —it you will write—why don’t you get
a grip upon a theme that will be of universal in-
terest ? How would a “ Sonnet to Salt-junk ” suit
your quality of genius? Or a “Monody upon
the Prevalence of Measles?” Everybody knows
what salt-junk is, and everybody — or mostly
everybody—has had the measles. But everybody
doesn't know j our Mary Jane. Reflect upon this
before you write again. Reflect a year or two.
By that time, who knows but Mary Jane may have
beaten most of the poetry out of you with a beetle,
and you will be no more anxious to see the state-
ment in print that she has a “snow-white lily
hand.” If you think of it, also remember us to
your mother...." Velox ” (Parkes): Thanks. We
discovered your letter in the heel of our boot, the
other day, where we had slipped it inadvertently
while we were going out to the corner to see the
time. We deal with it this week. Glad to hear
from you again “J.J.”: Thanks. Next week —
“ Jerry”; Wo are sorry that we mislaid your letter
till it was too late to make use of the contents.
But you have a vein of humour—which Is as rare,
let us tell you, as a vein of honesty in these days—
and tou will do us proud by writing again. Your
doubts about the use of the hair on the teeth of
some Hibernian ecclesiastics are easily cleared up.
They have hair on their teeth for straining at
copper and swallowing silver, as the whale has hair
on its teeth lor dividing mackerel from cat-fish.
Our natural history may be a bit crooked, but the
facts are not. And we may tell you that clerics
who come here without a brogue on their tongues
find it safe policy to set about acquiring one and
wear wigs on their teeth for the first year or two.
"J.G.”: Thanks. If you will cast your burn-
ing orbs over the paper this week, we think you
will find that your communication is set in a some-
what coruscating framework. But it is not for us
to boast. We’ll be pleased to hear from you again...
“M. A. L.”: We handed your communication to
the member of our staff whose peculiarity it is to
write in gall, and he lost it. But it was found yes-
terday. We found it in the lining of his hat. He
is a mo. ose and wayward being, with a tierce crav-
ing for solitude and rum. We are afraid it is too
late to say anything about the case. If Mr. T. K.
Abbott, B.M., gave an old man, seventy-seven
years of ago, three months’ hard labour for not
having any visible means of support and another
month for having three handkerchiefs in his pos-
session " reasonably i upposed to be stolen,” what
might he not give us for commenting upon the
case? By your writing, we see that you are a
lady, and we should like to oblige you, but we
can’t oblige you so far as to get into gaol. We
have been there before. You must know that
these are parlous times, when it is a crime to be
poor. Age, according to Mr. Abbott, only aggra-
vates the offence. Bo, by your leave, we will let
the old man be. Let us hope he will soon go to
where poverty is not a crime—“T.”: Not nearly
good enough—metre imperfect, sense obscure,
rhyme (well, now, entre nous, who but a country
editor would run in a verse where “take” was
made to ihyme with “freight?”) “ J. H. Scott
Blight mistake—believe law only holds good in
Victoria.. “ C. B. Thornley ” : Thanks. ..“J.
Alexander”: Will see—“J.B.”: There’s nothing
specially objectionable in your lines:—
“ There was a young gir' of Abbystwith,
Took a sack to the mill to get grist with,
When a man with a cart
Came as straight as a dart,
And went for those lips that she kissed with.”
But, you see, this style of metre lends itself natu-
rally to ribaldry, and so, 1 ai men in the past have
taken advantage of it to omvey information of a
pseudo - scientific nature. Avoid it ...“Spy":
Mislaid somehow “Vox Clamantis”: Will in-
sert ...“ W. Hughes” (Yass): Reading the account
of Lillycrop’s torture at Yass has left a bad taste
on our mouth—filled us with disgust, in fact, to-
wards the laws under which such abominations
are tolerated. May have more to say on it—
“Ref” (Manfred): Cannot find it “D.”: No —
“Ginger”: Shall be glad to hear from you again.
“A. C.” (Cooktownj: We quite believe you.
But then, you know, it would be a bit hard on
Sunday-school teachers if they didn’t enjoy the
privilege of beating their wives like other men.
Were this source of innocent recreation closed to
religious people, it is hard to see how the public
morals could be conserved—“ Arapu ” (N.Z.): A
morganatic marriage is a marriage contracted
between royal or princely personages with per-
sons of a lower rank in life, who by such a
marriage are not raised to a royal or princely
station, nor are the children of such mar-
riages, though of course legitimate, entitled
by the civil laws to succession to the title
or property or the crown of the royal father—
‘ Clifford Phillips”: It needs real downrightness
of conviction to nerve one to venture such
opinions. Endorsements showing that they strike
a responsive chord in the minds of the public are
cheering and strengthening... “ C. W. Waidham ”
(Wellington, N.Z.): Thanks for your good opinion.
C.M.G. stands for Companion of bt. Michael and
St. George, an order Instituted some years ago to
make prominent colonials ridiculous. It has suc-
ceeded. No English public man would touch it
with a telegraph-pole. It is a pinch-beck distinc-
tion, exactly suiting the calibre of its recipients.
But what the British statesman looks on with dis-
dain is Intrigued for and greedily accepted by the
colonist. There’s one consolation, though. Those
who have been decorated are mostly political
fuglemen and pot-wallopers, some of whom can-
not spell.


The Bowral Free Press has the most
hilarious heading of any journal wc know. This
la it; — . , . ,
“ Do as adversaries do in law, .
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
The true and genuine spirit of journalism is
caught in this simple motto. And we bet the
Bowral staff can eat and drink up to it. What a
beading it would have made for the Nooze I
A Port Macquarie vlgneron has settled the
doubts of those whoso conscientious scruples have
the leader of a gang of bushrangers in the Ballara,
district. If he had been a white man and had
escaped the gallows, he would now be either dis-
pensing justice himself, or helping to make the
laws. But there is no fair-dealing in the world.
Riley Brothers pay their customers’ fares
from their Oxford-street shop. The other day two
ladies went in, looked over about f300 worth ot
satins and laces, had all the parasols opened for
them, add finally bought a card of shirt-buttons,
and a thread-bobbin. They then claimed their
tram-tickets, and enquired if there were not a
old digger at the back roared out; “ Why, I’d
order the down and go alone. ’
Robert Small, per favour of the Manning
River. Dredge, dedicates some lines (inferior cod)
“ to (the late) Henry Kendall, our Australian
Poet,” in which he st tea that though our gifted
son of thought sublime is singing away like mad
through endless time, he is dwelling at endless rest
beyond earth’s mystic shrine (wherever that may
be). Robert also pays out more lines thusly: “But
Lo the mystic themes of life with blighted hopes
and cares, dwelt by his day in world? of strife
good ringbarkors, should rather prefer to be bad
journalists and worse printers.
Thunder! how long are the effects of
Christmas supposed to last with the average sub-
editor. Bead this, in Saturday’s News At-
tempting to defraud the Railway Department by
using an unexpired [I!] ticket, appears to be
getting quite a common offence.”—
This style of thing, dear Jimmy Hogue,
Sure, sets a bad example ;
For all the world don’t know you’re sent
Another whisky sample.
Mtherto prevented them from taking the pledge.
He has donned the blue ribbon, but takes his big
un all the same—as medicine. His exolanation is
that this pledge only requires him to reject intoxi-
cating liquors as a beverage. What a solace to
many a sore heart and troubled conscience this
solution will be! And what a lot of “medicine”
will ne drunk in future!
We have much to answer for in our treat-
ment of the black races. The talk about men
being brothers is trash. So a blackfellow found
who was convicted of vagrancy by th® Goulburn
bench, the other day. He had at one time been
light luncheon provided up-stairs for customers.
On being told there was not, they made the remark
that civilisation was only advancing slowly, alter
all
A worthy canon out West was firing chain
shot into Satan’s camp a few Sundays ago, and
during* of his volleys thundered out: oup-
posing that whilst some of you vicious, worldly
men were at your usual disreputable game or
cards for large stakes-as I know some ql you do
play for—and supposing Satan himself should
appear in your midst, what would you do then (
And during the brief silence that followed a gruff
with their peculiar snares.” This is singing Small
with a vengeance.
You will see some curious things in coun-
try papers. The most curious, perhaps, are adver-
tisements. The Maitland Mail has a block
which looks—if the expression may be allowed—
like a warty blot. Hound this is inscribed “ Every
description of printing neatly executed. Elegance
and beauty, neatness and despatch.” But it takes
an hour to make out all this, and then you have to
read it by the light of revelation. It does seem
strange that so many men, who might have made
The pioneers of Queensland baok-blook
settlements had a happy faculty for nomenclature.
We noticed, for instance, in the Darling Downs
Gazette, last week, that a land sale was to be
held at Humpy Bong. Fancy buying an estate
there and settling down. But we must give it on
the gridiron. You are speaking to a friend, say :
“ Come out and stay with me,” you say
“ You cannot stay too long —
Where is your place ?” says he—says yqu
“ (Great gods 1) at Humpy Bong
“My word, Mariar, I see how it is, I forgot to have our place
scratched off the map.”
The patent-reversible-double - back - action-non -transferable-Rain-
Praver-map will be a necessary adjunct to the ram clause to be in-
serted in the prayer-book. To be revised weekly as per telegraphic
reports from the suffering districts.
“Look a here, I wired to them
Prayer-map fellers more ’n a
fortnight, ago that I wanted rain
up at my place, and not a bloom-
in’ drop has fell. While old
Bozzle, who lives just across the
road, and has telegraphed for dry
weather on account of his roof
being blown off, has been com-
pletely washed out.”
Telegraph Party: “By Jove! 1
must have got those telegrams
mixed!”
The picture in the upper right hand corner shows the disaster which betel a steamboat, whose captain had never learned to read, and who was, therefore, unable to avail himself of
the rain clause in his Prayer-book.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
John T. MoInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pxtt-street, Sydney. gST” Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplied
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. iST" Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Fure-hred Stock.*
Personal Items
Signor Parletti, the man with the iron jaw,
is now in Wagga. He needs his jaw if the beef is
like what it was when we were there last.
Strike the lyre! Sir Henry Parkes has re-
ceived a special Invitation from the bridegroom to
be present at the wedding of Mr. Hallam Tenny-
son and Mies Boyle. How these poets find each
other out!
A. L. Boucicault has succeeded in bringing
out a number of his paper that does not contain
one single item of interest. This comes of wearing
velvet coats, and eternally trying to concoct an
infallible hair-restorer.
After deep reflection, Herbert Spencer has
concluded ho will not come out to Australia. He
excuses himself on the grounds of feeble bea'lh.
But the fact is. he knows if he comes out here Dan
O’Connor would crush him.
Hurroo for the grand ould sod ! Another
influential addition has been made to the groat and
glorious Home Rule cause, and the Celtic-Austra-
ilan is well to the fore agin. Lishten“ Redmond:
June 6, at Dhera House, Clapham, London, the wife
of J. B. Redmond, Ksq , M.P., of a daughter.” Pass
round the pot. Let the bairpipes to the blunder-
buss speak aloud, for there is joy in the house of
Redmond!
There is a man named Henry Romeike in
London, who has established a novel agency. He
will give you fifty different newspaper cuttings
about yourselfjfor 10s.—a discount to weekly sub-
scribers. Lord Randolph Churchill, Barry Sullivan,
the Princess Louise, Lord Derby, and, we expect,
Lewis Scott, are on the list. We commend Mr.
R.’s office to the attention of Luscombe and other
great (and popular) men.
Tommy O’Mara, the member for Tumut,
is not popular with a certain party in that moun-
tain fastness. Indeed, a local scribe suggests that
at the next election they should choose an effigy
as their representative. It would bo silent, at any
rate, they say. Their trouble is not because of
Tommy’s modesty, but because of his eloquence.
This is hard. Now that Tommy has tasted of
glory, if he has to retire into private Rife again he
will die.
At the recent Church of England Synod,
pow-wow, the Dean of Sydney, with the most
refreshing simplicity, declared: “ He had not the
slightest difficulty in using the Service Shortening
Act ever since it came into ferce in 1873 in Eng-
land, and he had heard no complaint in regard to
his action.’’ W e can well believe this. In tact, so
far as the Dean is concerned, the shorter he makes
his somniferous service the more his congregation
loves him.
A man named William Drummond Pass-
more, after wanderiag about near Wentworth
with a loaded revolver, emptied first the bottle
and then the pistol. He said he wanted to see
what the next world was like. He was evidently in a
hurry, or wo could have shown him a nicer way of
starting on the voyage than that which he adopted.
Due notice will be given to intending suicides
wbenlwe are again going to dine with that Member
and taste his “ peculiar ” sherry.
Suttor’s last (and we do hope he’ll never
go beyond it- ne suttor ultra erspidnm, you know);
** I would like to know whether the honorable gen-
tleman was right in attributing ingenuity to me.”
And then Abbott rubbed it in, and declared that
of course he was out of order in charging the
honorable gentleman with ingenuity. Excellent
tooling, i’faith. and reminding one (so far as Suttor
is concerned) of the Dogberry scenes in “ Much Ado
about Nothing.” The fellow who deprecates being
charged with Ingenuity is of the same kidney as
he who was vexed at not being writ down an ass.
The Grenfell Record, in referring to the
recent promotion of Public-school teacher Fer-
guson to Grafton, says that his preferment is a
Just recognition of his sterling merit as a teacher,
and a refreshing instance (alas, too rare nowa-
days) of the triumph of ability over nepotism.”
This might pass very well for high were it not tor
the fact that Ferguson’s promotion is contempo-
raneous with his getting spliced to the daughter
of Vaughn, M.P. Here, then, is a coincidence
which makes the sceptic who knows the ways of
the politician discount all that about the triumph
of ability, &o,—afewl
“ Captain ” A. B. Qeismardo, formerly
fltter-on of gloves, Sydney, and now of Melbourne,
announces the tact that he is a single man, un-
engaged. What a thrill this statement should
cause in female circles—for the gallant Geismardo
Is a well-made and good-looking fellow, who can
squeeze you on a glove with maslPng effect. More-
over, he is a warrior bold, who, like MTver, has
served under flags galore, and won decorations by
the yard. And this reminds us that, should the
excitable Scot throw down the glove to Australia,
the dashing South American Spaniard is the very
fellow to pick it up—and fit and fit and fit tor the
honour of the Southern Cross and the dignity tf
the Geographical Society.
The death of Judah Benjamin, Q.O., the
eminent Hebrew lawyer, who was at one time a
member of Jeff. Davis’ Cabinet, and after the sup-
pression of the Southern Separationists, went to
London and made his way to the very front rank
of the English bar, has brought out a lot of anec-
dotes respecting him. Once, in Congress, a Ken-
tuckian senator alluded to him as “ that Jew from
Louisiana.” When he sat down, Mr. Benjamin
obtained the floor, and said:—“Mr. Chairman,
The gentleman from Kentucky, forgetting his
honourable and exalted position, has stooped so
low as to assail me on the point of my religious
faith. Sneeringly he calls me a Jew. Well, sir, I
am a Jew. But (shaking a finger at the senator)
when his ancestors were herding swine upon the
plains of Scandinavia, mine were following the
Maccabees to victory.”
Last week we wondered what was the
matter with Hooke when he fixed up that trousseau
par. And now we know. He had been sampling
Tiger beer. As he says (and, indeed, it is true so);
“Beer is one of the necessaries of a good, active,
healthy life, and the belter the beer, the better the
life.” He then goes on to remark that he has
diunk beer in every large brewery on the con i
neut (we don’t doubt it), but “that, in the whoie
range of breweries, you will not find a better
sample of beer than you will at the Tiger. There s
no nonsense about this paragraph. It is the
straight tip to the man or mother who enjoys a
glass of good health-sustaining and promoting
hops and malt, which will keep in a five-gallon
keg until you have diunk it ali, and run bright to
the last glass. Therel” Of course this explains a
Jot about the Hopsebver’s sayings and doings.
“Edward Shinnick,” says some common
penny paper sold by tho S. N. B., “ a boy about 13
years of age, was ordered by Mr. Abbott, S.M., in
the Redfern Police Court yesterday, to be sent on
board the training ship Vernon, for having no
lawful visible means of support,” Pity that b jy
didn’t sing out to the angels for a T at the end of
his name; then he’d have been right. Very likely,
however, he thought they were deaf. Mistook
their trumps for ear-trumpets! That reminds us
that we hear, thro’ the medium of the Oly Owl,
that the Rev. Pastor Chiniquy is doing very well
in Montreal. Tho converted priest who occupies
the New Home is getting on splendidly. The
neighbours consider that he is a talented divine,
but the disappearance of the local poultry still re-
mains a mystery. Who’ll ever forget Chiniquy,
anyhow? “Ma fren, I ’ave joost coom among
you,” etc. There is no chopper sharp enough to
kill that man.
So old Cowley, stingiest of mortals, has
turned up his toes to the daisies! Well, he was
through life true to his motto, porro unum neces-
sarium, the one thing necessary with him being
the bawbee, which he loved with a love surpassing
that of women. When he was ambassador at
Paris, it was the talk of Europe if covers were laid
at his table for more than three; and when he did
come out of his shell it was only to make himself
ridiculous by his cheap and nasty ostentation, his
suppers being the ne plus ultra of Barmecldical
meanness. As a diplomatist, he was of the same
type as was Loftus—able to say nothing in several
European languages, saturated with F.O. tradi-
tion, and a humble tool of Downing-street, what-
ever Ministry was in. He got his baron’s coronet
converted into that of an earl, was given the
Garter by Pam, and drew Lord knows how many
thousands from the Treasury, not a few of them
under false pretence, since they were paid him as
table money. And now let him R.I.P.
Prince Kung didn’t get the sack on account
of political differences with the Empress of China,
nor because he was venal, nor because the Tonquin
affair was muddled by His Excellency. The reason
of his being dismissed 1 rom the Celestial Premier-
ship was simply this: His son, Beileh Tsai Ying,
was the Empress’s fancy man. Beileh wasn’t
faithful. The Empress, having discovered his infi-
delity, went in for the raging femina biz. Hence,
alarming ructions in the house of Ying. The
Empress, who is a Chinese Catherine II., is very
good to her blokes, so long as they are good; but
when they are bad, she is horrid—and breaks
things. Kung, therefore, had to pay the penalty
of Beileh’s giddiness; though we don’t doubt that
his own behaviour deserved all he got, for a more
corrupt old scoundrel never robbed a State till. He
is now engaged writing his memoirs. His pal, Pao
Yun, who got the sack at the same time, on hear-
ing of his dismissal from the Grand Secretaryship,
turned off a pointless epigram in several volumes.
He is the Sladen of China.
Tommy Atkinson has just given another
banquet—at Compagnoni’s, this time—to Angus
Mackay, M.P., of Victoria, principal proprietor of
the Sydney Bum. The company included Slattery,
Heydon, W. J. Trickett, Copeland, and Mr.
M’Intyre, M.P. It was the proodest dey,
raon, in Angus’s life, and he proposed, in
floury terms, the Mayor. Mr. Hardie re-
plied, and seemed only to have a dim idea as to
what in sulphur it was all about. It is rumoured
that when the party broke up, a Carlyle of the
future, tripping over the sole of his boot, which
was curled up underneath the heel, landed on his
head (fortunately; in the hall. A search, when he
was laid in.the Boots’s bower, was then made for
his pocket handkerchief; but all that was brought
to light was a piece of engine cotton, two trousers
buttons, a timber pipe, and a slip, the writing on
which commenced, “We have again had occasion
to test the princely hospitality of,” etc., and con-
cluded with, “ It was close on midnight when the
company broke up, after having spent a very
pleasant evening.”
Granny endorses as a capital story the
following yarn told by the Pall Mall Gazette,
auent Emile Augier, the dramatist:—“During a
visit to a friend in the country, M. Augier was
requested to accompany his friend to the mairie in
order to register the new-born Infant of the latter.
The adjunct of the maire, a conscientious little
man, books the infant, and then turns to M.
Augier, as the first witness. ‘Your name, sir?’
‘Emile Augier.’ ‘ Your vocation ? ’ ‘Man of let-
ters, and member of the French Academy.’ ‘ Very
well,’ replies the official; ‘you have to sign your
name. Can you write? If not, you may make a
cross.’ The witness, though deeply impressed by
the solemnity of the ceremony, broke out into a
roar of laughter, in which the father joined, much
to the scandal of the maire’s adjunct, who to this
hour fails to see the joke of suggesting to a mem-
ber of the French Academy the alternative of
‘ making his mark.’ ” Granny doesn’t see that
the Pall Mall failed to score a most obvious
point—the point that French Academicians, like
English University dons, very rarely make their
mark now-a-days.
King Tawhaio is quite a lion in London.
The Society weeklies are very busy about him,
p nd have made some quite remarkable discoveries.
Te Wheoro, it appeal’s, plays the piano, and also
a fair game of billiards, and is quite a Maori
masher. The ladies prefer Honi Ropeha. The
King is quite able to hold his own in a discussion
with Lord Derby. This lets Lord Derby down con-
siderably and suggests sending home Frank War-
den to enter the Imperial Government. Why,
here, Tawhaio couldn’t stand in argument for five
minutes against Garden Honey. We’ll certainly
need to send Jannery home to teach spelling soon,
if we are let into the secrets of the English big-
bugs’ capacity, like this. Oh, and, to sum up, we
learn with pleasure that the King and his chiefs
dance admirably. But, now we recollect it, so they
do. And we wonder where in England they get
the piece of native-flax cord, which constitutes
their dancing costume, and who supplies the
human shin-bone and skull accompaniment neces-
sary. But, perhaps, they took lessons in waltzing
daring the voyage home, from a lasoar fireman.
That would explain everything.
“ The Vagabond ” Julian devotes nine-
tenths of his correspondence with the Wentworth
Wrapper to pointing out the varied excellences
and talents of the W.W.’s correspondent—“ The
Vagabond” Julian. When an up-country trip or
a bad “ next morning ” renders it impossible for
Julian to prepare his screed for the W.W., he
makes arrangements for his Notes to be written
by “ my brilliant friend, the well-known and
accomplished * Splodger.’ ” This bit of puff is
rubbed further in by the W.W. man, who an-
nounceth that owing to our esteemed contributor,
the only “ Vag.,” being absent from Melbourne on
State affairs, we shall not have the felicity of
supplying our readers with his interesting notes:
but he has kindly enlisted the accomplished
“Splodger,” one ol the most fascinating writers
on the Australasian press, to supply his place.
And then, when “ Splodger s ” notes appear, what
particular hell it must be to the W.W.’s readers to
find e/euen-tenths of the rest devoted to the glori-
fication of “The Vagabond” Julian. Who the
deuce is “Splodger?” Can he by any possibility
be ? No; perish the thought!
Michael Ready, whatever may be said
about him, has lots of pluck, and a nasty, unaris-
tocratic way of telling the truth. At the meeting
of justices at Mackay, after it had been arranged
to “ bif ” him out, he delivered himself of an ora-
tion of which the following is an extract:—“He
looked around and saw the kind of men who were
opposing him. He knew most of them intimately,
and their characters were not such as entitled
them to sit in judgment on him. He saw men who
were insolvents, others who had ruined the
families of their servants by paying them with
cheques which had been dishonoured. He saw
men who were living iu adultery, and others who
had brought their washerwomen to distress by
falling to pay them. . . . Some ot the members
of the Bench were jackoroos who would, he knew,
vote in the way they were directed by their em-
ployers.” This fits our honorary mob to a T. We
have rather a respect for Ready after this, though
he is a butcher. And that reminds us that we
have the greatest possible respect for our own
butcher. He has too much delicacy to send the
boy round on Monday mornings, but comes him-
self. He knows that one is apt, sometimes, to be
disappointed in the city—and, in fact, he is human,
though a butcher.
Chief Accountant Lavater,of the Victorian
railways, must be a descendant of.the Swiss physi-
ognomist, possessed like him of the belief that
the contour of the head is the index of the man,
else why should we have knocked off Mr. Fergu-
son’s hat when that gentleman called to see him
about the water-rates ? Unless a physiologist or a
phrenologist, Accountant Lavater's action is un-
intelligible ; but on the presumption that he is
one or the other, or both, the course he adopted is
intelligible. So long as Mr. Ferguson’s hat was on,
Mr. Lavater couldn’t see what manner of man his
visitor was ; the hat off, and the real Ferguson
would stand revealed. Off, therefore, it went. It
is sad to reflect that Mr. Ferguson resented the
scientific step adopted by Mr. Lavater. Blows
were struck, with the result that fresh phrenologi-
cal developments ensued in either combatant, to
the displacement of those bumps which were
favourable to the consideration and arrangement
of the water-rate question, for every bump, as
the poet sings—
“ Has Its direct antagonist,
Each striving stoutly to prevail
Like horses knotted tail to tail,
And many a stiff and sturdy battle
Occurs between these adverse cattle.”
The obvious moral of the sad story is : Be polite
and pay your water-rates.
The Rev. Henry Glasson, of Christchurch
N.Z., has views of his own about religion. He is
chaplain to the public institutions over there, in-
cluding the Hospital for the Insane. You might
think it peculiar that maniacs should want a chap-
lain, but he does not. He says that many of these
unfortunate and darkened spirits are open to the
influence of religion. This brings him to a ques-
tion which he seriously asks himself in a thought-
ful essay: “ Is religion ever, and if so, in what de-
gree, the cause of insanity?” His answer is that
“ if the article'supplied is good in quality, moderate
in quantity, and judiciously administered, it never
causes insanity.” We can believe it; but this
seems damnation with faint praise, indeed. Yet it is
not. Mr. Glasson believes—like St. Thomas Aquinas
—in the full imitation of Christ. It is a beauti-
ful but sanguine theory. The world has never put
it into practice yet, and it is much to be feared
the world never will. If any man, in right and
thorough earnest, set himself to publicly follow
the example set by Christ, he would soon be one of
the congregation administered to by Mr. Glasson.
But this gentleman makes one queer statement.
He says that in many cases of religious melan-
cholia it is the stomach, and not the conscience,
which is in trouble. At this rate, many a saint
saved his soul through the sourness of his stomach.
If Mr. Glasson be correct, religion will soon be-
come a question of diet. This is a consummation
we have always longed for.
Sir James Martel—fancy we’ve heard a some-
what similar name before—is a dusky lord of the
soil, who bids fair to rival the wife-killing deeds of
bluff King Hal, or that famous Sultan of Arabian
Nights’ renown who, from all accounts, used to
change his wives a great deal ;oftener than he
changed his underclothing. Upwards of twelve
months ago, Sir James was travelling along to
Dubbo in charge of the Obley police, in order to
explain to twelve good men how it was that Mrs
Martel, No. 1, was found floating about in a big
lagoon, minus the greater part of her cerebellum;
but as the way was long, ar.d the wind was cold,
Sir James, to use his own expressive words, “got
’im full up ’bout yannin’ along with them
police pfellers,” and so he quietly bade his friends
good day, and went off on a nice little tat-ta on
his own responsibility. Some time after this, the
foorce came upon Sir Martel at the Albert Water-
holes, and, although they fired volley after volley
at the dusky knight, he escaped; the police declar-
ing that he was heavily armed, although, by the
way, he never returned their fire, and rumour
declares his only means of defence were a post-
man’s coat and a fistful of “gibbers.” Sir James
is now wintering around Bulgandramine, and la
credited with having just sent another trusting
spouse to the happy hunting grounds at a
moment’s notice. This makes the fourth Airs.
Martel who has stepped out since our hero was
first arrested, but as he possesses the reputation of
being a fiend Incarnate when on the warpath, the
constabulary naturally think “ the wisest thing is
to slap their chests, and sing Ta-ran-ta-ra,” and let
Sir James severely alone until the weather clears
a little.
Touching the Tiohborne trouble, it will
soon be as hard to find a person out here who
wasn’t the bosom friend of the real Sir Roger, as it
now is to find a man over 60 who didn’t “ fit ” the
French at Waterloo, or tramp the Victory’s decks
at Trafalgar. Mrs. Eliza Walsh, of Marulan, is the
latest claimant for the Tichhorne honour, and in a
letter to the Southern Argus Eliza says:—‘‘It
those interested in the claimant. Sir Roger Tich-
borne, apply to me, I can give them more valuable
information than the Ortons or anybody else out-
side of the Tichborne family. The real Sir Roger
Tichborne lodged at my house for over three
months, years before the claimant went to Eng-
land. He was an officer in the Artillery at the
time the Crimean War broke out. At the time of
the war he was in Cork, at the military barracks.
His mother came over from England to visit him,
and lodged in one of the Lantile houses. If that
was Sir Roger Tichborne in the Dartmoor prison,
he must remember when his mother came to visit
him in Cork; he also must remember Lieutenant-
Colonel Gregg and Captain O’Brien. He also must
remember being at a ball that was given by the
Church of England Bishop of Cork. He must remem.
ber the names of the lady and gentleman who came
out from England with him, and the lady died in
Melbourne. He was a young man, of sallow com-
plexion, he had dark brown curly hair, was of
light build, about five feet six or five feet seven in
height; his knees seemed to turn in a little; he had
a tatoo mark on his arm. He got a fall from his
horse in the barrack yard in Cork. If that is
Arthur Orton in the Dartmoor prison, his family
would make well out of it if he was let at liberty.
I have got no motive for deceiving anybody, only
to further the ends of justice. I got the history of
Roger Tichborne and his family from his own lips
years before the claimant went home.” Now then,
Je-oseph, catch on to E-liza quick, or it's a clear
case of euchre.
There is a class of Irish priests who are
genial and gentlemanly. There is another class who
are not, The Reverend Father O’Brien, of Parkes,
belongs to the former class. He is an eccentric is
in his way, as many good and clever men are. One
of his eccentricities takes the shape of a black ser-
vant named Sam. To make a saint of Sam is a pet
hobby of his Reverence. Of course, the first thing
this child of nature had to learn was that he would
have a bad time in the world where the white-
fellows go after they die if he ate meat on a Fri-
day. This did not please him at all. The carnal
propensities were far stronger in Sam than the
ascetic. But he learnt that fish was not meat.
Fish, however, is not procurable in Parkes. Sam
sat himself down to reflect. On the following
Thursday, a child was baptised, and Sam—who had
already been initiated into the duties of an acolyte
—was duly on hia pest near the font. The next
day in the nature of things was Friday, and Sam
looked ruefully on the anchorite fare spread be-
fore him when he sat down to dinner. But he said
nothing. He merely went over to the butcher a«d
got a pound of steak. On his way back he went into
the church, and passing at the font, dipped his
hand into the holy-water and sprinkled the steak,
at the same time exclaiming “fish, fish.” Then he
passed into the kitchen with a peaceful conscience,
cooked his baptised meat and set it on a plate. He
had just got through about half of it wh«n his
master came in. “What have you got there,
Sam?” said his Reverence. “Fish,” promptly re-
plied Sam, with his mouth half-full. “Fishl”
shouted his Reverence, " do you dare to tell me a
lie to my very face ?” “ All same fish,” said Sam
in an injured tone, “you go in church, you get
um baby and sprinkle um all same water and say,
‘John, John.’ I get um meat, and go in church all
same, and I sprinklum water and call um Fish.
Berry good name.” The reverend father walked
away with his face one wide smile. But he has not
yet given up hopes of making Sam a saint, though
he does not expect Sam will be admitted into the
first circles of the cherubim.
* * *
Sir W. Stawell volunteered as a private in
the Victorian Force, but the Government rejected
him, considering it derogatory for the Chief J ustice
to occupy such a position. Wo guess they thought
he’d hang fire.... Joy I Bbenezer Shoobridge has
left London on his return to Tasmania. And who
the deuce is Ebenezer Shoobridge ? do you ask. A
Vandemonlan legislator who has been “doing”
England; so, you see, “M.L.A.” Tasmaniacly
now means “ may leave Australia. ”
Charlie Sirach alias Muir, one ot Cook-
town’s pioneers, Brood bushman and trusty
mate, passed in his checks last week. He was
one of the party who explored the Hell’s Gate
district—Henry D’Hogton, of the St. George
(Queensland) Standard, died on the 6th July. ..
. ..Vernon Deloes Broughton, Deputy Master
of Melbourne Mint, off his onion at Cremorne
Asylum; smelter Miller reigning temporarily in
his stead — Old Joe Chambers is dead. He was a
Maitlaud attorney who, in his day, was a prominent
public man locally. For many years he held a
Crown Proscutorship, which billet he resigned
the representation of East Maitland to accept v.-
Thomas the ruler of Victoria’s navee, says that
Mandeville (whom he supersedes) had kept the
Nelson and the Cerberus in tip-top condition. This
praise must be gall to the political clique with
whom it was an article of belief that Mandeville
was not competent to command a dung-barge....
David Buchanan, standing between Melpomene
Walker, of Concord, and Thaliar Walker, of Dis-
cord, would make a fine companion picture to
Reynolds’ celebrated allegoric picture of David
Garrick betwixt Tragedy and Comedy This
is how Antild puts it; —“A correspondent
writes us: The attempt of the Terriole Vale
correspondent of the Times to slander one of
»he Chronicde staff had about as much effect as
the endeavour of an alligator to waltz with a * big
sun flower.’ This is new to us; we never (or
hardly ever ?) saw the article referred to, so ‘ignor.
ance is bliss.” Hum! Well, if ignorance is bliss
in Antill s case, he must be one of the most de-
liriously happy cusses in existence.
• •
The Thomas Arnold Wise, mentioned iu
our last as having been appointed headmaster of
the new Rugby School, Tennessee, U.S., A., is a son
of the late Mr. Justice Wise, of the Supreme
Court.
CONTEMPT.
“YOU GIVE IT ONE FELLOW GLASS RUM?”
“ NAE. GAE WAY WI’ YE.”
“GIVE IT OLE DRESS FOR MARY BELONG ME?”
“NA, NA, A’VE NABTHIN’ FOR YE.”
“GIVE IT THLIPPBNCB; BUDGERIE YOU, MY WORD?”
“A* TELL YE, A’LL GIE YE NAETHIN’.”
“ UGH ! SCOTCHMAN! ”


A PRETTY PACE.
What Is more to bo desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to bo an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
A young lady in one of our pro-
HAMBURG miuent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
TEA. among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
HAMBURG her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
TEA. accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
HAMBURG tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
TEA. physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
HAMBURG ailment, tailed to afford relief A
TEA. friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found Immediate relief by
HAMBURG using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. Sfte
TEA. made trial of if, and, to her great
Joy, found a decided improvement as
HAMBURG the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
TEA. restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
HAMBURG sible to say too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
TEA. Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
HAMBURG vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
TEA. sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
HAMBURG foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
TEA, ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
I HAD SALT RHEUM
For seventeen years. 1 had it on my head’ face,
neck, arms, and legs. I was not able to walk, only
on my bauds and knees, for one year. I have
not been able to help myself lor eight years I
tried hundreds of remedies; notone had the least,
effect. The doctors said my case was incurable.
Wo my parents tided everything that came along.
I saw your advertisement, and concluded to try
Cuticura Remedies. The Cuticura hi ouvht the
humour to the surface, to my skin. It woo d dron
off as it came out, until now I am entirely well.
All 1 can say is. I thank you most heartily lor my
cure. Any person who thinks this letter a Lauv.,
let them write or come and see me, and find out
for themselves. WILL. MCDONALD,
3543 Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111,
The People Want Proof. — There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its suceess
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Syrup
tor severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effect before
buying the regular size at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one that uses It. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of sc-called Con-
sumption which doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tims, l».*
Pofitical Points
The Crown Prince of Austria is described
as a “meditative young man with a passion for
ornithology.” Humph 1 Double headed eagles
are his favourite birds, we should guess. It is a
wonder some of the grasping Great Powers have
never used the cuckoo as a national emblem. Too
much like fact, perhaps.
Kimberley declares that the less is heard
of a colonial Governor, the more clearly it showed
how sensible he was to the duties of his office.
Normanby, of whom little was ever heard, gets
patted on the head by Downing-street accordingly;
but the cake is reserved for far nlente Loftus, of
whom nothing at all is ever heard.
The era of 44 bulls ” is not yet past. Within
one week, quite recently, four ferocious ones were
let loose in the House of Commons. Sir Patrick
O’Brien led off with: “I hear a twinkle in that
corner,” and five hundred members rewarded him
with a roar. Next, a Mr. Broderick denounced the
Franchise Bill as 44 a leap in the dark, to which the
former one was but a flea-bite.’’ Lord George
Hamilton, insisting that Sir M. Hicks-Beach had
personally satisfied himself about some subject,
said Sir Michael was 44 standing on his own bottom,”
an anatomical feat, the mere mention of which
sent the House into convulsions. Mr. Gladstone
himself was the fourth performer, as he told a
prominent opponent that 44 there was no use in his
attempting to shake his head in the teeth of his
own declarations.”
“ How to save the Soudan: by one who is
prepared to do it.” So is headed a Pall Mall
Gazette screed. It should be 44 How to shave the
Soudan,” inasmuch as what the writer wants, as a
preliminary to doing it (brown), is a charter from
the Egyptian Government covering a concession
of monopoly of trade on the Upper Nile for the next
ninety-nine years. Only that and nothing more I
The writer talks big of Commerce doing what
statesmanship has failed to do, and prima facie
that sounds well enough, but commerce based on
a monopoly which is guaranteed by a Power (?)
whose own existence wouldn’t last a day were it
not guaranteed by foreign bayonets and gatlings
Isn’t commerce at all. The article in question
reads as though it were the literary product of the
brain of an Egyptian bondholder.
The Czarewitcb of Russia attained his
majority (sixteenth year) the other day, and this
auspicious event was celebrated with 44 much re-
joicing.” In the matter of 44 rejoicing,” the ways
of the Muscovite appear to resemble those of the
heathen Chinee—they are “peculiar.” The Em-
peror and his eldest son drove through one or two
streets of St. Petersburgh, wherein 44 all the win-
dows of the houses were kept closed by special
orders” and “great enthusiasm prevailed.”
Faithful subjects, apparently, expressed their
loyalty in dumb show, on the inside of the win-
dows while the soldiers in the street shouted
44 hurrah” at a pre-arranged signal from the
officers commanding. And yet Shakespeare was
so ridiculous as to say 44 Uneasy lies the head that
weirs a crown.” How things have changed since
his days to be sure.
The House of Lords has passed a private
bill to enable the executors and surviving trustee
of the will of the late Augustus John Smith to
surrender existing leases and accept a new lease of
the Scilly Isles. The late Augustus was a benevo-
lent despot; under his rule, the said islands were
most prosperous—no taxes, no licenses, no pau-
perism. He founded schools, at which he made
attendance compulsory: linked the isles to the
mainland with a submarine cable, and generally
was a progressive, cheery old sort. He had pur-
chased a lease of the islands from the Crown in
1830 Athelstane won them from the Danes in
928 Henry Beauclerc granted them to Tavistock
Abbey with whose possessions they parsed to the
Crown’tempo Bluff King Hal. Elizabeth leased
them to the Godolphins. Blake captured them,
1651, for the Parliament. Although 44 King ” Au-
gustus Smith was a good fellow, the principle by
which he was granted practically despotic powers
over a population of more than 3000 was essentially
a bad one.
London Figaro, -which is ultra-Tory, and
often venomously so, referring to a speech by
Michael Davitt, in which that representative Irish-
man said what he would do were he Chancellor of
the Exchequer in an Irish Parliament, remarks:—
44 Michael Davitt, it seems, aspires to the post of
Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Irish Parlia-
ment, and has actually named himself for the
office, whenever the dream of 4 Ireland a nation ’
is realised. Mr. Dodson, is, at all e\ ents, an
English gentleman, but for a ticket-of-leave man
to talk about being Chancellor of the Exchequer,
even in an Irish Parliament, is odd.” This is about
as shabby a par. as we ever remember to have
seen All the world knows that Uavitt’s
imprisonment was for his political opinions, yet
Figaro writes as though he were on a par with an
ex-thief or wife-beater. It is just as though an
Austrian journal were to sneer at the idea of
Kossuth ever aspiring to a post in an Hungarian
Parliament because he had once suffered imprison-
ment in Austria for serving Hungary.
Von Hellwald, perhaps the first of living
geographers, thus writes on the comparative
merits of England and Russia regarded as rival
civilizers of Asiatic barbarism;— 44 There can be no
dispute which of the two, England or Russia, is the
more civilised nation; but it is just as certain that
the highly-civilised English understand but indif-
ferently how to raise their Asiatic subjects to their
own standard of civilisation, whilst the Russians
attain, with their much lower standard of civilisa-
tion, far greater results amongst the Asiatic tribes
whom they know how to assimilate in the most
remarkable way. Under the auspices of Russia,
the advance in civilisation amongst the Asiatics is
steady »nd suitable to their natural capacities, and
the disposition of their race. On the other hand,
they remain indifferent to British civilisation,
which is absolutely incomprehensible to them.”
Were this truth, which is patent to everyone not
bitten with Jingoism, conscientiously recognised
by British and Anglo-Indian statesmen, and con-
sistently acted upon, the advance of Russia to-
wards Afghanistan, instead of being regarded as a
threat or a danger to English interests, would be
looked upon as a direct gain to civilisation.
When that cablegram arrived alleged to
be from Lord Derby, announcing that he had
rubbed off the official slate all tie had written
about New Guinea, and that he did not want to
hear any more about the illustrious Papuans until
Bismarck died, two proud hearts in the Southern
capit 1 turned in their corners and yearned for
dissolution. Premier Service owned one, and
Professor Pearson the other. Parliament did not
meet that night, but the Premier walked up the
street, and so buried in grief was he that when
spoken to, not the slightest tone of brag could be
detected in his voice. Friends shook their heads
and realised that he was a wreck. And the Pro-
fessor, who had an amendment before the House
that would make New Guinea an appanage of
Victoria, and who had been sitting up of nights
filling his head with beautiful passages out of
Hangnail's Historical Questions for the purpose of
maintaining his present high position as the most
deeply informed member of the legislature, gave
Vay at the knees, and Jet all the history dribble
from him. Had Lord Derby known that this cable-
gram had knocked the brag out of one champion
annexationist and the history out of another, it is
almost certain that he would not have disowned it.
In 1863 Gladstone wrote to 44 Soapy Sam”
Wilberforce: 44 There have been two great deaths,
or transmigrations of spirits, in my political exist-
ence-one very slow, the breaking of ties with
my original party; the other very short and sud-
den, the breaking of the tie with Oxford. There
will probably be a third, and no more.” The
unctuous Bishop asked for a solution of the enigma,
44 there will probably be a third and no more.” To
him with oracular ambiguity the G.O.M. replied:
44 The sentence has little bearing on present affairs
or prospects, and may stand in its proper dark-
ness.” Could Gladstone have meant the breaking
breaking of ties with Aristocracy—the substitution
of an elective for an hereditary Upper House ? It
is plain he foresaw in ’65 the development of his
political principles into the acceptance of Radical-
ism; it is not unlikely, therefore, that he foresaw
as well the logical outcome of Radicalism, Repub-
licanism based on essential Democracy, and unim-
peded in its action by the veto of a privileged
caste. His deaths to Toryism and to the Brastian
Ecclesiasticism of the Oxford School were distinct
gains to England, as (on a greater scale) will be his
death to the Whig notion of Privilege, should he
be game enough to try it on, and, by consummat-
ing it, live for ever in the hearts of a really en-
franchised people.
Ferry has brought forward a Bill dealing
with a matter that Gambetta approached in vain—
the revision of the French Constitution. From
one point of view his scheme is too moderate, from
another too drastic. It reforms the Senate by
making all its members elective; it curtails the
senators’ powers by only entrusting them with a
suspensory authority in the matter of money bills.
But the Senate as an institution will continue to
exist, and the Radical Republicans of France will
still be dissatisfied. Consequently the French
Premier must reckon with the opposition both of
the advanced and of the reactionary party. To
the threats and denunciations of the latter he may
indeed be indifferent. There was never a moment
when the Pretenders, Bonapartist, Orleanist, or
Legitimist, who aim at overthrowing the Republic,
were Jess formidable. On the other hand, as the
recent municipal elections showed, the extremists
are gaining force, and though M.Glemenceau, who
is the only possible rival to M. Ferry, does not go
quite far enough for his Montmartre constituents,
his influence is on the increase. It is worth point
ing out (says the Fortnightly) that if M. Ferry’s
policy in Tonquin had failed, its failure must have
had one of two results—the overthrow of the
Government by the Red-Republicans and the
renewal of the Commune, or the seizure of power
by a military Junta, which would have meant
war.
Napoleon the First was a lion. Napoleon
the Third a sorry fox. His son, if the Prince Im-
perial bore to him that relation, was also essen-
tially vulpine. Plon-Plon is a cur; his Victor
probably ditto. And, even if not, Bonapartism is
played out. Men, now, have learned to know
what an accursed thine’ it was. Under its founder
it possessed for a while a fascinating glory. But,
stripped of its accidental brilliancies, what was his
record more than this: that he dethroned the
sovereignty of the people, threw the weight of his
sword into the scales of the law, incarcerated indi-
vidual liberty at his will, gagged the Press, vio-
lated trial by jury, depopulated the field and the
workshop, grafted upon Militarism a nobility as
corrupt and as vicious as that which had sauntered
in the (Eil dc Bocuf, and left his country far less
great than he had found her—bleeding, dismantled,
umiliated—a prey to the hellhounds of the Holy
Alliance. Minus his battle glories, what a most
infernal record was Bonaparte s. And his nephew’s,
which had not even the battle glories (battle in-
famies alone were the Man of December’s), was a
thousand-fold more base. No 1 Paul de Cassagnac,
with his pen and his rapier and his allies the
clerics, may do their best or their worst, but never
will they be able to re-establish the Brummagem
Empire by talking about the glories of the victor
of Austerlitz. His name will Jive in history, and
his image, that of warrior and statesman, grow in
proportion as the precise manner of man he was
recedes from view; but there is not the least
chance of another Badinguet being able to trade
upon his name.
Of Chamberlain’s Merchant Shipping Bill,
which Conservative obstruction tactics have com-
pelled its author to withdraw, the Fortnightly
observes:—“ What is the object of this Bill? It is
to save the lives of men. It is to present specula-
tion not in rotten timber, but in the existence of
the breadwinners of families, and the principle on
which it proceeds is that contained in all our
factory legislation, viz., that it is the duty of the
legislator to protect those who cannot protect
themselves. The wreck commissioner has stated
that out of 120 ships actually lost, owners have
been responsible for no less than 68. The death-
rate in the mercantile marine of England is 1 in 60,
in Germany it is 1 in 123, in the Netherlands 1 in
133, in Norway 1 in 277, in Italy one in 450. That
last is about the percentage which obtains amongst
English miners, while with railway employes the
mortality is 1 in 600. To put the matter briefly,
3000 men annually perish, a considerable portion
of them unnecessarily, by violent deaths on the
deep. Mr. Chamberlain’s Bill may not perhaps go
far enough, but it would accomplish something.
For this reason it is obstructed. 4 What I object
to,’ said the President of the Board of Trade in his
speech of Tuesday, May 20, 4 is gambling in human
life. I have said already, and I say it again, in this
case the counters at stake are i he lives of the pien
who are carried in the vessels.’ These words will
not soon be forgotten, and they will furnish a
terrible censure on the action of those who are
now responsible for withholding the legislation
which is demanded in the interests of humanity
and expediency alike.”
O tempero, O immores! The rupture be-
tween Major Smith and Graham Berry is complete.
After so many bloody fights together, after stand-
ing together i’ th’ imminent breach and achieving
embassies and Black Wednesdays with mutual
glory, is it come to this ? In his speech at Ballarat,
Berry said, with emotion too deep to be visible:
44 1 was surprised at that gentleman, who had pro-
fessed friendship, apart from political, with me,
who had been a guest in my house, who had sat at
my table, and who knew that it was not my fault
that he was not my colleague in this Government,
but because it was said by members of the Govern-
ment that, owing to some of his acts in the pre-
vious Parliament, he, of all men, must not be in
this Government. Therefore, I was not a free
agent. He knew that. I told him myself, and ex-
pressed my regret. He has visited at my house
since, and been on friendly terms with me. I was
surprised, then, at the attack from him. I had
had no personal difference of any kind whatever
with him. Yet be made that dastardly attack
upon me in the House the other night; heattacked
me in the most dastardly way, and attempted to
blacken my character. I shall never mention his
name again.” Drink of it, think of it, dissolute
man. 44 That great he&rty man has eaten my hash
—he brought my Government into disgrace
through his unscrupulous patronage. I forgave
him (sob), and tried to haul him into the Coalition
—they wouldn’t have him (snuffle). I regretted it
(boo, hob, hoo, and tears)—again he ate my hash;
and now Rhe water, please, Mr. Chairman), this
holy alliance is, at a moment’s notice, br-br-br-
broken! I shall never mention his name again.”
(Astute Major, winking in a far-off corner of the
Alfred Hall: 44 By thunder, well rehearsed. Don't
mention it!).
Moderator Lyall, of the South Australian
Presbyterians, appeals to Buckle to say it Calvinism
had not ever been a friend of freedom; which, on
Lyall's part, shows an utter misconception of
Buckle's teaching. No doubt Buckle points out
that the efforts of the Calvinistic clergy to wrest
from Crown and nobles privilege and power were
a proximate cause of British freedom from feudal
despotism, and that Calvinism, as a mere doctrine,
is democratic; but, while pointing all this out,
Buckle takes particular pains to show that these
clerical efforts were the outcome of an intense
class selfishness, greed, and lust of domination.
In a word, Buckle’s praise of the Calvinistic Pres-
byters (priests writ large), for what they did in the
cause <>f freedom, is pretty much of the same
character and calibre as that which Hallam
lavishes on the vices of the Caroline Court for the
services rendered by them to English civilization,
in that famous passage: 44 We are much indebted
to the memory of Barbara, Duchess of Cleveland,
Louisa, Duchess of Portsmouth, and Mrs. Eleanor
Gwynn. We owe a tribute of gratitude to the
Mays, the Killigrews, the Chifllnches, and the
Gramonts. They played a servlet able part in rid-
ding the kingdom of i s besotted loyalty. They
saved our forefathers from the Star Chamber and
the High Commission Court; they laboured in
their vocation against standing armies and cor-
ruption; they pressed forward the great ultimate
security of English freedom—the expulsion of the
House of Stuart.” Just so did the intolerant,
superstition-, and bigoted preachers of Calvinism
Eress forward the cause of liberty, by labouring
eart and soul in their vocation—that of tyrants
seeking to knock off the worn fetters of the slave
in order to supply the poor wretch with others as
heavy, though of a new device.
Victoria is making splendid headway to-
wards the paddock of sectarian bitterness and
party strife. The old animosities which men
laboured so hard to tear out by the roots in the
parent countries, are not, it seems, destined to die-
Not if the colony of Victoria can help it. The
roofs will be brought out to the Southern hemi-
sphere, and planted anew, and the same old blight-
ing shadow and the same old poison fruit will be
found about the land. Already in the press two
thoughless sections of the population have drawn
swords. Nationality bites at nationality, faith
bites at faith, and those who have witnessed the
pestilent fight elsewhere, recognise the venomous
fangs. Quito recently a leading political light
avowed before a public assemblage that his high-
est ambition was to be a thorough, undiluted
Orangeman. He was safe enough. He had his
majority with him. But there were other places
in Melbourne where an antagonistic avowal was
made. And there also the speakers were safe
enough. They had their majority just then.
But every page of British history for the
last two hundred years points to blood as the
outcome of these barbaric yaups. The Orange
institution of Victoria is in jubilant fettle. Pur-
suant to public notice it rolled up for pyrotechnic
bombast in the Protestant Hall. The rabid clatter
was listened to and applauded. The press pleased
tue majority by lending its type to help the rant.
And then the minority sulked, and appointing its
own night will let its angry soul walk abroad. And
so things will go on until the South will have its
Derry and Enniskillen. An idea obtrudes itself
even which seems to have the germs of a remedy
in it. It is this: Could not the Catholics who fancy
they do their religion good by eating the faces off
Protestants, and Protestants who, spurred by a
like sweet faith, lay themselves out for eating the
faces off Catholics, and the various newspaper
men who side with either, be all induced to go out
to the Mallee, and eat each other down to the heel-
taps ? The loss to the colony would be only tem-
porary ; the gain would be everlasting.
Gloria in excelsis! The Lords have thrown
out the Franchise Bill. It only remains for the
People to throw out the Loras—Pious Billy and
Franz Josef are to meet again at Gastein in
August. The Rum heads this Item, 44 International
Greetings ” —why, it would be devilish hard to say,
seeing that neither Emperor represents aught that
m any sense can be termed national More an-
nexation. Jim Blair, the Resident at, Aden, has
been despatched to nunex Berbera. while the Capo
Premier proposes to annex Stdland. And next?
....The dynamiters count as one of their factors
m accomplishing the overthrow of the British
Empire, 44 fomenting discontent in several colonies
where it already exists in a latent form,” and yet
we have heard nothing lately from the Falkland
Islands. Wo can’t stir till they make asigu The
general in chief command in the recent operations
in the Soudan will get £1000, the lieutenant-
general, if in chief command, £604, and the major-
general, if similarly employed, £352; the other
ranks in proportion, says London Figaro. “In
proportion” probably means for a full private
about three ” arf crowns.”
At the Surrey Sessions (Eng.), in April,
George Wells was brought up for Judgment, the
charge against him being that he was an incorri-
gible beggar. He had been convicted repeatedly
for begging—ten times within the past ten years—
and no amount of imprisonment seemed to cure
him of his alms-seeking tendencies. According to
the evidence, in Juno, 1881, so desperate was the
criminality of this hardened wretch, ho was
ordered to imprisonment for twelve months, such
imprisonment being supplemented by twelve
strokes of the birch, a punishment which would
have been impossible had Wells been convicted of
any act of robbery’, unless accompanied by gross
violence-a punishment which would have been
impossible if he had been convicted of any act of
gross violence, unless accompanied by’ robbery. In
October, 1883, Weils was brought up again! and
again sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment,
this time supplemented by twenty-tour strokes of
the birch, as an appeal to his finer feelings. Mr.
Hardman (what a lot there is in a name sometimes)
in passing sentence on this last occasion deeply re-
gretted that the extreme sentence which the
court could inflict was twelve months’ imprison-
ment with hard labour. 44 But.” continued Mr,
Hardman, “this time the additional punishment
will be, instead of twelve strokes with the birch,
twelve strokes with the cat - o’ - nine - tails.”
Honestly, what strikes us as most extraordinary
in this connection (says the Referee) Is that no-
body, notwithstanding all the parade of humanity
and Christianity’ which is constantly made in our
midst, seems to have considered the punishment
as in any way severe. Such papers as have taken
any heed of the sentence have merely used it as a
text upon which to preach a crusade against the
crime of poverty. Poverty is indeea a crime
in England, and, whatever philanthropists and
others of like kind may say to the contrary, we
find most practical proof of it in every direction.
It is not only a crime to solicit alms; it is a crime
punishable in a way which is considered too heavy
for any other crime when taken by Itself. The
desire on the part oi political economists to stamp
out vagrancy carries them into constant extremes,
and leads them to forget all too practically the
Christian teaching with which they are always so
ready, when theory alone has to be considered.
The greatest authority has said that the poor will
be always with us; and yet, for being poor, Chris-
tian men in a Christian country administer to a
poor, wretched outcast the heaviest and cruellest
punishment within their power.
SATIRE.
TRAM-CONDUCTOR (calmly): “NOW, THEN, TAKE YOUR SEATS, PLEASE.”


New masonic hall
Castloreagh-st., corner of Goulburn-st.
UNABATED SUCCESS
of the
WONDERFUL BALDWINS.
An APPRECIATIVE AUDIENCE SPELLBOUND.
A jammed and crowded house greeted these
marvellous performers. The audience kept in
roars of laughter and shouts of applause for three
hours.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEK.
rj »nQt
THOUGHT-READING
Test, pronounced to be the most wonderful
feature ever attempted.
The Funniest Entertainment in the World.
Entirely Fresh Wonders.
THOUGHT-RE ADTNG.
MESMERIC CLAIRVOYANCY.
The GREAT BANK-NOTE TEST.
Reading the Numbers on a Bank Note,
Giving the Names of Dead Friends, finding any
article merely thought of by the committee, &c.
FAY’S GREAT-COAT FEAT.
The Bravest Man in the Audience made
to turn pale.
The Spirit Bride’s Reception.
The Great Katie King Mystery.
The faces of people who have been dead for
years are seen and recognised in the bright light
on the open stage.
Mind-Reading, Thought Communioatiou,
Psychometric Intercourse.
New Feats, New Explanations.
Admission as usual. Reserved seats at Elvy’s
Mrsic Store.
George Lingard, Sole Proprietor and Manager.
rjlHE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB,
Intercolonial Amateur Champion
RACE MEETING,
to be held at the
NEW SOUTH WALES CRICKET ASSOCIATION
GRONND, MOORE PARK. SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
on SATURDAY, 2nd AUGUST,
under the patronage and in the presence of his
Excellency, LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS.
Special Notice.—Prizes on view at Paling’s.
Entries have been received from the prin-
cipal Victorian racing men, which make these
races the
FIRST INTERCOLONIAL MEETING
ever held in Australia.
Purchase tickets at Paling's, 356 George-street,
to save crushing at the gates.
Trams will run to and from the grounds.
NAVAL BRIGADE BAND.
Admission to Ground, Is.; Stand, Is. extra.
E. H. M'RAE,
O. E. GEORGE,
\
— Joint
Hon. Secs.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 23nd July, 1884.
rBNDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
iwing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
ulars see Goweunment Gazette, a file of which
i kept a* every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
re opened, and the name of the successful
mderer will be announced, if possible, before the
uties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Gas-work Buildings
Gladesville Asylum
Additions to Dormitories, New-
castle A sylum i
Extension of Moruya Break-
wfttfir
Erection of Additional Maga-
zine Buildings, Spectacle Is-
land
Improvements to Custom House
Newcastle
Erection of Quarters, for Sub-
inspector of Police. Walgett
Additions, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Jerilderie
Supply of Iron Bridges, Dupli-
cation of Line from Parra-
matta to Penrith
Dimension Stone and Ballast for
Botany Wharf
Dupplication of the Great Wes-
tern Railway between Para-
matta and Penrith
Bridge over Toongabbie Creek
at Oakes’ Farm
Fencing Recreation Reserve,
Waterloo
Constructing Brick Tank, New-
castle
Bridge over Tait’s Creek, Main
South Coast Road |
Tank, Fencing, &e., Post and |
Telegraph Office, Cannonbar j
Fencing, &c., Court-house, Ash-. |
ford
Repairs. &c„ Light-house, Sea 1
Rocks
Constructing Retaining Wal I,
Woodburn-street, Redfern, 1 3t. I
8 Railway 1
Tuesday,
29th July,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
5th August,
at II o’clock.
G. R. DIBB3.
DAVIES SI CO.,
MV DRAPERS,
CheanestOraversia Australia
436 & 436a GEORGE STREET,
Between King and Market Streets,
NEAR ROYAL HOTEL.
SPECIAL LINES
NEXT WEEK at
Very Special Prices.
£31?= SPECIAL LINES NEXT WEEK, AT VERY
SPECIAL PRICES.
Special Lines Next Week, at
Very Special Prices.
So Come Next Week, and See
the SPECIAL LINE in
WINDOW HOLLANDS.
Two Tons of Rod-striped WINDOW HOLLANDS,
Best Quality, bought by us at a ridiculously
low price. W© are offering them at T%a>. per
yard, and they are usually sold at Is. 3d. and
is. 3d. Widths, from 33 inches to 43 inches. All
one price, 7%d.
COME NEXT WEEK and SEE the SPECIAL
LINE in
CRETONNES.
10,000 Yards Heavy Twilled CRETONNES, very
handsome patterns, light and dark grounds.
Lovely goods. Our price 6%d, sold elsewhere
10Md.
Come Next Week, and See
the SPECIAL LINES in
SILKS and SATINS.
NEXT WEEK we shall offer the remainder of our
Pretty SILKS and SATINS. We wish to clear
them out, and have marked them the following
Low Prices:— , ,
First Line: Plain Satins, 10%d. and 13Md. per yard.
Second Line: Striped Satins; 13%d. and Is.
Third Line: Moire Antique, Is. 4Mid.
DAY! LS AN1) CO.,
“MY DRAPERS,”
Kiandra House,
NEARLY OPPOSITE LASSETTBR’S.
Parcels sent Carriage Free to city and suburbs.
Patterns sent Post Free anywhere on ap plication.
Leave Tramsjat Market-street for our House.
Notice the Snow of SILKS and SATINS in our
doorways.
DAYIES~AND CO.,
“MY DRAPERS,”
The Cheapest and Best Drapers.
COME NEXT WEEK and SEE
the SPECIAL LINES in
LACES I
A Bankrupt STOCK of LACES bought by us at
one-third less than it cost to make them. We
are offering some at LESS than HALF the
usual Prices. They are all New Patterns, and
Perfect Goods. You are particularly invited
to see the SHO W of Them in our Windows. All
Sydney is Talking of DAVIES’S LACES.
DON’T FORGET TO COME.
We are Crowded with Customers, but there Is
Room for all now. New Show Rooms now thrown
open,
DAVIESANT) CO.,
“ MY DRAPERS,”
436 and. 436a GEORGE STREET.
COMB NEXT WEEK and SEE
the SPECIAL LINE in
Coloured Satin Corsets.
Beautiful SATIN CORSETS, all colours and sizes,
good style and shape, our price 3s. instead
of 6s. 6d.
100,000 Beautiful Birds’ Wings. Ladies can take
their choice at some worth 3s. 6d.
nsr* COME NEXT WEEK, and SEE the Special
Line in Gent.’s HALF HOSE.
The Gent.’s SOX now on view In our windows
are merino and cotton, seamed and fashioned, self
colours and stripes, lOJdjd., worth Is. 6d.
COME NEXT WEEK and SEE the Special
LINES in FLOWERS.
20.000 French Wreaths at Is. beautiful
goods, worth 4s. 6d.
1,000,000 Bose Sprays at usual price Is. 3d.
500.000 Rosebud Sprays, worth9d., and about
a ton weight of beautiful t rench Flowers at about
one-fourth the usual price. A special Lot just
opened, price not yet decided upon.
These goods are all new, beautiful, and fresh,
and should be seen by everybody.
50.000 beautiful little Birds’ Wings at 3-Md,
DAVIES & CO.,
“My Drapers/’
430 and 430a. GEORGE STREET,
KIANDRA HOUSE
(Between King and Market Streets).
LEAVE TRAMS AT MARKET STREET.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NBSDAY8, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONGO WARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KBILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
The TREASURY off MUSIC
for the
AUSTRALIAN HOME CIRCLE.
THE grandest collection of musical favourites
ever published, culled from the choicest
works of English, Scotch, Irish, French, Italian
and German authors.
Brief biographies of well-known musical Com-
posers and Artists, illustrated with portraits, are
appended.
Also, a valuable Dictionary of Celebrated Musi-
cians, giving dates of birth, death, birthplace, &o.
CHAS. E. CRAMPTON, Editor.
What Competent Critics say
of the
TREASURY OF MUSIC:-*
Herr Max Vogrich, Conductor of the Sydney
Liedertafel, says :—
October 39,1883.
I take pleasure in recommending the “Treasury
of Music” as a book useful and entertaining, es-
pecially for young amateurs, and one which will
not fail to find a welcome in every drawing-room.
MAx YogIbich.
I have pleasure in recommending this work for
its especial perusal to students, and to those desir-
ous of obtaining a large number of old and stand-
ard compositions in a neat form, and at a low price.
Hector R. Maclean,
Organist at at. James’s Church.
Every musical student should procure a copy of
this faithfully compiled work. It is a marvellous
production; the biograohies alone are worth the
purchase. The letterpress is superior to any
previous musical publication.
Thomas Banks,
Organist St, Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney.
J. Ashcroft Edwards, Bsq., late Conductor
Sydney Liedertafel, says:—
October, 16,1883.
I think the Treasury of Music will be a valuable
addition to the library of all who are interested in
music of the popular order. It is highly suitable
as a present, and contains much interesting matter
regarding the lives of the great composers.
J. A. Edwards.
Altogether, the work cannot fail to be popular
with the Australian Musical public.
Montague Younger, Organist,
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
I trust it will meet with a large sale, as the
enterprise the publishers have displayed in placing
this most excellent work on the Australian market
deserves to he richly rewarded. — HUGO AlpeN,
Organist St. Patrick’s, Teacher of Singing, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction.
We have also recommendations from Signora
Fahrls, Madame Alice Charbonnet-Kellermann,
Mrs. W. A. M’Donald mie Miss Kate Slattery, Miss
Marie St. Clair, James F. Hinchy, Esq., Wm.
Morgan, Sebastian Hodge, Esq., F. J. Haliewell,
Signor Antonio Giammona, and a host of others in
Sydney.
Among the Victorian authorities we find the
following:—
Mr. David Lee, Melbourne, City Organist, and
Conductor of the Melbourne Philharmonic Society,
says:—
I consider this work will be found a very useful
and interesting volume, especially for the drawing-
room, containing, as it does, compositions to suit
all tastes. David Lee.
Signor Albert Zelman, Conductor of Australian
Military Band, and Singing Master, says:—
To parties wishing to procure a finely-bound
collection of old standard songs and instrumental
pieces, I most cherf ully recommend “ The Treasury
of Music.” It will prove a very welcome present.
Albert Zelman.
M. C. Sykes, Organist of St. Francis’ Church and
Intercolonial Exhibition, Melbourne, says:—
I consider it exceedingly instructive and enter-
taining, and trust it will meet with the support
that the enterprising publishers deserve.
lharlbs Sykes,
Organist of St. Francis’ Church and the Interna-
tional Exhibition, Melbourne.
Mr. Charles Wm. Russell, Principal Melbourne,
School of Music, says:—
Melbourne, 1st Dec., 1883.
I have no doubt it will find favour with musical
amateurs generally, and will soon be a well-known
book in every drawing-room.
Charles Wm. Russell,
Mr. Jblius He rz. Conductor of the Metropolitan
Liedertafel, Melbourne, says of “ Treasury
of Music —
The book is unique. Choice and varied selections
of poetry have long been before the public as
claimants for its favour, but this work fills, so far
as I know, a vacant space. The idea is a happy
one, and the execution of it has evidently been
entrusted to competent hands. Julius Herz.
Melbourne, November 30,1883.
Mr. Philip Plaisted, Honorary Organist to the
Melbourne Liedertafel, Organist of Stephen's,
Richmond, says:—
All lovers of music will welcome the “ Treasury
of Music ” as a book calculated to increase enjoy-
ment in the house. I have much pleasure in wish-
ing it every success. Philip Plaisted.
Mr. J. R. Edeson, the well-known Organist of Scots’
Church, Collins-street, Melbourne, says: —
I have examined the " Treasury of Music” with
very much pleasure, and have no hesitation in
recommending it as a popular book for recreation
and study to the musical amateur. J. R. Edeson.
Madame Lucy Chambers, under whose tuition
many line Australian vocalists have been pro-
duced, says:—
Having examined the “ Treasury of Music,” can
cordially recommend it to all wishing to secure a
choice collection of vocal and instrumental pieces.
L, Chambers.
Madame Simonsen, the well-known operatic singer
and teacher of singing, Melbourne, says:—
Having looked through the “Treasury of Music,”
I find it a most interesting and instructive book,
which should be found in the home of every
music-loving family. It is and must be conducive
of progress, and will no doubt develop in a high
degree the interest and love of mu«ic ii Australia.
Fanny Simonsen.
There are numerous other testimonials that
might be produced, if necessary, but the above are
probably most familiar to the public.
The work will be sold exclusively by subscription.
M’NEIL and COFFEE,
Publishers.
31 Market-street.
Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS ami Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F, E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney.
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.’
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 13th,
in his great production of the
“ CREOLE.”
New Zealand Tour Postponed pro tem.
All communications en route.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgbove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE OP
THE GENEVIEVE WARD SEASON,
GRAND 8H AKESPERI AN REVIVAL.
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD
and
MR. W. H. VERNON
in Shakespeare’s Grandest Tragedy,
MACBETH
MACBETH
staged with a completeness of scenic effect and an
attention to details never before attempted on
the Sydney stage.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE.
"Sole Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majeuoni.
Curtain Rises at Quarter to 8 o’clock.
THE GRASSHOPPER Miss JENNIE LEE
The Grasshopper and Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper Mr. J. P. BURNETT Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper Received Nightly Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper with Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper Convulsive Laughter Jennie Lee
The Grarshopper Shrieks and Roars Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper Aching Sides Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper UNBOUNDED Jennie Lee
The Grasshopper APPLAUSE, Jennie Lee
The whole produced under the direction of Mr. J.
P. BURNETT.
The Furniture from Alexander Moore and Co.’s
Private Boxes, £3 3s.; Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Parquette, 3s. Children in arms not admitted.
Day tickets at Roberts’, adjoining the Theatre.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-street.
LIDD Y —Business Manager for Miss Jennie Lee.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Mr. Reeve begs to announce by arrangements with
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, the
Last Nights of that Great Artist Last Nights
Last Nights JOHN F. SHERIDAN, Last Nights
in his most wonderful impersonation of
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the greatest success ever known in Sydney,
“ FUN ON THE BRISTOL.”
Last Nights of the celebrated Fun on the Bristol
Company.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s; purchase tickets during
the day at Loder’s Hotel, opposite Theatre.
Manager for ‘‘Fun on the Bristol” Company, H.
J. Whittington ; Representative of Mr. John F.
Sheridan, W. Hughes. Business Manager for Mr.
Wybert Reeve, G. A. Colemaq.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Continued and Brilliant Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
OPERA 1 OPERA 1 OPERA!
On Saturday, First appearance of MR. FRANK
HUSSEY. America’s Greatest Star in Minstrelsy,
and the Favourite of Australia.
OUNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3,3.20,
3.40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand plano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholsen and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
A N C I N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Claeses and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much , longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
Bet with tried men.- “ achilles ”
grand consultation.
I4th year.)
MELBOURNE CUP, 1884.
25.003 Shares, 10s. each.—£13,500
£5000
Second 3000
Third 1000
Starters, 1000
Non-Starters 1000
35 Cash Prizes, £100 each 3o00
Address: Walter Montgomery, Chancery Lane,
Melbourne.
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
8
July 2G, 1884.
THE BULLETIN.


The Autophone!
The oriental goldicompany
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument!
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes Its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas.
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
/ kx (Q g-C-cL *7 $/isjjuUr~, S yjcL/vxxyfr
£) v-ia-S I 'trrJ<e d -n-v&C S.^-rr^J. , »
'CLsj'X
<sytJCtsui0i?L>&
J- Iz&zt %Tft. ;Jr<^ iC ' '■■ «v«>
&o£J, yJ / 7~7Tzr'cU / - / • c ' S o-vca, <P^U
„ . ■ , / r y . /y^u* * fcucf t xiu
a. ~T ««-* 4r £^
& 'Jrr-p-v £- ~ j *2 0~£.&C* {f' rym ‘ trCAitsy* &^"L&u. t£j~* tm.
$AA /-9 >l£V*C# ~J*U*~d tb~<3 i
FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
Melbourne.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
.... These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, inviting to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic,
WILLIAM JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist.
In another column will be found an adver-
tisement of the sale of land in the rapidly-
increasing town of Kiverstone. Those desirous of
establishing homes would do well to peruse it.*
Campbell Brothers, of the Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade, 426 George-street, have issued a
Bulletin or Manifesto giving a detailed account of
their goods and prices, together with a fund of
information, miscellaneous and useful. No parties
furnishing should be without it.*
Amongst the improvements in E. Wolff
and Son’s lead-pencil manufacture is the employ-
ment of Spanish graphite in lieu of ordinary
plumbago. Messrs. Wolff and Son not only intro-
duced the material into England and Australia,
but have succeeded, up to the present moment, in
retaining the monopoly of its use in their hands.
Spanish graphite, owing to its solid formation,
purity, and fine quality, has been found by these
makers to he the most suitable kind of black lead
for the manufacture of pencils for ordinary pur-
poses; consequently, this material is used more
largely than any other by this well-known firm.
Wolff s Spanish graphite pencils may be bad at
almost every stationer’s in Australia.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THEATRE ROTAU—" Macbeth ” f- 8-
Opera House— “Grasshopper ” }P-
oaiety Theatre—" Fun on the Bristol — id.
Academy oe Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
The past week has been crowded so full of
entertainments that we hardly know where to
hetrin tellimr you about them. All the theatres
have been in full blast, and Signor Riccardi, the
onera singer, was given a grand complimentary
benefit at the Royal on Saturday afternoon. We
told you to go to this benefit because the henefiqiare
was particularly deserving of sympatny and assist-
ance, and you went: that is, all of you who could
net inside the doors, and the result is that the
Signor considers he has been making pretty good
wages during the past six months of his illness.
Sydney is always a good benefit town, but we do
not remember any other affair of the kind which
passed off so pleasantly and was such an unques-
tionable success. Nor do we remember such an
array of talent grouped in one entertainment.
There were Genevieve Ward and Mr. Vernon;
there were Signor and Signora Majerom; there
were John F. Sheridan and Jennie Lee (only she
didn’t appear); and last, there were Hiscocks
Federal Minstrels, who opened the programme
with a number of good songs and the laughable
eiece called “ The French Conductor. ”Oh, yes, and
we bad nearly forgotten Mr. Hallewell. And now
vou will want ua to tell you what ailed Mr. Halle-
well. Halle wasn't well—that’s all. He sang well
enough, but he didn’t know when he got through.
Yes, and there were Miss Annis Montague and Mr.
Charles Turner of the Opera Company, Mr. Charles
Huenerbein, Herr Max Vogrioh, and Signor Giam-
mona, besides the leaders of all the orchestras in
town. Of course such a galaxy of talent was quite
enough to .crowd the building, and we were not
surprised to see some ef the biggest men in Sydney
crowded together in the standing room of the dress
circle at five shillings a head. But as we have to
occasionally deal with the most of these people at
the respective theatres at which they are playing,
we’ll dismiss the matinee for the present. But
before we do that we must tell you that Jennie
Lee sent £5 as a contribution to the Riccardi I und,
and that Mr. Bowden, of the Club House Hotel,
at which Riccardi has been staying through his
illness, threw off £67 from the bill due him. The
benefit netted about £270, and now we are getting
ready for a season’s illness, and a ben. that shall
cure us in the end.
* * * *
“The Grasshopper” was put on at the
Opera House Saturday night, with Jennie Lee in
the title rule. Of course we had to be present on
the opening night to give ecUt to the affair, as his
Excellency the Governor had sent in word that he
would be unable to attend. That’s the way with
these managers. They make a convenience of us.
First, they try to get Lord Loftus, but his Excel-
lency is kept so busy drawing his salary that he
seldom gets time to go out anywhere. As sure as
he doesn’t give a promissory note, with accepted
security, to be there, the managers send off post- ;
haste tor us, and we can’t refuse. It is like an in-
vitation to drink with us, that we think is more
dishonoured in the breach than the observance.
When they come and tell us that all will be lost if
we refuse our presence, and that they’li be ruined
for ever, of course we have to yield ;;and so we go
and sit there and watch the people looking around
for us. Sometimes we are taken for the Governor
(the Loftuses will be awfully stuck up after they
hear thisi, and sometimes other people are taken
for us The other night an actor of some notoriety
stasrtrered j n to one of the theatres, and, stumbling
against us, inquired if we knew The Bulletin
man We replied in the affirmative, and then we
pointed out to him our old boxing master, who
happened to be standing near. “ When the cur-
tain goes down,” we said, “ invite him out to have
a drink.” “ Yes: but I want to thrash him. I’m
a-going to break every bone in his body. I’ll
chew him up into sausage-meat, and spit him out
for the dogs to eat. The scoundrel said I was no
actor but I’ll show him that I’m a doer. I’ll
do him up, too dead to skin, in about four
seconds ” Then we chuckled, and said how
glad we were to hear that the scamp was to get his
deserts at last. We’d go along and shout twice
lust to see the fun. Then we tipped our old
teacher a wink, and went out. He followed, and
the actor came next. He was followed by a drink
in a neighbouring pub. Then the injured actor
opened on the pugilist: “You’re a white-livered
beer-guzzler. You’re a half-made abortion, and
the spawn of all creation. Peel your ulster, for
I’m going to lam Hades out of you in less than
two minutes.” In vain did the pugilist protest
that he didn't know the actor, and that he was
ignorant of having done him any harm. The
actor knew better, and wouldn tbe satisfied. Pre-
sently he struck at his intended victim. The per-
formance was soon over. The last act found the
actor lying in the gutter with a broken nose, three
teeth gone, and a mansard roof over each eye.
Some friends gathered him into a cab and took
him to the hospital- When consciousness returned,
he inquired, “ Who was that fellow I tackled a
while ago ?” “ That,” replied a bystander, “ is old
Joe Goss, the prize-fighter.” And who was Hie
other iellow with a red head and a wart on his
nose one eye gone, and part of his left ear miss-
ing?” “Oh, that’s The Bulletin reporter.
Thought everybody knew him.” “Oh, it was, was
it? Well say, if you ever meet him, tell him I ve
changed mv name and moved out of the country.
I’ve seen Bars before, but, as they say in the
Bermudas, ‘ that man’s an onion.’ ”
• * •
"’We don’t know who wrote “The Grass-
hopper.” and we don’t care. The first time we
saw it was at Abbott’s Opera House, in Auckland,
and the next, at the Theatre Royal, in Melbourne.
Jennie has improved in her part, but the per-
formance is weakened to some extent by the
change of cast. Burnett’s Flippett is just the
same, and it’s always good, but George torbes
can’t ulav Stipple to suit us. The truth
fs that we have* seen George do some things
that we liked well enough, but Stipple is not
one of them. We liked his parson in “ The
strategist ” for instance, but we don’t think we
could ever rave over him a great deal until after
we have seen him several times through the
bottom of a champagne glass.
• * *
-Oily Deering played Gyngell, the circus
nroprietor while Dismal Jimmy was assumed by
Mr. P Gonzales. We last saw Edwin Marshall at-
tempt Dismal Jimmy, out it was only an attempt.
nTwas Sal enough, but be couldn’t Jimmy
worth a cent. Gonzales, however, Jimmys all over
the stage, and when he gets started at tumbling,
there’s no such thing as stopping him until he f al s
down stairs or out of the door. Stirling Whyte’s
Donald M’Allister was also a clever bit of acting.
He looked Scotch enough to roll his eyes heaven-
ward and throw a farthing in the plate on Sunday.
We once knew a Scotch deacon who looked so
much like Donald that if the two were to meet
each would imagine that somebody had set up a
mirror in front of him. One night, after making a
very long prayer in meeting, he was heard to
soliloquise on his way home from church: Ah,
Lord, thy servant is proud. But it is not a vain
and wicked worldly, pride. Thy servant is justly
proud because of his great humility. Ada ee
made a charming Mabel; and you mustn’t imagine
that because she couldn t play Guster in Jo
she canTnlav anything, for that would be a mis-
take. But we had almost forgotten to tell you that
Jennie Lee is an acrobat. At least, you would
think her an acrobat if you had seen her in the
boat scene, when her feet went up and her head
went down. You see she was standing on the seat
trying to push the skiff off the beach to go and
rescue her lover, when the seat gave way, and a
minute later the air was sc• lull of number twos
and black stockings that it was all a man could
do to keep one eye open. This wasn t in the pro-
gramme, but it took first-rate, and skinned the
little woman’s elbow. Lome to think of it, wo ve
stayed long enough at The Grasshopper. If it
weren’t for the foolish and insipid puns that are
everywhere scattered through the niece, we
would like to recommend it to you. If you can
stand the puns you may enjoy “ThelGrasshopper,
for it Is the lightest sort of light comedy, and there
is some good character acting in two or three
p'aces that you’ll put your Unger on as soon as you
see them.
♦ * * *
It is six years since Professor Baldwin was
here before with his Spiritual export business, but
the public have such a good memory of the clever
illusionist, thought-reader, etc., that, when he
opened at the New Masonic Hall, Castlereagh-
street, last Monday night, for a season of enter-
tainments, the place was crowded from top to
bottom, and even we had to kill a man before we
could get the seats set apart for us. It beats all
the way this thought-reading science has gone up
in the scale sin je the advent of Bishop in London
only a few months ago. At first people were
sceptical and refused to believe that the results
were achieved by anvthing except clover leger-
demain. We were just like the rest of humanity,
and scoffed at the iuea. W e didn’t believe in any-
thing supernatural, in fact, and were drifting
along in the quiet assurance that death meant an
eternal sleep that would never be disturbed by a
breakfast-bell or ihe sound of celestial boots fall-
ing on the mat outside your bedroom door. About
four years ago, however, we met Professor Bald-
win in America, and sat out one of bis seances at
which he told us where to find a stolen will in
which we were interested to the extent of several
thousand pounds. The Information came from
the shade of our grandfather, at least that was the
purport, and since that time we've been very
careful about how we act, for the thought is ever
present with us that there may be a hell after all.
Professor Baldwin says that he doesn’t believe in
spirits, but we have seen him sequestrate a quan-
tity of Bourbon that made us dizzy to look at. But
whatever he believes m doesn’t make a great deal
of difference. He does some marvellous feati, and
you will open your eyes when you see them. Fqr
instance, you can Imagine that there is a pain in
your left eye, and he 11 take hold of your hand and
locate the pain. You may hide a pin in the
cushion of your neighbour’s chair, and he’ll take
hold of your hand and find it. No matter where you
hide anything, he’ll find it; and if you only think
of anything either, thejProfossor or Mrs. Baldwin
will tell you what it is. By way of experiment,
we imagined the other evening that there was a
mosquito on our chum’s head. This was rather a
mean thing to do, but we didn’t r-ealise how culpa-
ble we were until the Professor began banging our
friend over the head with a three-legged stool.
Next time we go, we are going to imagine that a
railway train has run over our tailor, and that our
boss has augmented our salary so much
that we can’t carry it home at night. If that
turns out all right, we’ll let you know, and you can
get rich the same way yourself. People usually
imagine that everybody who travels as Professor
Baldwin does is a humbug and a swindler, but you
know us well enough to believe what we say when
we tell you that there is something inexplicable in
the thought-reading and clarvoyant feats of Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Baldwin, and that these things are
really branches of science that are but imperfectly
understood. You don’t believe in spirits any
more than we do, but for all that there is a subtle
force in nature whereby ce'tain minds appear
to be en rapport with what some call the
“ unknowable.” If you don’t believe, go
out to Coogee in a carriage with a bar-
maid next Sunday, and then send your wife to
Professor Baldwin’s entertainment. If you live
through if, one experiment of the kind will last
you a life-time, and you'll be glad to hear of Bald-
win’s being struck by lightning or a pile-driver.
Oh, and while we are about it, we might as well
mention that a committee of live well-known citi-
zens presided at the affair, just to see that every-
thing was en regie.
* * * •
“ Macbeth ” is still at the Theatre Royal
How have the houses been? Well, they’ve been
larger than those that ever attended any other
Shakesperean tragedy in this neck-’o-woods.
Some people had an idea that Sydney was “ dead
gone” on burlesque and comedy,and thattrasredv
wouldn't draw; but this was a mistake. There is
a tragedy patronage and a comedy patronage in
every city the size of Sydney, and all the managers
have to do is to let the people know that they can
depend on getting the worth of their money.
That’s what the Koyal managers have been doing,
and the result is most successful seasons, both in
comedy and tragedy. Ye?, and that’s what crowds
the Gaiety night after night, until standing room
is at a premium, and hard to t et at that. We told
you all about “Macbeth ” last week, and we’renot
going to dwell any longer on it to-day. Mr. Vernon
now plays in the title rule so well that it is hard to
draw the line between the position of the “lead-
ing man ” and the “ star.” And we are pleased to
be able to tell , you, too, that the play is gone
through with much more speed now than on the
opening night. We don’t have to miss our 11.30
train for the suburbs now, and the cabmen don t
swear because we have ceased to sing out for a
better pace. The fact that we generally go to
sleep the minute we strike the cushioned seat may
have something to do with this, but you are ex-
pected to skip this idea and imagine a better one.
We always have to laugh at Mr. Boothman.
He plays Malcolm, and rants around like a loco-
motive engineer that once sat down on the spout
of an oil-can we had inadvertently left on his seat.
The poor fellow nearly died of asphyxia, but his
illness didn't keep him from blessing us after a
fashion. Boothman is a child of thunder. He
was conceived in an earthquake, and born in a
tornado. Every time he opens his mouth, the
building quakes and the audience trembles. He
is about the best-looking man in the profession in
Australia, but there is more rant and roar in him
than a lion with his tail under a fallen tree. Wo
have tried to cure Mr. Boothman of this by telling
him how bad it looks, but he doesn’t seem to heed
our cackling. Some day he’ll overhear somebody
saying, “ Yes, he’s a dashed nice-looking fellow,
but he can’t act a little bit,” and then he’ll begin
to ponder over our words, and wonder why Nature
hadn’t blessed him with sense enough to obsei ve
them in time. We don’t know what it is that
makes Boothman rant so, but he is fuller of wind
than a mule we once fed a box of sedleitz powders
to and then led o”t to the water-trough. You
should have seen that mule; but, no matter. We
haven’t time to tell you about him just now, and,
anyway, “old man Dean’s son" has just dropped
in and asked us out. We are satisfied that Booth-
man has got a patent wind-factory inside of him
somewhere, and we mustn’t prick him too sharply
for fear of precipitating a stoim.
• I I
And now you have begun to wonder why
we didn’t tell you something about Genevieve
Ward to begin with. The truth is, there are so
many people in the “ Macbeth ” outfit—thirty-one
of them who are named in the programme, besides
witches and officers and soldiers and attendants
and servants—that we can’t tell you about all of
them. We have saved Denevieve to the last, be-
cause she’s like linked sweetness long drawn out
when we've got hold of the best end of it. You
know how nicely black coffee, with a little burnt
brandy, goes after a French dinner ? Well, that’s
the way with Genevieve-she’s like the frosted
sugar on a wedding cake, that everybody hopes
for, but the cook always gets. We don’t know how
she manages to look so nice and interesting, but
we suppose it's usage. Let’s see I She’s been look-
ing that way for thir but, there. Her smile is
just as fresh and bright to-day as it was the first
time we saw her: and if we had been the Russian
Count she married, you can bet all the money
you’ve saved out of last week’s salary that we
never would have given her up. You didn’t know,
perhaps, that Genevieve Ward is a Countess. She
is, though, all the same; and we’d like to cover the
Russian bear she married with birdlime and then
throw tin tacks at him until he couldn’t stand up.
Those Russians are a queer lot, anyway. They eat
with their fingers and mix vinegar and sauce with
their cabbage. And then they wolf caviare with a
spoon, and wipe their hands on their trousers.
When it comes to pastry like Genevieve, however,
they throw it under the table and eat the plate.
# * * m
We had just about made up our mind not
to write anything more about the Minstrels, for
, the black devils have been here four months with-
out changing their name. A strange notion to do
so. however, impels our pencil on, and we are
going to toll you that the Federate are still draw-
ing the biggest crowds that ever crammed the
Academy. Horace Bent was ill all last week, and
Johnnie Cowan, an old Australian favourite, took
his place. But we’re not going to tell you a great
deal about these Minstrel chaps, for Hiscocus
hasn’t sent us a case of champagne for two weeks
now, and we can’t “sparkle” worth a cent, if
you go early you can get a seat at the Academy,
but if you don’t you can stand up in the aisle, and
look like a scare crow in a pea-garden.
* * * *
“ Fun on the Bristol ” continues in its san-
guinary course. We have seen it a dozen times since
it came to Sydney and each time we have laughed
more than the first. Sheridan is so thoroughly
funny ias the Widow O’Brien that nobody can
help laughing at him. He is enough to bring
the pin-feathers out on a chicken two days
old. Wit seems to ooze out of him, the way
truth dees out of us. You may not have ob-
served this, but it’s a fact all the same. And then
ther6 is Dunbar, who got his hair off because wo
called his musette an ice-cream trumpet. He isn’t
half a bad fellow when you stroke his fur the
right way, but he can’t distinguish between a joke
and a poor relation. The cham.es are that he’ll
pass the joke by with a frown, and take the poor
relation to his bosom with words of love and sym
pathy. After all, we don’t care how many of his
own relatives he takes that way, but, from all we
can learn, he must have some designs on our in-
tended mother-in-law's people down in Melbourne.
We shall have to see into this after a while, and if
you hear anything drop, you’ll know that we are
around somewhere.
■ • *
We have told so many lies about Billy
Hughes that there are corns all ovsr our tongue,
and have abused Coleman until his girl went back
on him, and now she unchains the bull-dog every
Sunday night. It was not our intention to create
all this trouble and misery and things, but the
interests of journalism must be conserved. The
last time we asked Coleman for the loan of five
Eounds he had the audacity to tell us that he didn’t
ave the amount about him. If you are not up
in theatrical matters, we’ll just ex plain to you that
such a statement as that is enough to ruin any
manager on earth. The man who hasn’t got five
or ten pounds in his pocket every time we want it
hasn’t any business trying to manage a theatre in
this town. People of that kind die early, and
never get along far enough to be considered
famous.
* * *
Harry Sullivan’s Jerry Thompson is done
in a laughable way, and he sings a song or two
very cleverly, but he’ll have to rub noses with a
coloured Methodist preacher before he learns to
play the American Negro up to life. However,
his antics amuse the audience, and so long as it Is
satisfied we ought to be. “The Funny Old
Gal,” for instance, brings down the house
every night; but just why it should, from
an artistic point of view, is rather difficult
to understand. It’s funny enough, but it
hasn’t any more naturalness about it than the iron
ferrule on a wooden leg. Mr. Meade continues to
play Captain Cranbury very acceptably since he
presented us with that gold-headed cane the week
before last. You remember, we told you about
this. Well, since that time, a dozen different actors
have sent in canes to us. Now we are over-stocked
with canes and short of umbrellas. We’re going
to see it we can’t put clothes on some of these
walking-sticks, and fake up a contrivance that
everybody will want to borrow on a rainy day.
But, perhaps, you would like to know what all this
has to do with “Pun on the Bristol?” Gentle
reader, it hasn’t anything to do with the play, and
the less you have to do with it, the more sound
buttons you’ll have on your waistcoat and the
better your ribs will feel.
• • « «
We strolled into the New Masonic Hall
one evening last week, and found the place
crowded like three corns on one toe. The Sydney
Amateur Comedy Company were holding forth in
“ Partners for Life,” and the performance was in
aid of the Conservative Cricket Club. There were
two or three people in the cast who took our
eye. The first thing that struck us, however, was
the appropriateness of the company’s name. It
was a comedy company, and no mistake. Any-
body who could help laughing at it might splice
his ears with a boot-leg, and sell himself for a
jackass. There was Mr. P. Keane, for instance,
who played Ernest, and looked like a cross be-
tween an emu and an Abyssinian ox. Me was
very comical, only a litt'e stiff. The thought
struck us that he would make a pretty “stiff,”
anyway, and we could forgive the Asiatic cholera
if it comes around before we are compelled to see
Peter play again. Yes, and there was Miss Viva
Lea (pretty name, isn’t it ?), who took the part of
Emily Mervyn. Sho was as fresh and pretty as a
coweiip on a dewy morning, and you couldn’t help
wanting to pluck her and wear her in your button-
hole next your heart; but the dear little amateur
can’t act half so well as she can eat, if appearances
go for anything. Major Billiter was assumed by
J. T. Eldridge. The programmes said he was on
half-pay. If we had him we should run him
through a lard refinery and sell the tailings to some
soap factory. But if we don’t look out we shall
say something unkind about these amateurs and
get ourselves into trouble, for the boss told us to
deal gently with them as they were friends of his.
* * * •
You didn’t know, perhaps, that a lodge of
Mutual Imps has been established in Sydney, and
that it already has a membership numbering
seventy gentlemen, most of whom belong to the
dramatic profession. Alex. Waugh and Symthe
and Coleman and Corless started the affair, and
they began right by asking ws to join as a charter
member. The order is principally for actors ana
Bohemians who have no home, but are wanderers
up and down the face of the earth. Every Sunday
evening the imps meet, and an entertainment is
given, the programme being contributed to by all
the leading male artists in town. But unless you
have nerves of steel and a head harder than a
billy-goat don’t you seek for admission, for the
initiation ceremony isn’t a bit funny, and the can-
didate is bound to imagine that he is in hades or
the next door to it before he’s half-way through
the ordeal. For the benefit of visiting members,
we’ll just state that the Imps meet every Sunday
night at Compagnoni s in Pltt-street at 7 o’clock
sharp.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Press is the Archimedean lever which
moves the world, and just at the present date our
friend Pinky, of the Cootamundra ’Ebai.d, has a
mighty big grip of the lever’s handle. “ A Capital
Bath,” is the style he heads a recent high-toned
par. which says:—“Mr. John Barter, plucky man
that he is, goes in for his morning’s plunge and
shower bath, in a contrivance which is the embodi-
ment of comfort, convenience, and economy. The
water is piimped into a small elevated tank, from
Which the water falls through the usual colander;
and the arrangements are such as to meet the
times of water-famine, as the water, after use,
may be pumped up again to serve for a second
washing.” Fancy that, now! Edison will have to
look closely after his laurels while the Coota-
mundra tinman is sloshing around, especially as
the latter possesses a Homer worthy to chaunt his
praises. The comfort of a bath in second-hand
water can only bo appreciated by a Cootamundra
editor, but the economy of the thing is an idea
worthy of Solomon in the wisest and Jsoberest
days he ever saw. Now that we think of it again,
however, we don’t see the crying necessity for the
Cootamundrians to be so economical over their
water, after all; and we are inclined to think the
above par. is merely an ingenious dodge of Pinky’s
to ring in a generous puff on behalf of the strength
of Cootamundra’s whisky.
♦ * •
We like to see a paper with some dash and
enterprise. The Cairns Post Is conducted in this
way. When the Governor of Queensland visited
Cairns some short time ago, the proprietors of this
journal presented him with a copy printed on
satin We don’t know what his Excellency said in
reply, but probably he observed that it was the
“happiest moment of his life.” Then, without
doubt, he handed it to his aide-de-camp, who
handed it to the orderly, who used it as a pocket,
handkerchief. The first paragraph opens up with
a grand poean about the prosperity of Cairns. As
thus:—“It is a sign of advancement which we hail
with satisfaction, that we are to have another
baker and dairyman in Cairns.” Then, in another
prophetic burst: “We learn also that another
butcher intends starting in Cairns.” Now, this is
literature. This Is what deserves to be printed on
satin. We regretted, though, to notice the absence
of anything relating to a dog fight. The lack of
this class of reading imparts a rather sombre
character to a paper, and tends to injure its popu-
larity among the higher circles ot builock-
punchers. We suppose there will be another satin
edition when the whooping-cough reaches Cairns.
How the people must pray for it to come, and
carry oil the editor!
* ♦ •
A man need not be a fool because be is a
navvy. A shanty-keeper near Bungendore took
an order for £8 on the contractors from a navvy
who is working on the line there, and gave him
credit to that amount. When pay-day came, the
son of toil went to the shanty in the absence of
the owner, and bought a bottle of rum. When
the owner came back, he asked for the eight
pounds. The navvy showed him the bottle of
rum, saying, “ I have a good ease of sly-grog
selling against you—are bygones bygones ?” They
were. It makes one sad to think that this man
is lost, so to speak, in vulgar labouring circles,
when he should be in Parliament. How they would
understand him there!
• • •
The notions of the next world current
among most people are curious in the extreme.
You will see upon the tombstone of a man whose
noblest thoughts in life have been engrossed by
tallow, the confident statement that he is now
singing hosannas among the seraph-choir, and
making melodies of praise upon the slide-trom-
bone. Here is a verse from an elegy on an old
lady. The elegy is published in the Protestant
Standard:—
“ There now she praises God on high
With harp and crown so bright,
Her feet no more can never (sic) stray,
Her soul is washed so white.”
Just think! Wo have no doubt the old lady was
all that fancy could paint, but think of her with a
harp and crown! We can imagine the dear old
party throwing the crown at the head of the
attendant angel because there were not strings to
it. With regard to the soul being “washed so
white,” we have nothing to say, except this: that,
judging by what is generally stated about the
washing of souls, the angels, instead of being
pictured with harps and hautboys, should be
represented with washing-boards and bars of
yellow soap.
The thought of being able to give an
enemy a “ turn ” is very dear to the bush intel-
lect. Every week we receive scores of epistles,
written in a drunken hand over cloudy paper,
asking to “ show-up ” some poor pound-keeper, or
“give a jar” to a straggling bellman. Here is
an item from one of these communications, which
will serve as a sample. Note the eloquence of the
language:—“A prominent Government official,
popularly known as ‘ Scabby ’ has done it at last*
Taken the final plunge, and found it rather plea-
sant than otherwise.” What has he done at last?
Drowned himself, you would suppose from the
style of the sentence. And what if he has drowned
himself ? Do we care ? Not the dregs of a pewter.
We should be equally happy if he had hanged him-
self. But our emotions would rise to the point of
joy if somebody would hang the man who sent us
the item. We have no doubt-judging from the
fashion of his composition—that he would make
an exceedingly ugly corpse. It the “prominent
may be so. But, with due reverence, we do know
that when that event occurs, things will not be
very pleasant unless Dean Mahony and Dan O’Con-
nor are on the reception committee. And it will
go hard if Sir Patrick Jennings is not made Mayor
of the New Jerusalem. M’Naught, of course, had
his eye on the town-clerkship. On the whole, we
think we might as well stick to the old-fashioned
belief.
* * *
A young man at Canowindra—which we
are proud to say is somewhere in New South Wales
—had some tine old Woolloomooloo fun the other
day with a one-eyed horse. The horse was lying
down in a paddock, meditating, perhaps, on the
old equine problem as to the possibility of men
having souls, when this droll fellow stole up behind
it with a knife and dexterously scooped its last eye
out. The fun was to watch the surprise of the
horse when he got up and found that he couldn’t
see. It must have been better than a circus. The
Government official ” can find out who this crea-
ture is, and would undertake to do the hanging,
we undertake to furnish the epitaph. In fact, he
can have it in advance. Let’s see! yes ;—
Who stabs his neighbour in the dark,
He is a sneaking wretch, and shabby—
Here, strung up on this stringy-bark,
Behold his corpse who called me “Scabby.”
* * *
A person of the name of M’Naught—
suggestive name I—delivered a lecturo down at
Eden some little time ago, in which he proved to
his own satisfaction that the rest of the religious
world was wrong. That good Christians when they
die go to heaven is the orthodox belief. But there
never was a greater mistake. So M’Naught says.
According to his gospel, when they die they are
dead until Christ comes back to this “sin-cursed
earth ”—to use the lecturer’s own eloquent words
—to start the New Jerusalem. We don’t know; it
Quite Simple.
STGNOR DIBBS (the Eminent Magician): “YOU PERCEIVE THIS SUM OF TITO MILLIONS , WHICH WAS PLACED UNDER THE COVER MARKED ‘CONSOLIDATED REVENUE,’
I NOW MAKE IT APPEAR UNDER LOAN FUNDS. THERE IS NO DECEPTION, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.” (Murmurs.)
SIONOR DALLEY (Assistant, with decision): “THERE IS POSITIVELY NO DECEPTION.”


young man has modestly concealed himself in
obscurity since the joke was discovered, Like all
great humourists, he is averse to personal popu-
larity. Should he be discovered, we hope the
inhabitants of Canowindra will be public-spirited
enough to give him a testimonial—which should
take the shape of th% eye of the horse; and we
would suggest it should be inserted in his forehead
after his own eyes had been skillully extracted.
Then he could make his living in a Cyclops show.
Otherwise the horse's eye might be presented to
justice.
• • •
Boswell Todd Ballingall was found guilty
of poisoning three horses in Wagga lately. A man
with a name like his should not be held account-
able for his crimes.
A word to you, O Boswell Todd I
To ponder on when you’re in quod :
There’s something in a name, for all
That Shakespeare says—though this seems stale—
Behold they called you Ballingall!
And now you’re Balliugaol!
Take this advice we give herewith—
Adopt a name of less renown;
Then you your little games can play
In a much less distinguished way,
For there are always rogues called Smith,
And aldermen called Jones or Brown.
» ♦ ♦
Only a Little Sunbeam ” is the title of a
Goulbuhn Herald lyric. Here are two verses :—
“ Only a little sunbeam !
Dancing in golden glee,
Bright’ning the gloomy chamber,
Making the shadows flee.
Only a little sunbeam ! •
Omen of future bright,
Cheering the drooping spirit,
Making the cares seem light.”
Charming sentiment, isn’t it ? But another verse
is necessary to make the thing artistic. How will
this do ?—
Only a little sunstroke !
Smiting him on the bead ;
Only a little puling
Goulburn noet dead.
• ■
A man who has seen Williamson in “ Rip
Van Winkle” looked in, the other day, and, calling
the editor aside, stated that he had made a dis-
covery. “ On application at the counter, you ’’
began the chief. “No, no! It’s not a patent medi-
cine,” said the visitor; “ you know that Rip went
to sleep for twenty years in the Hartz Mountains ?”
“Yes.” “ Well, it has occurred to me,” murmured
the caller, edging towards the door, “that the
Hartz Mountains must have been in the Chloral
Islands.” The boot missed him, but we had the
satisfaction, afterwards, of learning that it had
killed a gentleman who was “highly respected in
the district.”
Phew-w-w! This accounts for the lacteal
fluid found in certain cocoanuts across the border.
One reason alleged for the tall price recently paid
for the railway refreshment bars at the Spencer-
street and Flinders-street stations, is that a habit
has sprung up amongst Melbourne ladies of walk-
ing into the ladies’ waiting rooms at those con-
venient stations, calling for liquor at the trap
window communicating with the bar, and after
partaking of their little tots of eau-de-vie, tripping
gaily away, as if they had been seeing a friend off
by train, or had just returned from a healthy trip
themselves! Sainted shades of old Mother Poti-
phar, Lucrezia Borgia, and Joan of Arc! what are
your degenerate descendants coming to? Fancy
the feelings of Citizen Smith, when his wife trips
over the front step at 7 p.m., shoots head first into
the hat-rack, and then hauling herself up by the
wall, winks knowingly at her lord, and observes,
“Shawlri Johnny, ole shun. Shust bin down (Me),
Flinish-stree’ stashin shee Missbis Goodolesort off
t’ Shanrlsh. Gisher, kisa Shonny. Lol-ee-rah I
Washer mashur wiz aller blashid furnchlr ?” After
that, let us have the Deluge.
We should like to know who the noble
army of undertakers are who write for Melbourne
Punch. They must be very sick, poor things.
Here, now, is a bit of “ wholesome fun ” anent the
arrival of the gunboats“ The Minister of Defence
wasn’t going to spoil his clothes by getting on
board the steam launch in the rough weather.
This was short-sighted on his part. If he had gone,
it is probable that most of the party would have
gone, too, and their clothes would have got spoiled,
too. Business is business.” Passing droll, is it
not ? One of this forlorn Punch’s reporters is
supposed to interview Judge Williams. Here is
some of it:—“Reporter: ‘And the drinks of Merrie
England—did they stand beautifully?’ His Honor:
‘The beer of Merrie England is still A1 at Lloyds,
copper bottomed, for twenty years.’ Reporter:
‘Did you see the Grand Old Man ?’ His Honor: ‘ I
did; but I hold peculiar views on the G.O.M.’
Reporter: ‘ Name them.’ His Honor: 4 1 hold that
he should be choked with his own shirt collars.’ ”
A few verses:—
It Is a sad thing to be alone in the world.
It is a sadder thing when this loneliness takes the
shape of verse. Such is the case of a person at
Morpeth who publishes a poem in the local paper
headed “ Lonely,” and which is pathetic enough
to make even a goat weep. You will not believe
us unless we give you a sample verse or two.
Compose yourself, then, and read this :—
“ The night is dark, and the wind is high
As I sit here alone ;
And now and then I heave a sigh,
For still I long for home.
I am far away from those I love,
And to them I would return,
To see my friends to memory dear,
A desire within me burns.”
You will, of course, wonder why he does not at
once go to the watch-house. But, after a moment’s
consideration, you will see this is a vulgar
We remember, when we first read about Leander
being drowned in crossing the Hellespont to see
Hero, that we wondered why he did not go over
on a raft. But if he had done so, he would not
have been drowned. And then there would have
been no poetry about it. So you see how causes
are linked with effects in the great chain of being.
If the Morpeth minstrel had gone to the watch-
house, his friends would probably have asked him
to bail them out. And then where would the
poetry have been ? So he goes on :—
“ When shall this meeting come to pass,
I cannot, cannot tell;
For time is slow, and the time seem (sic) long,
Since I bid them fare-well.”
It does seem a pity that this lonely heart should
be left to dubious and doleful conjecture. If the
following verse will pour balm on its wounded
feelings we shall feel that we have not lived In
vain. The guitar, dear ! Gone 1 Then give ua
the ticket. So !—
“ When shall this meeting come to pass ?”
Takes us, you bet, to tell ;
The meeting It will come to pass
la—if you muxt know—H 1 I
At the Town Hall.
BULLETIN - ART NOTES ILLUSTRATED.
FROM THE SHOULDER.
(INSCRIBED TO THE VICTORIAN PURVEYORS
OF “WHOLESOME FUN.)
O sorry hoot of still more sorry owls !
O birds of plumage seedy, sorry, sad,
Say, have you sawdust in your Jobbernowls I
Or, thunder ! has the universe gone mad ?
Awake, brush off, dull elves, the fumes of rum ;
Learn, numbskulls, what ye should have learned
before,
The time so terrible to you has come,
When fades such trash as this for evermore.
E’en maudlin members will the “ bosh ” deride ;
’Twill scouted be by kitchen-maid and groom ;
By grinning rustics e’en it will be “guyed,”
The dustbin, then, will surely be its doom.
And when your “ occupation’s gone,” dull dogs,
And ye are “ left ” that are bereft of wit,
Wing north your flight; we’ll give you lots of logs,
And palings plenty, O, you owls, to split.


CAUTION.
TO WATCH DEALERS I
Having been informed that IMITATIONS of
OUR WATCHES are being offered in this market,
we hereby caution all dealers that we will prose-
cute to the utmost extent, under the Trade Marks
Registration Act, 1875, any firm or individual using
our trade marks,
“ AMERICAN WATCH COMPANY,”
and
“WALTHAM, MASS.,”
to designate such imitations, or any other goods
not of our manufacture. We desire not only to
warn the public against such IMITATIONS, but
also, for their benefit, to state that watches pur-
porting to be of our manufacture, and marked
‘BOSTON LEVERS,’ ‘ BROOKLYN WATCH Co.’
or bearing other similar names, are not of our
manufacture, but have their origin on the Con-
tinent. No such watch companies have, except
on paper, any existence in America or any other
country.
To avoid imposition, purchasers of Waltham
Watches should observe that every genuine watch
bears our trade marks, as follows
On the plate of the movement,
“ WALTHAM, MASS.;”
inside cover of cases made at Waltham,
the initials ll A.W. Co.”;
on English Hall-marked cases,
the initials “ A.B.”
This caution is necessary because our CASES
are frequently separated from our MOVEMENTS
and put upon worthless moyements of other
makers, while our perfect movements are put
into cases of inferior quality—thus affecting inju-
riously the performance of our reliable time-
keepers, and vitiating our guarantee, which is
Intended to cover only watches wholly made by us.
It is so notorious as to be a public scandal that
there is GREAT FRAUD in the metal quality of
both gold and silver cases with which the market
is now being flooded.
We have demonstrated by frequent assays that
many gold and silver cases offered in this market
are debased from 10 to 20 PER CENT, from their
reputed quality. There are also many low-priced
and inferior so-called “ gold” watches that are not
gold at all, but merely PLATED.
All genuine gold and silver Waltham Watches
are
WARRANTED by GOVERNMENT MINT
to assay,tull standard quality as stamped.
t' e say to the public, nuy a good watch while
you are about it, and pay for it a fair price to an
honest dealer. This will give you the greatest
satisfaction.
Jewellers and Watchmakers will find it to their
advantage if they will send information of any
known infringement of our trade marks to the
Branch Office of the
AMERICAN WATCH COMPANY of WALTAAM
Mass, U.8.A.,
Waltham Buildings, Bond-street, Sydney.
Thb Wholesale only supplied.
DONALD MANSON,
General Manager in Australia.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
"JpREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
_ and possessing all the agreeable qualities
Of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NORRIE and MAYERS.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY,
WONDERFUL DISCOVERY IN SOAP.
BORAX SOAP. BORAX SOAP.
For use in Cold or Hot Water.
Cheaper than Common Household Soap,
Lasts Three Times as Long.
FOR KITCHEN AND SCULLERY USE.
FOR LINEN, WOODWORK, AND TOILET,
And Every Purpose about the House.
Will Wash in Brackish or Hard Water,
It Heals, and Cleanses, and Purifies.
HALF A BAR WILL DO YOUR WASHING.
Sold by every Grocer.
Wholesale by
LEWIS AND WHITTY,
Sole Manufacturers,
76 Clarence-street,
BRIEF MENTION.
Modern prison fare: Raw cat.
A hard thing to pitch: A good yarn.
'■'Rules for correspondents; rulers for poets.
A shady transaction; Stealing an umbrella.
A flourishing concern: Dave Buchanan’s
Hot,
The belle of the Civil Service: Mis-manage-
ment. .
Anathemising dc-ceit : “ The chair be
d—d.”
An “if” against which all are inclined to
“butt”: Ball-iit. ff
The best connoisseur of “a broth of a boy
A cannibal, of course.
Hangmen can’t avoid “booze.” They must
go in for “ a good drop.”
The motto of the Blayney Advocate is
“Measures, not men.” Pints, we suppose-and in
a pewter.
Osman Dingo” is the way a country
§aper prints the name of the Mahdl’s lieutenant,
uoh is fame I
A gem from the diadem of Alp. : “ Wanted,
an Elderly Lady, to mend a home. Apply. Sydney.
* The morals,” of course, understood.
Alfred: “Mr.R. H. Levien, M.L.A.,senior
member for the Tamworth district, is in town on
professional tusiness.” Our troubles I
There are said to be 200,000,000 Bibles in
circulation at the present time. They are very
useful for telling fortunes by—with a key.
The worst juries in the world are in Cin-
cinnati, some American editors say. Happy inno-
cents 1—they have never seen a Sydney libel jury.
We see that “ R.S.”—presumably Richard
Swlveller —is writing for the Fourpknny Fire-
brand. But, then, we always said it was a comic
paper.
P.T.Barnutn’s chief aboriginal boomerang-
thrower recently died at Cleveland (O.) His last
words were: “ Give me goold chain to me brother
Moike.”
“ Down with the Beef ” is the heading a
Cooma butcher has to his advertisement. It must
be poor beef that needs such encouragement to
swallow.
One of the first persons in Wollongong is
the editor of the local Arqus. He says “ Every
second person in Wollongong knows how to run a
newspaper.”
The Protestant Standard came out an
issue or two ago in a pink wrapper. We suppose
this was to remind its readers of Hell. The wrapper
was not necessary.
The Methodist ministers of Ohio are in a
body signing a pledge to abstain from opium and
tobacco. We observe that whisky is not included
In the programme.
A Grafton genius has invented a new
burglar-catch. This is the way the industries of
the country are crushed. But, perhaps he has also
invented a key to it.
We read somewhere, lately, that the throne
of England is only an old oak chair. It might as
well be an old gin-case, for all the dignity it has to
support in these days.
A man in Queaubeyan joined the Good
Templars when he was drunk. He resigned when
he got sober. There is something in sobriety after
all. We will try it some day.
A country editor heads a paragraph
“ Presence of Mind in a Dog.” It was his own dog,
we presume—or how could his paper come out ?
The mind had to be somewhere.
When Leigh, of the D.D. Gazette, wakes up
on paper mornings, his first question to the boots
who brings up the naptha and soda, is: “ What the
h is the leader about to-day ?”
Joe can’t understand what all the fuss is
made about Prince Hesse marrying that Colom-
bine. “ Why,” he exclaims, “ didirt the Duke of
Cambridge marry a play-actress ?”
The Mudgee Independent begins a par.
with “ a shake (sic) was discovered . .” It would
seem by this It is about time they issued prohibi-
tive orders respecting rum in Mudgee.
When Tom Pinch and Ruth bought the
rump-steak for their famous pudding, the pur-
veyor said: “ Meat must be humoured, not drove.
We adopt this policy with our butcher.
The Dean of Bangor, whose suicide shocked
all England, lately, was a great advocate of tea,
considering it a better beverage than brandy.
Comment would be as cruel as needless.
“Don’t go near the Bar-room, Brother,”
is the title of a Temperance song now becoming
popular. Of course not, brother. Do as the other
brothers do. Send out the jug in a bag.
Alfred, last Saturday, had a very severe
article against cockfightdcg. Hang It 1 This shows
we have been doing him an injustice. We thought
it was the kind of Italian opera he admired.
Primate Barry speaks unctuously of the
collective voice of the Church,, How well we
know that voice, and the sanctified look ef the
humbug who waltzes around with the plate I
Medical authorities say that nine men
with their hearts in the wrong place have been
discovered within the last five years. Nine I
Humph I—we suppose they mean nine out of ten.
Taylor ought to have expla ined that, when
he damned the chair, he didn t damn the party in
It. That would have been quite unnecessary—
politically speaking. Ask the West Sydney wor-
rukin man.
The English cricketers took exception to
the size of the bats used by our team in the first
match. When the English team were over here
we took exception to the size of their boots. It is
a fair deal.
“Is Gordon safe?” is the title of a poem
running in the country supplements. The burden
of It is that Gordon is safe, beoau se God is looking
after him. And after reading the poem, we think
He must be.
Mr. Adams, late of Prospect, is rather a
humourist. He said to a witness, the other day :
“ Mind, you are on your oath.” The bench smiled
at this pleasantry, and they were very much
tickled behind the rail.
The Bega Gazetteer, in it s own inimitable
way, says: “More twins; this time Mrs. Wilson,
formerly Miss Barbara Monclc.” Well, and why
not? AsaMonckshe could ha,venun. She’s only
making up for lost time.
The increase of cattle, sheop and horses in
this colony during the last yea r, is estimated at
1,800,696. We are waiting now to hoar from Mr.
Hayter as to the increase of orit ne among them as
compared with those in Victoria..
WHAT’S WANT ED.
Buchanan wants to tax the > papers,
Which are a great boon t o all classes:
Oh, can’t ’mongst legislati ve capers
Be found one, just to taa: all asses?
The country papers now style Quong Tart
“the great Chinese philanthropist.” We are glad
to see modest merit appreciated in this fashion. If
it were left to himself, Quong would never blew
his own trumpet—while he could get a fog-horn.
“ The diamond drill is a thirsty bore. He
drinks from 800 to 2400 gallons daily,” murmured
the Brevity writer of the Noozb, as he sat in the
office fixing up his brilliant copy. And all the re-
porters sighed, “Oh, to be a diamond drill I”
There were 6784 school childi -en and—hem 1
—teachers at the reception of the (Governor, Sir A.
Musgrave, in Queensland, The poople there are
necessarily indignant at the new proposals of the
Government for increased Immigration. Deep,
this.
Another Waterloo veteran has died near
Burrowa. From the number of those who have
died since 1818, it is calculated two and a half mil-
lions of people over and above the population of
the world at that time were engaged at that
famous light.
Speaking of Araluen in the early days, a
local scribe says that the present fathers of the
Valley were then "ourlv-headed bacchanals.” How
times and manners change I Now, when the
fathers are brought up they are merely referred to
as “drunks.”
“ All highly intellectual men,” quotes the
S. M. Herald from The Lancet, “ are liable to
intervals of mental depression.” This seems true.
We know the Herald people are highly intel-
lectual, and they have now had " an .interval of
twenty years.”
The motto of the Gunnedah Advertiser
is “The story of our lives from day to day.”
Judging by the paper, life in Gunnedah seems to
be made up of dog-tlghting varied with occasional
“ drunks,” and actions for assault and battery. It
is a precious poor story.
A Salvation Harmy man told his hearers
the other day that all those who didn’t join his
side would “ go in up to the chin ” in hell-fire. We
think he stands a snow of beat! "g that lot, and
going in up to the ears. He couldn t go further.
His ears wouldn’t let him.
“Poisoned hy Corned Beef” was the
grisly heading of a paragraph in the Evening
News lately. We looked to see a falling off in
their dramatical criticism that week, but we were
mistaken. We should have known that corned
beef could not kill that critic.
The unemployed are not popular in the
country. One of them, who got as far as Denlh-
quin, obtained a temporary engagement as a
groom. He was found putting the crupper in a
orse’s mouth instead of the bit. They never as
much as held an inquest over him.
Murder will out. At an inquest held over
the body of a man who poisoned himself in Moruya
lately, one of the witnesses said that the wife of
the deceased rushed over and said to her: Run.
I think Dawson has taken something very bad.
So he had. He had taken the Moruya Examiner
for a year. But. to be exact, it was cyanide of
potassium that killed him.
“ What are the wild winds saying ?” asks a
poetess through the medium of the Qukanbeyan
Times, We fancy we have heard something like
this before, but perhaps she has not. They are pro-
bably requesting her to give them a rest.
A reporter was out in Wellington (N.Z.),
with a Ashing party, lately. They caught a shark,
and he says it contained a “large carving-knife, a
Wellington hoot, a pair of child’s shoes, and por-
tions of a Ashing-net.” That’s nothing. We knew
a reporter that contained a—[That will do I—Bd.B.J
It is reported that when Bruce Smith was
advised to employ regular Melbourne detectives
to discover the robberies on Howard Smith’s boats,
he said, ruminatively: “I don’t see why it should
be divided amongst any more of them. Our ser-
vants have, if anything, a prior right to the
plunder!”
“Scotsman and Churchman” takes the
Rum to witness that his true blue kirk being “ es-
tablished,” is a “Church,” and not a “body.” So
let it be I ’tis an old quarrel, and if the established
ones line to consider outsiders “ bod'es ” and them-
selves nobodies, we shall be the very last to contra-
dict them.
A dramatic company is being formed in
Milton in connection with the band. The band
will play at the funerals of all who are killed by
the performance. This is fair. But might it not
be as well for the inhabitants to rise up and
slaughter the company? We merely suggest it,
but take no responsibility.
There’s nothing so very odd in the idea of
British farmers’ sons supposing that the Aus-
tralian police-trooper’s life is one long sequence
cf riding about in jack-boots potting blackfellows,
considering that up North there are not a few
police officers who not only entertain precisely the
same idea, but live up to it.
A novel reason why a person should give
his barristers a high fee is furnished by the Andlng
of a jury in the Warrnambool district, Vic. The
accused was prosecuted for stealing two sheep,
and the evidence was clear and uncontradicted.
The skin of one sheep had been found on the place,
and the prisoner had been detected skinning the
other; but the jury, without retiring, returned a
verdict of acquittal. The explanation of this was
afterwards given by one of the jurymen as follows:
“ Shure didn’t he ingage young counsellor Moles-
worth to deAnd him, and wasn’t that a dale more
than the value of two sheep ? ”
An English scientist says that only one
man out of every million survives to b» 108 years
of age. Curious though why they all go to Fass.
All the Waterloo veterans also go there. We will
tell you how this is. It is an abnormally healthy
place. The real secret is that as long as people
live in Yasa they never die.
Read:—“John Mellor, proprietor of the
Blayney Advocate, and Wardell, the editor, for
assaulting a bailiff in the execution of his duty,
have each been lined £10, with costs, or four
months in Bathurst gaol.” The excuse made in
Court was: " We didrrt know he was a bailiff. We
thought he had come to dinner.”
On the maxima revcrcntia due virginibus
principle, it would perhaps be well were publicans
only to set married women or widows behind their
counters to serve their customers. The carrying
out this idea would not involve any considerable
restriction upon female industry. It would per-
mit womankind full liberty of action, har maids.
“Where is Charlotte?” said a lady to one of
the aboriginals who visited Cooma lately. Char-
lotte was a gin. The sable chieftain replied in an
undertone that she was dead. “ Where is Char-
lotte ?” said the lady In « louder key, thinking he
had not heard her. “That’s what I’d like to
know.” he replied quickly. And the lady asked
no more.
“ Mudir Bangalo ” is what a Cooma paper
calls the Mudir of Dongola. A Queanbeyan paper
beats this. It calls him the “Murder” of Don-
gola. If that potentate happens to see these
papers—which we hope he will not-he will pro-
bably order a general massacre of all the English-
speaking persons in the Soudan. After all, is it
any wonder the Arabs hate us?
Says the Braidwood Dispatch, with re-
gard to the Carlton marloide (coined it ourselves!):
—“ Mr. Evanson, who was so savagely attacked by
his wife on Friday last, has died in a state of com-
plete destination.” There was no doubt about his
future, you see. He was booked right through.
Well, he couldn’t go to a much worse place than he
left—unless, indeed, he went to Braidwood.
“Now Die,” is the cheerful manner in
which a story in the Goulburn Penny Post
starts. The author is evidently aware of the fatal
nature of his writing. But it was a generous
thought to warn the readers in time. We know
many who would not have done so. Bladen would
not have done so. Neither would the man who
writes about the Coral Islands in the Herald.
A bogus parson in London was lately
bowled out, but not before he had celebrated 2500
Illegal marriages. And now there’s a crowd of
bogus “ pledges ” knocking around whose maters
can’t be comforted: while there’s a couple of
thousand “hubs.” on the howling “tear” of joy,
thanking the luck that sent such a thing as a sham
gospel-puncher into the world.
The wife of a Hay J.P. sued him for deser-
tion and maintenance a few days ago. She stated
that they bad been married for 40 years, and for 20
out of the 40 they had lived unhappily. She should
have known that these things go rhythmically, and
lived with him another 40 years. Then the 20 good
years would, probably, have come round again.
But women have no reason. Hash is what they
want.
Once more the Parramatta hoodlums have
attacked Constable Board, and this time he got a
severe gash in the head. This will conAne him
within the precincts of the hash emporium for so
long that it is on the cards that before he comes
out he will be a Board with residence. [Booh!—
Ed B.] All right; “booh” away. But is Punch
dead ? Who, then, is to perpetuate “ wholesome
fun” ?
The proprietors of the Murrumburrah
Signal have made us pale our ineffectual Ares.
They have-to use their own eloquent language—
thirty-nine libel actions looming over their de-
voted heads. And they want somebody to point
them out a “good secure Aeld” where they may
publish their paper without fear of the libel law.
There is only one such place. Need we say it is the
cemetery ?
The St. Vincent Liberal is the name of
a new paper published at Milton. You will ask —
why St. Vincent? Well, probably because St.
Vincent was the patron of the poor. It has thirty-
one proprietors, who all advertise in it, and appar-
ently write in it, line about. One of these gor-
geous scribes, writing about a stone-mason who
had a run of bad luck, says: “ His destiny appeared
like the pillar of Are to the Israelites to hover o’er
him like a Banner.” This is a sublime simile.
Fancy a pillar of Are hovering like a banner over a
stone-mason I While the thirty-one proprietors
can produce such a high-class paper as this, they
need not fear competition—except, perhaps, from
the measles.
A Caledonian Society has been started in
Melbourne, with Service as President. Among its
objects is the maintenance of a taste for the sports
of Scotland. Ahem! Mr. Havter’s statistics under
the head of “ population ” will be worth study
next year.
The oldest dog in the world died at Car-
coar, the other day. Ho was 37 years of age when
he departed, and, in life, was the property of a
Chinaman named Chutum. You would wonder
why he did not Chutum long before. Now we are
ready for the axe. But, while we think of it, what
a fine suggestion there is here for a pathetic ballad
—“ Only a Chinaman’s Dog.” It is the lowest pitch
of pathos.
The most genteel writer in Sydney is
a house-agent. Match this sentence from one of
his advertisements, if you can:-“ Burwood.—I
have to Let in this very elite and fashionable
suburb one of the most beautiful and replete
Family Residences in this salubrious locality.”
Sumptuous, isn’t it ? We would give something to
be able to write like that—if we were going into
the pill trade.
The editor of the Monaro Mercury—one
Spring, famous for being Mayor of Cooma once,
and still surviving—has a paragraph about some-
body up there who steals lambs and sews tails te
them so that they may look like sheep. The man
who did this is a genius. He has only to sew a
head on the shoulders of the Mercury editor to
deserve something handsome from his country-
say a pea-shooter.
The head is not an Irishman’s weakest
part. One Donegan jumped out of a Tipperary
train going at full speed, some time ago, and fell
on his head on the hard ground. He immediately
got up, waved his handkerchief to the passengers,
jumped over a wire fence, and was found as happy
as Larry in a public-house a little while after. And
yet they talk of conquering Irishmen! If they do
it will have to be with pile-drivers.
Mr. Buchanan is desirous that all Govern-
ment advertisements be published only in the
Government Gazette. Mr. Buchanan gets the
Government Gazette for nothing ! Aweel 1 By
the way, we wonder what subsidy David receives
for contributing to the Rum. Or rather what he
gets it in. Complimentary concert tickets, or
samples of soap? We should say the latter ; for
the staff have a furious use tor the former.
ELEVATED.
(Scene: Tuttle's Photographic Gallery , Oeorge-street ), “MIX ME UP ONE OF THEM
ELEVATORS, PLEASE, AND PUT PLEN’Y SUGAR IN IT; ALWAYS LIKE
THESE AMERICAN DRINKS.”


IDE BEAT BEDSTEAD SUE
FIB BUT. DISCOUNT, n i II
1 BITE
The following List will show what our prices really are under this Heavy Discount
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
M arked
Marked
Marked
Mai'ked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
12s.
15s.
17s.
Is.
2s.
r>s
7s.
10s.
12s.
15s.
17s.
Os,
2s.
5s.
7s.
15s.
Os.
6d.,
Od.,
Gd.,
Od.,
Gd.,
Od.,
6d.,
Od,,
(id,,
Od.,
(id.,
Od.,
6d.,
Od.,
Gd.,
Od.,
Od.,
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less T wen ty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Ceut.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
2s. 6d.-
Os. 0d.-
;is. Gd,-
4s. Od.-
4s. Gd.-
5s. Od.-
5s. Gd.-
Gs. Od.-
Gs. 6d.-
7s. 00.-
7s. Gd.-
8s. Od.-
8s. Gd.-
Os. Od.-
9s. Gd -
lls. Od.-
12s. Od.-
is
is
is
is
is
•is £1
■is £1
■is £1
is £t
is £1
is £1 10s.
is £1 12s.
is £1 14s.
is £1 IGs.
■is £1 18s.
•is £2 4s.
•is £2 8s.
10s.
12s.
14s.
17s.
18s.
Os.
2s.
4s.
Gs.
8s.
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
A Bedstead
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
Marked
£8 Os.
£0 5s.
£3 10s.
£0 15s.
£4 Os.
£5 Os.
£5 10s.
£5 15a.
£(i Os.
£G 10s.
£7 10s.
£8 Os.
£8 5s.
£8 10s.
£9 10s.
£10 15s.
£Ll 15s.
Od ,
Od.,
Od..
Od.,
Od.,
Od.,
Od,,
Od ,
Od.,
Od.,
Od.,
Od.,
Od.,
Od.,
Ou.,
Od.,
Od.,
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Less Twenty
Per Cent.
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Ceut.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.-
Per Cent.
12s. Gd.
10s. Od.
14s. Od.
15s. Od.
IGs. Od.
£1 Os. Od.-
2s. Od.
3s. Od.
4s. Od.
Gs. Od.
£1 10s. Od.
£1 12s. Od.-
£1 10s. Od.
£1 l4s. Od,
£1 18s. Od.
£2'3s. Od.
£2 7s. Gd.
£1
£1
£1
£1
•is £2 10s. Gd.
■is £2 12s.
is £2 IGs.
■is £0 Os.
is £0 4s.
is £4 Os.
is £4 8s.
■is £4 12s.
is £4 IGs.
is £5 4s.
is £G Os,
■is £G 8s.
■is £G 12s.
is £G Kis.
•is £7 12s.
■is £8 12s.
—is £0 8s.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £15.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £25.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £35.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £50.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £70.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £100.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £2C0.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR £300.
According to Lists contained in our
House Furhishing Guide.
Prompt attention paid to Country
orders.
Goods delivered in the City and
Suburbs, including Parramatta and
Manly Beach, free of charge.
Campbell Brothers.
DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE.
DINING ROOM FURNITURE.
BEDROOM FURNITURE.
HALL FURNITURE.
LIBRARY FURNITURE.
KITCHEN FURNITURE AND
UTENSIL®,
WEDDING PRESENTS.
BIRTHDAY PRESENTS AND
FANCY GOODS.
GLASSWARE.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE.
CHINA AND EARTHENWARE
BOXES OF GAMES.
PRESENTS FOR GIRLS.
PRESENTS FOR BOYS.
&o &c.
For Carpets, Floorcloths, Mattlnas
Table and Bod Linen. &e. visit on,
mental ' uru Drapery Depart'
Campbell Brothers.
Full Size, Black ami Gold, BRASS-MOUNTED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, with extended Fo;»t Rail
£3 ISs., less the Twenty per Cent. £3.
i m wi to ms
THROTJ G-HOTJT,
Furnish Single Rooms,
OR
BUY SINGLE ARTICLES,
Write for a Copy of our
HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDE.
This handy little hook shows for what sums
houses of various sizes may be furnished, for what
sums single rooms may be furnished, and for what
price any single artl.de may be obtained.
It is SENT POST FREE to all parts of the colony.
You have only to write lor it, and you get it. Its
House FurnishhiB- Lists, eight in number, are the
most complete we have ever published—comfort,
convenience, and economy having been carefully
studied.
WRITE FOR IT,
Also for our Rook of Austrian Furniture, con-
taining 47 Illustrations.
Campbell Brothers.
Bedsteads and Cots, &o M of every description. Plain and Flowered, Plain and Brass
Mounted, Single and Double, in all sizes, in all colours, and at all prices.
The whole of the samples on view are Ticketed in RED. showing our regular price, and
the present price under this great discount.
J3T* You buv a Bedstead at our regular well-known Advertised Pi ice, and get a
FIFTH part of your money returned.
Tlicusaad nPcio-rxcls.
I
£5000 Worlb oi Bedsteads to be Sold immediately,
TO MAKE ROOM FOR
OUR LARGE IMPORTATION,
Direct from the Manufacturers, which is close at hand.
Campbell Brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
OUR BOOK
SHOWS HOW TO FURNISH FOR VARIOUS
SUMS OP MONEY
Twenty Bedrooms,
Campbell Brothers.


It is impossible to remain long sick or out
of health where Hop Bitters are used. See another.
Gentlemen whose beards are not of the
tint which they desire, can remedy the defect by
using Buckinghams’ Dye fob the Whiskers.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
Inflamatlon, all Kidney a;id similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
Life Insurance as a provision.—The im-
portance of securement of means for those we
might elsewise leave in needy circumstances, is
not more wise than the procurement of an ex-
tended lease of life by tbe continuous use of
Wolfe’s Schnapps. ,
Eat and Live. — Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoffnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
Mb. DbOourct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, aar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Where there is a weakness of the throat or
lungs, a Cold neglected may be all that is required
to establish a lingering and generally fatal disease.
Even where there is no special tendency to
Bronchial or Pulmonary trouble, a severe Cold,
left to take care of itself, often plants the seeds of
a serious comp'alnt, sure to be developed by
subsequent indiscretions.—Take especial care of
your health, therefore, from the very earliest
symptoms of a Cough or Cold, by prudently
resorting to Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, which will
soothe and strengthen the bronchial tubes, allay
Inflammation, and cleanse them and the lungs of
all Irritating substances. An ounce of prevention
is better than a pound of cure. To be had of ah
Druggists and Storekeepers; and wholesale by
Elliott Bros., Pltt-street, Sydney.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index post'd up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .1
RACING.
Charter’s Towers J.C July 34, 25.
Walgett R.C July 29, 30.
Jerilderie J.C August 5, 7.
Tattersall’s Club August 6.
Goonolwindi August 18, 19.
Hawkesbury August 31, 23.
A. J.C. Spring Aug. 30, Sep. 3. 4, 6.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27, 28,
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
COURSING.
Victoria Club.- August 21, 32.
AQUATIC.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Sackvllle Reach July 24.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River July 34,
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R.... August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River —August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake. .August 27.
ATHLETICS
Cooma Sheffield Handicap August 1.
Malone v. Arnold August 18*
T. A. Noud v. T. Ellem, 150 yards, at
Grafton August 20.
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap (£300) September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Spring Meeting —Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 3.
N. Union Race Meeting August 80.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Malone and Arnold are matched to run 175
yards, at Botany, on 18th August, for a stated £200
a side.
The bookmakers paid the Victorian Racing
Club alone, for 13 months ended June last, the
sum of £3264 for registration fees.
This afternoon (Thursday) the Treasury
team of footballers are booked to meet repre-
sentatives from the Registrar-General’s depart-
ment.
The billiard match between the English
players J, Roberts and W. J, Peall, Roberts conced-
ing 3000 in 10,000, resulted in a win for the receiver
of points by 589.
The big pigeon match at Brighton (Vic.),
on Thursday last, resulted in a win for F. M’Evoy.
M’Evoy and Hamilton each killed 11 birds, and in
the shoot-off Hamilton missed his twelfth bird.
The Goulburn Coursing Club, which num-
bers over 100 members on its roll, has agreed for
the use of the racecourse for one guinea per
annum, the Club to erect £500 worth of improve-
ments.
Mr. J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet for
1883-4 is to hand. In addition to a fund of infor-
mation invaluable to racing men, it gives the
“ bests on record ” in all branches of athletics and
aquatics.
The team of footballers who purpose doing
Queensland have fixed upon Tuesdays, Wednes-
days, and Thursdays as practice days; and Mr.
Dick as practice captain. They leave for the haunt
o f the alligator on August 10.
The Tasmanian Racing Club has decided
to increase the Hobart Oup, to be run for next
February, to 1000 sovs., sweep to be 10s. Tbe
winner will receive 700 sovs. and the sweep, the
second 200 sovs., and the third 100 sovs.
At the settling up of the New Zealand
team of footballers, it was found there was a de-
ficiency of some £300, which will have to be made
good by the New Zealand Unions. This is a sort of
wet blanket termination to their victorious trip.
The one-mile championship at the coming
Sydney Bicycle Sports should prove a well-con-
tested event. For choioe, we feel inclined to pin
our faith to the Melbournian, H. R. stokes; but no
doubt A. Lee, the dashing Wanderer, will make
him go for it.
The much talked of, or rather written of,
Queensberry bout between Farnan and'. Jackson
is fixed to come off at Melbourne, for an alleged
£200. Both men are stated to be in good f ettle, but
from all accounts, Jackson should Just a
shade too good for the Victorian.
W. G. George, the English phenomenal
amateur, broke no records in the four races
recently won by him in an afternoon, but the feat
of running half a mile in 2mln., a mile in Amin.
32seo., four miles in 21min. 2-5sec, and one acid a
half mile steeplechase in 7min. 23 2-5sec. in a sln.gle
afternoon is one that would have opened tbe eyes
of the old-time sports.
In England, Mr. J. H. Adams recently )
completed his self-imposed task of riding from
Land’s End to John o' Groat’s, a distance of 930
miles, which he covered in 6 days 23J4j hours, which
gave a dally average of close on 133 miles. The
previous best on record for this journey was
accomplished by Mr. James Lennox, of Dumfries,
who completed hia task in 10 days (one resting.)
The postponed Penrith and Nepean Jockey
Club races came off cm Saturday last, in the pre-
sence of a large attendance. Darkle won the
July Handicap, Stella carried off tho Auction
Stakes, Mr. G. Fagan’s Isonomy won the Nepean
Jockey Club Handicap; Darkie made a second win
of tho Ladies’ Mile; and Butcher Boy proved first
chop for the Hack race, and c trried off the stake.
The London (Eng.) Tricycle Club 100 miles
road race finished in a most unsatisfactory man-
ner. Hebblethwaite and Webb kept together all
through. 50 yards from home Hebblethwaite had
a short lead, when Webb spurted and drew level,
but Hebblethwaite immediately steered right
across the road, nearly bringing his rival to grief,
and fairly blocking him. Webb naturally pro-
tested, and the matter was to be considered at a
meeting of the committee.
The persistent rudeness of the English
papers in declining to recognise “ Our Boys,” as
tho Noose styles them, whenever they win a
match, as gentlemen amateurs, is quite disgrace-
ful. And, we quote from Vanity Fair; “Lord
Sheffield paid the Australian team £250 lor paying
him a visit at Sheffield Park, aud over £100 to the
English team.” We don t know whether Lord
Sheffield keeps a pack of hounds, but, if he does,
of course he always pays gentlemen whom he in-
vites to the meet £30 p.er head to visit him. “Gen-
tlemen amateurs,” by all means.
Only a moderate show of spectators put
in an appearance at the Association Ground on
Saturday last, when the Queensland and New
South Wales tootballesrartietiu their return match.
The passing of the locals was exceptionally good,
and after the first fifteen minutes’ play it was evi-
dently all u.p. with the Queenslanders, the New
South Wales fairly running over them during the
remainder of the game, and winning by 26 points
to nil. Neil, Osborne, Wood, Deaue, Cameron,
Fligg, and Tange obtained tries, from which Bayliss
kicked three, and Osborne one goal.
A splendidly-contested sculling race, in
out-riggers, eventuated at Raymond terrace, on
Saturday last, for £50 a side, between Hughes, of
Newcastle, and Kennedy, a new arrival from <
Scotland. Kennedy is credifced with various
heights, from over 6ft. in the Newcastle Herald
to 6ft. lOin. in the Rum, but all agree that he is a
fine specimen of an oieven-and -a-half-stone ath-
lete The two men pulled a aio g-dong race from
start to finish, and Hughes ju$, managed to bfi»it
the new arrival by half a length. It is stated
Kennedy was heavily handicapped in the matter
of boats.
Last Saturday morning a little affair came
off at the back of Moore Park, between two pugs,
who have a bit of a reputation amongst the
“roughs,” for a liver a side. Some ten rounds
were lought when a cry of “traps” was raised,
and the crowd who formed the ring cleared out,
leaving the poor devils of principals, both badly
punished, to make tracks for themselves. The
fighting was rough but sevei’e, and the punish-
ment meted out for the show of a fiver was, with-
out doubt, greater than even Sullivan gives and
receives in his Queensberry knocks-out for thou-
sands of dollars.
The Balmain-Burwood bicycle races came
off on Saturday at the Agricultural Society’s
ground. W. Penfold won the Burwood Malden
Mile; G. Thompson carried off the Balmain Cham-
pion Mile; R. 8. Lambton won the Burwood ditto;
R. Shute won the mile running and riding race ;
G. F. V. Elliott, 150 yards, won the Balmain Five-
mile Handicap; J. P. Robertson, of the Wanderers,
won the Open Mile, with a handicap of 160 yards; |
C. W, Bennett won the mile Trike Handicap from
scratch; J. F. Rugg, 130 yards, of the Redferns,
won the two miles Open Handicap; and R. 8.
Lambton, 8 secs., Burwood B.C., carried off the
mile without handles.
Fine weather, and a large and fashionable
attendance, went a long way toward making the
V.R.C. Winter Steeplechase meeting at Fiemlng-
ton a success. Gasalier won the Maiden Hurdle
race from Hazard: Kingston defeated Robin
Hood by three lengths for the Maiden Steeple-
chase. For the Grand National Hurdle race, Sun-
downer was the first to show in the straight run-
ning, but towards the last hurdle Don Quixote
passed him and won by four lengths; Chippenham
won the Grand National Steeplechase after a great
struggle with Friendless; Prospect won the Selling
Hurdle Race; and Bonnie Bee made a gallant vic-
tory against Pailleroo for the mile flat race.
The Newcastle Herald thus describes
John Kennedy, recently matched against Hughes,
a local man:—“ Kennedy is a new arrival in these
parts, and brings a good record from the old coun-
try, having won several matches in England
against good men, in addition to receiving a forfeit
from Renforth’s brother. He has also competed
against Boyd and Lumsdaine in regattas, and pre-
vious to leaving Scotland he challenged any man
to row him. He is the picture of an athlete, being
about; six feet in height, and weighing twelve
atone.” Competed against Boyd and Lumsdaine is
not bad. Bob Edwards and M’Cleer recently com-
peted against Hanlan; but their pockets gained
more than their sculling reputations by the shows.
Lees, the English wheelman, recently per-
formed a wonderful 30 miles ride on a tricycle at
Leicester (Eng.) Howell was to ride against him,
but as he did not put in an appearance Lees was
despatched alone. Notwithstanding a strong wind
was blowing Lees accomplished a wonderful per-
formance, and lowered the existing records from
II to 20 miles Inclusive. The following are the
times taken at the conclusion of each mile;—One
3m. 20a., two 6m. 35s., three 9m. 55s., four 13m. 19s.,
five 16m. 45s., six 20m. 8s., seven 23m. 32s., eight
S6m. 51s., nine 30 m. 15s, ten 33m. 39s., eleven 37m.
Is., twelve 40m. 23s., thirteen 43m. 4ls., fourteen
47m. 6s., fifteen 50m. 23s., sixteen 53m. 48s., seven-
teen 57m. 12s., eighteen Ih. 0m. 33s., nineteen Ih. 3m.
59s., twenty Ih. 7m. 15s.
Dodd, of North Shore, early in the week,
put the finishing touch on the boat Beach intends
to row the effort of his life. She is a beautifully
finished piece of workmanship, weighing, with all
fittings, 261b. She is built mu"h after the shape of
the craft Hanlan rowed on the Nepean, in great
contrast to the flat, well carried out wager-boats
we have been so long used to in the colonies. For
ourselves, wo believe in the colonial boat, but, if
the shape preferred by Hanlan is correct, then it
wi 1 certainly not be the boat that will leave the
Sydney champion in the rear should he lose the
race. Dodd has an almost finished wager-boat in
the shed, put together to the order of Massle, for
his race at Illawarra. She is a small boat and
should prove a clipper in smooth water.
Edwards was not long in responding to
Mattersoc’s challenge, and a deposit was planked
on Saturday night for a match to come off on 23rd
August, over the Champion Course, for £100 a Side.
Edwards has certainly a bit of a pull over his
opponent in belngcontlnually on the water with
such a general as Hanlan, but there is every possi-
bility of his being stale and overdone after
accompanying Hanlan through his training for
the big match to come off on the previous Satur-
day. Matterson, a youngster coming on every
day, is a steady fellow, and an enthusiast at the
sport; and we should not be at all surprised to see
him lead the Victorian past The Brothers. Matter-
son has given Dodd an order for a new outrigger,
so that ne is not likely to be handicapped in the
way of boats.
Last Thursday afternoon, teams from the
Treasury and Audit Offices met in the football
field on Moore Park, to do battle for their respec-
j tive departments, and, after an hour’s spirited
play, the financiers were returned winners by 4
points to nil. The most noticeable features of the
afternoon were the varied colours of the guern-
seys worn, and the dashing play shown by Signor
Emanuel Delprado for the losing side. A cap of
honour was presented by Mr. Harry Brewer for
the best player. The choice lay between Mr.
Arthur Pearson and Signor Delprado: but the
Signor generously stood out, and the trophy was
duly awarded to Mr. Pearson. List of casualties:
Two darkened eyes, a barked shin by a gentleman
who comes with a big reputation from New
Zealand, (and a skinned nose—the latter caused by
a Treasury man attempting to kick a goal with his
nasal organ.
“ Professor ” Miller is gradually throwing
off his limp, and we shall, no doubt, soon hear of
wars and rumours of wars amongst the big guns
in the athletic world. Victor lost his suit against
Donald Dinnle for recovery of salary. The dis-
agreement between the pair arose out of what
the lively little Frenchman considered a breach of
“professional etiquette.” It appears a prize was
offered for any one in the audience who put up
Victor’s 1301b. dumb-bell with one hand. Several
tried, but used both hands, when Dinnle stepped
forward and put it up to show how it was done.
This nettled Victor, who immediately vamoosed
the show. Anyway, this is Dlnnie’s version of the
affair. Victor says he taught Dinnle part of the
performance he now relies on to make his money
in the show business, namely, the “statues,” and
though not so strong as the great hulking Dinnle,
will back himself as an artist on the stage against
him for £50 a side.
Aquatics are beginning to look up since
Hanlan’s arrival, and the old Parramatta will he
all life for some time to come. A match between
Clifford and Laycock would be a race worth going
a long way to see, and would bo second in interest
only to the Hanlan-Beach race for the champion-
ship. Laycock certainly had hard lines in meeting
with his accident just at the critical time when
Hanlan had made up his mind to visit the Antl-
Eodes. But it is an ill wind, &c., for had Laycock
een in his old condition. Beach would not have
had quite such a walk-over for the colonial cham-
pionship, and the odds are that the Shark Islander
—we suppose once a Shark Islander always a Shark
Islander—would have been good enough to beat
the Dapto man at that time, whatever he could do
with him now. Clifford, a splendid specimen of a
man,! has been in tip-top hands for months past,
and his challenge of Saturday is pretty good proof
positive that his friends are satisfied with the pro-
gress he has made; but Laycock has ever proved
he is not a sculler to be trifled with, and should the
men meet on the Parramatta, and Laycock’s leg
not play him false, we should not be surprised to
see tbe Shark Islander once again lead his man past
the Judge’s boat.
The Genesla, a new 80-ton cutter, owned
by Sir Richard Sutton, appears likely to more than
hold her own amongst the English yachts durlug
the present season. On May 31, she made her first
appearance and won a big race under the auspices
of the New Thames Yacht Club. The other starters
were the Miranda, Lorna, Erycina, Vanduara,
Marjorie, Tara, and Freda. From an account of
the race in a London paper, the boats could not
have been handled in a very workmanlike style.
At the start, the Lorna and M«rjorie collided,
whereby the former was disabled and the Marjorie
was delayed some three minutes. The Vanduara
sailed with a badly-set jib and taut topping lifts.
The Genesla got ashore, but managed to haul off,
and shortly afterwards the Marjorie went hard
and fast aground, and remained there for upwards
of an hour, and the chapter of mismanagement
was added to by the Vanduara passing a buoy on
the wrong side and having to try back and round
it on the proper side. On the following Saturday,
the Genesta started against the Marjorie (68 tons),
Vanduara *89 tons), Erycina (90 tons), Lorna (85
tons), Tara (40 tons), and finished first, although
by time allowance the Tara took first place, the
Marjorie second, and the Genesta third.
For ways that are dark, the heathen Chinee
is never in it when placed by the side of the hero
of the following record. Two of our most spirited
dry-hash inctallicians-suppose we call them Jack
and Jill—happen to board and lodge together, and
every night one of the fraternal pair tells himself
off to go up the hill for a pall of beer for supper.
A few nights ago. Jack remarked to the landlady.
Say, Missus, now is it there’s such a devil of a
difference between the bob’s worth of beer you
give me, and the lot you deal out when Jill comes
round for it ? Of course, it’s very flatterin’ to me,
but at th’ sime time, I’d just as soon have a little
less flattery and a little better beer.” “Well,
Jack,” replied the hostess, “you see it happens
thusly. When it’s your night to stand the racket,
you ask for a shilling’s worth of English; but
when that brother of yours shoves down, he calls
for three-penn’orth of English and six-penn’orth
of colonial swanky, so you see he gets the same
amount of beer, and euchres you tor threepence.”
“Jumpin’ Judas!” exclaimed Jack; “now I can
understand how it is that Jill can afford to keep a
masher’s cane, and sport a clean dog-collar round
his neck on Sundays. But it’s hard to bear, ma’am,
for he’s my own brother, and he knows I have to
patronise sixpenny bars now to keep up the dignity
of our learned profession.”
We see that Raynor is to walk E. Leathart
seven miles. Raynor is considered the next best
man to Edwards. We don’t know Leathart— and
don’t want to. But we have met Raynor all over
the colonies, and always walking. His modus
operandi is to walk from one town to another, give
an exhibition to which nobody comes, and then
walk on aeain. There must be a fascination in
walking. Raynor could earn ten times the money
at splitting posts and rails, but he prefers pedes-
trlanlsm and glory. The last time we saw Raynor
do a match was against young Assenheim, at
Botany, and the “ boy ” gave the Narracoorte man
a gruelling. Raynor, on that occasion, informed
us that he had trained on sherry—public-house
sherry. He didn’t say. however, how many per-
sons he had murdered while getting himself into
condition. Lots of people, we find, have a way of
being reticent on these points. He had the honour
now, we remember, of being bottle-holder to one
of the ladles in chaste and appropriate attire at
“The Walk of the Women,” and that alone would
seem to be enough glory for one man, In a life-
time, surely. Raynor, however, is ambitious; for
now we hear of him running from Goulburn to
Yass. What he did it for does not transpire; but
if he ran 54 miles for nothing, he must either be
mad, or else (which is much the same thing) have
been again training on sherry.
The New South Wales Cyclist Union does
not appear to be getting on very swimmingly, and
those who ought to know, you know, are of opi-
nion that the body is on its last legs We under-
stand the Sydney Bicycle Club does not intend to
Join, and it is on the cards that the Wanderers will
shortly secede from the Union. The following is
an instance of how affairs are carried on. At a
recent meeting of the Union, while the President
was speaking on the question of Victorian
amateurs, several delegates left the room until he
had finished, and the captain of the largest bicycle
club in Sydney told him to “cut it short, he had
no right to speak,” The hon. secretary has
threatened to resign in consequence of strictures
passed on him for very properly making full en-
quiries with regard to Victorian amateurs, so that
the Union affairs appear to be slightly mixed.
One of the most fertile causes of Ill-feeling
amongst the bicyclists is the fact that each of the
clubs has a machine agent amongst its members,
and we feel sure it would be pouring oil on the
troubled waters for the powers that be to pass a
rule tabooing men who make their living out of
the sale of bikes and trikes. The Sydneys, Subur-
bans, and Burwoods all have their pet agent, and
even the exclusive Wanderers can boast of their
bottle-holder. And with regard to Union handi-
cappers, some of their productions are certain-
ly worth a line or two. On May 10, Norman
Bladen was allotted 80 yards in a tricycle race, and
on May 24, on the same ground, he was allotted 200
yards from the same scratch man. Again, they
placed A. W, Crane at scratch in a mil© without
handles, he only having won me race of the kind,
two years before, while Tlmewell received 12
seconds’ start, although he had won first and
second prizes in such races, and Edwards, also a
prize-winner, was sent off with 8 seconds to the
good. In a mile handicap, E. C. Wood, scratch,
gave J. M. Ferguson 90 yards, and in a
two mile race on tho same day, Wood al-
lowed Ferguson only 90 yards, tho same as
in the one mile. On the following Saturday we
find Woods giving Ferguson 76 yards in four miles.
How, in the name of thunder, are these banchcaps
reconciled ? The following was a glaring case.
On May 10, C. R. Wood and Ferguson were to start
off same mark in a one-mile handicap. Wood did
not start, but he won all his races that day, includ"
ing the five miles Club Championship. Yet, on
17th May, only seven days afterwards, Ferguson
was called on t© give Wood 75 yards in a four-mile
race, and, as a matter of course, Wood was never
pushed a yard. Still again, on 24th May, for the
three miles handicap, A. Lee was placed scratch,
C. R. Wood 130 yards, and G. W. Godwin 275 yards.
The race did not come off, owing to wet weather,
and could not afford any guide as to the respective
form of the men. Yet, on the following Saturday,
C. R. Wood was placed scratch in a four-mile race,
while Godwin was put at 200 yards, the notoriously
longdistance rider being pulled back only 75yardt.
On 1st January,In a miie handicap H. H. Lambton
was given 175 yards and Hunt 80 yards. Lambton
won by some 80 yards. In June, over same dis-
tance, Lambton got 100 yards from Hunt, who
never had a show with him ; so, for winning,
Lambton was allowed another five yards. At
Queen’s College Sports, G. H. Parker, in a two
miles race, got 250 yards and a beating from Hunt,
yet ten days later, at Grammar School sports, he
was allotted from C. R. Wood, a faster rider than
Hunt, only 550 yards In four miles. These are a
few of the extraordinary bicycle handicaps which
a fellah can’t quite understand.
EAVESDROPPERS NEVER, &c.
Scene: The Exhibition at Town Hall. Two visitors pause in front of Mr. Cerulean Blue's great pic-
ture. “THERE, NOW,” said one, “THAT’S WHAT I CALL THE FINEST ONE IN THE
WHOLE ROOM.” ( The artist, who has posted himself in the neighbourhood to pick up any
stray compliments that may be dropped, pricks up his ears.) “THE PITY IS THAT IT DOES
NOT SHOW TO GOOD ADVANTAGE WITH THAT WRETCHED DAUB IN IT.”
speaker was a low importer of picture-frame mouldings, and was looking at the exhibition
from his vulgar and narrow standpoint.)


READ IT ALE.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
* °f all other bitters, being’ the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
"To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
dreds have been saved by so doing, at
a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or lot your
friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
purest and best Medicine ever made
and no person or family should be
without ft.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. y„ u. 8
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO. ’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENd
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect flt
§[U&t&nt66Cl«
WeakNervnusMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
aud faiJuyo t® perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
, TH B mXrSTON*BOLUs“
stomach drugging nor
. - instruments. This treat ment of
... * rKffl&.ViUSMi
successful because baeed on perfect diagnosis
new and direct methods and absolute thop-
S&ff&SiSL? PhyTicli 0 n n o? ,,d ’ Wi89 fre *i
MARSTON REMEDYCO., SSCastUreagh St,, Sydney
That Husband of Mike is three times the
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Benewer.” Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co,. Sydney
General Agents,
A Household Perfume. Every family able
to appreciate snd enjoy the pleasure afforded by
a really healthful and delicious perfume, should
supply themselves with the genuine Murray and
Lawmans Florida Water. It is the most
delightful and most lasting of all fragrant waters.
Woman Items
The Duchess of Albany has been delivered
of a posthumous prince.
John Bagley was drowned somewhere, the
other day. We don’t know who John Bagley was,
or where he was drowned, but he was a fortunate
man. He was to have been married the next day.
Mrs, Brown, of Onehunga (N.Z.), says it is
her destiny to kill and roast her husband. Mrs.
Brown is in the very van of the women’s rights
movement. Mr. Brown will probably follow some
of these days in a hearse.
At the opening of the Covent Garden
season, the London correspondent of the N.Y.
Herald cabled that “the ladies all wore black,
and some startling effects In mourning were seen.
Studies of the nude were abundant as usual.”
The Rev. J. C. Kirby —who, it will be re-
membered, is the leading light of the Social Purity
Society—says that any young man should be able
to marry on £150 a year. We agree with him—
that is, if the young woman brings him home the
money regularly.
One reason, undoubtedly, why the young
man awaits the boating season with so much im-
patience is that he can take his girl out sailing,
and repeat the old, old conundrum, “Shall I hug
the shore?” expecting the delicious answer, “If
there is’nt anything nearer than that which will
answer the purpose.”
Verbose Wife: “Now, John, in view of its
.lability to lead idle men astray, are you as a Chris-
tian in favour of the early closing movement ?”
Weary Hub.: “Decidedly, my dear; and perhaps
you’ll oblige by shutting up s ourself now, as I
happen to be very sleepy.” And the breakfast he
got next morning would shock a sixpenny hash-
ouse man.
It is stated that tempting offers of rank
and fortune have been made to Madame de Kole-
mine (the morganatic Grand Duchess of Hesse) as
inducements for her not to oppose a divorce. She
ha* rejected all such overtures. The offer of rank
comes from her husband, the Grand Duke. Con-
ceive a man offering any woman a “ nobler ” title
than that of his wife. As Hesse is as poor as a
church mouse, somebody else must have gua-
ranteed the fortune offered to Madame. We
wouldn’t mind wagering that, if the origin of the
proposed bribe were traced, the British tax-payer
would be discovered to have provided the money.
How’s this for high? There was lately
presented to the Empress of 'Russia a labouring
man, named Ivan Dombrowski, who has had two
wives, the first of whom brought him, four times,
four children at a birth; seven times, three; and
ten times,'.two. The second wife has only made
seven attempts to score as yet. The first time she
succeeded in raising three < hildren, and on the
six occasions she bagged a brace each time. Poor
Ivan naturally feels a trifle downhearted over this
falling off, but what in thunder did the authorities
want to present him to the Empress for? If it had
been the Marchioness of Lor—. (Enough,—Ed. B)
Perhaps the most daring and bloody deed
ever performed by womankind was that perpe-
trated by Hannah Dunston and Mary Neff in com-
pany with a lad named Samuel Leonardson. In the
old days of the horrible Indian raids, the three
were taken captive, and the party of redmen to
whose charge they were consigned camped on the
Morrimac. At midnight the captives managed to
free themselves from their bonds, secured hat-
chets, brained the Indians, scalped them, scuttled
all the canoes but one, and escaped down the river
to Havershill. In all the bloody annals of the first
struggles between the white and red men, there is
no parallel to this incident.
A gambling-house, kept exclusively for
women, was closed by the French police lately in
Paris. When the police entered they were at first
disconcerted to find that the dozen ladies who were
in the rooms were engaged playing the innocent
game of lotto, a favourite amusement for children.
The fair gamblers laughed provokingly at the ex-
pense of the ollicers, but the laugh, however, was
soon turned against them, when the latter, after a
short search, found hidden behind the mantel-
piece a large number of packs of cards which had
been used at baccarat. The mistress, Mdme. Poli,
was placed under arrest, to await a formal prose-
cution. The other ladies were taken back, each
separately in a cab, to their homes.
We thought we were smart with our lot-
teries, but the Americans have got ahead of us
An Ohio girl lately offered herself as the prize in a
raffle—hundred chances at a dollar a throw. She
is said to bo pretty and intelligent, and perfectly
willing to marry the man who wins her if he is
under forty years of age and bears a decent name,
rhis ought to be a good hint for our own girls.
Young men here don’t care for the preliminary
trouble and cost of “carting”—as they coarsely
call it—young ladies to balls and theatres. But
they would not object to taking a chance at (say)
five shillings, in a raffle for a girl who was at all
tolerable m appearance. As things are now, mar-
riage could not be a much greater lottery than it
is. If this American plan were adopted, girls would
be settled in life at once. It would be good for the
young man also. The girl would get the money
and the man who won her would easily persuade
her, with a pick-handle, to lend it to him. So the
plan is worth serious consideration.
A youug man went into a shop iu Geelong
(Vie.), the other day. There was a handsome
young woman behind the counter. She asked him
what he wanted. He stared sturdily at her for
several minutes, but made no reply. The mistress
entered just then, and put the same question to
him several times. Ultimately he asked for a
cigar, got it, and walked out. Presently he re-
turned, and the girl, who was again in the shop
with her mistress, retreated into the parlour when
she saw him. He tried to follow her, but was
stopped by the mistress who demanded what be
wanted. “I want her,” he replied, pointing to
where the girl had gone. The woman began to
get frightened, but she answered resolutely, “You
can t have her I” “ Can’t I ?” he said, in a tone of
surprise. “No,” said the woman, and he said
Hum, and walked slowly out. He is now in the
Asylum. It seems very hard when a man can’t
buy a girl when he wants to. But Geelong was
always a slow place for trade.
Apropos of the Hesse scandal, a London
weekly remarks that:-” The Queen has not been
fortunate in the marriage of her daughters. For
yeara rumours prevailed of the harsh treatment of
the Princess Royal, by her rough trooper-husband,
th? Crown Prince of Germany. The Princess
Alice has left behind her the story of her own
domestic desolation. The Princess Helena’s mar-
riage to the Prince Christian was an ill-assorted
match. Princess Louise, in her wedded life, is dis-
satisfied, restless, and defiant. Princess Beatrice
remains, and the Queen’s singular desire has been
to condemn her to th« same fate that probably
shortened her sister’s life, and to wed her to a man
who, while betrothed to her, tus contracted a
morganatic’ marriage.” This is a pretty plain
tip about the reason why the Deceased wife’s
Sister Bill has been so strongly supported by the
Court party in both Houses of Parliament. The
opposition offered to it by the Bishops speaks
better for their Independence and for the genuine-
ness of their convictions than anything we know
of them.
TBe Emperor of Morocco has an agreeable
way of conciliating tribal chiefs who seem dis-
posed to be rebellious. Ho offers to make a
daughter Sultana. This vanity captivates. The
young lady arrives, with valuable presents, and is
sent to the harem. In the course of time, when
she has a little Sultan, she is sent back to her
family, who are delighted at having an heir-ap-
parent to the throne in the family. But there are
such a host of heirs now that the Emperor is
puzzled. He can’t, like the Queen of England,
screw pensions for all of them out of his subjects.
So he does, in a vulgar way, very much the 'same
thing. He confers on them th© sole right—to beg.
The present potentate seems to resemble, in his
domestic arrangements, an early predecessor, the
Emperor Youssef, who died in 983. Youssef had
had 1000 wives, and of ten seventeen little strangers
were born to him in his palace in one day.
Moulay Ismail, who reigned in 1678, sent his am-
bassador to Prance to demand from Louis XIV.
the hand of his illegitimate daughter by Mdlle. de
la Valhere. At the time the Emperor had no less
than 8000 wives already; when he died he had 835
sons and 343 daughters, and a terrible quarrel en-
sued respecting the division of the wealth of their
dad.
We wish some influential persons in Syd-
ney would follow the example set by the inhabi-
tants of Berlin. They have presented a petition to
the Government praying that pianoforte-playing
in private houses be stopped or limited to certain
houses. We will sign our name in seven languages
if this petition is brought to us. There is a young
lady living next door to us w ho bangs the piano
from dewy morn to stilly eve while her mother is
out in the back-yard belting firewood with a blunt
axe. We think it is hardly a fair deal —or gum, or
whatever it is. It grieves us to see a young person
with arms like a prize-fighter and a fist as big as a
loaf, wasting the valuable time she ought to employ
in carpet-beating and scrubbing, in pouncing a
mi sery she calls music out of poor Mendelssohn
and Beethoven. When we were young there was
none of that. The stern author of our being used
to haul us out of bed by the hair in the morning
and send us out shivering to cut turnips for the
cattle. The onlv Instruments we were permitted
to master in those days were the clappers, which
we had to use in frightening crows frrm the
new-sown corn. And yet, look at us now! It is
not for us to boast, but we may say without being
co °s i ° er 0 < l vain that we are on Intimate terms
with the highest sausage-selling circles in the land I
This elevated position is equally open to every
person who attends to what he or she was born to
do and leaves music alone. How many a happy
fireside has been broken up by a time-payment
P’anol We may state it almost with the majesty
of an axiom that if there were no music there
would be no bailiffs.
Our memory turns with fondness back to
the days when the band that now delves these lines
in diamond dust and coruscating aureole wrote out
in a school-boy band an ode to Pinchgut Gully, and
then in the dim dusk dropped it into the editor’s
box of the Ballarat Courier: for, in these days,
we had not yet dared to beard a Bateman in his
sanctum, and to go through our present form of
Introducing ourselves—” Look here, sonny, your
rag wants waking up; I’m the man to do it; don’t
say another word. Your loaders are rotten, your
paragraphs dry, and your poetry Sladenesque.
len guineas an article are my terms, and here’s
one to give you a send-off. Don’t speak. Good
day. No, we confess we had not achieved—er—
in tact, we hadn’t what you call achieved, then;
and so, when we removed the Courier nextmorn-
}pjf from before our father's coffee cup, and said
You can road the mining news afterwards, old
man, when you’ve heard this little thing that I
threw off,” and our venerated parent looked over
his ancient spectacles, and then taught us that the
toe of a water-tight boot is superior to a rep
cushion in helping the human frame through a
doorway, we felt that the path of literature,
though glorious and thorny, was ours. And now.
surrounded with all earthly pomp in the way of
velvet pile, and mirrors, and paintings, and all the
usual environments of journalistic success, we feel
a mournful pleasure in noting that the rising
generation arc being kindly taken bv the hand by
our old mentor Baieman and that when the hand
that now traces these lines shall have ceased to
enthral the learned, the work of enlightenment
will go bravely on. Here Is J. B., from North
Cres wick, for lastano *, throwing his Orphic fingers
across the harp :—
HAPPY VALLEY, MY CHILDHOOD’S HOME.
Happy Valley was my home in childhood.
And shall be evermore ;
There’s ne’er a spot so dear to me,
Now childhood's days are o’er.
For here I often sported,
When I was young and free,
A listening to the curlew’s call,
Borne on the sighing breeze. ’’
How the last two lines recall the scene. With the
exception that “Happy Valley” is given over to
mud, one blacksmith’s shop, and Gaylor’s beer-
shop, and that we were accustomed in that sylvan
spot to be “a listening to ” the sturdiest squawk-
ing laughing jackasses this side of the future
home of the wicked, we feel wo are there again
at daybreak, with blue and frosty hands, alongside
the dear old tub and cradle. But neither need our
Alfred despair of the crapy muse, Lssten how
“ A.G.” sends up a dulcet strain to mmgle with the
cherubic choir that welcomes
“ LITTLE TOMMY.
A few short days are over,
But sadly we sit and weep
When we think of our darling treasure,
Gathered away from our midst.”
The last line for perfect finish is not far behind
the finest elegies of the T, and C. Journal. Wel-
come, ye bards—but stay. The muse comes all In
her pearly garb, and with the heavenly harp in
one nad and a butcher's receipted bill in the
other-
Corae on, ye youthful Sons of song,
Up, up to our Parnassus ;
Where we may give dumb rot a tongue
And bray away like asses. ( Selah .)
Parkes had the liveliest 12th of any town-
ship this side of the Dividing Chain. Dan Barry's
dramatic company happened to be in townja day
or two previously, and “ Arrah-na-Pogue ” |was
billed for Saturday night. Nine-tenths of the
population are what they are pleased to be termed
Loyal (?) Orangemen (led bythonose). Well, the
name of “Arrah-na-Pogue’ 1 looked like Latin in
their eyes on the bills, and they merrily parted
three bob for a seat, and anxiously awaited the
appearance of Caractncus on the stage endeavour-
ing to slay some wild monster. But Dan Barry
led off with the “Wearing of the Green,” and you
would have thought the whole of the Loyal
“ push ” had the “ blues ” in that portion of
their body which is most extensive and least
sunburnt. They could stand no more than one
i or two lines of the intensely patriotic song,
but the thought of having parted three bob in-
i spired their patriotic breasts to 113° Fah., so they
set to, and bawled the thread-bare “ Boyne
Wather.” The small—nay, very, very small-col-
lection of the opposite element who were there
retaliated with “Garryowen,”and discord “reigned”
supreme—but for a few seconds only, as a sntick
came whirling through the air, and laid low the
carcase of a Belfast native. This was enough ;
hands, legs, and shtlcks were at it in a brace of
shakes. The parson got on to the platform to en-
deavour to “appease the storm, ’ but in vain.
B'ood flowed like the whisky did two hours after.
And when the wild “ Loyals,” who were ten to
one, had polished off the few but game Papists,
they made tracks to look for Dan Barry; but the
knowing Dan was “ non ist invintus." The next
day, arnica was at a premium, and challenges to
fight for a bellyful were as plentiful as O.hLG.’s or
parsons in Sydney.
It was “ triangle ” day at Darlinghurst
sraol, and an attentive and deeply interested audi,
ence had ranged themselves outside, in the fond
hopes of hearing the oat “ swish ” and the victim
squeal. It was a waste of time, and a poor invest,
ment all round, however; and as the disappointed
assemblage filed off, a venerable old ruffian, who
looked like a bad cross between a drunken gorilla
and a way-side gibbet, slid along with a few con-
genial spirits, and growled: “ Talk about floggin’ I
Yah! y’ makes me sick. Call fifteen lashes over
th’ back wid a boot-lace, an’ a stiff nobbier o
brandy fur a sort o’ ‘ kiss-the-part-t’-make-it-well
thrown in I Git out I Why, I’ve seed th’ time
whin a man id stan’ twice th’ dose jist fur th’ sake
o gettln th’ grog alone. Why, 1 remimbcrs th’
time when we fellers id feel az lonesum az a horrid
pup ef we didn’t git our lashlns reg’ler; but that
wuz seldum, ooz in them days thev uster flog yer
first t make sartin, and then, p’raps, they’d try
yer afterwards at their lezhure. Au r yet y’ cracks
fn»e bout th’brootalityov this’ere floggin.’ H— 11
Why, ef I wuz t’ strip now, an’ y’ smacked me
smart wi the palm o’ yer hands atween the
shoulders, y’d see the red streaks that I got
unt H me back looked like a map or
t.L Waterloo.” Naturally enough, we
set the old man eloquent” down as an able-bodied
liar at once, but subsequent researches plainly
proved we did him a great injustice For example,
here s a genuine clip from an official document,
which dates way back to the good old days when
a floggin’ was a floggin’.” Voila !“ Penrith.—
James Pharos, who was accused of robbery, which
ho at first confessed and afterwards denied, was,
on the 18th of May, 1833, sentenced to be flogged
every morning until he confessed where the stolen
property was. Amongst the three presiding magis-
trates was the Kev. Mr. Marsden. Parramatta,
A.pru ztth, 1833. —Kev. Samuel Marsden presiding
on the Bench. James Blackburn, attached to the
prisoners' barrack, brought forward with four
others yesterday at the barrack, having being de-
tected in the fact by the Kev. Mr. Marsden. The
prisoner is sentenced to receive twenty-five lashes
every morning, and be kept on bread and water,
until he tell who are the tour men that were with
him gambling. Parramatta, July 1st, 1833.—Kev.
Samuel Marsden, one of the two sitting magis-
trates. John Downs and Hugh Carroll, attached
to Patrick’s gang, brought forward for making
away with six pounds fourteen shillings, the pro-
perty of Matthew Finnegan. Ordered to be con-
fined in a solitary cell on bread and water, and
every second morning to receive twenty-five
lashes, until they tell where the money is con-
cealed.” These were rouseabout days, indeed, and
we are pleased to find that, as usual, the parsons
were equal to the tropical occasion.
THE DUCHESS OF ALBANY,
TELESCOPE SCENE.
GREAT ARTIST: WHAT AM I DOING ? WHY, I SENT A LITTLE THING OF MINE TO THIS
EXHIBITION. AND I AM LOOKING TO SEE WHERE THEY HAVE HUNG IT, IF I DO
NOT FIND IT UP NEAR THE CEILING, SOMEWHERE, I SHALL TAKE A LANTERN
AND LOOK IN THE CELLAR; I AM USED TO BEING BADLY TREATED BY HANGING
COMMITTEES, CONFOUND ’EM 1”


F
URNITURB SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &cT
VERY ELBG A NT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-Pound bedroom suiTss.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft , with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, IB guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURN1TDRE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Diuing TabRs. from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.: Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.: Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10a.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, irom 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB.
S
5
o
_QQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOO strong, and durable. Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONALiTABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effectiYeTdeslgns.
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered In the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
■fAR A WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
I I A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
,INING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
J DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FBET
ARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
XTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
srew and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
OUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
id 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
lete, only 40 Guineas.
PhlNING TABLES, with patent extending
LF screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
JELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
D
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Tl«e above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). ,
AGATELLE BOARDS. Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
"jjl R A MEW 1 0 RK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JD TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
EDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black andbrasa;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ASHSTAND8, with marble, from 2Ss. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
n-ARDBN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
Ijf INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
EM TWOOD FURNITURE.--A very complete
Assortment; best make, low eat prieea.
SOCIAL
The twin sporting grounds were well at-
tended on Saturday last. Both had their bands,
their Show of good sport, and their crowds of well-
dressed patrons. By tar the greater number were
On the Association Ground, where the N.S.W. and
Q. teams again struggled for supremacy at foot-
ball, and all the scoring was done by the home
team. Having been “ licked,” however, on Satur-
day, the Queenslanders were consoled by being
“ Jickored” and picnicked on Monday at Clontarf,
by the Southern Rugby Union, when they were
treated just as warmly, but more agreeably, by
their opponents. On the Agricultural Ground,
there was cycling, which is now in its acme of
popularity, and there has seldom been any better
afternoon of it than at the Balmain and Burwood
Inter-club meeting. The cinder track was
wretched, even dangerous; in some places spongy
and in others dusty. It is up hill and down,
with a risky corner commencing the straight
run, and it is too narrow. But it was
only finished for the meeting in a great
hurry, and will no doubt be made better; and,
notwithstanding its demerits, the racing on it was
first-class. J. R, Elliott is president of the Balmain
Club, and James Martin of the Burwood, The
one-mile championship of Balmain was won by G.
Thompson, and the Burwood by K. 8. Lambton;
G. F, V. Elliott took the Balmain five-mile race,
R. 8. Lambton the mile without handles, and J. F.
Rugg the two-mile race, Great interest was added
to the meeting by the re-appearance of C. W.
Bennett, the English celebrity. For months Ben-
nett was lame, and it was supposed he would not
bo able to race again, but on Saturday he per-
formed brilliantly, coming in from scratch second
to Robertson, with 160 yards start, in the one-mile;
and winning the three-mile bicycle, and one-mile
tricycle races, both from scratch. C. R. Wood
nearly brought his racing career to an untimely
end by coming down heavily at the winning post,
but, as he was seen walking off the ground with
no less than five sympathising damsels round
him, he not only survived, but is apparently doing
well. The wonder is that more accidents did not
happen, for careless persons were constantly
running across the track during the races. A few
new riders came out, and some of their uniforms
were utterly gaudy; but when an athlete blooms
in white satin pants, one can’t help thinking those
particularly delicate looking garments are just a
litt'e suggestive of effeminacy. A large number
of complimentary tickets had been issued, and
ladies graced the meet in numberless charming
groups. But there was no chance to display toi-
lettes, as the only promenade was at the back of
those watching the arena. Lacking a comfortable
stand, most of the ladies sat on the grass terraces
facing the sun. We don’t think they liked it,
though ; it is opposed to a natural feminine idea
of dignity to sit on the grass, and it is not good
for dresses. Nor is it agreeable to be fencing the
sun with a parasol all the time. A grand-stand
would be quite a bonanza to the Agricultural
Ground. The Balmain Coldstreams performed a
programme of popular music on the ground.
* * *
The last of the Quadrille Assemblies given
by the ladies of Narandera took place on Tuesday
week, and was well attended. On this occasion,
some of the married ladies looked remarkably
well: Mrs. Favlelle in white cashmere, Mrs. Stin-
son in maroon cashmere and broche, and Mrs.
Smith, pretty in pale blue silk, were among them.
Of the single ladies, it was difficult to say who was
belle; but a fascinating trio were Miss Jenkins in
white and pale blue veiling, Miss Ada Spring, in
pink and blue sateen, and Miss Minnie Fraser in
black grenadine with velvet bodice and cream
lace. Refreshments were managed creditably by
Mrs. Manning, and Broadhurst’s music was also
capital.
* * *
la the Masonic Hall, Parramatta, on
Thursday night last, a gay and festive company
assembled, the occasion being a social given
by several Parramatta gentlemen, in return to
Mcsdames Coates, Hughes, and Harper’s family
social reunion, held in the same hall a few months
back. There were about seventy couples present,
and dancing was kept up with spirit from nine till
half-past four next morning, to the Invigorating
strains of Skipper’s band. A pleasing change in
the programme was noticeable, for after every
fourth dance, a twenty minutes’ social interval
took place, during which ladies and gentlemen
favoured the company with vocal selections, given
in an admirable manner. Among the dresses
attracting most attention wore the following:—
Miss Edgehill, in electric blue, cream lace, and
coral trimming; Mrs. B. Cochran, lilac satin and
pearls: Miss E. Moore, cream nun’s veiling, blue-
collared, and maiden blush roses; Miss Cochran,
white satin, cream lace, and pearls; Mrs. Benson,
cardinal and cream; Miss Rae, ottoman satin pink
and nun’s veiling; Mrs. Hurst, fawn silk; Miss
Davis, pale green and cardinal pompons; Mrs.
Greames, black satin and London smoke; Miss
Mason, cream and cardinal; and a Parramatta
young lady, in pale blue and gold flowers, was be-
witching. Messrs. B. Cochran, Barnett, Gibbons,
and Mason attended to the requirements of all,
and it was mainly owing to them exertions that
the evening passed so pleasantly. The catering
was entrusted to Baumann, of Pitt-street, who did
it in his usual satisfactory style. The Sydney
visitors returned to town by ihe morning train,
greatly pleased with their Parramatta social.
* * *
Grenfell had a ball, whose hobjeot and
haim, as the Mayor explained in his little speech,
was to hadvance the hinterests of the School of
Halts. It had a very good pecuniary result, and,
though the assemblage was motley, the manage-
ment indifferent, and the music conspicuously bad,
there were many points of interest about the ball.
One was the novel way in which the promoters
endeavoured to realise as much as possible by sell-
ing the remnants of the supper at a Bruce auction,
and the local auctioneer was heard, after the meal,
expatiating on the residuum with much eloquence:
“ How mootch for dis roasd durkey ? Bid me zome-
ding for avowl! Oph, bood I haf here twelf leedle
tarts, so sweed as noting.” Apurtfrom these little
peculiarities, the ball was a perfect success, for the
ladies attending were numerous, charming, well-
dressed, and mostly good dancers. Some of the
gentlemen could not be so characterised, notably
a postal official and a bank manager, whose terpsi-
chorean efforts resembled the erratic movements
of a crippled tarantula trying desperately to escape
from the iron heel of avenging fate. The dresses
of ladies wei e choice and chic—that is, for Grenfell.
The belle—if any could claim the distinction among
so many modern Eves—was a young lady known
as “The One-mile Fairy,” dressed in cream sateen
trimmed with pink bows. Miss Easton looked
very nice in pink, with pink and dark blue bows.
Miss Rich made quite a fay-like appearance in
prune velvet skirt and cream polonaise, and en-
riched the room, Mrs. Robertson and Mrs. Olson
were charming, both in pale blue silk; Mrs. Vaughn
and Mrs- Bennett shone in dark green silk with
white trimming. Also meriting mention were an
interesting galaxy comprising Miss Campbell, Miss
Muller, Miss Thurawall, and Miss Nicholls, for
attire and gracefulness.
« • •
On 15th July, the Amazon Quadrille Club
held a plain an-i fancy [ball in Hall's rooms, to the
music of a string band. Supper was provided up-
stairs, and the costumt s were various. A young
lady, whose name is short, and yet Long, made a
nice Greek; and another dress—quite a Ward-robe
of history—represented Joan of Arc. Miss Cooper
came in very small hoops, and blue dress; a Marl-
tana and Cabin Boy (who was a girl) were noticed.
A maiden of graceful presence appeared in Car-
thona C.C. colours-an Addie-d compliment to her
escort. Romp and a Dandy Irishman, Swell
Nigger, Soldiers, and Bailors were among the
other characters.
On Friday, the third gathering of the
Woollahra Private Assembly was held at Niths-
dalc Rooms, and if numbers constitute a success, it
must have been one. About 170 tickets were issued,
and were all presented, and the fact that no crowd-
ing was felt must be attributed to the forethought
of the ladies in dressing within reasonable limits.
In fact, the late outburst of perispheric fashion
seems to have reached its extreme; it cannot ex-
pand any more with the present style of chairs;
and wondering man looks forward to a possible
decrease of outline in the happy future. The
constant shocks to his feelings in a crowded waltz-
room are really too much. The ballet skirts are
the favourite just now. Some very fashionable
styles were seen at the Woollahra Assembly. Three
Misses Patrick, from Appin, looked very nice, one
in plain blue sateen, the next in blue with spotted
nun’s veiling, the third in plain white. There was
only one bride—rather few after all the promis-
ing indications given by the youthful members
of the Assembly last year. Her dress was an
elaborate brocaded cream silk, with orange
blossoms and wreath, and was effectively pretty.
Mrs. Russell looked well in cream surah and
pansies; Miss Laurie in black silk trimmed with
fine lace, and Hewers on the breast. Mrs. (Dr.)
Durham wore a steel-grey silk; Mrs. Jackson a
peach-blossom sateen, trimmed with very wide
white lace; and Miss Dunnicliff a white surah,
with little birds here and there—symbolic of her
airy dancing. A young lady from North Shore
wore the only train. Trains are not popular in
ball-rooms now, and, to be effective, the wearers
require a large amount of training as to how to
manage them, which they do not always seem to
have had. A young lady wore a conspicuous red.
sprinkled with gold, and powdered hair. Some of
the dresses were old favourites, almost historical
ones. One very nice pink brocade was worn by a
lady about to be married, and the majority were
motley white and pink. Twenty dances were per-
formed by 1 a.m., and the music, as on previous
occasions, was provided in a most satisfactory way
by Mr. Ernest Needs. Baumann spread a delicious
table. Special tram up to Woollahra, as usual.
• • •
Outside the new Masonic Hall, the usual
crowd of gapers; inside, Scotland, in all the glory
of kilted clansmen and merry-faced girls. Out-
side, the ever-so-many candle power burners threw
their glare on the entering guests as the cabs drove
up, on the tartan-clad chieftains, on the fantastic
figures made by bunched-up ball dresses disguised
under ulsters, and on Scottish maidens whose heads
—like their native mountains—were wrapped in
“clouds.” The memory of the land of chiefs and
songs, whisky, mist, hogmenay, and haggis, was
well celebrated by the Thistle Club ball. On all
hands were seen the clan tartans, nodding plumes,
sporrans, dirks, and glittering stones, buckled
shoon and braw limbs in plaid stockings. Several
ladies wore national dress, and fully a score of
young folks, in the full panoply of kilts, glen-
garries, and shoulder scarfs, careered about in a
condition of full enjoyment. The grand march
which opened was rather long, but interesting; it
was led by the chief, Mr. C. S. Smith, and his lady,
the couples [separating and joining again in twos,
fours, eights, and finally coming up the breadth of
the hall sixteen abreast, rows of ladies and gentle-
men alternating. Then a halt, the gentlemen stood
still, and, each row of ladies facing right about to
their partners, the whole company was in position
to start first dance. This was the old-fashioned
Triumph, and, although it was strange to many, it
was accomplished very fairly with the help of
those who knew it. Other novelties on the pro-
gramme w<>re the Petronella, the Flowers of Edin-
bro’, and Scotch reels, all done with spirit: the reels,
indeed, seemed to be a vigorous, rather exhausting,
kind of performance. But, in case anyone should
fiag, every now and then a wild whoop stirred up
the spirits to renewed exertion and further per-
spiration. One extra item was Scotch step-dancing,
to bagpipes, by three boys and two girls. The
stepping was excellent, and protracted; the
smallest boy was the first to retire, then the other
two got “ full,” and the two lassies were left
shaking their symmetrical tootsies in proud posses-
sion of the floor, and finished under a round of
applause. From the gallery, which was crammed
with friendly spectators, the sight was well worth
seeing, and many stayed on till the “ wee sma’
hoors ayont the twal” to watch it. On the plat-
form, with a background of scenery, were the
musicians, and the hall was decorated with flags
and the Royal ooat-of-arms. When the supper-
rooms were opened at II o’clock, a great rush set
In to the top of the building, where the hot air
ascending soon made the room very warm. As
the gallery opened on to the first landing, some of
the spectators improved their opportunity by
mixing with the stream and slipping in for a good
supper without incurring the preliminary expense
of paying for it. When, however, this creditable
little manoeuvre was observed, guests received
passes going out of the ball-room up to refresh-
ment, and the free-feeders were blocked at the
door, to their great grief. No doubt they did not
mean any harm, and were only in training to be-
come picnic politicians some day. A good many
ladies found the trip up the celestial stairs several
times during the night rather fatiguing; and as
there is spare land at the side of the large hall, it
would be worth the Masons considering the
idea of building a light supper-room out-
side, which would be infinitely more conve-
nient. Mr. H. Giltinan was entrusted with the
duties of Master of Ceremonies, and managed
them well; Mr. A Hamilton, second chieftain, be-
ing secretary to the ball. One of the best charac-
ters was the Marie Stuart of Miss Clara Hamilton,
which was greatly admired, the lady being also an
adept at the national dances. Two sisters in white,
with trimming of Victoria plaid, were a charming
pair, and fairy-footed, too. But a slim Scotch lass,
in real Scotch tunic and red ilaid, who danced
bareheaded, was a particularly good dancer. A
Ritt-street young lady wore a handsome dress of
cardinal satin, panier bodice, and flowered skirt;
and three sisters wore all black, with Rob Roy
tartan trimming. A School Girl was exceedingly
plump and pert in light blue; and Folly rather
fascinating in cardinal. Very fine was an old gold
ottoman cord dress, with front tablier of chestnut
velvet, tabbed at the bottom. Two sisters wore
dresses that were simple, yet perhaps the neatest
in the throng; they were pink nun's veiling, with
long pleated skirts, loose bodies, and bows of blue
for trimming. A little brunette in white satin and
silver fillet; a tali lady in pale blue broche, lightly
trimmed with ruby and blue chenille fringe; a
stately lady from near St. James’ in a rich pale
pink robe, were all not eeable among the many. A
capitally-conceived fancy dress was worn by a
brunette lady in the three colours of black, white,
and red; it was the character of a German Vivan-
diere. A white India muslin and cherry ribbons
was pretty; and Nancy Lee, in dark blue, was a
jolly little girl, who made up for no particular
skill in dancing by a good deal of willingness.
From Market-street came one of the richest dresses,
a beautiful blue silk, trimmed with roses. Of
course, most of the music was of a national char-
acter, and pretty, and altogether the ball was of a
thoroughly jovial, family kind, enjoyed by every-
one, without any display of “ starch.” It was get-
ting on for five o’clock when they finally broke
up.
• • *
“Going to press” rendered it impossible
last week to squeeze in the few words we desired
about the interesting dresses at the Synagogue
wedding. But the elegant toilettes noticeable
among the fairer portion of the fashionable throng
who adorned the splendid temple for Hebrew wor-
ship on that occasion deserve some mention. Miss
Frank, the bride, who never looked more charm-
ing, wore a long ruche of frayed-out corded silk,
so as to look just like ostrich feathers; front of
skirt was closely embroidered with large pearl
medallion, the drapery at top was composed of
pearl lace and satin interwoven; the left side of
skirt was flounced up with pearl lace till it dis-
appeared under the bodice, which was made with a
small point back and front, and fastened behind.
There was a full ruche round the neck; and the
sleeves were finished off with pearl lace, which
hung loosely over the long white gloves. Five
ju enile bridesmaids attended the bride, of whom
four wore simple and pretty cream dresses, the
fifth attired in cardinal, and all had large cream
lelt hats, and carried lovely baskets of flowers.
Mrs. S. Hoffnung looked exceedingly well in a
trained robe of bronze satin, with handsomely
embossed velvet, the flowers of which were tinted
deep red. Mrs. A. Stuart was in black, with cream
Spanish lace, cape and bonnet to match; the
Mayoress in a floe black broche; and Mrs. John
Smith in a quiet drab cloth. Miss Cohen, sister of
the bridegroom, wore a moss-green and eau de Nil
striped skirt, with body and drapery and plush
same colour. Mrs. Philip Cohen wore a long train
of black moire embroidered with medallions, and
cut in mitres with cardinal satin under; the front
was elaborately embossed with coloured flowers
on black ground. Mrs. L. W. Levy wore a long
train of grenadine, black ground with red velvet
flowers, and a front of real lace flounces. Mrs. De
Lissa appeared in a striking cardinal and black
silk; Miss Stephen wore a neat myrtle-green cos-
tume; Miss Q. Eagar was nice in a stylish fawn
cashmere and broche; and Miss Maclean looked
attractive in black striped velvet. Mrs. C. J.
Roberts wore a tasteful heliotrope satin-de-lyon,
trimmed with cream guipure embroidery; and
Mrs. James Marks one equally so, of slate and
crushed strawberry satin. A pretty dress was that
worn by a dark lady, consisting of pale pink nun’s
veiling and deep cardinal; another of brown vel-
vet was extremly rich, as was also a deep claret
broche, and a much ornamented dark green velvet
and old gold. Mrs. Rabbi Davis wore black, Mrs.
Plunkett cream and black; while a demure young
lady in mauve and amber brown was conspicuously
elegant. The presents were numerous, costly, and
much admired, especially the handsome salver
given to the bridegroom by his brother Ministers.
• • *
The best ball yet held in Temora took
Slace at Ward’s Victoria Theatre, on Wednesday,
!th inst. Costumes were plain and fancy, and 30
couples slid around the floor. Bffleship was
unanimously awarded to a pretty little brunette
dressed as Daughter of the Regiment, who whirled
most poetically. Another brunette, as a Swiss
Peasant, was admirable, while both the Gipsy
Countess and Nancy Lee were charming. Of the
other sex, a Neapolitan Officer’s costume had some
merit, and a popular postal official produced fun
as a typical Yankee. Naval and military, also
court characters, livened the scene. Twenty-one
dances were ended about 4 a.m., and the National
Anthem sent everyone home pleased,
♦ * *
About 45 couples were present on Thurs-
day evening at the last Mercantile Assembly,
Orange. The night was just such a one as de-
votees of Terpsichore love, fine and cool; and
about 16 dances were dispensed with by twelve
o’clock. As usual, it was difficult to say who car-
ried off the honours; but a Sale-street beauty in
white flounced skirt of frosted tulle, with her
friend in shrimp-pink surah, together with a Byng-
street favourite in cream silk profusely trimmed
with cardinal duchesse satin, were not far out of
it. A March-street brunette stood out in bold
relief, attired in cream nun’s-veillng and white
Rhadames satin bodice; a little stranger, in black
Muscovite silk relieved with cardinal, was ad-
mired. A Tasmanian lady in black, and a
new arrival in cream surah trimmed with black
velvet, were noticeable. Blayney held its own,
represented by a beauty in black silk and cardinal.
A tall brunette striking in light blue satin; and
black satin adorned with pleasing effect the form
of a Hale-street blonde; and her sister in mulberry
cashmere looked nice. Moulder-street sent a
beautiful waltzer in black velvet enlivened with
white fur, and her companion in pink faille was
awfully sweet. A petite Summer-street damsei
looked charming in punch, as did also a favourite
from the Terrace in old gold sateen. The Termi-
nus produced two sisters, one in claret cashmere,
and the younger in black grenadine trimmed with
cardinal satin. The daughter of the head school-
master, in black grenadine, was a favourite; a
blonde from the precincts of the Convent, in black
silk, witn her friend, in claret cashmere, were
amongst the sought-for ones.
• m •
A fashionable wedding in Auckland lately
was that of Mr. J. H. Keep (connected with the
wealthy firm of Keep Bros., Birmingham) to Miss
Agnes Rosa Chambers (daughter of a partner in
Morrin and Co.) The Cathedral was crowded, and
the pretty bride, attended by Misses Clark, Keep,
Moginie. and Chambers, as bridesmaids, all in
cream trimmed with moss-green velvet. Break-
fast at the bride’s parents’ residence in Princess-
street, and in the evening Mr. Chambers gave a
banquet. The happy pair started the honeymoon
to the Waikato, but on Monday last arrived by the
Arawata in Sydney.
• • •
The third Tamworth Winter party took
Slace in the Oddfellows’ Hall on the 18th instant,
[any pretty faces and toilettes. Pink and maroon
satin looked admirable, aa worn by a bank mana-
ger’s wife; pink and maroon velvet was also worn
by a petite, with charming result; as usual, the
brilliant matron from Qoonoo Goonoo, in cream
and cardinal, was evidently appreciated; a lady
from Oaklands was nice in black and scarlet, and
contributed some of the dance tunes; two sisters
—one in pale blue and black velvet, the other in
white and cardinal ribbons—looked equally charm-
ing. Two sisters from Attunga added to the
beauty of the room; and a petite was overwhelm-
ing in a magnificent toilette of white satin and
lace. Two visitors from Penrith looked and danced
admirably. Refreshment and music good; on the
whole, a successful gathering.
• • •
The Art Society’s show has been the
favourite rendezvous. The attendance has been
largest in the evenings, rendered attractive by
familiar faces, and music. On Friday, the room
was especially thronged, a concert being given
under Mr. C. Huenerbein, who played the Leura
waltz, &c., and Miss J. Deakin and Mrs. Curtis sang
the duet “Sainted Mother,” melodiously. Miss
Deakin also sang “ When the roses bloom,” and
Mrs. Curtis “ Out on the rocKs,” which would
make a pretty subject, painted as nicely as it was
sung. Miss Jessie Patrick’s bright face was seen
over the piano keys; Master Thompson corneted;
and Mr. Hallewell gave two solos, “ Vanity,’’ and
“Simon the Cellarer.” Another singer, with an
exquisite treble, was Master H. Watson, from
Westminster Abbey choir, London, He bas sung
frequently during the exhibition, to the accom-
paniment of Mrs. G. Read, and in “ The Chorister ”
and the pretty ballad, *• Muriel,” his clear, bell-
like voice, evidently well-trained, has been a
rare treat to visitors. Last Tuesday, another
concert was held, and the last musical nights will
be to-night and Saturday, when the show closes.
Two smalt statues of the Queen have been on view
lately. If they are like the Queen, they possess
the peculiarity of not being at all like each other.
A fair number of pictures now bear the red wafer
“ sold,” but the buyers have not been so numerous
as hoped. The society desires to have a permanent
list of subscribers to its Art Union each year; the
subscription is moderate, with the chance of valu-
able prizes. The highest priced picture is Tre-
mayne Lark’s beautiful one of “The Nun,” 150
guineas; and the only others running into three
figures are his “ Answer to the Challenge,” and
G. Ferrarini’s “Evening;” but there are number-
less charming little scenes which may be purchased
as mementoes of the artist’s work at from 3guineas
to lOguiaeas. Winners and buyers should remove
their paintiugs on Monday next. When the Town
Hall is deserted again, the fashionables will miss
one of their pleasantest haunts.
* * * *
Mrs. Hadfield, phrenologist, advises sweet-
hearts to have their heads examined before they
marry. The idea of a Sydney Block girl having
her head examined, to see what it contains, is very
amusing At Braidwood, a rink has been formed
tor skating, which, the local editor says, “is a
harmless amusement.” From which we gather he
hasn’t tried it yat Annual Convent Ball in
Dubbo in August The Victorian Cyclists’
Union are going to entertain Mr. Justice Williams
at a dinner next month — The Loftus Quadrille
Assembly is the lofty title of some terpsichorean
strugglers at Junee Junction. We now wait to
hear of the Cochin China Club at Carrathool, and
the annual Brahmapootra Bail at Buxmedman —
A gymnastic club has been formed at Narrabri—
The Armidale L.O.L. commemorated the glorious
13th by an all-night dance in the Town Hall; and
(For continuation of Social, see nojct page.)


READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
HOP
m
ft
tc>
'Pg
m
&
o
NVALUA
Si; ... surrtR
)ro **iS
to
ion
ss
n
u
Ne
L V QU
?he
U
?en
SIB
m
m
fia
UPTED FOR T
Australian Colonies'
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187 i
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
Georg
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M,
M.L.C.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggio, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wades :
Havmarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Glralarabone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-streot.
Directors;
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Goo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
eial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Victoria Furniture Folisl!
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The above being a genuine preparation, it recom-
metids itself.
TRY IT.
SINGER & CO.
V. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W„
35 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
''SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to onooso a partner for life, so as to live happy •
V 9? ®° f. efir S, in -. a 9 d Preserve your health, &c]
S^ryrnIl?; S ydne E y LBY ’ M<H '’ De ™nshlre-fltreet.
KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-streat.
’s Mercers, k
K1 bby’s Shirts at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit, quality or finish.
prices GrWear f ° r Winter > Jar 8' e variety, lowest
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Collars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &o,
KIBBY & CO., 96 King-street.
(e only mtauibfe remedy for
//ERybtfs JjebiLijyT
Tins invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures ali who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex'
haustive derangement of the system; regeneration
all the important elements of the human frame
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tlons. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
36s.; if by coach, 3s 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
A lot of the members of the Melbourne
Fire Brigades want to skip about in their brigade
uniforms, in connection with the Y.M.C.A. Hang
it! this is too much I It should surely be possible
to extinguish flies on Secularist principles. Ex-
cept Hell-fire, of course.
A billiard match, which should bring all
the talent out of their shells, is to take place in
Melbourne, In October next, under the auspices of
Messrs. Alcock and Co., the famous Australian
manufacturers of billiard-tables, who provide as a
prize one of their first-class match-tables, valued
at 150 guineas. Full particulars are given in our
advertising columns.
The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener and curative on earth. Hop Bitters.
See.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockinqs and
Co., 113 Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and l3are,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 604 Hunter-street.
Sydney.*
The reader’s attention is respectfully
drawn to the advertised sale of the Cooper Estate
on Tues jay, 29th inst, and the facilities offered for
purchasing at easy rates this valuable property
will doubtless give many the long wished for
opportunity of securing without serious difficulty
splendid allotments at market prices in a quarter
where the profit on the investment bids fair to
increase every month. To the mechanics and
artisans this chance should be of greatest interest,
as it is within easy access to the city, affording
pleasant homes with all comforts at cheap figures,
free from the rush of trade, at the same time hav-
ing all the surroundings of good society. The
sale will take place on Tuesday next at the rooms
of Messrs. Batt, Rodd, and Purves.*
He was determined to do it, and do it he
did. He had a long way to go, and it wouldn’t
run to tram fares. He had been sucked in once
before, but “ experience makes fools wise.” He
was only a poor boy, but early misfortune had
made him precious shrewd; his weather eye was
well open, and he meant being in it this time. He
had saved up for it, bit by bit, denying himself a
lolly here and a banana there; but virtue would
be rewarded, and he would have something worth
looking at, and no mistake—something with which
he could defy the mud in the Newtown Road and
the puddles in his native suburb, and he was
delirious with the joy of anticipation. And where
was he going, and what was his errand, forsooth?
He was going to Anthony Hordern and Sons, The
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, to buy a new pair
ef boots.*
TOWNSHIP OF RIVERSTONE.
Situate Twenty-eight Miles from Sydney, on the Windsor and Richmond Railway.
, The craving fco* the possession of land is so firmly implanted in the breasts of all Anglo-Saxons that their ultimate success in whntever nnrt nf tho t , . , , .
truly is the possession of land the first step towards prosperity. It is not, however, possible in all countries to become a possessor of the soil P the transfer be wondered at, so
process appalling to the minds of ordinary folk, raising Visions of lawyers offices, legal big-wlgged transfer of land m most countries being a formidable legal
.... No doubr many readers of these luxes will admit that in their native climes it would haw been thought the acme of nresumntion for the rrdinnrv wnrHn™ v. ,, , ,
.tteSs n “to°.bi "mass^A™ l ssisfea, ,, ffiaSiyusts ; z*
ordinary persons whose industry and enterprise is the sword with which they have to fight their way to prosperity and independence P ° ai utIUty ’ in dlmen810n8 suitable for the acquirement of
The thrifty father, however small his earnings, is enabled to lay by a few shillings each month and become the hannv possessor of’ the land nn »hinh v>..uaa u )o u , , ...
rounding his residence with nature’s bounties, well knowing that the improvement he makes on his land will not g PP £o P beneflt an exacting landlord n»H » lth tJ J e a a V p nt ? ge of 8Ur ‘
more valuable legacy for those he leaves behind when the “silver cord ” shall have ceased to hold him in this transitory existence thus settfn/ an P r °P erty ' daily becoming a
happiness and comfort, and instilling into thtdr minds germs of frugality, thrift, and industry transitory existence, tnus setting an example to his children that cannot but tend to their
establishments of a similar description slowly centring around, and the numerous trades and callings pertaining the-eto are ranidiv hfi«iminir a «nn»Snn a,rJ^ D ila<. an TL tllere 18 every likelihood of other
sasii'Sr' ad ™- aB - 01 eood eoodsolu pure ssss-
g rax 6 th ' s intention of u ‘ tim,teiy upon tbe iand ' '««• b «°v s Bssfftsssasas^s^^^s^JSiTtoftsaTSss^ssji^re 1
Vendor of the Grantham Estate therefore decided to place it in the market at a p rice and oa terma w fthfn the reatffi of al? and ?n n u anti Z«, i Uahi c?nr .?£ D the # S aaller investors. The present
cultivation. The purchaser, who requires a building site and garden, has buttobuyonelotf but thosewhore means and °r Vrlcultu^
a number of allotments, which at the prices this property is offered can bo done cheaply’ and on more advantageous terms than hv the ordinary ~ a j® ££°h*' e, i P r 9 vl *^ on f° r the future, can take up
The Estate offers facilities seldom met with. Situate upon a gently risingeminence within om vdltan ™ oft h Uy 3 n & land :
cultivated tarm lands, a steam saw-mill, in full operation, and surrounded by numerous residencesfvillasfand farmsteads it offers nnv fn^he 6^ 0 ? 6 * a ? d ad sL? m i? g Prosperous
The fertility of the sou is clearly and unmistakably proved by the surrounding productive farms, vineyards, and pasture land.
totagt borbon .
Drainage is rendered simple and effectual by the altitude of the land. 8 u 11 ertJ oom * UCTie or no worK required to make the land produce valuable crops,
of t SVo“tTn““ l “ dU ’“ 1 ' M BiVlng e “ pl '»'““‘ *° a la "« » ! operative., the merry hum of the «w mill, the shrill whistle of the railway loeomotlve, all ladlcate the prosperity and advancement
awswsvs suRunuKft a susa s&ss SSw? ‘“ ?b “ e saara
'hote l2d2penden“an?smf-relmntoSle 1 t?i | ?w| , 2?erbad*betorKS5o a rr^ o Se e who r havle5t 0 astak^5th? l TOifntry e “““ "ith which the? nseltV'we hj??
and is always growing in value; that such small investment may be the foundation of a fortune but cannotnosslblv prove a , d “, eata R° thl nfir. costs nothing to keep,
prwero“s toVnehlpf “* eet ’ w “ a vl6w not only °‘ the intrinsic worth of the Allotments, hufaddln, to the «ymaS^Sli5pSSSSSMaHS5Bt«Sffig^ > tor'^i&SS?i!rtSS&gtTl*ta
Each Allotment haa a Prontaire of 30 PEEP by a Depth of 200 FEET; the Price of which is £5 per LOT in foil, payable Se. per month. No Interest No Pines
THE TITLE IS TOEIEUS’.
ance with t he terms eontmbed ondmons a of S saIe? f Wllllam80n s Chambers, kina-street, Sydney, who will furnish transfers free of cost to purchasers so soon as the purchase money is paid in accord-
Further particulars can be obtained of the Auctioneers, Messrs. BOYD & KING, 96 Pitf-street, Sydney.
The Allotments commence 66 feet from the Railway.
(Social, continued from page 16.)
on the 14th the Oddfellows celebrated their nine-
teenth anniversary with a ball, which might
have been pretty good, but for the bad weather,
poor dancers, and inadequate refreshments....
A lady who fainted at a private ball, recently, was
handed over to a doctor, and on opening her dress
to afford relief, he found a broad metal band
tightened round her waist, to reduce it to regula-
tion size. It was only-with difficulty the band was
forced open, and as her dress would not button
after she had been thus allowed to “spread,” she
had to be wrapped in shawls for the journey home.
This metal band contrivance seems a very poor
one. If a girl really does want her waist squeezed,
there are much simpler methods, and the pressure
can be regulated according to taste A saucy
girl was faulted by an old party, whose mashing
days are done, for wearing a fringe. Fixing him
with that snake-like glitter which a hurt girl can
put in her eye, she observed, “ Perhaps you would
like me to cut it off, so you could wear it on the
top of your head ? DearoldNoahl” The officers
of tie Legislative Assembly banqueted Mr. J. H.
Palmer', Government shorthand writer, as he is
retiring after 40 years service. He also received a
photo, group and a handsome present. Mr. Palmer
takes a holiday to N.Z. He writes Gurney ...
Mayer sf Brisbane gives a ball to a thousand on
1st August Commercial Dramatic Club being
formed — At Aramac, Q , the race ball was held
in the Court House, the Judge s room being
specially set apart for ladies. Fond couples ap-
propriated the prisoners’ dock, and, ever since,
when any fickle youth gives signs of cooling in
his attentions, the willow waly girls of Aramac
threaten to put him in the dock again... Ball, in
aid of R.C. Church, lately, at Shellharbour The
annual dinner of the A.O.F., Court Sydney, occurs
4th August . The Town Hall is to be completed
in 1388, the anniversary of the colony. Sydney
will have a ball-room then.. .Last Wednesday,
16th, there was a crammed audience to a social
entertainment in the R.C. schoolroom, Parra-
matta, when, after tea, songs, music, and recitals
were given by the children and amateur helps;
of Father Harnett received 50 sovs The com-
mittee of the School of Industry announce a ball
in aid of it next month.'...The Birmingham Club
elected their officers last Thursday, and are now
looking out for premises Port Douglas bache-
lors lately gave a ball.... At Bourko, a capital im-
promptu dance was organised a few days back, in
the Mechanics' Institute, when some three-score
guests danced the night out A capital social
gathering was recently held at the Sir Joseph
Banks, to farewell Mr. Fred. Doran, who is leaving
Sydney for the Clarence. Twenty couples of his
friends got out in the afternoon, and at 6 o’clock
they attacked Frank Smith’s artistic tables, and a
few speeches followed. Skating in the early part
had given all who tried it an appetite, and dancing
afterwards completed an enjoyable evening.. .
Taking advantage of the annual show, which is a
big occasion at Hay, the Masons held their annual
ball the night of the opening in the Mason’s
ball. Proceedings were carried out with the
usual Masonic formalities, such as entering
with drawn swords, and “collaring” the ladies
at midnight, etc. Supper was laid in Temperance
Hall adjoining, under Mrs. Esplin of Taltersall’s,
and Abbott provided music for the dancers. The
same night, the Church of England bazaar opened
in the Academy of Music, and on succeeding nights
to< k lots of money Mr. W, Pigott, having re-
signed his seat in Parliament, was banqueted at
Ashfleld School of Arts on Friday last. About 100
present; Mr. John Pope in the chair, who proposed
the guest’s health. The Colonial Secretary and
Mr. Trickett spoke at length. Mr. Pigott retires
because he cannot work night and day without
hurting his health. He is not like some of the
windbags who can “ gas ” eternally and vet never
hurt themselves or anybody else ... The Governor
of Victoria and Lady Loch made their first public
appearance in outside society at the Liederiaiel
lu the Melbourne Town Hall Early this month,
the station of Mr. Donald Wallace, the well-known
racing man, was the scene of a pretty wedding of
a relative. Miss Clara Wallace was the bride, at-
tended by two of her sisters and two Misses
M’Kinnon and M’Pherson, and her present name
is Mrs. W. B. Johnson. The noted belle, Mrs,
Donald Wallace, is sister-in-law of the bride. The
happy ones started for their honeymoon to
Sydney The bathelors of Muswellbrook
give a grand ball on the 31st July.... anniversary
of the French Republic celebrated in Melbourne
by the French Society of Victoria, on the 14th
Instant, by a banquet at Gunsler’s. A number of
consuls were present, and chair taken by M. Pet oil.
The glorious “ Marseillaise ” was sung... On Satur-
day afternoon, a number of his friends picnicked
Mr. George Thornton, junior, at Narrabean, as he
is; leaving Manly. Several M.P’s. were present,
and the whole party drove in coaches to the La-
goon, where an al fresco lunch was spread, and
liquor and eloquence freely flowed. Mr. G. H.
Reid proposed “Our Guest,” replied to by Mr.
Thornton; and after other toasts, &o., a ride home
through the pretty scenery ended the day’s excur-
sion.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lytton Club Concert (Protestant Hall)..... July 25.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nlthsdale) July 25.
Newtown Socials’ Ball August 1.
Masonic Ball (Penrith) August 1
Sydney Bicycle Club Annual Sports August 2.
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball (West’s
Rooms) August 4.
Victoria House Ball (Nit-bsdale) August 15.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) August 27.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) September 3.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Sydney”: Nice and smooth, but it is
rather late in the year. Now, if you’d sent it six
months ago, your sex would have blessed you
Obliged for report, but it is just two
weeks too stale. Send earlier ...“T.W.S.”; There
is nothing to contradict. There are two of same
name. Wo cannot help that.... “H.J.V.” Thanks;
rather good... “Maud”: Thank you. On emer-
genoyjwe can take important items on Tuesday
afternoon.


Professor West’s Dancing Hall, Castle-
reagh-street. South.
Oke of the most conspicuous objects, in point of
architecture, in Castlereagh-street, nearly opposite
fche Protestant Hall, is “ Leigh House,” the com-
modious and well-appointed academy recently
erected by Prof. Allan P. West, to meet the in-
creasing requirements of his large classes in danc-
ing. The bull Ung is well situated in the healthiest
part of the city, and has a frontage of 43 feet to
Castlereagh-street, with a depth of 120 feet to a
right-of-way at the rear. The front elevation is
surmounted by a handsome cornice, and leading
into the right-hand entrance is an attractive porch
for carriages, a bold freedom of detail being
noticeable in the style of architecture adopted.
The material for construction has been well
chosen, and the structure now stands an orna-
ment to the city, and a tine specimen of colonial
workmanship. The interior is not less striking
and imposing than the exterior view, particular
attention having been given to artistic effect and
finish, which go so far to increase the general
beauty of a place. A wide entrance conducts into
the main hall on the ground floor, where
the drawing room, supper and bail rooms,
and conservatory are found “cn suite.” A
spacious staircase leads to the upper floor, to the
various dressing, smoking and card rooms, show-
ing this academy to be the most extensive in the
colony, and offering exceptional advantages for
the purpose intended. On entering the building
the flrst room on the left is the supper-room, 35ft.
in length, very roomy and with every convenience
—where ample catering may be furnished without
the crowding and confusion that detract so much
from the enjoyment of many parties or receptions.
There is a drawing-room, also 35ft long, looking
into the ball-room, and the carpets and upholstery
are exceedingly rich. Well supplied with coqifprt-
able lounges and ottomans, no expense has been
spared to make this room a pattern of elegance,
and good taste in furnishing—one glance bearing
out the fact of the successful accomplishment of
the professor’s attempt in this direction. The
ball-room is perfect in its entirety, the matter of
ventilation being made a special feature, and
three large doors opening outward render easy
exit in case of an emmergency. The dimensions
are Stift, long, by 40ft. wide, and the room is over
20ft. in height. The floor is made of Kauri-pine,
tongued and grooved, set on Americon rubber
springs, and was constructed under the personal
i supervision of Professor West, At the extreme
end, opening into the ball-room, the conservatory
with Its wealth of tree ferns and palms, is well
worth a visit. Its length is 42 feet. These four
rooms are connected by double folding doors, and
can be thrown together, forming a room over 120
feet long, or exactly double the length of the large
vestibule of Sydney Town Hall. Commodious and
spacious as it is, acoustic properties are most per-
fect, and the academy is peculiarly suitable for
private concerts. “ Leigh House ” is a fac simile
of the leading academies on the Continent of
Europe and in America, and is well provided with
all necessary appointments for the successful
carrying out of the systematic course of teach-
ing which has had for its premier exponent the
well-known Professor West. The ceiling is so con-
structed that the temperature of the building may
be regulated, avoiding the usual accompaniment
of dreaded draughts of cold air so baneful to the
dancer, and stili so often encountered in the ordi-
nary bali-room. We may add that this academy is
aeknowledged by all critics to be really the
best building in Sydney for private entertainments.
To decorate an immense and lofty apartment like
the ball-room at “Leigh House” necessarily re-
quires great skill and no small amount of expendi-
ture; the tendency to overdo prevails, and express
care must be taken to harmonize colour and
arrange space in order to secure symmetrical re-
sults, and retain a striking yet natural beauty of
design. In this regard, W3 note with satisfaction
the artistic taste shown in the arrangement and
grouping of countless art flea of ornamentation,
rendering the whole gratifying to the eye. Numer-
ous large mirrors and flne specimens of Japanese
needlework break the monotony of the wall, while
beautlful hanging-baskets are suspended at Inter-
vals throughout the large hall. Collections from
all parts of the globe are scattered about in great
profusion, and rare old Japanese and Chinese
tapestry lend a picturesque look. Unique vases
and brie-a-brac, choice selections of curiosities
bright lanterns, flags, and native weapons oc-
cupy sections of space, and a multiplicity of
pretty ornaments meet the eye at every turn
Several beautiful German canaries sing sweetly
from their perches in the cages, and at night, when
the gas is lighted, and the tinted globes give out a
soft radiance, the whole effect of the polished
floor and the diversity and contrast of colour
in decorations is charming. Just a word
with reference to the gentleman whose en-
thusiasm, backed up by his persistent efforts
have made his name a household word, and
given to Sydney an institution of which we may
justly be proud. Born in Somersetshire, England,
Allan P. West was trained in London and the con-
tinental cities of Europe to be a teacher of educa-
tion. Love for his present profession led him to
adopt it, and for twenty years he has followed it
successfully, having the highest English certifi-
cate. The method of teaching at Professor West a
Dancing Academy is worthy of notice. A practi-
cal teacher, and firm disciplinarian; agreeable, and
yet stimulating pupils to be refined and graceful
in manner and physique. Special attention is
paid to cultivation of form, and figure. Already
bis pupils number nearly 700, from the best families
in Sydney and New South Wales. Being an enthu-
siast in his profession, he has been several tines
through America, Italy, Spain, and Germany,
devoting his time to the study of new methods
aod movopients whereby to benefit bis pupils.
Professor West’s Dancing Hall, Castlereagh-street, South.


Oiticura
—
Sw
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERT FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
„V"
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
xtneum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Gopper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Pur:
fler. Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Bloo
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Polsonou
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Bnoemia, Pyaemia, Leu eorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
ave cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
/?. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medlolna
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching am
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humon
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautlfle
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
Indispensable In treating Skin Diseases, Babj
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, am
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautlfien
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any othe
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Bale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price
Cuticura, 50 cents per hex, large boxes, $1.00
Cuticura Soap, 86 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents: Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00 pei
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.8.A.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
K
L
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES,
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAM I’TON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET,
m
SOIlE ASENTO FOR T
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
<5
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who-
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE
RecoffQizjog w.
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons!
RETAIL DEPOT:
5 67a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN*
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and r t
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTPT. in License, is now
Known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No « ° Vvnrl D . wlth the well,
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In’to boate and !°, r
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge alwvffiSttin&e® 1 *
UV in" w ays in attendanc
HY. WILLR40RE, Proprietor.
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
'm
:' N
M
<bsl
'
1st
’///
////.
mm
IT
t y/-''///S////s/s//////
J8
>%;;/ / V77////A
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. &T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED B1 ABRUPT STOPPAGES, Estimates, Diagrams, Ac., to be obtained at
HI DSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Rcdfern,
UNEQUALLED SAFETY.* tST EXTREME SIMPLICITY. K2T GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


m
COMFORTABLE teeth
The use of this valuable mouth wash Insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Kod Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the STellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Bed is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.~To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label hears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
D£
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
SOLE AGENTS;
•I
375 George-st., Sydney.
|3ir TIME PAYMENTS, IF BEgUIltED.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Walker, lecturing on drink, says
that Victoria spends £5,000,000 a year on it. That
amount in £5 Bank of England notes, he says,
would pile up 166ft. high. Now, as Mr. Dihbs pro-
poses to borrow that amount, wouldn’t it be a big
stride towards doing away with Victorian jealousy
If the money were j ust piled u p near the Melbourne
Post-office with a label attached, “ N.S. Wales, de-
siring to promote federation, has the pleasure to
Invite the people of Victoria to accept as a small
token of friendship, 166ft. of her paper to square
the grog score for the ensuing twelve months.
This is our shout.”
Marlborough House, we grieve to learn,
is too small for the Prince of Wales and his grow-
ing family, and it is imperatively necessary that
additional space be provided at once.” This special
reference to Wales’ “ growing family ” is full of
meaning, and causes us considerable anxiety.
Either “another one is expected,” or else the
young Princesses must have been sleeping three
In a bed during their days of childhood, and are
now clamouring for separate rooms to themselves,
If that’s the state of affairs, extra space is impera-
tively needed, and, in the meantime, one of the
girls might have a bed made up in the bath-room
or the back kitchen.
The language of birds is at present en-
grossing the attention of some Continental
savants, and here’s a pen and ink sketch of the
nightingale’s song as understood by a red-nosed,
long - haired Teuton student. The noble bird,
having filled himself out with early worms, re-
quires his tender mate to hop round and pick the
bones, and so he moistens his claws with his
tongue, catches a fresh grip of a bough, and ob-
serves—
“ Zozozozozozozozozo, Zirrhading I
Hezezezezezezezezczeze I
Cowar he dze hoi I
Hi gai gai gai gai gai gai guai gai I
Coricor, dzio dzio pai I”
This is the nightingale as she spoke in Yarmany.
Apropos of the case of John Brady, who
is now awaiting trial for the murder of Pearce, by
whom (in a practical joke he had been most
grossly insulted, the Narrabri “Town Talkist”
tells the following yarn antnt a practical joke that
came off so-oe fourteen years ago, and the scan-
dalous results thereofA Chinaman arrived in
town on horseback, and whilst he was having
dnner some jokers transported his horse to a
village several miles disiant. The Celestial pur-
sued, and came upon the me i, from whom he de-
manded his property, which they refused to de-
liver; then he promptly drew a tomahawk, and
hacked in the skull of one of the party. In return
lor this, two of the crowd c illareu him and cut off
one ol his ears, and then drew him up to a tree
with the intention of hanging him; but a by-
stander interposed, and the Chinaman was rescued
and locked up. He was subsequently tried for
attempted murder, sentenced to death, and he is
now incarcerated in Parramatta gaol—a * lifer.’ ”
In 1861 there was in Victoria one lunatic in
every 819 persons of the population. In 1881 there
was one in every 304 persons. So says Mr. Hayter.
Some people in that colony express surprise at
these numbers. And some people out of that
colony express surprise, also. The former talk
about the largeness of the numbers, the latter
about the smallness. But, while these talk, there
are a lot of other people ciphering away at a most
Interesting problem. Noting that in twenty years
the sane people fell from 819 to 304 per each insane
person, they want to work out the year in which
the parties will be as 1 to 1. Then, rising from that
year and pencilling out the period when a statist
will show 304 lunatics for every one sane person of
the population, they propose to wrestle with these
most interesting speculations-to wit, shall the
country then be ruled by a coalition Government,
shall tho Bishop of Melbourne be expected to be-
lieve anything fixedly, and shall newspaper men
be as fond of pigs’ feet as they are now ? These
speculations are interesting. The latter one, es-
pecially.
When Major Shakespear announced to the
militia in the old Government Printing Office
(Melbourne), one night lately, that “troops must
either dig or die,” he shocked severely the wor-
riers' systems. Dig ? Why, in the old world, and
very generally wherever there is an army, men
gravitate down to the militia mostly because they
are too lazy to dig. There can ho no doubt that
the gallant Major understood that fully, and,
therefore, the terrible words must be set down to
a ripple of martial jocularity. When every coun-
tenance in the room indicated that the man who
wore it had made up his mind to the gloomy
alternative, and was thinking what sort of a lie he
could get cut on his tombstone, the Major’s fea-
tures relaxed, and he said that he simply meant
they should have a good supply or tools for cut-
ting trenches when the enemy was near, a thing
which was not likely to happen until the next
century was far through. Practical jokes of this
kind ought to be reprobated. It takes the men a
long time to recover their spirits, and the shock
may have hidden effects whose consequences can-
not be estimated.
The eyelids of Melbourne are swollen and red,
The hearts of the people are heavy;
Oh, why all this sadness ? oh, why these tears shed?
The Mayor didn’t go to the Levee.
Yes ’tis but too, too true;. Mayor Smith and his
colleagues in the Melbourne City Council are
offended, and permitted the levee at Government
House to get along as well as it could without
them. And a melancholy affair it turned out, in
consequence. We won’t exactly say that there
was no back-bone to the gathering, but it certainly
lacked what is almost as important a component—
viz. a corporation. (Don’t mind him—it’s a way he
has.— Ed. B.] All over a question of “ precedence,”
too. It seems that the Government having decided
to assign unto the new Militia officers the position
of presentation so long sacred to the reverend
civic dignitaries, the«e useful citizens “ will abstain
irom attending any future levees until their rights
are restored.” It's awful. Why, what's the use of
holding levtes if the Mayor and Council aren’t
going to lend their support ? Echo answers—
“ What, indeed ? ” And what’s the use of holding
levees if the Mayor and Council do turn up, as
heretofore ? Echo answers — “ Goodneass only
knows! ”
A few words to the desponding. Life is a
chequered thing with few cheques. Our pilgrim-
age begins in tears, and every period of our lit es
has its peculiar sorrows. But youth and health
carry us through the first trial; and coin, and love,
and whisky, help to tide over the evil days of
maturity. Then, in old ago, when the shadows of
death are gathering in, and we can no longer sing
a comic song, or stay up till daylight over the
invigorating rum-bottle, and in the life-givirg
atmosphere of the billiard-room, there is ample
leisure to take to our beds—or, what’s the same
thing, sit up in the corner of our cell, and pay
marked attention to the consolations of religion.
Yes, poetry, and health, and beauty, inspire hope
at every age, and fringe with rainbow hues the
dark clouds of despondency. Indeed, we can only
imagine one condition in which absolute despair
and helplessness blot out the fair heavens, and
turn the soul to the morose imagery of hopeless
gloom: and that is, when, at the end of the third
day, whilst the merry sounds of life and jollity are
around, and the milkmaid rattles the pans and
sings her song, a strange oat finds her head still
jammed in the milk-jug in the cupboard and dares
not stir.
Ballarat would appear to be a liberally
blost city. Nature gave it gold, and all things else
that are good and beautiful have come unto It.
The number of its public menjis very largo There
are ever so many fulls of a lock-up of them. And
the number of those who are born orators is also
very large. You have only to shout for them to
find that. Yet, notwithstanding all this exuber-
ance of bliss, when they came together in the
Alfred Hall lately, to help to frighten the recidi"
vistes, almost the whole of the speech-making was
loft to the holy men whose mission it is to save the
sinner from the wrath to come. Mayor Hickman
sat there, with his eyes cast down, and let the
Right Rev. Dr. Thornton grow hoarse and red.
Nor did anyone remonstrate when the Rev. Wil-
liam Henderson let out at the invasion, nor when
the Rev. Thomas Williams gave his soul to loyal
indignation. It strikes us as very strange that all
the furious declamation was left to the clerics.
There must be something in the character of tho
lay public of Ballarat that Australia has not yet
focussed. Now, when they left the begging in
England to the Bishop, there was no room for
astonishment. The Cloth has founded a reputa-
tion for cheek in that lino which it would be futile
to dispute. But why, where there is talk of re-
lapsed sinners coming within range of Ballarat's
saintly influence, the Bishop and clergy of Ballarat
should leap to the platform to repel them, and be
the chief spitters of venom across the seas, gives
us pause. Maybe the public men of Ballarat are
lazy.
Mr. R. T. Booth trailed bis coat about the
platform in the Melbourne Town Hall, lately. He
was talking about the Bible. Some day some man
with very little to do, will sit down and make a
calculation of the number of fools who all, on the
s iKhrest provocation, start off to talk about the
Bible. It is a pity there is not some other subject
upon which they are equally ignorant, so that
they could give the Bible a rest for a while. But
Booth let out in this way, and his voice had a good
deal of the hurroo element in it:—“Jhe day is
p ist for proving that the Bible is the word of God.
it is that. With all the atheistical juggling of the
Nineteenth Century, and all the miserable sham
schemes of freethinkers, it has never been held
that it is necessary for another Saviour to come.
No.” Now, a German professor, and, when not
obfuscated with religion, an astute and learned
man, has written a book solely to announce that
another Saviour is actually on his way, and it is
known among those who study the development
of religious thought that the conviction that in
the year 2000 another Saviour will appear, is very
extensively prevalent. Furthermore, recent news
from America indicates tnat the niggers there are
becoming Intensely excited with the belief that
their innings have come, and that a black Messiah
has risen down South. But Booth’s knowledge of
the facts is not only bad and rantingly exhibited,
but if it were sound and properly put, it loads
straight to the answer that religionists like him
deserve. A new Saviour means, probably, new
Booths. That’s why the idea doesn’t take.
Welds’ “ oucm on Corns.”—Ask for Wells
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and per tectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d
per package. Send 3d, etamp to Box 181, G.P.o ’
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
A Scientific Episode.
To Embryo Poets.
The one to whom these lines we would indite
Is the small poet who doth often write
With assumed wise but laboured eloquence,
Wond’rous long words, of meaning very dense.
And every line he carefully doth season
With little rhyme and rather less of reason.
He, who, alas I too early left his school,
Thinks himself wise, nor sees he is a fool,
Plays on a gridiron, which he terms his lyre,
Writes doggerel verse and fancies it satire ;
Gazes on Dryden, Tennyson, and Pope,
As washerwomen gaze on bars of soap ;
Thinks all intended for his special use,
Here, if you like, are three wise
men inquiring into the chemical
mysteries of colonial beer.
Microscopical examina
tiou points to the pre-
sence of various foreign
bodies in a drop magni-
fied as above.
But its effects upon the
the human subject, when
it has by any accident
found its way into the
system, are yet to be de-
monstrated One of the
wise men (bolder than
wise, perhaps), consents to
take a quart or two into
his system for the good of
science, even though it
cost him his life.
The effects were instantaneous. He
began by stealing a guinea from
himself and hiding it under the
table, and then declared his in-
tention of forming a co-partner-
ship with Mudgee Taylor for or-
ganizing a Society for Ethical
Culture.
His co-labourers become seriously
alarmed.
“Why,” said they, “should one
friend suffer alone ? Let us all im-
molate ourselves upon the altar of
science.”
They “immolated,” until their
grave inquiry at last resembled a
session of Parliament when the
Land Bill is on.
From which he may concoct his weak abuse:
Theirs is the match from which his lamp is lit,
Theirs is the knife that sharpens his dull wit.
With self-conceit and self-importance full,
Oft does he strive to emulate the bull.
E’en as of old a foolish frog once tried—
We know its fate—the creature burst and died.
Pause, poet, pause, ere this becomes your fate—
You must be little ere you can be great;
Plod slowly on, and ever plodding keep—
Seek not to reach the goal at one long leap ;
Strive not to rise at once from three feet four
Unto a height that ne’er was reached before.
Dost thou desire with true success to meet,
Don’t think of glory till you lose conceit.
True genius never tries o’er all to fly
With its small hat cocked over its left eye ;
And, at yuur age, it never doth appear
Smoking “small clays” and drinking smaller beer.
Clean your own windows, ere with haughty tone
You tell your neighbours theirs have dirty
grown ;
Do your best, and let that be all your aim
Raise not yourself, nor other' seek to blame ;
Try not to gain success’s golden crown
By vain attempts to knock your compeers down;
These foolish acts are ample evidence
Of a small mind that’s destitute of sense.
Take our advice, its truth has oft been shown,
He who lacks skill should leave satire alone ;
Oft has the shaft by unskilled hands been found
To strike the object and at once rebound,
Wounding tho fool who tried the reckless shot,
Whilst, though it struck the mark, it harmed it
not.
Write what you can, but, be you great or small.
Learn to write sense, or not to write at all.
STOCKMAN ( Inq .): “ WHAT ARE YOU AGOIN’ TO DO WITH THEM ERE DAUGS, JACK?”
JACK: “WELL, MUSTER ABBOTT, HE BEEN HAVIN’ THEM RABBITING, BITT HE SAYS
THEY AIN’T BEEN A SUCCESS. SO THEY ARE TO GO BACK TO SHEEP WORK
AGAIN.”


AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trilled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By th'e
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now fill years
old, halo and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fair brother.”
Rockingham, Vt,, July 15, 1882.
(J
Croujn — A Mother’s Tribute,
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if lie would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs, Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St,, New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAODON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
■** PREPARED BY fe
Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & C J.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS QDONTO is the best, pui
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teetl
Health depends in a great measure upon tb
soundness of the teeth and their freedom froi
decay, and all dentists allow that neither wash*
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polisl
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and whit
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; suchRov
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifull
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet, powder, and hi
lately been much improved. Each box has insic
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwooi
Ph.D., F.C.8., &o. Sold in three tins : white, res
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can uoi
be also had in a golden colour, which is especial!
suited for fair or golden-haired children and pe
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ a
tides, ot 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoi
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros.. I
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
THE
GNO
X?ia,aa.o_
THE
Migrnon
FliilTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever In-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
mig’non
x= > i^_3^ro
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonlsed Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
migrnon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Plano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
“W" ilmer
P1A1TO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OF TOUCH 1
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
"W ilmer
catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
W ILMER, and all other good instruments, to
o had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-strect,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
W B.? ALGIA > HEADACHE, TOOTHACJ IE,
Rains, bruises, burns, scalpi, & c - and
jaken internally cures DIARRHEA, BYSENX.JRY,
CRamps, COLIC, and all other interna aches
tod pains-
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPruroR.
Melbourne and b'..DNEY
PAINT
Marshalls
tonic nervine
A sa FE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
LW a I°' UB a .P d General Debility, and all complaints
TWv?F from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Anwf* e V. Nervousness. Indigestion. Loss ot
Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
anrt a i^ la 15* 8 ’ General Prostration, &c. By its tonio
fnr * effects it at once removes all craving
ethoVi? ohol V By its richness in phosphorous and
elements, MARSHALL’S
the whif Efi,V I NE and gives vigour to
Sold e system - Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
8oI ° Proprietors. MARSHALL
M.P.S., Manufacturing spid consult-
, 1( M and 106 Market-street, near
UK7s?8D''4"^ITUT^" A ‘ ,
W 1
ILCO-X
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £410
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
so. Ac. 4c.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
i
felSH BAlUl
HAIR DRESSING&WlCJMAKINE ESTABLISHMENT
./■ 137, 139 A 141 OkroRDX •S r . v
MALF HOL/dk YCt/SS? Y T/YUASOAY
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness. Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr.
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyno
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi*
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
MATRIMONIAL. —Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.O., Sydney.
BLEND
[trade!
jmar&1
COLLIB BLEND WHISKY.—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ty 808 GEORGE STREET.
0i &9coltWi«$
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TER8.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Or* MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
ESTIMATES GrIVEN FOE PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
Original Designs for Trophies f
and Medals.
IS
%
s
5~[-
&
o
03
u
as
>•
o
tD
*
4
ari
n
r
Q
K
3
W
3
S’
a
w
'vir
1
e
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
ZCw o.l S o/Tol© 1
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREET-.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
CaISfornia and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
fST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMDJGr, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c,
igp Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithine
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE;
PREY ENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney*
Full particulars and price on application.
Mec/als Gamed against the World
Wi
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
83F” Teeth painlessly extracted by Lauvhinv Gas
either Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform. ’
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed bv
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surveons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T, B. Hannaford.
Auckland, New Zealand.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
umce.


The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
HHBinn
m
CUP,<
TO BE RUN ON
NOVEMBER 4th, 1884.
'9
IN 25,000 SHAKES OF £1 EACH.
Promoters—Jas. M'Leod, Esq., Melbourne; Hy. Ford, Esq., Sydney;
P. Ingram, Esq., Perth ; W. J. Erskine, Esq., Adelaide; J. F. M’Baln, Esq., Brisbane J R.
Ramsay, Esq., Secretary, Sydney; all genuine names and men of good standing. Promoters
guarantee to take up first 1000 shares, and have already subscribed £1000,
1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
£5000
0000
:ieoo
1000
400
Total .. £25,000
REMEMBER 1 1 One Grand Prize of £2500, One of £1000, and Eleven Grand Prizes of £500 each,
also 987 other large Prizes, to be won by the simple investment of ONE POUND. The Public are
respectfully requested to Join the Promoters in the above enterprise, the hona fide of which is un-
questionable. We publish the Promoters’ Names as a guarantee of good faith, believing by this
means numbers of people who annually indulge in a little speculation on the Melbourne Cup will
have an opportunity of investing in a Company whose motto is “ fair dealing and no humbug.”
The title of “ Federal ” has been adopted by the Company by reason of its Promoters hailing from
various Colonies and their desire to include Shareholders from similar sources. Any Subscriber
can have his Money returned if applied for previous to drawing—should he have doubts respecting
the stability of the concern. Those desirous of being present at Drawing will please send in their
names not later than the 25th of October next, in order that Cards of Invitation may be issued and
Committee balotted before the 30th, the date upon which Drawing will take place. When remit-
ting Money, please Register letter if convenient—Gold, Notes, Cheques, Bank Drafts, or Post Office
Orders accepted. Cheques should be made Payable to a number with the word “ Bearer ” left un-
crossed. Threepence extra required for reply and result, and exchange to Country and other
Colony Cheques, P.0,0., made Payable to Robert Ramsay, Sydney. To avoid mistakes Clients, are
requested to write Name and Address distinctly. To facilitate business, always enclose a Self-Ad-
dressed Envelope. 10 per cent, deducted from Prizes to cover expenses incurred in Printing, Ad-
vertising, Office Bent, Stationery, &c. In order to make the sale of Tickets as great as possible, the
Promoters will waive a portion of Commission and allow Agents and others Eleven Tickets for £10;
remittance for same must be made in advance; any Tickets remaining unsold, up to October 20th,
can be returned and Money will be refunded. Should the whole of the Tickets be disposed of pre-
vious to date of Drawing, the Public shall be notified of the fact all Money received too late, re-
turned immidiately. Should any Tickets remain unsold up to date of Drawing, numbers of same
will be amitted from the draw and Prizes distributed pro ratio. Cash Prizes payable 24 Hours after
Drawing. Prizes for Horses 24 hours after Race, Prizes paid by Cheque on receipt of winning
Tickets- Enclose 2d. Stamp when sending for Prize.
Persons Drawing Horses can hedge off before the race by sending us instructions to lay the Mar-
ket odds for any amount, not exceeding £3500, against their E orse Winning the Melbourne Cup
Race, for instance:—
If the Horse you havo Drawn Wins the Cup, you get £2500: if it don’t win, you get probably £40
or £50: but should you decide to lay off half the amount of First Prize, £1250, against your Horse
Winning and presuming that the Market odds are 10 to 1 you will receive £125 if your Horse don’t
win, and £1250 if bechances to be the Winner; 5 per cent. Commission charged on these trans-
actions.
Result of Drawing posted to all Subscribers, and Advertised in Town and Country Journal.
Complete list of Names and Weights of Horses entered for Melbourne Cup supplied Free on appli-
cation. For the future success of the Company the Promoters would feel gratified if Winners of
Horses and Prizes would allow their Names and Address to be Published, as no better means could
be adopted for satisfying the Public that the Federal Consultation Company is a purely hona
fide affair. Address all Communications and make all Order Payable to the Secretary, as under.
PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
FIRST HORSE £2500
SECOND HORSE 1000
THIRD HORSE 500
STARTERS DIVIDE 500
NON-STARTERS DIVIDE 500
10 PRIZES OF £500 5000
100 PRIZES of £50
200 PRIZES of £25
300 PRIZES of £12
200 PRIZES of £5
100 PRIZES of £4
ROBERT RAMSAY,
Commission Agent,
406 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., (Limited), 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations. „
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both tor Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Booms for Dinner-parties up-stairs. ,,
PRIVATE BAB AND aMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p ra.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide:
COOPER ESTATE, WATERLOO.
TITLE—FREEHOLD.
This well-known property has been LOCKED UP FROM SALE for many years, but In
deference to the Wishes of the People the owner has had a large portion of the Estate SUB-
DIVIDED in a most lloeral manner by Messrs. REUSS and HALLORAN, Licensed Surveyors, into
BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
which will be submitted to PUBLIC COMPETITION, as FREEHOLDS,
On Tuesday, 29th July,
when the public will have the long-desired opportunity to secure these Unrivalled Sites.
Bin, MB. ail FIVES
Have pleasure in announcing that they have received instructions from WM. COOPER, Esq., to
sell by public auction.
On TUESDAY, 29th JULY NEXT,
AT 11 A.M, PROMPT, at their
New Sale Rooms, 88 Pitt Street,
A LARGE PORTION OF THAT WELL-KNOWN PROPERTY, THE
COOPER ESTATE, WATERLOO.
The part of the Estate now in the market is that fronting MITCHELL ROAD, opposite and
adjoining the MACDONALDTOWN and ALEXANDRIA PARK, within the CITY BOUNDARY,
close to the GOVERNMENT WORKSHOPS, and accessible from any part of tht city
BY BUS AND TRAM.
The SUBDIVISION has been carried out on a most liberal scale. The streets are all 08 FEET
WIDE, their positions being shown by Finger Posts Fach site has a back entrance from a20-FEET
LANE, and is pegged out and numbered, so that with the aid of a Plan of the Estate (obtainable
from the Auctioneers) intending buyers can easily identify each allotment.
THE TITLE IS FREEHOLD;
AND
THE TERMS EXCEPTIONALLY EASY,
Viz.:-
15 per cent, deposit, 10 per cent, by P.N. at three months, without Interest, the balance by five
equal Instalments at 1.2,3,4, and 5 years from date of sale; Interest at 6 per cent., with right to
purchaser to I* ■ Y OFF in full at ANY TIME, with interest only to date of payment.
PLANS OBTAINABLE FROM THE AUCTIONEERS.
TO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS, INVESTORS, BUILDERS, CLERKS, ARTISANS,
AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC,
The Sale off the Cooper Estate, Waterloo,
affords an opportunity for the Investment .of Capital with such a certainty of profit as may not
occur again for years.
CAPITALISTS and INVESTORS will lu re And a Safe Outlet for their Capital in the pur-
ehasoof accessible FREEHOLD LAND with a daily increasing value.
SPECULATORS will here obtain, on EASY THKMS (5 years’ Credit), Land that must,
within the next few years, double and more than double in value.
BUILDERS will here -ecure splendid BUILDING L \ND, well drained and laid out, acces-
sible to the Citv by ’Bus and Tram.
CLERKS will here find an Investment for their Savings better than any Savings’ Bank.
pT ARTISANS and WORKING MEN will here obtain Building Sit:s convenient to the
Government and other large Works, handy to town by ’Bus and Tram.
While
The General Public will have a splendid opportunity to obtain good Accessible Land with
a Large Prospective Value, on Easy Terms (payments extending over 5 yean).
SOLICITORS TO THE ESTATE :
Messrs. ICETON & F AITHFULL, Pitt-st.
BATT, ROOD, & PURVES, Auctioneers.
