

oviders.
.
mpTSS. SE^T:
H[ jjgflfflj
OF
In the Australian Colonies
Ihonv
*Uce
HORDERN AND SONS,
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Tiade,
,W/«// Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
V, <>B. a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh m Laces, Ribbons,
4 ’ ties, Collars Flowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
' stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
8 re luisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER !
Our Only Address
L*v
..... HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
'Hal providers. universal providers
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
mi
.
$
4k
ss
o
&
C,\'c: 36 LITTLE COLLINS ST.
WEST.
&
.. CAMERAS, "Won.
CARDS,CHEMICALS. ,l cl P
i Kli l ifflSli
H. L. SUMIHERFIELD & GO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, S Y HEiEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS
235 and 23T PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 33 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WaGGA ; MACCRA RrF
STREET, DUBBO.
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application/
i
mW • oikt*
470 GSO'KGE 3T.EEET, opposite Central Fruit Markets
EITEAGEDINAEY SALE
OF
WINTER HOSIERY MD MILLINERY,
New Stock of Ladies” oio¥ss p Laces? and Fichus.
The Choicest Stuck of Fancj Goods in Ssdnes.
Parasols? Umbrellas? Bags.
Purses and flare.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 rat-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CIATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
i prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERV, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLAVE3 AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, At 1 WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, isa great success w,. i, Q ,, A
row both Lady and Gemtefnen fitters engaged. s n na ' o
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
LARGEST AND REST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
/ WHOLESALE PRICE?:
■w. W. CATEK,
193 and 19S PITT STREET.
Martin Keeslian,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STKEET, SYDNEY.
|HIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
'he most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
M. A. BROifii Ik 00.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
m the Strand, London.
Champa §§ii©
Heltfsieck & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
BA&IUHL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Solo Agents for Heidsieeb i Co., Reims.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AML CUTLERY*
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Donhin
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading OunTand
Rifles, Revolvers, Ac. All goods will be faithfnflv
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET A ci ni™
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery fftre-
ceived. All work and repairs executed eouS to
any European workmanship. ,uai t 0
N.8.-Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
doff of BrSafltely. IWB : aISO Angel ° ,ior -
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & C*
in, man d um ■
387 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, STTNE T !
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., EHCLO'
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Eounders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, ana A-o
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
m
S
■Vertical and Tlorizontai.
MACHINERY. Slotting
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Fla "l°f’ me rs.
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Ham
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. po tf<
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and sw*
English and American Agricultural lmple ,l,e
Si ss e » % üble » and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, H^ r qh e llerB,’^ ireS
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and ©n
Railway Contractors’ Material and pl ®” t ' a i S bM Sl
Coach BttiljDeks’ Sundries. —Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers an
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. , (jairftt* 2
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. , jn? and
Woolsacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep WaS
Machinery.
, Carped
W
Builders’ Ironmongery.
uuuuci a AiuumuuftCi/*
Looks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements »
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on appli° ati ° n t 0
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE A^
397 George Street,
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOOTH WALES.!
BBANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, n.S.W.j
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswooe Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft OO. f LIMITED.
par Agencies to rU parts of the world,
Foster's
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
The BEST ALE - $
SOLD BY ALL
Yirgoe,Spn^
*ar
vf^rhP
sr4s?Sw? o c«%t>
c»*»5OM
ZMI LAHJv
Allow Interest
ajiow intereDt . pi'*V|jrjF ,
SSd fI Fp a »sL»lf^f^^.
raO £
t Of the
hur Guinn©**,
not be exceffl- lc . £ a
LTBLL & CO.. DU


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 67.—New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1884.
Price—6d.
Germany and Colonisation.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1884.
Following closely after the snarl by Prince
Bismarck respecting “the grasping policy
of Great Britain with respect to unowned
countries,” the violent anger expressed by
the press of Germany, at the annexation by
the Government of Cape Colony of the Wal-
figoh Bay district in South-Western Africa,
has a significance which should induce even
Australian Jingos to reflect. The wrath of
Germany is easily understood. Although
Bismarck has in set phrases disclaimed for
the Empire any intention of entering upon
a scheme of colonial acquisition on the
French pian, of first acquiring territory and
then endeavouring to settle it, he intimated
that the idea of colonisation on the British
plan, of making the flag follow instead
of preceding settlement, was viewed with
favour as a model for imitation. This
was tantamount to a declaration that Ger-
many was prepared to take anew departure,
rendered possible by the consolidation of the
Empire, and that, recognising the general
truth of the adage that trade follows the
flag, she preferred in the future the Father-
land so to arrange that her emigrants shall
not be lost to her and absorbed by other
nationalities. It is well understood that
that Empire has hitherto discouraged emi-
gration. The Empire in its early stage of
consolidation desired to preserve all its war
material. To Germany emigration meant
real loss of strength, and was not counter-
balanced by any compensating advantage.
Emigration, despite every restriction and
precaution, favoured elusion of the conscrip-
tion. It weakened Germany of men and
money, and it did not, as is to some extent
the case with England, return aught in in-
creased trade at home or enhanced influence
abroad.
• • •
Moreover, the United States were the chief
gainers by Germany’s less, and Bismarck
has lately been affronted by the United
States, over the Lasker incident, when Con-
gress directed tne representative of the States
at Berlin to address to the German Parlia-
ment a condolence on the death of a promi-
nent political adversary of Bismarck, which
amounted to a eulogy of the deceased Herr
Lasker and his ideas, and inferentially to a
censure of Bismarck himself. It is easy to
understand that many converging and simul-
taneous causes have aroused Bismarck to
review the relation of the Empire to colo-
nisation. The bustle which we ourselves
have been making relative to the future
ownership of New Guinea and the Pacific
Arohipelagos may be reckoned among these
causes. It is known that Germany, which
a few years ago declined to officially sup-
port a commercial project for acquiring
Samoa, now seems resolved to lay claim to
precedence in that group. And in pursuance
of the policy of making the flag follow trade,
Bismarck, the other day, decisively inter-
fered to snatch the territory of Angra
Pequina from the hands of Great Britain
which had just begun to open to grasp it.
The acquiesence of EDgland in that rather
rude deprival appeared to augur an epoch
of mutuality in colonisation. That is to say,
to inaugurate a term during which all the
nations desirous of extending their posses-
sions should fairly and proportionately
share “unowned territories” on the give
and take principle. But the annexation of
the Walfisch Bay tract by Cape Colony is
too obviously strategical to permit this
idea to continue. The Cape Colony lies to
(the south of the new German Colony at
Angra Pequina, and dominates it. Now,
Waliisch Bay lies to the north of Angra
Pequina, and its annexation by Cape Colony
indicates beyond reasonable doubt a design
to hem in the German colony, and so pre-
vent the expansion of German territory or
German power in that quarter.
• • •
The full possible significance of the situa-
tion may be conjectured by considering the
fact that at Angra Pequina the Germans
would not be more remote from the settle-
ments of the Boers, and the districts in
which these energetic colonials are striving
to bring under their conirol by intriguing
and battling with the Zulu aboriginals, than
Sydney is from Brisbane. Then it has to be
remembered that the Boers are bitterly
Anglophobiac, and are more clo'ely allied
in race, language, and sentiment to the
HON. J. M. GRANT, OF VICTORIA.
Germans than to any other European people,
except the Dutch. Next consider that, con-
sequent on the death the other day of the
Prince of Orange, the succession to the
Dutch throne is opened to German disputa-
tion. Add to this, that among the Boers
large proportion are direct descendants of
Hessian soldiers bought by England for em-
ployment in the East, and disbanded in Cape
Colony and located as military settlers on the
frontiers, whence they deliberately removed
with the declared object of escaping from
the influence of the British authority at the
Cape. Summing up all these circumstances,
reasons will be readily perceived why the
Germans may conjecture that the British
Government is deliberately taking action to
swamp German colonisation in the Angra
Pequina district, with the object of pre-
venting by anticipation a contact between
Germans and Boers, which might furnish
excuse for International complications,
should the Boers be encouraged to invite
German intervention in their disputes with
Great Britain. It is not difficult to see
how easily Boer interests and German
interests in South Africa could be made
to interlace, so that interference with
the one would involve interference with
the other. Such a combination" might
prove fatal to British supremacy in South
Africa, and certainly would seriously ham-
per the dealings of our Government with
their troublesome neighbours, Boers and
Zulus, were these enabled to appeal to
he Cassar seated in Berlin. The matter is
brought very closely home to ourselves
by the complaint of the North German
Gazette, recently announced by cable, with
respect to the proposed annexation of New
Guinea, that the Australian Governments
have arrogantly denied the equal rights of
other European nations over the islands of
the Pacific. This is scarcely true as applied
to the public official utterances of the Aus-
tralian Governments; but it is true as applied
to the general tone of Mr. Service’s de-
spatches from Victoria, and to the tendency
of the articles published by a very large and
influential section of the Australian Press.
The Victorian Premier has evinced a bump
tiousness in disregard of the susceptibilities
of the great European Powers, which can
scarcely be explained on any other hypo-
thesis than that his mind has become nar-
rowed by provincialism. And some of
the newspapers have been arguing as though
such nations as France and Germany either
had no existence or no potency. The arro-
gance complained of by the German press
has been undeniable, and has frequently
been commented upon by The Bulletin,
as reminding us of the preposterous and ex-
ceedingly inconvenient bounce displayed by
a small boy when his big brother is at hand
to fight his battles. Then, again, there has
been the missionary pretension that where-
ever a Presbyterian or Wesleyan saint has
placed his sacred foot-, the British nation has
established a political claim to be first robber
of territory. In fact, it would appear, were
one to attend' to the screeehings of these
pious gentrs when their Bible-bought har-
bours and strategical positions are concerned,
that they regard the missionary’s foot as
quite an equivalent to the British flag. They
have almost invented a new national motto t
—“The Missionary’s sole: long may it wave 1 ”
• • •
There has been an almost total neglect of
incapacity to comprehend that, under
modern conditions, the “foreign polioy” of
the British nation is not circumscribed by
the limit of a single continent, and that the
fate of the British in Egypt, for example
might be determined by events in
China; the succession to the throne of
Holland by the transactions in Angra
Pequina; or the future of Belgium by
the course of events at Madagascar.
So, also, the combinations of European
Powers and the broad results accruing from
such combinations may depend upon trans-
actions in the Pacific. For Australians to
pretend to sway the counoils of the Empire,
by insisting upon the acquisitive instincts
of a Jingo section being deferred to, is too
arrogant. Besides being arrogant, it is,
according to our view, stupid and narrow.
It is certain that Australia would, at her
present stage of development, be weaker,
not stronger, were the colonies, even in
Federal unity, to take possession of New
Guinea. It is not clear, indeed, that the
Imperial Power itself would be enhanced
in these regions, even were the annexation
to be made by the mother country. The ac-
quisition would lead, in case of war—the one
case in view of which annexation is mainly
advocated—to a dissipation of national
strength. It would increase the assailable
points; and it might very well happen that
the squadron, which, under present circum-
stances, would be stationed so as to assist in
protecting the capitals of Australia, would,
under the changed circumstances, be drawn
off to cover the infant weakness of newer
settlements on the New Guinea coast. But,
apart from that, the screech of the would-
be monopolists of the Pacific is absurd.
We do not believe that it is good for
any nation to be alone —any more than it
was for man in the Garden of Eden. Were
we French, we would deny that all the wit
and genius of humanity was oentred in our
race. Were we German, we would resist
the national vanity of believing that only
Germans think deeply, and work out things
thoroughly. Being British, we decline to
subscribe to the fatuous Philistinism which
would fain assert that we only are worthy
to occupy the waste places of the globe, and
to introduce savage races to life eternal, the
comforts of belief in hell, and the joys of
overproof rum.
• • •
We regard with contempt such imperti-
nences as the claims daily ventilated in the
Philistine papers, of priority of right to such
places as the New Hebrides, New Britain,
New Ireland, the Solomons, and so forth.
The S. M. Herald only last week gravely
asserted that the priority of claim to New
Britain and New Ireland was vested in
Great Britain, although but a short time
ago diplomatic interchange of notes had
been occasioned by the faot that a British
vessel in the labour-trade had burnt some


Thh Kates or Subscription to I'hb Bulletin
are—For one year, 24a.; hall-year, 12s. Bd.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Bates are ss. per inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows : On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may bo sent, if more convenient.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms taotofully decorated wltf-
da* and floral decorations. 60i Hunter-street,
aydnev.*
TIE POPULAR
BRIAN BORU
NOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (solo proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORG WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot, boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
U M WHISKY,
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
BYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds,
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
|wr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
«S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Eottli Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT BYDNBY,
OO TO
O. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of sueh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb host Wholesome or in Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
Is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELIBH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. Bd. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. Bd. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
AENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Bs. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
buildings attached to a G erraan settlement on
one of these great islands, that German sta-
tion being, so lar as is known, the only
commercial lodgment at present on these
two islands, although the missionary may
be saving souls and establishing P" 1 lca
claims there. Since Bismarck has expi esse
his resolution that the might of the German
Empire shall extend to protect and sustain
all her people wherever they may establish
themselves, it is doubtful whether th
priority ef British holy men over worldly
German traders would coincide with his
ideas of precedence. One would think
that foreigners were either so abomin-
able in morals as to ,be kept nloo
from our virtuous community at all hazards,
or so thoroughly our superiors in arms that
young and comparatively small colonies of
their people in this hemisphere, although
actually as remote from us as Greenland is
from Spain, or (say) at worst, as France is
from England, would keep us in terror. For
our part, we should notregard such colonies
as terrible, and would think it possible that
from them our own settlers might, by inter-
change of ideas and friendly traffic, learn
much that would be of value in material
processes of industry. Besides which, en-
largement of ideas would surely follow en-
largement of communication, unless it be
maintained that all that is best and truest is
the exclusive possession of Britons, and that
“foreigners” can teach us nothing woi th
knowing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stout-hearted Philanthropy.
The Directors of the Benevolent Asylum were
in a desperate hurry to terminate the discussion
opened by Mr. Abigail with reference to the bar-
maid question, when it took a turn unexpectedly
adverse to their prejudices. Dr. Warren had
denied that the proportion of unwedded mothers
among: those who had enjoyed the hospitality ol
the institution was as great of “ barmaids ” as had
been alleged. The obvious intention of the Direc-
tors had been to confound Dr. Warren with sta-
tistics, and to bring him to humble confession of
error. But the tables were turned upon them most
effectively, as Dr. Warren was able to show, by
reference to the books of the institution, that in a
given period there had been about twice as many
young women waitresses from the Coffee Palaces
troubled with illicit maternity as there had been
of girls from public-houses. This was a crusher
for several of Dr. Warren's most active and
eager censors, as these gentlemen were themselves
directors or promoters of the Coffee Palaces. The
discussion was brought to a rapid and untimely
conclusion, just when it began to promise interest-
ing and valuable information not heretofore
available. But the fact is that the Coffee Palaces
are tender subjects with certain “ stout-hearted
philanthropists,” as the Echo used to term the pro-
prietors of the Coffee Palaces. These institutions
have not paid. And, when their unprofitable
nature became unmistakable, “ stout-hearted
philanthropy ” fizzled out. One Palace has been
sold to a publican, and the other has been offered
for sale. Stout-hearted philanthropy seems to re-
quire ten per cent, to keep it in condition.
Champion and Ex-Champion.
Edward Hanlan has taken his beating like a true
man. Nothing so tries the metal of a man’s nature
as adversity. It was comparatively easy to be
cheery and generous as Champion. Hanlan, as
champion, was cheery and genial in the highest
degree; and, in the matter of generosity, was as
large-minded as any champion is likely to be, con-
sidering that, in these da> s, the position tias a big
money value. When his defeat was fresh, the
town was full of the ruinours-usual on such occa-
ions-of jobbery ana fraud. The meeting of the
present and the ex-champion on Monday night has
setall'thatatrest, and we may say that had Hanlan
been a party to a swindle on the public, his coun.
tenauce would have been the most deluding one
that, ever came under our observation. Candour
and honesty are stamped on every feature. How-
ever, all doubts on that head are now dispelled.
Hanlan was beaten, and we conceive that, as a
beaten champion, he has won fresh laurels as a
man. Judging by the report of what passed attho
meeting, he was not spared by the hangers-on of
Beach the mortifications proceeding from vulgar
affronts. The alteration in his status as a sculler
was rubbed in with domineering roughness by
more than one of Beach's men; and it is very
creditable to Beach himself that he took so small
a part in flouting his defeated but gallant
adversary. There was scarcely a whimper from
Hanlan during all the baiting he received. His
single lapse—the reference to the obstruction by
the Tomki, Beach’s steamer—was excusable.
Every allowance must be made when the magni-
tude of Hanlan’s loss is considered. The Cham-
pionship was his fortune-a splendid property,
yielding him an income independent of what can
be earned by actual matches. His position is that
of Mario after losing his voice. The attraction
may be recoverable, but, meanwhile, the enjoy-
ment of possession and the means of a superior
livelihood have quitted him. Now he knows his
fate. For six months Beach has resolved to reap
the fruits of his victory. This is but fair. Although
to Hanlan it may at the first blush have appeared
hard measure, on reflection he will remember that
he was not himself an easy champion to bring to a
match. The money terms he imposed were nearly
prohibitive, and placed the goHen prize he held
almost out of reach of competitors who were
without wealthy supporters. He has experienced
the fortune of war, and the more gallantly and un-
complainingly he accepts the position, the better
record he will leave.
The Hon. J. M. Grant, of Victoria.
Wk irive to-day, in our front page, a portrait of
thl Hon J. M. Grant, or Victoria, the Tiberius
tne mm. a- * > .. Gmat is the author
and lSw which has in Victoria effected
what Sir John Robertson’s Land Law failed to do
for New South Wales-settle a population on the
toil.
Sliakspeare on John Davies.
The following are the passages from the lecture
delivered by Gerald Massey, the references in
which to John Davies occasioned so much merri-
ment among the audience in Sydney :
The most amusing of Shakspeare's replies, how-
ever, are those relating to old John Davies. .....
In the person of Menenius in “ Coriolanus,” Shak-
speare smites him thus:—“ I am known to be a
humorous patrician, and one that loves a cup of
hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tyber in it;
said to be something imperfect (in favouring the
thirst company); hasty and tinder-like upon too
tiivial motion. What I think I utter, and spend
my malice in my breath, &o. ... if you see
this in the “Map of my Microcosm,” follows it that
lam known well, enough, too ?” What harm can
your bisson conspectuities glean out of this char-
acter, if Ibe known well enough, too ?” Nearly
the exact words spoken by Menenius on hear-
ing of Coriolanus's return are “ Tako may cap,
Jupiter, and I thank Thee;” and in Davies's greet-
ing to the Earl of Southampton on his return from
prison he had said “ Southampton, up thy cap to
Heaven tiing.” This is not all. I have now to
suggest a still more startling identification. \ou
will remember that John Davies was a school-
master. He published a book called “ The Writing
Master.” He was a wonderful caligrapbist, “thrice
famoused for rarity,” says Nicholas Deeble. He
challenged all England to contest the palm for
penmanship, and one of his admirers challenges
the whole world on his behalf. He appears to
have taught one-half the nobility to write, and on
the strength of that, solicited the other half to read
his writings. Mind you, poor John Davies does not
concern me in the least on his own account. lam
only interested in tracing the footprints of Shak-
speare, and one of these happens to be stamped on
the back of Davies -that is all! In his “Papers
Complaint,” which is full of tortured conceits,
chietly personal to himself, Davies’
groat complaint is some injury received from
a playwright who has publicly put him to con-
fusion and shame, and he regrets that
“ Poets, if they last, can hurt with ease
(Incurably) their foes which them displeas ?.
Again, he says, “ a great torment in tho life to
oome is due to those that can and will take such
immortal revenge for any mortal injury. He
tells us that he penned his “Scourge of Folly " be-
cause he had been “disgraced with fell disasters.”
“ Alas!
That e’er this dotard made me such an asa,
and that in such a thing
We call a chronicle, so on me bring
A world of shame. A shame upon them all
That make mine injuries historical,
To wear out time; that ever, without end,
My shame may last, without some one it • tend.
And if a senseless creature, as I am,
And so am made by th n se whom thus I blame,
My judgment give, from those that know it well,
His notes for art and judgment doth excel.
Well fare thee, man of art, and world of wit,
That by supremest mercy livest yet!
My explanation of this is, that John Davies hacl
been pilloried, staged, propertied, and modi the
most amazinp ass of in the character of Malvollo,
in the play of “ Twelfth Night ‘ For Monsieur
Malvolio, let me alone with him: if Ido not gull
him into a nay word and make him a common re-
creation, do not think I have wit enough to lie
straight in my bed.” Shakspeara did not bite his
dp there for nothing! We are “ railers ” and
“zanies,” are we? “I protest,” says Malvolio, “I
take these wise men that crow so at these set kind
of fools, no better than the fools’ zanies!” No
envious allusion, let us hope, on account of the
poet’s noble patrons who “spent their time in
seeing plays.” To be sure, Davies’s lines happen to
be charged with that feeling. And what a blythe-
spirited, sweet-blooded reply this draws from
the happy, cordial heart of the man himself:-
“ O you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and
taste with a distempered appetite. To be gene-
rous. guiltless, and of free disposition, is to
take these things for birdbolts that you deem can-
non bullets. There is no slander in an allowed tool,
thougn he do nothiDg but rail; nor no railing in a
known discreet man, though he do nothing but re-
orove ” I will only remark here that the tool in
the play cannot be the “ known discreet man, ’but
we may divine who was. Davies was a Puritan;
but “ dost thou think because thou art virtuous
there shall be no more cakes and ale?” “Marry,
sir, sometimes be is a kind of Puritan. The
devil a Puritan that he is, or anything constantly
but a time-pleaser: an atfectioned ass, that cons
state without book, and utters it by great swarths:
tho best persuaded of himself, so crammed, as he
thinks, with excellencies, that it is his ground of
faith that all that look on him love.” hew will
know how true that is ot Davies, for tew will ever
read his works; but a sufficient peep at him may
be got as he stands before the mirror of himself in
his dedications—
“ Practising behaviour to his own shadow.”
Here we have the “ affcctioned ass” that Davies
says the dotard, Malvolio, had made of him! Then
Davies complains that the chronicler had spotted
him with a “ medley of moteky liveky.” No-
thing could more surely characterise the dress in
which the tool got his dressing -yellow stockinged,
and cross-gartered most villainously. Next, Davies
was the great master of writing on parchment, i.e.,
stieepskin; the “niggardly, rascally sheep-biter;
the ereat urofessor of ealigraphy,—
I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.”
We saw how. with the air of a connoisseur, he
studied the shape of my lady’s letters. “ These be
her very C’s, her U’s, and uer T s; and thus makes
she her great P’s.” ” Her C’s, her IT s, and her Ts;
why that?” asks Sir Andrew. “Ah, mocker,
that's tne dog’s ’’ profession. Then, he “ looks like
a pedant that keeps a school i' the church,' No
doubt of it: he was a schoolmaster; and he puts
himself into a trick of singularity, as God knows
John Davies did. It is with him as the “very true
sonnet is : please one, please all —which, it I
riff htly recollect, is an allusion to a refrain of one
ot Davies’s. Thus was Davies made the " most
notorious geek and gull that e’er invention played
on;” thus the
“ Lucrece knife
With bloodless stroke ”
was driven home: “the impressure her Lucrece,
with which she uses to seal;” and if he was not
phlebotomised by the stroke, he was Bottom-ised
all over; his ass-liood made permanent for ever.
Tt has lon* been known that certain articles of
food, wheu eaten at bed-time, will produce night-
mare. A popular preacher once confessed in the
pulpit that after an orgie of mince-pie he had fre-
quently seen spectres at the foot of his bed; and
even intelligent persons have been visited with
terrible midnight visions after over-indulgence in
lobsters. It has remained for a learned physician
to establish the fact that not only can nightmare
be produced at will by means of mince-pie, but
that certain drugs will infallibly produce certain
visions. Re has put up in bottles various prepara-
tions for the production of midnight spectres, and
promises that it his directions are followed failure
will be impossible. A course of experiments made
upon the office boy by the physician soon con-
vinced him that lobsterine—the alkaloid principle
of lobster—when taken in doses of from one to
four grains, produced the vision of a large German
sitting on the patient's chest, and that six drops of
the mother tincture of mince-pie produced the
vision ot a long-haired male ghost. He then ex-
tended his researches until he has now ascertained
how to produce no less than twenty-five distinct
ghosts, and will, In time, probably place double the
number of ghost-producers in the market. Thanks
to the physician’s disoovery, anyone can, at the
rate of thirteenpencs halfpenny per bottle, supply
himself with twenty-five assorted ghosts. There
is bottle No. 1, which produces a beautiful female
ghost with a sad, sweet smile, and an evidently
benevolent disposition. The ghost is admirably
suited for nervous people and young children, and
has proved very soothing to over-worked men and
timid women. Bottle No. 3 produces the large
German spectre hitherto associated with lobster.
A peculiarly frightful spectre, described in the
directions accompanying bottle No. 8 as a “ blonde
ghost in a blue corset cover," is recommended to
persons anxious for excitement.
It seems, from an article written in an
English magazine by Sutherland Edwards, that
drawing-room dances originated in France, whence
they have spread over the world. Kichelieu, the
stately cardinal, was a great dancer. But the
dancing in those days had more grace than is seen
in the average ball-room of to-d :y. Before people
got up to dance, they learned how to do it. Booms
w«re not filled with rough youths who hopped
about like hod-bearers. There was something
regal in the grand air with which the courtiers
stepped through the minuet. “ Stepping” has
almost disappeared now; the modern youth seems
to think it good form to be above all such trilles as
correctness of grace or movement. Instead, there
are too often seen, either leg-antics suggestive of
the football field, or the slovenliness of the faint
dude. The minuet, rendered famous by Louis le
Grand, was the favourite dance through the reign
of three kings, until the outbreak of the Revolu-
tion. Dancing, then, was carried to such refine-
ment as to be called the fourth of the fine arts.
The ravotte followed liter on, and came into
favour through being danced at court by Marie
Antoinette. The gavotte is danced in two-four
time, thus differing from the minuet, which is in
the three-four rhythm, and the two were often
joined together under the name of minuet de la
cour. Bound dances are of much later origin, tho
quadrille being for many years the favourite
dance in England. It is from the old English
country dance, but wa< a; first done in double
lines, and it was a French teacher who invented
the square form. Now, curiously enough, the
square is the ordinary form, and it is the double
lines which are called the Parisian. The polka,
though credited as the invention of a Hungarian
nobleman, is an adaptation of a Polish peasants’
dance, the krakoviak, aid when first introduced
was a great rage, with its novel rhythm and lively
stop. Its adapter died only some three years
ago. The polonaise march is also from Poland,
with its angularities smoothed olf ; it is now
merely a sedate walk ronnd. The mazurka,
likewise, is a national favourite with the Poles,
who dance it with a spirit and vigour which al-
most raise it to the level of a war dance. The
waltz, though introduced to England, amid much
bitter opposition, at the commencement of this cen-
tury, is on«of the oldest dances known. France and
Germany both claim it, and this is the reason, in.
deed, of the double spelling constantly seen
"waltz” and "valse.” According to the French
view, it was danced in their country under the
name vnlta seven hundred years ago, and the name
corrupted to waltzer in Germany subsequently.
As, however, tho verb waltzen means “to turn,”
it seems improbable that the Germans would have
to go to France for a name. It was very different
seventy years ago, when stigmatisod by Byrcnas
a dance that "wakes to wantonness the willing
limbs,” from whatitis now—the queen of drawing-
room dances. Then, with so much suspicion was
it regarded, that many girls who danced every-
thing else would never waltz. Now, many girls
will dance nothing but the waltz. There are still
objections raised to it in some quarters, but it may
be safely said that if there is any impropriety in the
dance at all, it is, not in the waltz itself when
properly done, but in the clumsiness and lack of
taste shown by those who travesty a graceful
art. Tho beautiful iteration of its flowing time
has seemed to exercise some fa cination over
musical composers, the greatest of whom have not
disdained to write waltz music. No other dance
has evokedsuch sweet and living melodies. Weber,
Offenbach, Beethoven, Gung'l, Donizetti, Verdi,
an.i Gounod are only a few of the great masters
who have written waltzes—not all, however, dance-
able. They are a speciality of Chopi ■. Most waltz
music has come from Vienna, where no good com-
position would fall unappreciated; and for over
half a century all Europe has danced continually
to waltzes by the Strauss family. Venzano is
believed to have first written vocal waltzes, which
form of music has become so extremely popular
within the last few years. Much is said at present
about “the new waltz,” and novel steps are spoken
of under all kinds of mysterious names. There is
nothing nc .v under the chandelier. There is only
one key step, and, after that, the greatest change
there can be is only a difference of accent. Fashion
dictates these minor changes in the accentuation
of the waltz, as in the figures of the quadrille,
perhaps a little puzzling at first sight; but there is
no difficulty that cannot be mastered by any one
who has learned the rhythm of dancing.


The Hotham (Vic.) town councillors are
sfcate of nervous anticipation. Each of them
iB A t home from Mayor Pilkington’s banquet the
night, and, after climbing upstairs, cried out
. top of his voice, “ Wifey !” On the lady ap-
riog, h* looked intently and, it is only proper
pefl dir it, affectionately at her. Then he said, “I
tOU a chance of being Mayor soon, wifey. Eh?
bB . Ve do my shave. But can you ? Eh, wifey?”
can gbe said, “Drunk again; always the way.”
■^ a b 0 said, “No, wifey; but really they were
BUt n ice ornaments. Now, I’ll manage to get in
very Mayor next year, if you think you could
1 age it. But if you can’t, I’ll put it off till the
mall after.” And he laydown on the chair, and
jea y il, S( j the things he called orMments, and she
hi’U on the ear with a slipper, and went away,
The Present Attitude of Australia toward Beach’s Championship.
laying, “Drunk!” Now, what did each town
councillor mean by getting on in this way ? Well,
come back with us to the banquet hall. Behold
Mayor Pilkington, with his red face and merry
eyes. See Councillor Henderson approach him
with the ornaments. Listen. Councillor Hender-
son says, “Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the ratepayers
°f Hotham, I present to you this diamond ring and
this silver cradle, owing to Mrs Pilkington having
haa a son during your term of oiflea.” That’s
what’s the matter with the Hotham counclllois.
Some of the British journals are imitating
the tone of our own Bulletin in the way of plain
*Peaking. Just listen to how one of the most
tntluontial newspapers in L ,ndon flatters the aris-
tocracy of England Apropos to great landlords,
*t least 90 per oent. of the House of Lor la came by
their lands dishonestly. They neither toiled nor
spun for their broad acres and castles. The British
acreocracy, who have been called ‘huge caterpillars
feeding upon the foliage, and leaving nothing but
a skeleton leaf,’ are the descendants of mediasval
land-grabbers. The largest proportion of them
have title deeds going back to Queen Victoria’s
lineal ancestor, the Norman bastard, who, in the
year 106 U parcelled out England and Wales among
his robber companions. They hold the land to-day
by the might of the conquest. Before those thiev-
ing hordes settled in the British Isles, and made
the Saxon a ‘villein” to aliens, the native in-
habitants held their lands in common. The
land was almost as free as the light and
air which God has given us.” Yet the
toadies of the Melbourne Argus tell us that the
people of England are intensely loyal, and even go
so far as to take Judge Williams to task for hh
shrewd estimate of the drift of public opinion iu
Great Britain. Bah! Perdition is full of such
lickspittles.
We flatter ourselves we are civilised. Are
we? Well-leaving out the peculiar system of ec-
ce3iastical trade, from the millionaire bishop to
toe vulgar Salvationist supposed to represent the
Christian religion; leaving out the ideas of honesty
peculiar to merchants of this our day; leaving out
of sight the building of our unsavoury towns,
where human beings huddle in piggeries, and
everything that is savage is bred; leaving out our
law courts,as an altogether too ridic iloustravesty
of supposed justice—let us take just one look at
” Society ” ouiy, and see how civilised it is. liuled
by the irresponsible tyrant, Fashion, neither corn-
fort nor health has a word to say. Men, affecting
to laugh at women, wear high, still' collars, that
choke and chafe the neck, and are odiously ugly;
they stuif t.licir bodies into breast-contracting
waistcoats, in whicli they cannot draw a hearty
breath; they cram their feet into pointed-toed
hoots, and they wear hats always eminently unsuit-
able to the country’s climate; in fact, a large pro-
portion of them are poor, foolish dudes. Women,
in spite of all the raving about their corsets, are
no worse than man in his waistcoat, strapped across
the chest; but at ball or opera they see nothing
curious in appearing in a state of semi-nudity
which would be Indecent in the street, and is a
source of pious horror when practised by their sex
a shade darker in distant islands; they totter along
in high-heeled, stub-tread boots; and to millinery
they are senseless slaves, for there is neither
nature nor art in most of the modiste’s creations.
Her highest efforts of genius are directed to some
elaborate method of sewing one bit of satin or
velvet on to another bit on some plan that is
entirely unintelligible and has neither leading line
nor rational idea. This love of showiness is simply
our translation of the savage’s delight in rag gran-
deur and gaudy colours. Toere is no essential dif-
ference between the two. And what is scc’ety
hospitality? Is it the giving, with an open and
generous heart, to those who are really in want?
Nonsense. A dinner or a party is the mera dis-
charging of a social obligation, and done perforce
or it is an opportunity for the giver to display her
wealth and fo ly; or an attempt to edge her way
into the gilded circle above. No one who gives a
party thinks of the good it wl’l do her guests -but
what it will do for herself. Tt is meant to reliecr
credit and ronown on the giver. What are ball-
rooms ? An assemblage of s ul and sombre-looking
men, many of them actually ourang-outangish In
the ungracefulness of their antics, and naked
shouldered, cheek painted, and padded-all-over
women, who hold oach other in their arms in an
unhealthy atmosphere, and jump about to music
that has no reason or meaning in it. Of course
that sounds a brutal description to us who
are used to those scenes, but how else would
an intelligent “savage” describe it? It is just
as true a« our own descriptions of the “benightei
heathen.” Our marriages, what are they ? We do
not beat tom-toms and summon the tribes to see
a bride sold; but the b ides, nevertheless nrcsold.
Girls are assigned to men they do not love, and
men pass by good and unassuming girls to bunt
up “money,” and then sell their manhood for it;
while a sleek bishop will unctuously raise his white
hands an-1 call on heaven to bless such m.ckeries
of holy wedlock. The healthy are mated with the
diseased, the scrofulous are .joined to the con!
sumptlve, ani neither t v .e mental, physical, nor
moral growth of the future family is for one
moment considered. Diseased children are per*
petuatea lor private endj, and no one steps in to
utay such unholy deeds. And when we die, our
relatives are fooled and swindled by rascally
undertaken, our wealth is pounced on by lega*
carrion, and ou: corpses are bur;ed in a way that
for health, common sense, and cleanliness, is in-
f.rlor to aim. at any savage method of disposing
of the dead. No! we are not civilised yet.


Personal
Items
The difficulties as to the Dutch succession
are, it is said, in a fair way to be surmounted, the
Queen of Holland having opportunely become
enceinte.
The ex-Empress Eugenie’s volume of
reminiscences, coming down to the date of tne
Prince Imperial’s funeral at Chislehurst, will be
published immediately—in London and 1 aris
simultaneously.
Actor, on tour, to timid young man de-
scribed as a “journalist”: “And to what
ment of the paper are you attached, sir t limid
voung man with much diffidence : -A-— a Pves©nt
I’m doing the dramatic criticisms; but, if I give
satisfaction to the proprietors, I’m to be put on to
the police reporting.”
“Bill” Long, of Sydney, is “no end of a
swell" in London, where ho belongs to the Foui>
in-Hand Club, and drives a drag in the Park with
dukes and lords galore. It is not generally known
that Mr. W. A. Long aforesaid is a barrister, and
a graduate of Cambridge, where he was such a
don with the gloves that he was accounted cock
of the walk.”
Peter Campbell writing to us says:—“ ‘ A
bird in the band,’ dear boys, is worth 5000 birds in
‘ the bush !’ ” Perhaps it is. But it all depends
upon whether the birds are of the same breed.
We remember Peter-when he was a bird in the
bush. But this be it said for him, that though
he was a kind of reverend stork, he was never
known to have been seen in company with a
“ native companion.”
That Henry VUI-like nincompoop, the
Grand Duke of Hesse, having been very properly
lampooned over his morganatic marriage, by the
comic journal, Schalk, the State prosecutor of
Berlin is proceeding against that paper for hav-
ing ridiculed and insulted a reigning Federal
Prince.” Which is exactly the kind of thing we d
have in N.S.W., were certain judicial and other
personages to have their way.
Mr. Percy Fincham is a person whose
integrity, we submit, is a good deal to be ques-
tioned. He visited a lady in Paddington, and, to
put it mildly, was apparently entertained with
great liberality. In the end, he chloroformed the
lady and stole her jewellery, which Was worth £aoo.
He then, of course, made for—America? No I
The Coffee Palace 1 That, perhaps, he considered
to be the first step towards repentance. Mr. I.
was awarded five years.
There is a long controversy in the Mel-
bourne Sportsman about the late Thomas Sayers
and Morrissey. By the way, Young Tom out here
can’t fight, but, by thunder, he can sing It
is on reoord that, when Old Tom was alive,
and Young Tom cried aloud for a speetacular ex-
travaganza with lime-light effects all to himself,
Old Tom used to box his Sayers. This fact is al-
most interesting enough to be historical. No
thanks, only pass the barrel.
“Mr. Edward Solomon,” (the “composer,”)
remarks an English paper, “says he never reads
this journal ‘because it is conducted by swine.
From what we know of Mr. Edward Solomon we
can well appreciate his pious deference to the an-
tipathies of his forefathers.” Neat, eh? And
again:—“Mr. Edward Solomon tells a friend of
ours that the editor of this paper 4 is sure to get
six months ’ If Mr. Edward Solomon will call at
this office, the editor will probably go to gaol for
that period.”
Fuss is being made just now over the fact
that Gayarre, the celebrated Spanish tenor, can
hold a note for twenty-six seconds. We don’t see
any “ pints ” about Gayarre in this respect any
more than we do about any other man. Come to
think of it, now, there's a jovial old quondam
comp, in this city who has held a note drawn by a
very distinguished politician ever smee 1868. And
we’re open to lay unlimited odds that he bolds it
till the Day of Judgment, or, if showery then, till
the day after.
Herr Most, the editor of the Freheit,
published now in New York, must be a man of
amiable instincts. He recommends every artizan
to kill his master and fire the factory. Then all
the telegraph and telephone wires are to be cut,
and everybody would pay his landlord with a
bullet from a revolver. Now that the dynami
tards seem to be going ahead, we think we shall
dispose of our household property. It hasn t got
much of a back yard, but it has a most picturesque
and fasoinating sink.
A prisoner—a doctor, we believe—was,
years ago, arraigned for forgery, and Mr. David
Buchanan prosecuted. Mr. Buchanan addressed
the jury in his usual manner, delightingthe rus-
tics “behind the rail” inexpressibly. When he
had flnished.it was the prisoner’s turn. He com-
menced as follows: “Your Honor and gentlemen
of the jury, No doubt you are as relieved as lam
that the learned gentleman’s unparalleled sample
of ‘damned iteration’ has at length worn itself
out, and, in this caso, the legal lion will roar no
more.” He was acquitted.
George Gray of the “ Red Lion,” Newtown
(Wagga” has passed in his checks. Before Wagga
was, George, as a stockman, hunted the kangaroo
over its present site : that was in the pras-F. A.
Tompson times, long ere the modern type of
Biverine commission agent was developed—dull
times, stupid times, yet passably honest ones,
which is more than can be said of the present
times, when Wagga is the habitat of such an army
of fellows of the said type, that it’s hardly safe
for a stockowner to go within cooey of the place
lest he be turned upon and rended.
The Queen is now in a confirmed and
chronic condition of mourning. When she tra-
velled lately from Balmoral to Windsor, no one
was admitted to the stations where the Royal
trains stopped but indispensable officials. When
she was coming home from Darmstadt, the stations
at Bonn, Coblenz, and other places at which the
train was to stop, were most elaborately decorated
with flags and evergreens, and there were many
people with large bouquets of flowers. But the
blinds of the Queen’s saloon were pulled down
sharply as the trains entered the stations.
Tumut Tommy is not a prophet in ids own
electorate. A local soribe calls him “a promising
young man whose soul soars high above the paltry
affairs of the district he is supposed to represent.”
This is withering scorn, indeed. Evidently the
people of Tumut do not consider that the credit
of having launched Tommy on the glittering
career which is now unfolding itself to him is
sufficient recompense for the haughty neglect dis-
played by that hopeful young statesman with re-
gard to local wants—such as roads and bridges, and
other sordid things. But your country electors
were always grovellers.
Herman Sehunke, of Adelaide, was in a
train, handcuffed and in charge of a bailiff, and
lumped out whilst going at full speed, and cannot
be found. We fancy his cogitations before making
a dash for it ran something this way—
What, go to gaol for paltry debt ?
No; others may who’re funky;
But not no gaol for me, you bet—
No, not for Herman Sehunke.
I makes von leedle shump, and den
I hear dat bailiff donkey
Shoost roar out, “ Hi, guard—stop dis train;
Turn back, I’ve lost my Sehunke.”
It was in the Nooze some time ago. Row-
land Morrison, editor of the Cumberland Mer-
cury, acoused a man of robbing him, and proved
the charge, too. We don’t remember that Rowland |
was ever famous for anything before, but now he
can write his little dog-fight pars in the serene
assurance that one of these days he will be whirle
away, like Elijah, in a fiery van to everlasting
glory as the first editor who ever offered sufficient
inducements to a pickpocket. One Une upon his
tombstone will be enough to make hlB
Diace of pilgrimage for all the generations of
posterity. As thus: “Rowland Morrison; died
, He was an editor —and he was robbed. There
were giants in those days.”
The late Duke of Albany, whilst dancing
shortly before his death with an , ln thnatci friend,
a Danish lady of great beauty and the wife of an
English peer, confided to her that his sister
Alice had appeared to him the previous an
warned him of approaching calamity, he added
that, should anything happen to him, he would
prefer a military funeral. On the death of the
Prince, this wish was communicated by letter to a
high Court official, who at once laid the matter
before the Queen, and Her Majesty immediately
ordered that her dead son’s aesire should be car-
ried out. This, says rumour, is the true c a ' lB *
that change in the funeral arrangements at the
last minute which caused such inconvenience aud
perplexity to so many.
General Gordon, of Khartoum celebrity,
msut be a queer sort of crank. Mr. Mallock, who has
been entrusted with some of the General s unp -
lished writings, prints a portion of them in the
Fortnightly. The General s theologi al specu-
lations are exceedingly'curious,.and‘remind one
of Pastor Allen’s topography °X£ a ™jiBointhe
Witness “We must conceive that, as the Throne
of Light (God) is on the Rock (Calvary), the Devil s
seat would be on the other side of the Globe over
lat. 31.47 S., long. 144.45 close to Bass Isle, South of
Otaheiti. Now, it is remarkable that, “.a fine be
passed through Jerusalem and the centre of the
globe, this axis would present the Northern hemi-
sphere as nearly all land, while the Southern hemi-
sphere would be nearly all water.
One of the Coonamble deputation that
waited on tho Minister for Railways is a certain
Mr. Fog. A very uncompromising man is Mr.
Fog. Before starting from Coonamble he said to
those who sent him: “If the Minister asks me
what I conscientiously believe to be the best
route, I shall unhesitatingly tell him that from
Dubbo to Coonamble.” let this same Mr. Fog is
a member of the Mudgee deputation also, and we
have no doubt conscientiously believed, and was
prepared to unhesitatingly tell the Minister the
THE LATEST LAND-SALE SPASM.
“MR. WHEELER WILL ESCORT INTENDING PURCHASERS OVER THE ESTATE.”
(A Fact— HERALD Ad.)
same thing with regard to tho route from Mudgee’
Evidently Mr. Fog. did not inherit his name in
vain. In fact—
Our estimate of Mr. Fog
Is this—that he was born
On easy lines through life to jog,
And blow his own Fog-horn.
Itseems that Roderick Mackensie Chisolm
Matheson, son of Sir Alexander Matheson, has
been raising money in London by the not uncom-
mon method of getting diamond bracelets and
“ popping ” them. For this R.M.C.M. was brought
up at the Hammersmith Police Court, and—dis-
charged. The only reason that Roderick escaped a
good long lumbering seemed to be because—we
quote the magistrate—“tho defendant was an un-
fortunate young man, who had been leading an
extravagant and reckless life. The complainant,
from his own admissions, was a witness unworthy
of belief. By coming into a criminal court it was
trying to put on the last screw on the family and
relations of the young man. He dismissed the
summons.” Poor unfortunate young man!
Another scion of the nobility gone bung! We
would like to know what made him unfortunate
in the first instance. Perhaps he hadn’t names
enough.
Kraszewski, a darling of Poland, novelist,
poet, historian, dramatist, journalist, musician,
painter, was born in Warsaw in 1812; educated at
Wilna University; in '3O condemned to death for
rebellion against tho veneered Tartar; sentence
commuted to military service for life in the Cau-
casus; pardoned in ’32; set to work to write Polish
romances in Polish; wrote 300 of them; won a
silver chaplet from the Academy of Sciences at
Cracow, into the leaves of which were woven the
names of his chief works, and a r eap of orders,
decorations, etc., besides; won, also, from an en-
thusiastic cobbler, a pair of boots, on the sides
whereof were worked in blue silk the “snob’s’
favourites among Kraszewski’s works; edited the
Gazette Polska (Warsaw) for awhile ’6O-62, in the
latter of which years he was banished; went to
Dresden, and there took up his residence. His
novels represent only one side of his literary
activity. Journalism, poety, history, philosophy,
the drama, archfeology, social and political eco-
nomy, and a cozen other subjects have engaged
his pen. He criticised, in the order of their ap-
pearance, nearly all European works of note; fol-
lowed the development of science in all directions;
and carried on an enormous correspondence. His
skill as an artist is seen in the illustrations which
he has furnished for many of his own works.
Kraszewski is an exceedingly methodical worker.
He never takes a work in hand until he has the
subjeot at his fingers’ ends; andl when he has once
placed himself at his desk and begun to write, the
sheets fall from him at an incredibly rapid rate.
He is (or was) in his study often from -dusk to day-
liirht: and if he turns into bed at 1 or 2 in the
morning he is up again at 8. His diet is frugality
itself.
What a chance Henniker Heaton has lost,
to be sure. The Island of Herna—one of the
Guernseys—was sold by auction lately. It is a mile
and a half long and three-quarters of a mile
broad. This is not extensive, but stilll an‘lslandls
an island. Now, if Henniker had aiiything of the
Monte Christo in him, he would have bought
Herm and had himself crowned King or it. He
hungers for distinction; here was a distinction at
his hand. The population of the island is thirty-
seven. Out of these he could have constructed a
court and a standing army. Henniker the First of
Herm! Sounds gorgeous, doesn tit ? Some his-
torical characters, almost as celebrated in their
way as Henniker is in his, have had to wade tnrougn
slaughter to a throne; Henniker would have only
had to wade through sea-weed. He waded through
sea-weed to a throne I How this phrase would
have thrilled the generations of Hermits to come !
But be has lost the chance. And perhaps, after all,
he acted wisely in letting it go. His first act after
ascending the throne would nave been tyrannical.
He couldn’t have helped it. He would have com-
manded all his subjects to subscribe to the Town
and Country Journal, and they would have re-
belled and flung him from the steepest rock in the
kingdom. Then who would have comforted
Alfred?
We thought Peter Campbell could never
surprise us, but he has done it at last. “I am not,
he writes to us in a letter that should certainly,
from its eccentric appearance, have got os. or tin
the rising—" lam not an orthodox man now. lam
simply a theist, and deny the authenticity ana
inspiration of the Old and New Testaments. [.! 1]
Peter, it seems, has now started a sect of his own
(like a few more of them, i’faith I) called Fair-
thinkers.” He lectures on “ Fair-thinking,” appa-
rently accompanied by “ Bellini’s unrivalled band.
Watson, of the Victorian Banner, walked into
Peter in his paper, and our old friend not on y
called at the V.B. office, and (we quote) did
myself the honour and pleasure of threshing with
my fists his cowardly person, but get £lBp out or
him afterwards,’’-rather a mauvais quart d hewre
for Mr. Watson. In reference to this latter joyful
event, Peter somewhat inexplicably crows God
save the Queen and People I —a benediction tor
which Her Majesty, who really was not on the jury.
will doubtless be sufficiently grateful. He then
calls us of The Bulletin, 44 dear boys in a strain
whose hilarity seems to border closely on the
Bacchanalian; but this is in a manner explained
by the following passage, which is curiously cha-
racteristic of the whole epistle:— You will be
pleased to learn, dear Boys, that I am no longer a
teetotal Fanatic. Notwithstanding this fact, I have
only spent a very moderate sum in shouting Cham-
pagne to my friends . . . • ’ We really do not
caa w hv we tl dear boys should be pleased or
otherwise. In connection with this letter, it would
be interesting for us to learn the time
Peter wrote it he was * on the naptha or off his
pimple.”
The Earl of Winchelsea, who, some years
ago, obtained a prize for finding a rhyme to the
word “ Cyprus,” has written a new poem, all out
of his own head,” on the European Conference.
Compaied with this soaring lark of a nobleman—
who has two sons, the Honorables Finch-Hatton,
in Queensland— Baly and Sladen, of Sydney. and
Poet Close, of Windermere, are but piping bull-
finches. Here is a slab of the Earl s
which has about it a Tennysonian ring, evidently
the result of sitting near the Poet Laureate in the
House of Lords:—
41 But unless we can treat these worthies to meat,
The finish is very much foregone; ,
For in spite of the plan of our Medicine Man,
They must dance while we pay for the organ.
44 Then let us reflect, and in patience expect
The outcome of all these vagaries,
And await the decree, whatever it be,
Of our great Plenipotentiaries.”
It isn’t often one finds a noble—or ignoble—poet
wedding so little reason to such bad rhyme. Oh,
and when Lord Tennyson’s son was married the
other day, his lordship had the usual service
altered, and his own favourite hymn or psalm put
up in the place of the ordinary one. What a lovely
thing it is to be a poet and a peer ! We shall have
his lordship when he goes to church requesting
the clergyman to read “ Lady Clara Vere de Vere
instead of the usual lesson. The Church of Eng-
land is going along splendidly in fbese days, for
the very latist is that Tom Cannon, the jockey, is
now patron of a living of which be. the other day,
bought the advowson. It appears that Tom didn t
so nfuch want the living, but he had set his eye on
a public-house attached to the concern I
There has been some immense fun—for the
boys, of course, not for the frogs-in the English
Divorce Court, lately. Firstly, several kind hus-
bands. who had not only consorted with French
opera-dancers and so on, but had walloped their
own niggers,” were cast adrift from the women
they had sworn to love and cherish. Next, one
Cooper, a musician, sued for a divorce from h| B
wife on the ground of her adultery. He had
always, he said, lived happily with Mrs. Cooper
until her mother came to reside in his house
How a musician who played the cornet should
have found himself unable to get rid of his mother-
in-law we cannot imagine. During one of these
trials, it came out, whi e an allegation of adulterv
was being sifted, that “eight persons of all ages
and of different sex had slept in one room, and
that such an arrangement was quite common in
her (the witness’s) part of Yorkshire. ’ A railway
superintendent at Manchester got a divorce from
his “better-half” who had been “carrying on with
a policeman;” and one Parsons, a Brighton auc
tioneer, made “ an editor and lecturer on Mesmer
ism ” toe the mark for mesmerising Mrs. Parsons'
It appeared that after Mr. Blackburn—for that
was the literary gentleman’s name—had been
bowled out in his little game, the lady’s father and
Major Hall, a friend of the latter, waited on him
and, after wringing a confession from him, they
nearly wrung his neck. Whereupon he addressed
to the husband the following cucumberlike piece of
counsel:—“Don’t allow yourself to be influenced
by such unreasoning madmen as one of the gen-
tlemen who called on me to-day.” He added a
diagnosis and a prescription in these terms: “ Your
wife is the victim of a mesmeric disease, and you
must treat her as a patient, and not as a reasonable
being.” A decree was granted. Mr. Herbert
Kent, of the well-known publishing Arm, was
allowed to part company with his wife, who had
become enamoured of a waterman; and a ladv
named Price, the wife of an army captain, who
she said, had cruelly ill-used her, was forced in
cross-examination to make the charming admission
that “she might have drunk methylated spirits
and turpentine.” Mr. Corrie manfully owned un
to having kissed Mrs. Briggs, who was duly given
permission to support herself for the future; and
one Sarkies, an Indian barrister, who, It seemed
“ used to breakfast with his wife and then leave
her,” and who, it likewise appeared, accounted for
this strange but not, we have heard, uncommon
system of procedure by saying “ that his idol was
smashed,” was promptly divorced, when it came
out that he was in the habit of worshipping at the
shrine of an unbroken idol down at St. John’s
Wood.
Truth is making another fierce onslaught
on the London usurers. In its issue of 3rd July it
prints the fifth of a series of Chcsterfleldian letters
which contains what, under the present libel law
of N.S.W., would be regarded as at least ninety
criminal libels. For instance, one of the richest
and fattest of the fraternity is mentioned by name
aDd spoken of thus:—" You little knew when you
paid him a visit that Gurney’s real name was
Jordan, and that he was a bankrupt, and had been
convicted of keeping a disgusting exhibition, and
had to apply to a Father of his tribe to discount
any bills that might come in his way. It was this
man, however, who found out all about your
I financial prospects from his brother—an equally
charming gentleman, who, under the name of A
Warner, carries on the filthy trade of usurer’s
tout in Jermyn-street. . . . Samuel Engel, in
his solicitor’s office in Great Marlborough-street
He is no cheaper, nor is Robert Morris, although
his usurer's web in Regent-street is dignified by
the title of the * Carlton Bank.’ Messrs. Wells and
Co., ol 39 Bouth Audley-street, albeit newcomers,
are not particularly moderate in their charges’
but there may be some excuse for their rapacity.
Before embarking in hiß present occupation!
the head of this firm was himself denuded
of four-fifths of his ample fortune by usurers
and bacoarat. He is trying to recoup him-
self by utilising the experience he has so
dearly purchased.” And, to qnote once more:—
“ It might never strike you that Mr. John David
Myers, late of St. Mary Axe, and now of 14 Sack-
ville-street, cigar merchant, would, subject to the
advice of his solicitor and the consent of his part-
ner, Louison, accommodate with a little cash as
well as tobacco. The price of both is the same-
from sixty to eighty per cent, above the recognised
market value. Rather an expensive rate, perhaps,
to pay for credit for cigars; but then this firm has
heavy expenses to keep up, such as a private han-
som, broughams, and saddle-horses, which, when
not adorning the London parks, are enchanting
the residents and visitors on the King’s Road,
Brighton. Woe betide you if you get into Myers’s
hands! He is as difficult to settle with as was his
prototype, Shylock, for the world has not treated
him kindly of late. Only last year the magistrate
at Marlborough-street committed him, in company
with one Arthur Snelling, his tout, for trial at the
Old Bailey on a charge ot conspiring to defraud.”
In England, truth is an absolute defence in a libel
action. In N.S.W., mere truth is no defence. It
is no defence, even, to plead and prove that an
article was written in the public interest. And
who can say that in the present instance Labou-
chere, who at the end of his article prints a list of
about twenty leading usurers, with terribly caustic
comments attached, is not doing a splendid public
service ?
A terrible story is told by General Ambert,
in the second volume of his “Souvenirs Mili-
taires.” Jean Moreau entered the service in 1870,
and on the 3rd of January, 1871, was engaged in
the affair at Bapaume. Towards 3 o’clock in the
afternoon, while he was loading a cannon, he was
struck down by a shell, which, bursting across his
face, tore away his nose, eves, and upper jaw, and
a portion of the lower. He was left for dead on
the field, but after a time recovered his senses,
and by chance staggered, falling at almost every
step, on the road to the village of Ervilliers. The
colonel of the 24th Regiment sent him from this
place by carriage to Arras the next morning,
where he stayed till the 4th of October following.
He was transferred to the military hospital of the
Val do Grace at Paris a fortnight later, and re-
mained there till the 26th of March, 1872, when
cicatrisation was nearly complete. All the soft
portions of the fore part of the head having dis-
appeared, and the bony framework being crushed
in various places, the unfortunate man presented
the appearance of a veritable death’s head, with
two cavities for the eyes, one for the nose, and
a large opening for the mouth. However, by
ingenuity and patience a wax resemblance of a
face was invented and fitted with the utmost ex-
actitude to the healthy portions of flesh which
still surrounded the immense cicatrix. The adhe-
sion, which is almost hermetic, was completed by
a natural cushion of skin, which thus, as it were,
keeps the border of the mark in a groove. The
inner cavity has also been utilised, one of its uses
being, by means of lint, to guard the patient
against the effects of sudden alternations of heat
and cold, while the upper jaw and the palate are
protected by a plate, to which are attached a row
of false teeth, and mastication of the hardest kinds
of food is successfully performed. Thanks to the
disposition of the natural parts, and the ingenious
shaping of the mask, and particularly that of the
false nose, respiration is rendered possible through
its nostrils, and, indeed, has regained the normal
direction, from below to above. The system of
aeration is assisted by two small holes towards the
inner angle of the eyes, creating a current of air,
the eyes themselves, of course, being closed. The
sense of smell, strange to say, has been regained,
while the voice possesses its natural tone and clear-
ness. Thus Moreau—who, when he removes his
mask, it is needless to say, presents a most hideous
aspect, in constquence of the disappearance of
great part of the bony portions, as well as the
muscles which should cover them, and of whose
head there literally remains only the brain and the
cranium—is enabled by this wonderful exercise of
surgical skill and constructive talent to breathe,
eat, speak, smell, and even, so it is said, to play the
flute. The mutilated soldier, who is fond of chat-
ting about his campaigns, possesses that resigned
air common to blind men, and his sense of touch,
moreover, has excessively developed. He lives at
Favril, Landrecies, in the Nord Department, and
ekes out his pension by the sale of a pamphlet re-
counting the facts of his wondrous cure. “ Per-
haps,” says General Ambert, "it would have been
well to have kept silence about this poor fellow;
but it is not sufficient to only show the glories of
war, everyone should know the sacrifices of the
soldier. This one has given more than his life, for
each day which passes Is a martyrdom.’’ But
Moreau never complains. He is held in great re-
spect by those who know him, and feels a genuine
pride in showing the Cross of the Legion of Honour


A PRETTY FACE,
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady in one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of it and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
'rese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul breath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
I HAD TRIED
Everything-1 had heard of in the East and West
for Salt Rheum. My case was considered a very
bad one. My face, head, and some parts of my
body were almost raw. Head eovered with scabs
and sores. Suffering: fearful. One very skilful
physician said he would rather not treat it, and
some of them think now I am only cured tempor-
arily. I think not, for I have not a particle of Salt
Rheum about me, and my case is considered
wonderful. Thanks to Cuticura Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautifiers.
Decatur, Mich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four ibs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Eer package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
The People Want Proof. There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its success
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Syrup
for severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effect before
buying the regular size at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one that uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of sc-called Con-
sumption which doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World.
As a general thing ladies who make any
pretenions to refinement desire to have Soft
White Hands. We believe that there is nothing
will tend more to produce this effect than the con-
stant use of Murray and Lanman’s Florida
Water mixed with the water iu the basin. It re-
moves redness and roughness.
Mb. DeCoxjrot Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Book!”
Mining Leaseholders' Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers. 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
SupMm“cSurS reoo “ tb ° DepartmeatB aQ <*
hia breast to many ourious travellers who turn
of their way to see the “ homme a la tote de
Cl rt' appears that Miss Finney, otherwise
„ at the time of her now historic be-
l to Lord Garmoyle, eDjoyed, as the prooeeds
t f°hpr dazzling engagement at the Savoy Theatre,
of the stupendous professional income of £6
looaou, The case in w^ich Blie BueB tij e friafey
8 nobleman for the modest sum of £30,000, is
nf that typioal character so often cited by
one "ho con tend that the system of awarding
th e 8 for a mere breach of promise to marry
~id be cut out of our common law. No law
B “hfi equitable which does not operate evenly
the parties; and it is absurd in these days
that a man can, under any imaginable cir-
t° letances, go into Court with the slightest
c S7npe of recovering damages, or even of getting
c Ardiot against the woman who has, however
8 ' «iiv or with whatever consequences—either as
cr his happiness or his finances—Jilted him.
t 6 the present instance. Miss Fortescue has sus-
. infid no actual damage. She is exactly in the
w aiHnn of the angler who has not managed to
Pnd a fish he had hooked-she has not lost, she
irl fiimnlv failed to acquire. She has not parted
little hook; and as to the bait with which
Si 1 nibbling lordship has swum away—well, it is
s*L?i v worth while taking that into consideration,
a the bloom is (or ought to be) still upon her
inimitable expanse of cheek, beneath the ocean of
mire-paint she nightly presents to the British
n hlio at the Savoy Theatre. Lord Garmoyle, the
n of a peer with generations of covenanting
(dnnd in his icy veins, became transiently
nnmoured of a now much-photographed young
fody who, in the artistic sense, is by no means an
Atrpss but merely a well-painted stage decora-
He told her he would marry her, whether
,hA Earl, his father, liked.it or not. Of course, he
vnAW that one might as reasonably have expeoted
Tnhn Knox or Calvin to dance a break-down with
»hB Kate Vaughan of the period as hope to seoure
♦ho cordial assent of a remorseless Presbyterian
i,Twver to the union of his son with a goddess from
rnift of the Babylonian temples of masherdom.
Rnt the astute Lord Cairns knew a thing or two.
Tt«d he been a “ meenister,” with as much know-
ledge of the world as the Sydney Witness, which
Linus journal gravely and circumstantially gives
the dimensions of Heaven in miles and yards, has
nf the appearance of even the back gate of Para-
due he would, no doubt, have expectorated ana-
themas and maledictions of blood-and-fire. But,
heimr a lawyer, with a good knowledge of human
nature he consented to the wedding. And when
the vo’ung man found that it was not, after all,
Lolrarded as such a very wicked feat to marry an
it occurred to him either that it
might not be a good thing to get married at
all or that it might, perhaps, be advisable, ere
ha’ finally made up his mind and took the
niunge, to have another look round. And so
he "cooled off ” and gave Miss Fortescue certain
hints— which she, being an actress who by no
stretch of imagination could be compared for
ahilitv to (say) Nellie Stewart, of course refused
to take-her eye being probably fixed far more
tirnilv on the prospective coronet of Cairns than
on his actual Lordship of Garmoyle. It is quite
nossible that the young man acted meanly—it is
also quite possible that he did nothing of the sort.
Suppose he hod said to her substantially thus: “ It
is true I promised to marry you. It is true I told
vou I loved you. I now find that I don’t, and it is,
perhaps, just as well for both of us that this has
iieen found out before instead of after marriage.”
What then ? If she under those circumstances
declines to formally break off the engagement,
<he forces into this position the man she professes
f o love: ‘‘The only way in which I can escape
being mulct in heavy damages by a set of owlish
iurymen, who are sure to be struck, perhaps even
i. i was struck, by her pretty face when first I saw
it j S to marry the girl. No, .I'll not be roasted in
the witness-box and have my love-letters, written
as much in champagne as in ink, laughed at all
over the civilised world. I’ll go to her lawyers
and put it thus: ‘ I promised, after an acquaint-
ance of one month, begun by throwing a bouquet
with my card attached, to your client, to marry her.
lam now willing, for certain private reasons, to
carry out my promise, notwithstanding all that
has occurred—but your client must understand
that I do not love her, and that I shall like her all
the less on account of her readiness to rush into
legal proceedings. If she insists upon it, we two
will start a matrimonial hell. Our married life,
begun in an action for breach of contract, will
probably terminate in a divorce suit. Your client’s
claim for £30,000 is preposterous. I’m willing to
give her £5OO (or £5000) to cry off, and, if she won’t
take that, I’ll marry her /” The son of a lord, with
entailed estates, can afford to defend a breach of
promise action, as a mere diversion, if he so chooses
to regard it, while Brown or Kobinson, made of
ordinary clay, who has scraped together a few
hundreds or thousands, and been entrapped by a
Miss Fortescue, has no choice but to ‘‘play or
pay "—with, in either case, almost equally disas-
trous resuits. When a man heartlessly wrecks the
life of the trusting and steadfast woman who has
been engaged to him for years by jilting her and
marrying another, he commits a grievous wrong,
for which all possible reparation should be ex-
acted. But, when the courts have come to be used
as instruments of vengeance and black-mail, not
by sterling women who have lost “the face which
is her fortune” through long years of waiting,
but by pert chits in Worth’s dresses they never
earned themselves, urged on by greedy unsciupu-
lous mothers who hesitate not to sell en gros (at a
church) what Faustine sells en ditail in the streets
-when, we say, such perversions of justice have
become so common that they are aocepted as
matters of course, it is doubtful whether the
whole fabric of breach of promise with its grim
alternative of “church or court” should not be
swept away. When Lady Clara Vere de Vere, or
for the matter of that, when Mary Jones, the sew-
ing-machine girl, tells the Judge that a rich man
she has known three months has jilted her, and
behaved like a scoundrel, the Judge must be
taught to ask whether she really thinks she should
be paid for being saved from the embraces of a
villain. And when the calculating woman, who
has waited long for the opulent Lothario, who has
failed to “ come to the scratch,” recites a piteous
tale which comes more from her empty pocket and
her itching palm than from her bleeding heart, she
must be told, pour encourager les autres, that just
as the ready-money system is good in business, so
long credit is bad in Love.
• • •
Mr. Brookes said, in the Brisbane Assem-
bly, that the North had no brains, whereupon a
Northern member rose and thanked Heaven that
they had no Brookes.. James Watson, M.L.A.,
has sent a letter to a gentleman in Gundagai, con-
gratulating him on the calibre of the new Progress
Committee. Jamie means to say that the whole
thing's a big bore. Hang it, we should never have
thought it had been in the City Bank chief’s head
to essay a pun; but “ calibre,” in connection with
klworthy, Bailey, and Co., is really devilish neat...
Abe Cornwell, tanner, of Richmond, died last
week, aged 83; a native of South Creek. He leaves
a widow, 13 children, 65 grandchildren, and 23 great-
grandchildren. Deceased’s elder brother is still
nvmg, nearly 85 years of age; also, a younger
M er (77), both natives of Richmond. The three
orotbers married three sisters, all still living,
their ages put together amounting to 480 years ...
iK tr otm Lucas emphatically puts down his foot
:? e flcuse trembles They say Harry Levien is
tunny man” of the Assembly. He is cer-
tainly the funnv man of the Police Courts. But,
then, you see, ha is unconsciously funny Here’s
Jr? kreen-eyed monster on a “ tear ” again. A
“rating of the free and independent of Clermont
Bt) cut to be called for the purpose of requesting
p° a . Wallace to resign his seat in Parliament. The
Lo wners seem to think the genial owner of
ne Urand just a wee bit too fond of the Cabbage-
to attend to the wants of their elec-
Peaks ” wha hae wi’ Wallace bled
£ »bout. full up of phlebotomy biz., but
a guid mon Mr. Barlee, a C.M.G., is dead.
eu, we are sorry that Mr. Barlee is dead;
tin»S ea , r £ glad that a C.M.G. is dead Mr. Jus-
thAr. u U - has sailed for Queensland. It is surmised
Te | y p“o}sted the blue-peter when departed that
Small Luscombe now, we think, should start a
crest,
One with the most abstruse of Latin “ motters ”;
For you know well the little man last week,
By Wisdom, sirs, was numbered 'mongst the
squatters.
.. ..Says a recent Lyre: “It will be remembered that
we published a cablegram on the subject some
weeks ago. This cablegram was wrongly inter-
preted by several contemporaries to refer to Sal-
aini, the aotor.” There’s no fear of “ Salsini ”
dying. There’s no saioh person. That’s the princi-
pal reason Charles Hanson, Government clerk,
recently stole £3, and got off with a month.—
A little month! oh, that’s not much;
It isn’t such a nasty jar.
We wonder now, poor suff’rlng Charles,
Just who your nioe “ connexions ” are?
....Gracemere (Q.) grog proved too much for
Cornelius O’Donnell. He is now astride of a
rainbow.
• • •
Lily Langtry deolares that the most de-
lightful moustache is the silky moustache of the
young man at twenty-five When Tennyson
entered the Oxford Theatre to receive his honor-
ary degree of D.L.C., his locks hanging in admired
disorder on bis shoulders, dishevelled and un-
kempt, a voice from the gallery was heard orying
out to him : “ Did your mother call you early,
dear?’’ Hautevillo House, Guernsey, Channel
Islands, is the residence of Victor Hugo, and on a
placard over the mantel-piece is written a warning
to English visitors, during the absence of the
author of “Les Miserables,” which runsthusly:
“ Forbeinde to touse anthing in tis room.’’ Victor
should at once choke his secretary, if he keeps
one—The ex-Khedive, who has about £300,000 a
year ground out of Tewfik’s subjects, was en-
countered in the Palais Royale, in Paris, the other
day by a man who gave him a sound kioking and
nothing. It was about time these Khedives, etc.,
came to getting more kicks than half-pence....
Arthur Orton comes out of gaol on 31st October...
Mrs. Louis C. Hammersley has given the Pope
£3,000,000. She was a recent convert. We print
this par., as it will probably prove of interest to
her relations 1 Mr. Munro, who gained his ex-
perience in the Indian Civil Service, “where he
was singularly successful in dealing with native
criminals of conspirator type,’’ succeeds Mr.
Howard Vincent (who has left England with the
intention of visiting Australia) as head of the
English Criminal Investigation Department
When Bradlaugh wants any money to carry on the
war he simply sends round to the various branches
of his organisation, the Reform League, printed
subscription lists appealing for money “ to fight
the bigots ’’—and he generally soon receives what
is necessary, ail donations being acknowledged
in the National Reformer Oscar Wiide
addressed Ellen Terry, beginning this way :
“Beautiful star, with the crimson lips
And flagrant daffodil hair.”
This gives us a good model for a send-off to our
own sweetheart-
Beautiful comet with pinkish ears
And hair fragitiously banged, &o.
The Duke of Marlborough is proprietor of
eleven livings in the Church of England. Luckily,
being hard-up owing to tho late Duke having, in
consequence of his—the present Duke’s—recidess
profligacy, left every penny he could to other mem-
bers of the family, his Grace seems to intend selling
the advowsons as they fall in. Had he exeroised
his right of presentation, there’s no knowing to
what sort of Jack-priests he would have given his
preference. As it is, among the speculative par-
sons who buy the “cures of souls” owned by the
Duke, there may be some who are merely simonia-
ca), and not blaokguards after the Duke’s own
heart.
“ Whasli up, Pitt?” said a well-corned
friend to the groat statesman; “I can’t shee th’
Spheaker.” “ Can't shee Spheaker,” replied Pitt,
who had been there himself; “ why, I c'n shee live
or sbix ov ’em.” This reminds us that the Peter
Paul Rubens, who draws polonaises and prize pigs
for the Sydney Mail, has evidently mislaid his
Blue Ribbon badge again, as he has recently
struck off a sketch of Darling Harbour, in which
there are no less than seven locomotives snortlDg
impatiently on the traok. As a matter of fact,
there are seldom more than two, and never more
than three engines located there, and the artist
has not only drawn on his imagination for his
looos., but he has also drawn them on the wrong
lines. The wonder is, however, that he didn't
draw them upside down, with fiery-eyed, sulphur-
spouting snakes squirming round the funnels, and
pink-headed bull-dogs making boarding-house
hash of the engineers and stokers.
In London, the other day, Henry Gilby
was charged with begging. A witness stated that
each time a penny waß thrown to prisoner he
placed his hat on the ground, and, kneeling upon
it, would place his hands in an attitude of prayer.
This had the effect of attracting attention, and
Beveral coins were thrown to nim. In court,
prisoner said he had been engaged for four years
in singing sacred hymns in the streets—moreparti-
cularly that well-known hymn, “ Hark, the Herald
Angels sing,” when the public threw him pennies
he generally knelt down in order to show his grati-
tude to the Supreme Being. (Prisoner illustrated
tho manner in which he showed his gratitude, fall-
ing on his knees in the dock, and clasping his
hands above his head, and bowing until his head
nearly touched the ground.) The magistrate re-
marked that so far from the songs being edifying,
they had been sung with the most disgusting
hypocrisy, and sent Gilby to gaol for fourteen
days. Prisoner, on his way to the cells, said, “Well,
I ought to get on; I do try.”
What is art ? Whar did it come from, an’
whar on earth is it g wine to stop ? Mr. T. Channon
is the photographic Raphael of Burrowa, and Bur-
ro wa, by the way, must be painfully short of either
cash or culchaw. Luckily for its fair fame, how-
ever, the taking Mr. Channon has settled down in
Slattery’s pocket bone-yard, and in the Burrowa
Hard Times generously announces that “ as many
would-be patrons of tne photographic art cannot
pay the full amount at time of sitting, he will take
half cash, and the balance on delivery of fotoeg.”
But this is not all; for the patriotic collodion
swas her declares that, rather than see fellow-beings
starving for their “ picture,” he will “ take produce
of/any kind—eggs, butter,Jbacon, poultry,” &o.—in
return for his artistic servioes. The idea works
well all round, and should a tow-headed young
urchin calls and squeak out, “ Pleath, thir, Ma
sez she won’t take these ere futtoes, coz they’re no
good,” the enterprising photographer can simply
reply, “ Take them back, and tell your Ma they’re a
crimson sight better than the eggs she sent in pay-
ment for them.”
For a good old quiet Sunday sermon, there
is no place witbin a twenty miles’ drive of the
Southern oapital to equal St. Kilda. That is es-
pecially true since Laurence Rentoul kissed his
hands to the ladies and wagged his leg at the men
of the opulent East. The Rev- C. E. Drought is
there now. He professed to shiver atheists last
week, and brought the full of the house about
him to hear his terrific impeachment of their
crimes and perfidies, Drought was rather an un-
happy name for the reverend evangelist to bring
with him into the world, and is not at all a seduc-
tive name in a country where the pubs, are shut
on Sunday. But it has a most important use. It
will go a good way to kill atheism. The preacher
himself wasn’t worth a song, wasn’t worth half a
bar of a nigger melody. His whole disproof of
atheism lay in such phrases as “ I do not court the
acquaintanceship of any atheist.” But his name
is fatal against the philosophy of materialism.
Solve this triumphant query of the churchman:
How else, except on the theory of an existing
< >eity and of an all-ruling, all-ordering Providence,
could Drought have got his name ? Keep your
eye on Drought, and answer that.
Grenfell is essentially a musical township,
for, although it has no duly-organised, legaliy-
ordained outlet for its musical geniuses, still it
contains enough Pattis and Sims Reeves to run a
Continental show, and enough instrumental musi-
cians to damn the whole of the globe beyond
redemption. Any undertaker who treats his cus-
tomers with common civility and attention can
make a fortune up there in six months, except
when a musical season is in full blast, and then
business runs to seed, as it were, because the un-
happy victims go out too far in the bush before
they saw their jugulars through, or blow out their
brains with bows and arrows. The slightest pre-
text is sufficient for the “talent” to revenge
themselves on ths miserable people of Grenfell,
and it is even hinted that men have been murdered
in cold blood simply to afford the town trouba-
dours an excuse for raking up a concert for his
wife and children. One woman is said to net about
£3OO a year by supplying the “amachers” with
tho mangled carcases of men whom she trades off
as her lawful husbands, and now we find even the
clergy are in the swim, for the funds of the Holy
Trinity Church are about to be enriched by the
proceeds of a ball; a sinful ball, from which the
men will come away as tired as a Randwick ’bus-
horse after a four-days’ race meeting, and about
which the girls, in their own giddy way, will de-
clare that, although the dancing wasn’t up to
much, still the “ ’ugging was somethin’ ’eavenly.”
This Holy Trinity ball is to be followed by a Holy
Triqity concert, or corroboree, the bright particu-
lar star of which, it is said, will be a lady in the
cuisine business, who will sing “ Partant pour La
Syrie,” by desire, and in honour of a prominent
member of the Bourbon family, at present staying
at Grenfell, the lady will also warble a part in the
lovely duet between Marie and Tony in “LaFiglia
del Reggimento.”
Another good man gone wrong. A few
weeks ago, the local papers in a certain flourishing
town up North came out with glowing pars, which
announced that honest worth had been duly re-
cognised at last, and their respected town clerk
had just been granted two months well-deserved
leave of absence in return for the faithful service
he had rendered to the municipality. These
eulogies wound up, of course, with the sincerest
wishes that the worthy official would enjoy a
pleasant trip down South, and return with his
overworked frame and shattered constitution once
more restored to their pristine health and vigour.
All this was an honest spontaneous burst of
genuine feeling on the part of the journals in
question, and the fact that the town clerk dealt
out paying ads. with a lavish hand had nothing
whatever to do with the business. Through some
strange infatuation, however, this respected ofli
cial neglected to clear out when he had the chance,
and now he longs for the wings of a dove or even
the legs of a dingo that he might hie away down to
even Kerguelen’s Island, for the very papers that
but a few weeks ago chronicled his sterling worth,
are now pained to announce that at a Council
meeting which was recently held with closed doors
their much-esteemed servant had a matter of
£3BO on the wrong side of his public ledger. His
resignation has since been accepted, and in con-
sideration of his being a single man and only re-
ceiving the paltry pittance of £7 a week for his
invaluable services, it is thought that the missing
sum will be raised and all may yet end happily.
This makes the third town clerk who has gone
bung up that way, and the Mayor, like a second
Diogenes, is now poking around with a lamp in
search; of an honest man. Unfortunately for him,
all our honest citizens are in a state of indepen-
dence or else in gaol, and therefore we can render
no assistance just at present.
RECOVERED!
A Remarkable Story of a
Government Official.
A Case of Suffering Without a
Parallel.
Official Indorsement by the U.S.
Commissioner.
From the New Orleans Times-Democrat .
Some thirty-two years since, then a boy ®f six-
teen, resident in Western New York, i was at-
tacked with what was declared by the physicians a
pronounced case of hereditary sorofula. It ap-
peared in the form of a glandular swelling upon
the loft side of the neck, which, despite all of the
usual old-timo remedies, continued to grow, be-
coming at, say eighteen, a seeming fixture of
about the size of a hen's egg. The swelling was
frequently very sore and painful, the more so that
it was much of the time raw from the daily appli-
cation of iodine. The general health became very
muoh broken, and the prospects in life, for one
just verging upon manhood, were gloomy enough.
A promising physician in Cleveland, Ohio, ad-
vised a change of climate, with a life of hardship
and exposure, as presenting, in connection with
youth, a possible chance of recovery. A removal
to the South and West, and an active, out-door iife
for some years, attested the soundness of his judg-
ment. The scrofulous swellings gradually disap-
peared; the system as gradually toned itself up;
the broken and dispirited boy became a strong and
hearty man of 183 pounds. There was a respite
for fifteen years. During all of this time there
was no sign of a return of the dread disease. As
the future but too sadly proved, however, it was
none the less surely, if slowly, working. In the
spring of 1870, now thirteen years since, it again
put in an appearance, and in an intensely aggra-
vated form. First, a single ulcer appeared upon
the lett breast; this was but the precursor of more
than ten long years of as miserable and wretched
an existence, with certainly as much of physical
suffering, as often falls to the lot of man. The one
ulcer was followed by another, until the whole
surface of the breast was but one mass of corrup-
tion. Some of these ulcers were not less than one
and a half inches in diameter, the edges rough,
ragged, and seemingly dead, the cavity open to
the bone, and filled with a yellowish, waxy, and
exceedingly offensive matter. Everything known
to tho medical fraternity was tried in vain. The
disease became but the more and more virulent
Gradually tho bone itself became diseased, and
then the sufferings began in earnest. Bone ulcers
here and there began to take the place of those
hitherto on the surface.
The difference manifest in these was that the
eruptions were of a watery nature, were copious,
and were attended with almost constant and severe
pain. About tho only relief experienced was
found in burning the whole surface of the breast,
night and morning, literally to a blister, with a
strong solution of carbolic acid. This served as a
disinfectant, removing the otherwise intolerable
smell, loosened up the matter, and allayed for the
time the intolerable itching. As if all this was not
enough, the ulcers broke out upon the shoulder-
blades, and extended to the small of the back, and
then, indeed, tho cup of misery was complete.
I became reduced to a mere wreck; for months
at a time could not get my hands to my own head
because of extreme soreness ; could not turn over
in bed without first rising to a sitting posture;
knew not from the one year's end to another what
it was to be an hour even free from pain, save, as
before stated, in the temporary relief afforded by
the burning of the ulcers with carbolio acid; had
reason to look upon life itseif as a curse.
In the summer of 1880, aftor better than ten long
years of this wretched existence, I was induced by
a lady friend to try a box of Cuticura. I did so,
much as I tried everything else that offered, with-
out any faith. I was agreeably surprised to find,
at once, that it acted with a wonderful, soothing
effect, in allaying the terrible burning and itdhing
of the ulcers. I was induced, a little later, to try
a box of Cuticura Resolvent. While I saw no
immediate effect upon ihe particular disease, I
was encouraged to continue its use by an unex-
ampled and flattering result in quite another
direction. I had been troubled with the Dyspepsia.
I found here at once an agreeable sense of relief.
I continued to use Cuticura Remedies. After
some months I began to see a change, and for the
better. The old ulcers began to discharge far
more freely, and relief was experienced in propor-
tion. The general tone of the system began to im-
prove; there was a marked increase in the appe-
tite, and a most decided improvement in the di-
gestion. I kept on with the remedies, and kept on
improving. First the one old ulcer, which had
run for more than ten years, gradually healed,
Then another, and still another. There were new
and frequent eruptions. Truly enough, they were
rather encouraging than otherwise, in that, unlike
the old, they discharged themselves freely and
healed again in a comparatively short time.
Finally, after something better than two years’
persistent use of the Cuticuka Remedies, the last
ulcer was healed. The work of renovation has
been slow, but seemingly sure. The dread disease
has succumbed. All over the breast, shoulders
and back, where for so many long, long years all
was but a mass of corruption, there is now a
healthy skin.
The broken-down system has graduaUy recuper-
ated ; has increased in weight from 123 to 158
pounds; the good work is still going on: the gen-
eral health is becoming remarkably good • the
man of 48 years of age, after more than 13 years
of suffering, feels himself a new man, and all
through the Cuticura Remedies.
I make this affidavit uncalled for, and wholly
through a sense of duty to suffering humanity,
that others, perhaps, influenced thereby, may
themselves be healed. I am not altogether un-
known, and there are those in prominent positions
here personally knowing to much as here stated.
Any interested parties are at liberty to refer to any
of the leading Federal officials in New Orleans
and through them, again, if need be, to ’
JAMES E. RICHARDSON,
Office Special Agent Treasury Department. New
Orleans Custom-House.
Personally appeared before me, the undersigned
authority, James E. Richardson, to me well per-
sonally known, who deposes and says that the
matter as contained in the foregoing affidavit is
true in each and every statement contained there-
in. In testimony whereof I hereby set my hand
and seal of office, this sth day of April, 1883.
„ . . .. ._. x J- D. Crawford,
Commissioner United States Circuit Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana.


Professional Itlrectory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
HORACE RENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney.
niHEATKE ROYAL.
■ Under the direction ot
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mdsorove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. GouUinan.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
WILLIAMSON. GARNER and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Planquette's delightful work,
LES CLOCHKB DE CORNEVILLE
LEB CLOCHES DK CORNEVILLE
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EA ER.
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENINGS,
LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
THE MERRY DUCHESS.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3*.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box oflice open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
E W OPERA
house.
CONN.
CONN,
bole Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majkkoni.
A MOST GENUINE SUCCESS
CONN, THE STIAUGHRAUN
THK SHAUGHRAUN
THE SHAUGARAUN
as played by Mils
.1 KNNIE LEE
JENNIE LEE.
The character of CONN sustained for the first
time in the WORLD bv a LADY. In ibis part
MISS LEK lias ECLIPSED all her previouslMP ER-
DONATIONS, »nd completely PUTS 1.4 IO THE
iIHADK all her well-known successes.
Crowded Houses and Standing Room ODly
being nightly the rule.
A NEW REVELATION of the CHARACTER.
HUMOUR- PATHOS-SENSATION-
Private Boxes. £2 25.; Dress Circle, 55.; St alls, oL;
Parquetto, 2s. Children in arms not admitted.
Day tickets at Roberts’s, adjoining the theatre.
Box plan at Iluenerbein’s, 411 George-street.
Business Manager for M‘sj Jennis Lee, LIDDY.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessoe Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MB. WYBERT REIS V E .
€r
LAST NIGHTS Laet NUhts LAST NIGHTS
of Mr. H. Stanley's Most Celebrated and Perlect
JUVENILE OPERA COMPANY,
who have scored a gigantic success in the
BURLESQUE
“JACK THE GIANT-KILLER,’’
Specially localised and produced with Beautiiul
Scenery,
This magnificent productipn will be repeated
THIS EVENING.
BATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT.
Grand Matinee for Schools and Families,
when will be produced for the Jast time,
The Gorgeous Burlesque Pantjmine,
“JACK THE JIAN T-KILLER.”
Box plan at Nicholson's. Day tickets at Loder's
Hotel (opposite Theatre). Agent for H. Stanley,
W. Farmer. Business Manager. G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
20th WEEK. 20th WEEK.
Unparalleled Success.
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDB.
Continued Success of the Great American Come-
dian, Mr. FRANK HUSSEY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at .Paling's, where
Pianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
ADCLIFF AND RITA’S
NOVEL ENTERTAINMENT*
at
OLD MASONIC HALL,
York-3treet,
on
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2k, lSBi.
Full particulars in future advertisemo.-ts.
R
D
N
I
N
G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners' Classes, Monde*' fihd
Thursday. Advanced Classes and VUsltbrs, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons* uftir and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
i-oo ms (8), largest, cooieet* Uiost elegantly furnished
m Australia, to Rent tor Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, Src. Leigh House Academy, 251
f'astlereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
■Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
•supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
porirar floor, &o. No decorations required.
SIURKUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAM?* tor haul-
ing sleepers, on the above Ddhtract. Long
job, and highest wages. Army bn the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19th century. > ,
ARTICLES MENDED OANNOT fij
AraiCAH tfOTZLT? CO,. 200 Pitt Si (Oily) flydatf,
JMI *BE PIECESI
usd Pearl Comsat, tha
greatest American
Discovery of the 19th
ceatury--ne ver k nowa
to fail—for mendin#
China, Crockery
Wood, Ivo leather,
ftcs, PricAlm. per bot-
tii&j Wold everywhere.
wend to the American
IToveltyCo., 203 Pitt St.,
Cydngy, for whatever
you may require
whether the article is
in theCatrhigUe or no.
'Their Goal in nearly
*ViJ*ything,
TcothachaTinctare, the
best remedy knownfor
giving instant relief.
Price Is bqttle; ls6d
by post.
Send. 2d, stamp for
272-paged Catalogue.
AMERICAN ROVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
UNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joiepb Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20,2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40 4.
The entertainment will commence at 330 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate. Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECOR ATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
A large stock of Paperhangings of the rnoct
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
BURGLARS versus ELECTRICITY.
YOUR GOLD WATCH AND CHAIN TO A
NOTE.
BURGLAR and other Alarms, Electric Bells,
Telephones, Lightning Conductors, fitted
and supplied by the
ELECTRICAL MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Estimates free. All work kept in order for 12
months, gi-atis.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
EJTABLIBHED 186°.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT. 187
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve FUUd £138,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
AubtTOßs:
Jaa. Scrbggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
GltN'EßAij Manager:
j)’. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector AUbd.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nynjran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 153 Loadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Bir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G-
Geo. Pi Slade, !sq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
MANAafeft. s «So. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. J . _
pills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and otheb pWdildfe shipped to England for sale.
Town of Bourke.
OPENING OF G.W. RAIL WAT TO BYEROCK.
Land Sale ! Land Sale !
SPLENDID BUSINESS FRONTAGES AND SITES.
W. H. DANIELL has been instructed by the Exe-
cutors of the late Joseph Boekbl' and Patrick
Green to
SELL B¥ PftßLtC AUCTION
the time of the Opening of the Railway to
Byerock,
(BO Miles from Bourke),
The exact date of which will be announced in
future advertisement,
bs
and also
A FEW ALLOTMENTS IN NO. 1 EXTENSION,
EAST BOURKE,
which have been recently Surveyed.
The Auctioneer has much pleasure in calling the
§ articular attention ot the public to the above
ale. Some bf the Allotments to be offered are
sltbhted in
THE VERY CENTRE ANb MOST VALUABLE
business Portion Of the town
OF BOURKE,
and as land in Bourke is steadily and daily increas-
ing: in value, the attention of business men re-
quiring sites, publicans, investors and others is
specially directed to this Sale, as such an oppor-
tunity cannot again occur.
All further particulars can be obtained from the
Auctioneer,
TERMS LIBERAL.
TlTLE—Direct from the Crown.
W. H DANIELL,
Agent for Executors of the late J. Becker and
P. Green,
Mitchell-street, Bourke.
Bourke, 3lst .July, 1884.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23.
Redman’s Estate, Canterbury.
ET" THE BRIDGEWATER ESTATE,
on the Main Canterbury-road.
Over 200 Choice Building Sites.
MILLS and PILE have been instructed by the
Trustee to sell by publio auction, on the
ground. Canterbury, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
23, at 3.3; sharp,
Over 200 CHOICE BUILDING SITES, being
the subdivision of the well-known Bridge-
water Estate, each lot having 60 FEKT
FRONTAGE, by DEPTHB OF 150 to 200
FEET.
This portion of the Estate is
FIRST-CLASS,
fronting the important Road from Canterbury to
Belmore. The situation is beautiful, and the
lots have been marked out with great care.
The Terms of the Sale will be very liberal.
The Title is first-class.
Lithographs are now ready for issue.
Omnibuses will leave the Railway Station, Ash-
field, at 3 p.m. on the day of Sale to convey in-
tending buyers to the Ground.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers.
ifiIO.OOO.-MeLBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.j
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application lor
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan of Distkibution :
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £30.0, by far the large t
offered in any consultation, isafortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£loto, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it w’ll take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, bend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
grbat prices in this grand Consultation.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Omciß: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYB, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Bteamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
of Steamships;
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWAMU
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited).
42 Bang: Street, Bydney
READ ANALYTIC/ L REPORTS.
£
Si
SI
ff
O'
NVALUA
sUFFERI
ho **22
los
ton
I'm
Ne
*'Vq u
s He
5S
hi
PI!
„
_ adapted for the
Australian Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
E.
BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
at tois office
W ANTED an Articled PUPIL lor the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
w. misii a no,
Merchant Tailors, Habit and
Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 408*
ALBERT HOUSE, TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET.
“I® - N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetli-si
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They we*’# rowasdnd GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and ¥hAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
EIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow,
G. H. ADAMS, Aqent, Vl9 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:
SPRINGFIELD
PRINGFIELB
RING-FIELD
INGFIELD
NGFI E L D
G F l E L d"
FIELD
IE L D
ELD
L D
D
'P.tpy
&
PER MONTH-
Ko Interest.
Suburban Homes.
business Sites.
75 per cent advanced to assist pur-
chasers to build.
CHARMING VIEWS, CULTIVATED SOIL.
Oranges and Vines growing on the Allotments.
The subdivision of this far-famed vineyard and
/ orangery, formerly known as Ellenger’s Orchar ,
will enable business men engaged m Sydney tc
their residences on this charming property.
Numerous trains to suit business men.
Springfield is situated about a quarter ot a mile from °
Granville. 3 mile, f. on. Parramatta, and 10 miles !>•»
Sydney, on the Great Southern Railway.
Plans as above, or from
Fill. A. BOYD,
on
the Estate Sprinqfield. Guildford
MMt tt UH I
China, Gfass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods, j
48 GEORGE-ST
(OPPOSITE IVYKYARD STREET)


Ruskin describes a civilised nation in
modern Europe as consisting in broad terms of (1)
a mass of half-taught, discontented, and mostly
penniless populace, calling itself the people; of [11)
a thing which calls itself a government—mean-
ing an apparatus for collecting and spending
money; and (3) a small number of capitalists, many
of them rogues, and most of them stupid persons,
who have no idea of any object of human exist-
ence other than money-making, gambling, or
champagne-bibbing. A certain quantity of literary
men saying anything they can be paid to say; of
clergymen, saying anything they have been taught
to say; of natural philosophers, Baying anything
that comes into their heads; and of nobility, say-
ing nothing at ail—combine in disguising the action
and perfecting the disorganization of the mass;
but with respect to practical business, the civilised
nation consists broadly of mob, money-collecting
machine, and capitalist.
Skinny Men- —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.
23? THIRTY SHILLINGS.
■
a
€ M
r r.
V... •‘‘3 a »&^* s ,r
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and itl .1 more enduring,
fsone but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest
W-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that, we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals-
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling goln as to almost defy detection
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad 3 become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. Rut as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to dea
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Golc
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stampec
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watob and Chain, and it wil
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt el
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articlee, re-pack them at onee
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first posi
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the port
of the manufactux-ers. we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapie
clearance of that line of Goods, wo will send to
any customer (post free, if at a distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,” is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in the long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us lor what you may desire.
Rsjmeuber the'Address :
474 George-st.. Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST*.
Ladies’ handsome Oi-iental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 15s , 205., and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. fid.,”
Bs., 83. (id., Os, and 103 a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. fid. to 305.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2 10s. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles.
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 158. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines 30s. each ; Ladies*
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. fid., 20s , 225.
fid., 255., 275. fid., 30s„ 35*., and 405.; Handsome
Uom Rings, 7s. fid., Bs. fid., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
eaob; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s Od. to Bs. fid. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseils
Same aB above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
PF” These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movenn-nts are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albort
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Lever*!
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert
2 0
£2 15 0
£3 0 6
£4 5 0
£5 5 0
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£3 3 0
£4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches dircet from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we nan
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
m most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gojd Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d.,
7s. 6d., Bs. fidf and 10s. each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings, 7s. Od.
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buokle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &c., from ss. to
8s fid. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. fid., Bs..
Bs. fid., fis, 10s., and 12s. fid. per set; Same as
above, only half sots, 35., 45., and ss. per set-
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s elegant Seals, real
Ptenes, 7s. fid., 83., 95., 10s., and 12s. fid.each-
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s
10s., and 123. fid. each; Genls’ Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, fis fid. and 10s. each -
Gem’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. fid., 20b„
25s , and 30s. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS
theatre Royal— “ Les Cloches ”. ... P . 8.
Opera House— “ The Shaughraun” ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “Jack the Giantkiler ib.
Academy oe Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
“The Shaughraun” was put on at the
Opera House on Saturday night with Jennie Lee
In the title role. We told you about this last week.
aDd the result was was that you rolled up to see
bow the little actress would sustain a character
like Cone, the romantic Irish hero who was alwajs
trusting to luck, always getting into scrapes, and
always helping his friends out of them. And how
did Jennie play it ? Well, we’re not done laugh-
ing yet. We have seen a lot of people play “The
Shaughraun,” but we never saw anybody who
played it like our famous Little Jo. She didn't
play it at all, if you ask us about it. She went
through the lines well enough, but it wasn’t Conn
that she acted. It was Jennie Lee. But it was
entertaining, nevertheless; and, hile the critical
were amused at her quaint conception of the
character, other people lauahed because they felt
good, so that altogether the entertainment was
thoroughly enjoyed. We expected that Jennie
would be pert and saucy in this piec , and would
get a lot of fun out of it, and, as usual, we gave
ourselves the correct tip; but the little mite of a
woman isn’t big enough to play Conn, excentto
burlesque it, and if she hadn’t the audacity of the
devil she wouldn’t have attempted it.
* * *
The cast was the most un-Irish that we
ever saw undertake to interpret one of ’Bouc
cault’s plays, dhe only Irishman (or woma
either) in it was James Carden, who took the pa
of Corrv Kinohela. Carden is always fair when
is not positively good, and we liked his conceptlo
of the Squireen. He looked just like the har
hearted wretch who turned our grandfather an
his pig out of the house because he couldn’t pa
the rent while the whisky was .so dear. We Knor
that Carden looked like this villian. for our vene
able ancestor often said that he had a lace on hi
that would scare a dog away from a roll o:'
sausage. Boucicault’s plays are so full of prett
sentiments, which nobody but the Irish appear
appreciate or understand, that the tenderes;
beauties are lost when the lines are rea 1 by thos
who have never been in Ireland, nor have made
study of the Irish character.
* * *
We were cross about this, Saturday nighb,
when we heard Moya (Miss Ada Lee) running car
lessly over lines that might have been rendered
as to touch a sympathetic chord in everybody
liver. Moya is really a splendid character, but i;
takes a lot more ability, a lot more study, and
heap better training than Ada Lee appears to ba\
been born with or achieved, or had thrust upo
her, to play the role to the satisfaction of thos
who know anything about the ways of the Iris
peasant girl. Miss Blanche Lewis’s Clar
Folliott wa n’t anywhere near the mark, an
her brogue was simply ridiculous; but sh
looked as sweetly as a pink-breasted eockato
with its tail out off and its beak broken. Beaut
covers a multitude of professional sins, and ai
audience overlooks defects that would appea
strikingly prominent in a homely woman. Poo
Sara Bernhardt found this out when she first wen ;
to America and the reporters began criticising th
fatness of her feet and the evident slimness of th
limbs they supported. Sara got mad about this
and wrote to the papers that sne hadn’t come a
the way from France to relish the idea of flndin
people who were rude enough to talk and scribbl
about things they had no business to look at, eve
on a windy day when the dust was flying. Sh
wanted to be criticised on her merits as an actress
she said, but the critics seemed rather to prefer tc
treat her from the standpoint of a model of bean
pole symmetry. As an artiste, they couldn’t fin
much fault with her; but as a sample of huma
grace and beauty, physically, they had more fu
about her than two tom-cats tied together by th
tail and slung over a clothes-line. Blanche has i
all the other way. The critics are always saying
something pleasant about her, until the first thin,r
she knows she’ll stand a chance of becoming a
famous as Mis. Langtry.
* * *
Oily Deering took the audience right along
with him as Harvey Duff, and for that reason we
are going to let him live a while longer. George
Forbes tried Captain Molyneaux, and sucoeedec
like the old woman who kept a tavern up in
Queensland. Oh, yes! and this just reminds u
that George has been writing a comedy entitle!
“ The Philanthropist,” which is to be played fo
the first time on any stage at the Gaiety on Satur
day evening, August 30. We don’t know anything
about George’s skill as a playwright, but we are
going to the Gaiety to see his production, and ii’
it’s bad enough to deserve any of our attention
we’ll let you know about it in time to make up
your mind whether you caro to look at it. We
have no disposition to nip aspiring genius in the
bud, and for that reason wc hope that Mr. Forbes
has done something worthy to entitle him to a per-
manent roosting place on the gibbet of fame. But
we have hovered long enough amongst the crowc
at the Opera House, and it only remains for us tc
tell you that “ The Shaughraun ” will be repeated
until further notice. And it draws better than
“Divorvons,” which was on there a short time ago
and came pretty near being a frost.
** * *
Stanley’s Juveniles have at last undertaken
something that we feel like commending. This
week they have been doing “ Jack the Giant-
killer ” in a way that nearly fractured our anatomy
to look at. The “ gorgeous burlesque and panto-
mime” has been specially localised by Messrs.
Mayers and Duff. We sat beside Mr. Mayers the
other night, and it must be confessed we were
just a trifie surprised to see the modesty with
which he bore his honours when the people ap-
plauded the new songs and local hits. We once
tried our hand at localising a burlesque,
and since we have seen Mr. Mayers’ hap-
piness, we are firmly convinced that applause
is better than diseased eggs and tomatoes after all.
Not that any of those things struck us, for they
didn’t; but the atmosphere in the theatre at the
close of the second act was so full of them that the
players retired in confusion and couldn’t be in-
duced to go on again for love or money. As a
playwright, we were chagrined and otherwise
grinned almost out of our boots. Since that time
we have a sort of sympathetic feeling for every
blooming genius who undertakes to tackle fame
upon that line. We don’t tackle any more. A
quiet life is good enough for us now, and it pays
everybody but our creditors for us to keep that
way.
* * *
Annie Childs played in the title role in a
most captivating manner, and sang and danced so
prettily that we wished ourself a boy again so that
we could go on the stage and learn to do a statue
clog, or something, with her for teacher. There is
real talent in this little lady; and if flattery or
something else don’t spoil her before she has a full
chance to develop, the world may hear of her.
We don’t wonder that Jack was Queen Bee’s
special favourite, but we did wonder that she
didn’t run her sword straight through the burly
Giant Gorgibuster, instead of poking it under his
arm, and allowing the little Lord Chamberlain to
saw his leg off with a wooden cheese-knife. Jack’s
mother (Master Favargen) was a funny old dame,
who made the most of a very good part. If our
mother had looked like that, we are very certain
we wouldn’t have been born.
* * *
But there was one little chap that caught
our eye,and who is the most finished little actor that
we ever saw on the stage. This was Master Har-
man, the Lord Chamoerlain. The lad is almost a
baby, not bigger than a Moreton Bay oyster,
and yet he does some of the funniest stage
business imaginable. He is so thoroughly at
home and self possessed, and seems to enter into
thespiritof the burlesque with such perfect zest,
that we wanted to gather the little villain in our
arms and till his pockets fuff of lollies and for-
bidden fruit. The oddest part ot it is that the kid
has been left entirely to his own ingenuity in
working up his funny business, and almost every
evening he interpolates something new that the
remainder of the troupe are not looking for. Such
precociousness, if it sticks to him, will make him
eventually a smarter man than we are, and that’s
almost useless to think of if you take our unbiassed
opinion on the matter.
* * *
Harry Stanley personated the Giant Gor-
gibuster, and made himself up so frightfully that
the children in the audience began to scream when
first he stuck his nose out from behind the wings.
There were some fine historical points about that
Giant costume, too, but we forget what thev are
just now. Anyway, it doesn’t make any difference
—for it isn’t likely that anybody but us, who used
to manufacture nursery tales to frighten Old
Mother Hubbard’s children, would bo sufficiently
familiar with the history of Giant days to criticise
with intelligence the costume of one of these mon-
sters of the past. And what's the use of criticism
when the people don’t understand it '/ That’s
what players and playgoers ask sometimes after
they ve been wading through an opening night
notice in the Herald. Fortunately for us, we're
not restrained from giving it up.
* * *
If you think of anything else that we
should have told you about the Juveniles please
supply it for yourself, for we are now going out
to the settlement on the recent boat-race. Do
y° u know, we got on the right side cf that boat-
race ? That came from our intimacy with Profce-
sor Baldwin. You see, we have learned to read
minds now, and we read Beach’s like an open
book. It told us that he was going to beat Hanfan,
and so we backed him for all we were worth—two
lead pencils and a saveloy-and now we expect to
be rich. And this reminds us that Professor
Baldwin has been exposing spirits up at Orange.
The other day he was fooling with his revolver,
which ho didn t think was loaded, when it went
oil and shot away a piece of his foot. It was
only a liesh-wound, but the Professor danced
around and yelled so that the inhabitants gathered
Then the report was circulated that the Professor
had attempted suicide This was telegraphed to
the Sydney papers, and the Dext day wc got a
letter trom our friend, saying, “ Contradict the re-
port that I attempted to commit suicide. I’m
having too muoh fun in this world to think of
trying to get out of it. It’s raining like Hades in
Orange to-day. but we’re doing a booming busi-
ness.’ Hereafter, before the Profesior takes a
revolver in hand, he is going to put Mrs. Baldwin
into a trance to And out whether it’s loaded. If it
is, then he’ll let her handle it wl ile he goes off
down town to get out of the way. But we
■o tell you that the Juveniles are going to play
“Jack the Giantkiller” only up to Saturday night
? f when the kidB are advortised to
tackle The Pirates of Penzance.”
** • •
Enough people were in town on Saturday
night to fill the streets, Hood the public houses,
and throng the theatres. Sydney was enf&tc. The
scuiler of the century” ran foul of a Beach in
the ‘ beautiful harbour,” and couldn’t get off, so
that—[Oh, give us something fresh, Ed B 1 Well
anyway, the Kangaroo’s tail was up, and so'Sydney
went mad, and the publicans worked off more
tobacco-juice-flavoured rum and home-made
champagne than on any former occasion. The
intoxication of success ran a dead-heat with the
drunkenness of alcohol* and men, ordinarily un-
deVio,°?tratiVe ’ em braced, shouted and slobbered,
as if life without out-riggers was a poor and tame
a ffair. The theatres participated in the success.
At the ltoyal there was just standing room when
the Add es carried the first bars of the overture to
Les Cloches de Corneville” by a front attaok,
aided by a flank movement by the trombone, the
big drum coming in at the finish.
• • t
Nellie Stewart was the Serpolette and
Fanny Liddiard the Germaine. Nell was in fine
form, twittering and romping away as if ankious
to show that there was no real difference between
the French, larrikiness and the home-made article
ot which we are so justly vain. But there was a
lack or variety in her gestures and poses which
beoame a little tiresome. To stick her arms
akimbo, in the manner adopted by Billingsgate
ladies when resolved to let their neighbours into
some domestic derails of a spicy nature, was her
commonest endeavour, and won hearty demon-
strations of approval from the more juvenile S3c-
tion or the gods," who varied their enthusiasm
by playfully squirting tobacco-juice at oue
another in honour of Beach’s success, or dropping
orange-peel on the heads of the elderly and bald-
headed*habitu<ss of the pit. There is a deal of inno-
cent enjoyment to be obtained by obse ving the
pleasant surprise of a thoughtful middie-aged
man when a banana or an onion reaches his head
from a considerable elevation. He seems to enter
so into the fun of the thing—to seize, as it were
the whole measure of the original humour that is
contained in launching an unpretentious vegetable
into space and trusting to the well-known law of
gravitation to ;make sure of its squashing on his
uncovered head—that he rarely fails to look up
with a smile. Alas !if men who have seen their
days only knew how agreeable they could often
make themselves to their more youthful fellows
by welcoming those cheerful little pleasantries in
a becoming way, we would Imar less ol the selfish
petuLance exhibited by many, old enough to know
better, when roused from their uncompanionable
frigidity by a turnip or a cauliflower I
• * *
Liddiatd was not so abandoned (we believe
18 T? ro °Br*. but haven’t time to correct it) as
Nell. Nor had she any cause. But she looked so
fresh, and plump, and blooming that you felt that
it her voice were only a bit more powerful, she
would be perfect. As Gaspard, Mr. Kelly acted
and looked like a miser, or, rather, like the preva-
lent idea of what a miser ougbt to be. For, as a
matter of fact, the idea and the reality are verv
much at variance. Your thorough-going l miser is
much oftener dressed in broadcloth and fine linen
than in rags. The facial expression used by Mr.
Kelly to do duty fora “smile ” was a leer of such
pronounced rascal ty that the leader of the or-
ches ra missed a beat in studying it. And his
laugh—it was an amalgam of all the uncanny
cr °i kB Jot loose in the world since Saul’s tete-a-tete
with Kndor—a laugh that made your fingers itch
for a good grip or the frowsy old creature’s frayed
collar, and your thumbs for a firm pressure on his
wind-pipe. As the Marquis, Mr. Vernon sang well
ani looked ‘lovely.” Forde’s Baiilie and Wallace’s
Gobo kept the house simmering with their tom-
fooleries, although the “gag” they so unsparingly
used was occasionally funny, but mostly ten-ible
in its inspired stupidity. For years we have sought
to be brought face to face with the heartless
( wretches who localise foreign bizarrerie , or write
jokes tor travelling Minstrels. But in vain. Yet
- . do lt ’ ar ? d ’ considering that Messrs.
™ and Wallace make a good living out of the
public, the lea-t they might do would be to hand
over to popular Indignation the unfeeling creatures
who do so much to loster crime by me«ns of their
hideous pieasdntries. As Jean Grenicheux, Mr
Woodfisld appeared a trifle inelastic in his move-
ments-asit stout” or “half-and-half” had en-
teied too largely into his diet to permit of much
light exercise or a high state of training. He was
piaylul, of course: but his playfulness was, some-
how, associated in your mind with a regimen of
corned-beef and cabbage. The “bells” are to
fo“° The 'Sft ja™ 1 Bive >“*“ w
** # *
*J^V?! rfo u rm^ nce b y the Sydney Lieder
tatel of the choral arrangements of tUe tragedy of
Antigone, by our old friend Sophocles, drew a
large and distinguished audience to the Exhibition
1f Dg OD IhurBda y- That is to say it drew us,
and if we are not large and distinguished, we’d
like to know about it. The reason we went was
because our dear old friend, Jack Sophocles, got
us to read over the play before ne offered it to the
Evenxnos Noos tor publication, and we were able
to afford him some encouragement and to suggest
some improvements. The circumstance that the
not represented the other
night precluded the Sydney public from having an
of observing the excellence of our
emendations. For example, they lest the fine
significance of the sudden change to B flat when
Antigone lay down on her dungeon bed. Again,
* o 1 u P e1 ®' Creon, makes his first appearance
we got Sophocles to introduce Cleon’s wife also,
i his improved the opportunities for musical treats
ment very materially, and our dear friend, Men-
delssohn Bartholdy—who also owes much to
PP*" hints—was enabled to mark the passage
thus:— Enter Creon, andante;” and the open-
JJJ*’ words of the ensuing appeal by Anti-
gone, beginning Uncle and Aunty,” had a pro-
dieious effect. Our dear friend Mendelssohn
was, perhaps, not so amenable to reason as was
Sophocles (although we loved them both like
brothers, and they were among the earliest sub-
scribers to The Bhlletinos). Me declined to
adopt our suggestion that the incarceration of
Antigone should be expressed by sequences of
double bars, Ci eon’s cran iness entirely phrased
in crochets, and the tremors of the men of Thebes
by quavers. Three thousand people were present
to hear the Liedert ifel sing this story, and His
Excellency the Governor was just ten days and ten
hours late. Ti is may appear strange. The way to
get at It is this. If you keep one person waiting
five minutes, th it amounts to well, it amounts to
more than you do. Ir you keep 3(J00 persons waiting
live minutes, that is just 3000 times five minutes of
waiting- to which your want of consideration has
exposed people. That makes ten days and ten hours.
Punctuality is the politeness of Princes (old and
disrespectful proverb). If, however, his most
sacred Excellency came late, be made up for it,
with the most delicate sensibility, by going early.
A talented gentleman, with a name that sounds
like a sneeze, had just played very exquisitely a
violin and an encore was being demanded,
when the distinguished patron of the society rose
to go. A murmur (of sympathy) ran round the
assemblage. It was currently believed that some
domestic catastrophe had been communicated,
The popular idea waejthat a favourite dorking had
calved. However, Armes Beaumont came for-
ward and sang dellciou&ly, to the accompaniment
of a trampling of vice-regal and attendant hoofs.
But, then, what would you have? The performers
and audience were merely people, and if they don’t
understand the manners and ideas of the ftussian
Court, we pity them. Of the music, by our dear
friend Mendelssohn, we need say little. Max
Vogrich has worked up chorus and orchestia to
the top of their capacity. The choruses were
faultless, so far as we could discover on a first
hearing of such a wor—we mean, of course, a
first hearing since we left Athens and Berlin.
•* * *
We're not going to tell you much about
the Minstrels this week, for the truth is that the
people kbep crowding into the Academy, so that
there isn’t nardly roam for our feet down-stairs,
and we never go into the gallery, for it takes too
long to get out between the act . And then the
“ gods ” up there howl and screech like the Moore
Park dog show, until we can’t hear ourselves
think. When we go early, however, and get down
among the fashionables, we’re right; but, you see,
we can’t, always go pearly without losing a number
of drinks that couldn’t very well be regained after
the siiow. Suoh has been our tender solicitude for
people who wanted to “shout” for us this week
that we have neglected our work, and if you hear
anything drop about the close of this paragraph
you’ll know that the boss has oaught us, and we re
a gone gosling.
“ THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .l
There is no such a thing as a poor player
now, counter-luncheons are s© common “Im-
pulse” seems to have got the Victorians at the
Princess's; and Clark and Ryman-will they never
die I—are at it at thb Opera House Writing of
Emelie Melville, who is giVirig them “Girofle,” the
gorgeous scribe who does the theatres tor the
Melbourne Sportsman, delivers himself of the
following:—“‘See how it sparkles,’ is always good
for a hearty encore, while Moorzook is one of those
parts Parley fairly revels in. From start to finish
everything goes trippingly, and when the curtain
tails, the audience, like the scholars at Dothc-
boys Hall, look as if they’d like ‘some more.’”
We were under the impression that these boys got
rather more than they wanted.. The fascinating
Georgina Smiihson is in Christchurch; and Fred.
Millis had a ben. and is off to America-or Dubbo.
And it seems that Mr. Fisher has an Opera Bouffe
Company, and, strangely enough, plays comedy...
Pick.’s with all the “ well-known elo-
quence ”) Is at Port Adelaide.... Little Dunning is
giving them “Rip” at Abbott’s Opera House, at
Auckland, but re-opens in Christchurch on the
36th prox.; and Frank Towers is having a big
block of his usual luck at Garner's theatre.
Adelaide, ’Twas ever thus—but, gently now 1
the feelings of a father must be respected
The Critic df the BUnilaberg Mail has a brain
that toen.s So with originality that we wonder he
can keep h;s hat on. It seems that Tyrell’s opera
company with Lambert and Templeton, Ac., are
there, and he announces that they will open in the
“ever green Grand Due ess.” He doesn’t seem to
realise the fact that whatever the Grand Duchess
was, she wasn’t ever <ireen. Then they play, he
says, in “the ever-favourite Maritana,” &c. In
the end, this kind of stereotyped bosh becomes
intolerable. The title of the company (which ap-
pears to be bossed by Tyrell) is “ The Comic Opera
Company.” It is the only troupe on the road, we
think, that plays “Ti-e Pirates” with two and a
half of Major-General’s daughters.. . .Grattan has
been having luck all the time, up North, and
things are good at Arm Male. No “property
chains,” now, we can tell you I Buagy by the
day, and a resplendent “window-pane,”... And
here is rather a funny thing from the Brisbane
Courier, which appeared the night after the
occasion of the fire panic at the theatre:—“ In
the stalls, which were crowded, a large proportion
of the men made a cowardly rush for the entrance
passage, leaving the women to shift for them-
selves. The abandoned 'women fortunately took
things coolly.” “Buzzy” wrote that himself, or
we’ll “eat our heads!’....Poor Ada Ward met
with a cool reception at a matinee at the Princess’s
Theatre, London, in Pauline. We don’t know who
the Claude was except that it was not Larry
Foley. But Larry can’t be everywhere It ap-
pea s, though, that George Darrell is to have at
the Grand a show, at last, for “ The Sunny fcouth.”
In seems rather wearisome to have to chronicle
the fact that Tommy Hudson has been playing in
the Old Bond Store, Cairns (N.Q ); equally so to
write that “ Mr. By ne’s Company ’ (whom we don’t
remember ever having heard of before) are up
Inglewood way, tipping the rustics to “Ten Nights
in a Bar-room." But, the call of duty.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The genius of this century is essentially
utilitarian. A Scotchman has invented a Process
for tanning the human skin. He h “ e f X ,^ her
several articles made of this novel kind of leather,
and has received complimentary testimonials from
several persons who have made purchases. If this
leather, is to become fashionable, we shah start
skinning our poets at once. It will be the first
chance we shall have had of putting them to any
sensible use. But what a vista this new industry
opens Messrs. Addison and Yates will, we expect?
start the first tannery. They will have the advan-
tage of others in respect to having taken time by
!h« forelock in the matter of gaining experience.
ZTidoHAu, and Anedlina slttiwr toother.
Mind-Reading.
MR. SANDY STUART ([?]): “CAN I TELL WHAT'S IN THE ENVELOPE, MR. SERVICE? CERTAINLY, AND CAN BEAD BETWEEN
and—in the intervals of cooing—talking about
shoes. Adolphus tapping his with his cane, says,
“Uncle Ned these—they wear well—he was a
tough old buffer. Who is yours?” To which
Angelina softly replies, looking down at her num-
ber 3’s, “Uppers, Aunt Jane; feel how soft they
are!—l was so fond of her, Adolphus—soles, iua’s
second husband: they won’t last long, he used to
drink and fall about too much.” But, thunder,
what a future will be opened to members of Par-
ment when this fashion comes into vogue! We
mean to the skins of members of Parliament. We
suppose they will be.used up for harness-leather.
They are thick enough, anyhow.
* * *
The Governor of Queensland made a tour
through the northeru parts of his viceroyalty
lately. And now he is understood to be collecting
materials for the publication of a journal describ-
ing all he has seen. This is likely to be a valuable
contribution to the lumber room. You remember
how once a Lord Mayor of London made a journey
to Oxford, which was celebrated by his chaplain,
Dillon, in a portly work ;immortalised by Hood in
one of his best odes. Let us quote a few lines :
“ Patron of Learning where she ne’er did dwell,
Where literature seldom finds abettors,
Where few— except the postman and his bell—
Encourage the belle lettres,
Well hast thou done, right honourable sir—
Seeing that years are such devouring ogresses,
And thou hast made some little journeying stir—
To get a Nichols ) to record thy Pro-
To take thine own pen* gr.sses.”
With the .alternation we have given in the final
line, this will suit His Excellency of Queensland’s
authorship exactly. But we, doubt not when the
book comes out, it will And critics who will dis-
cover in it gems of description and wealth of in-
formation. From the top of the tree to the bottom
it is the same. The whole British Empire, upon
which the sun never presumes to set, grovelled
before the last work of HerfMajesty; and we dare
say if the Keeper of the Vice-regal Fowl-house
were to publish a volume of poems to-morrow, it
would be received with respectful rapture by a
class of people who would not pay sixpence to
save all British literature—not aristocratic—from
destruction.
* * *
There is a cheerful gentleman in the com-
mercial-travelling line who carries a piece of his
head about with him in his pocket. His name is
Adams, and he had his skull clipped at Narandera
while engaged in the fine old game of quoits. He
says he feels no inconvenience from the loss of the
piece. Which suggests the curious speculation as :
to whether, if a man had his head chipped off
gradually in small pieces, so as not to be taken too
much by surprise, he could not do as well without
it. If we were called upon to choose a safe subject
for such an experiment, whom should we name?
“Dan O’Connor?” No! “Andy Lynch?” No!
“Mudgee Taylor?” Nor yet him! Who, then ?
■Why • of onu'se. [We have excised the name.
It is that of a man who is too high in the opinion
of the Supreme Court to be gibed at with impunity
-until he is dead. Our contributor has not even
the rudimentary notions of reverence. —Ed. B.]
* * *
When Empson’s Minstrels were playing in
one of the Northern towns, a gentleman 110 years
of age was sitting in the front chairs. Before he
j had been there long he burst into tears. “ What
is the cause of your emotion ?” sympathisingly
enquired a friend who was leading liim out. “ It j
—it’s to think I’m a-growin’ old,” sobbed the cen-
tenarian. “ Nonsense,” said the friend cheerfully,
“ you are a hearty young fellow yet.” “No, no,”
was the querulous reply: “I can see it-I can see
it. Empson is only 50 years older than I am, and
lie lias got wrinkles under his eyes! I’m a-growin’
old, I tell you; I’m a-growin’ old! ” And they had
to ladle a quart of rum into him before he would
be comforted.
* * *
The QurcANBErAN Gale has an article from
its Paris correspondent. He tells us about the Abb
Gallien, who becomes, later, Gullien (sic)— fancy a
Frenchman being cailed “ Gullien ”! then we are
! introduced to “ Madame de la Moshowa,” who
figures again as the “ Duchesso de la Maskowa,
i and again as the “ Duehesse de la Maskeun. [! • 1
We make the acquaintance, too, of “ Madame Le_
moyne,” who bobs up serenely later on as “Le-
moryne.” We think we have shown enough to
dispel all reasonable doubts as to the undoubted
Gallic origin of the writer. And now we leave
him to go on with the manufacture of his damper?
while the boy fills the billy at the creek.
* * *
We suppose when that bore Ballington (!)
Booth arrives, as they presented Veitch with “ a
large kettle,” an iron-pot will fall to his lot. They
call him a Colonel now. It would be a brilliant
and graceful thought if someone would take the
pot and Well, just let him come and howl under
our window!
• • •
The Harmy say “Mr. Brereton has been
‘saved,’ and he gave his farm to the Army as an
expression of gratitude.” We don’t know whether
Mr. Brereton will keep being saved, but he can
take his oath that the Harmy will keep his farm.
We expect if Mr. B. at any time didn’t feel quite so
saved as he might wish, his face will assume a pen-
sive aspect when he thinks of those flocks that are
fatally faded. While on the subject of the Harmy,
we must quote a bit of Captain Veitch, the hero of
i the kettle. Nothing ever written was funnier than
j this: “Bathurst Bombardiers. Our Battling, Blood
Bought, Bathurst Bombardiers are determined to
thrash the old devil at every point. On Sunday, at
7 a.m„ we began to wage war against sin and
SataD. We took his force by surprise, and wound
up with three killed, and a glorious breakfast.”
There’s a canniballic touch about the latter part
which does not make it the less grotesque. From
j what we have seen of converts here, no desire to
l eat them has presented itself. They are too low in
one sense, and too high in another.


Talk about 'the force of habit, here’s a
fact that Darwin would pawn his holiday shroud
t 0 be possessed of. At the late sittings of the
Central District Court, Tambo (Q.), a jury was
being empannelled, and as the name of a certain
juror was called, the good man and true in ques-
tion, shuffled lazily into the box, held on to the
rails, and groggily said, “Yer Washup, I pleads
not guilty.” And finding he was not in it this
time, he heaved a fog-horn sigh, and took his seat
with a look on his face something akin to that
generally worn by Hamlet’s Pa—“more in sorrow
than in anger.”
• • •
It was a warmish sort of day, as a high-
toned party, clad in all the glittering refulgence of
a set of diamond studs and a dirty shirt, slid into a
pitt-street bar and called for a “ long beah, with
plenty o’ hice in it.”. While this was being
brewed, he annexed a badly-mangled round of
beef, a saucer of pickles, and enough bread and
jr/icifa. m- Tec cAo/tl ? 7v'Ay j 7/n cc Aouse ■ t
jbretxAi?*-’ ecricf cAonT you i?z7e?-ferc orJ/*
fe/fce y£t- 7 ~ *iU77thcr ct?7-c£> 7z-crre you Cen -
Surecl in 7f)-e-
E\/e ,\
J; / for '.'lyse/f ' // (j/fr /lasto sfT^'
If Y° me /o Ac= MV A if>/b ec/ Tnay 7A eho , c y \ 1 s .
mercy cjfj_ yc/ttr <Souf; f OK 77te /Ve noot e. *■> *'<s.
Tneefjzo arcYfAefreS tc/ec/ over
Zty 7%- e /S<?n JT. <St/ /%uer}a./j.c{ ML/?
/ app ro/o ?• Sec he &ei~y/'t‘cc.qf p/afe,
Sh oufci he/>rese >xtec//b ?n - r -c/e rs* ri-
ps cc /*ot r/7uer r« coyn i // on- of Tt/r /*2orfycchom—
*-'072-h/'/hu/iosi s rccep<e*£ tf/’TSC-e*
The Andersen Case.
A FEW IDEAS, AFTER PERUSAL OF THE EVENING NEWS.
cheese to satisfy the whole of the German Band,
and, having wrapped himself round the lot, he
planked down his “ thrum,” finished off his colo-
nial, and observed—“l s’pose it isn’t every one
you favah with hice in their beah, now, is it?”
“Well, I shouldn’t think it were,” growled the
landlord; “ for if every one sucked at it as long as
you, one junk o’ hice wouldn’t do for more’n
three parties drinks at eny time, whereas we gener-
ally makes it run for six. Now, that theer bit
you’re a suckin’ there has did four roun’s alriddy
an’ three o’ th’ chaps as held it were mighty good
on the suck, too. Good day, sir. Hope t’ see you
agen when you’ve saved up anuther thrip’pence.”
• * •
At an English Salvation Army show, the
‘ captain” had three collections in thirty minutes,
and then coolly proposed what ho called a drum-
head contribution. The big drum was put in the
centre of the circle, and a shower of coppers was
invited. “Keep on believing 1 ” shouted the cap-
tain ; “ keep on believing, but don’t forget the
drum!”
The new Argus of Adelong types his in-
troduction so:—“ In carrying out the work before
us we shall earnestly strive to cement those bonds
of friendship which in every community are eo
essential to its progress and permanent well being;
therefore, we shall carefully exclude from our
columns all matters which may have a tendency
to disturb that unity of thought and action with-
out whioh the prosperity of a people is impractic-
able.” That’s right. Plenty of cement, old fel-
low. Don’t disturb any “unity of thought.” If
one idea is disturbed, where are you ? We hint, as
veteran journalists, don’t disturb it.
« • *
That brilliant Began, the editor of the
Gazette, is lashing with whips of scorn his enemy
of the Examiner once more. Read this, and own
the hand of a master:—“lf our contemporary
will send Barnum the calf’s head, served with
melted butter, on a brass charger, packed in a
rosella cage with old n.s.f. bank orders, the great
showman may return in exchange some useful
hints in the art of better bamboozling the public.”
If his “contemporary” took this advice, the
people of Bega would only groan under one
editor. The Gazette man must be in a thunder-
ing hurry to get into a show when he asks his rival
to send him to Barnum.
• • •
Christianity is (thanks to missionary enter-
prise) spreading, and the Cooper’s Creek black-
fellows now look with pity not unmixed with
contempt on their unsaved brethren on the War-
burton. A Killalpaninua (Cooper’s Creek) nigger,
being interrogated lately on the subject of his
religious belief, delivered himself thusly:—“ Miss’
nary blackfeila tumble down, piccaninny time
jump up like um duck and fly alonga wurley
b’longin big fella Massa (the Almighty). By’m bye
big fella Massa come to door and yabber, ‘What
name your my boy?’ ‘Me bin miss’nary black-
fella.’ ‘ All right my boy, very good you ; come in
and catch um tuck out.’ ” “ But what about Salt
Creek blackfellow, Jerry ?” said his interrogator.
“Oh!” replied the simple savage, “Salty Creek
(Warturton) blackfeila bin all right tumble down.
Him catch wings like um duck and fly along big
fella Maflsa wurley. but big fella Massa yabber,
‘You walk; no good you go and sit down Tonga
hell.’”
* * *
The man with the most gorgeous hobby in
the world is M. Emile Gruinet, the god-oollector.
This gentleman has just offered his collection of
between 11,000 and 13 000 gods, goddesses, and
fetiches to the city of Paris. Fancy the diabolical
pride of a man who could gather the whole
heathen Pantheon into a gallery, and put thunder-
ing Jove in a barrel, or use the terrible Cerberus
as afire-dog! But this, after all, is nothing to what
you can see in any church on a Sunday. The real
god of most who are there, from the parson to the
pew-opener, is carried about on a plate.
• • *
Donald Cameron, a writer of tales that are
the glory of country supplements, has discovered
a new and original way of dealing with drunkards.
Says he: “ Once a person is arrested for drunken-
ness, his portrait should be taken and supplied to
every seller of liquor within a certain radius, and
they should be prohibited from supplying him or
her for a fixed period, on pain of the forfeiture of
their license and liquor.” Then he adds with
cheerful naweU: “ Some law of this kind would, I
think, do a great deal of good.” So it would—to
the photographers. Every publican would then
be compelled to construct a portrait gallery as
[ long as a railway tunnel behind his bar. He would
certainly have the satisfaction of possessing a
collection of photographs of eminent men, if that
were any compensation. And when Dulcinea lost
the picture of her lover, or when an enthusiastic
elector wanted the portraits of some prominent
politicians, they would both know where to look.
The plan has Its advantages.
* * *
Professor Faraday held that the natural
span of life allotted to a man is 100 years, if acci-
dent or disease do not carry him off prematurely.
This is the first time we have ever realised the
saying: that evil is but good misunderstood.
Thank Heaven for accidents and diseases! If it
were not for them our politicians would never diel
* * »
God is good, and Oarooar Mary is one of
His fairest creatures. From the journal edited by
that gifted and lovely being, we learn that there is
a place near Carcoar known as “ Hell’s Hole.” The
knowledge of this fact is a great boon to us. It will
impart an element of elegance into our conversa-
tion which, at times, it sadly needs. Now when a
gentleman with a roll of manuscript calls upon us
instead of using the old familiar profanity we
shall simply say unto him “go to Carcoar.” It is
just as easy and means the same thing, besides
having the advantage of sounding so much better.
• • •
Professor Clelland, of Glasgow University,
is considered something of a scientific authority at
home. After reading one or two of the statements
made by him in a lecture delivered lately, we have
come to the conclusion that he is one of those
gentlemen whose abysmal ignorance is concealed
by their inspired audacity. He said of mankind
that it “ was in the last degree improbable that ip
the future there would be a progression in the
construction of the human body that would give
birth to greater intelligence than was possessed by
the sages of antiquity.” The sages of antiquity!
Evidently Professor Clelland is unaware of the
prodigies of intellect that have grown to a luxu-
riant maturity on this side of the line during the
last few years, or he would never think of compar-
ing the sages of antiquity to those of the present
day. What, for instance, was Plato in his best form t
compared to A. G. Taylor? What was Demos,
thenes to Dan O’oonnor ? What chance would
Solon, or any other of the seven wise men, have
had against the abnormal wisdom of Abigail or the
phenomenal sagacity of Andy Lynch ? ' Supply
none. Then, again, who would presume to spea


During tin? year, New South Wales im-
ported articles to the value of £20,9ti0,157, and
every steamer brings now goods to Bray Bros , 402
and 44)4 George-street, where the recant acquisitions
to their stock of Crockery and China ware iind im-
mediate sale.*
The promoters of the Federal Consultation
Company offer shares in their Melbourne Cup
Sweep at £1 each. They guarantee to distribute
1000 cash prizes, the first being £2500. Prospectus,
giving lull particulars, will be sent free, on appli-
cation to Robert Ramsay, Commission Agent, 405
George-street, Sydney.*
The Melbourne Sportsman says the “Federal”
Sweep is a fraud because Mr. James M'Leod does
not choose to divulge his private address. It also
si ys the Federal people were connected with a
Melbourn sweep last year, styled the “Victory.”
Bosh 1 1 Ctterly absurd ! ! Statements as reliable
ns the Tips of its “Vigilant” sporting prophet.
Let the public judge. The Federal company
gu iraritoe to return every penny to dissatisfied
subscribers if applied for previous to date of
drawing.*
i a the same day of Draco and J udge Cohen ? Who
—when it comes to far-seeing statesmen —of
Pericles and Angus Cameron ? If any such, let
him speak, or be for ever dumb. But there is none
such. The sages and statesmen and orators of
antiquity w j re feeble phantoms compared to those
that now flourish iu out midst. Let us be thank-
ful, therefore, that we breathe the same «ir with
them. And, from this forth, let Professor Clelland
bide his diminished bead under a fish-creel.
* »
Musing in graveyards has been a favourite
action from time immemorial. It was a favourite
relaxation of the Prophet Jeremiah, in the inter-
vals of his Lamentations, to sit in the valley of dry
bones. Some of the old anchorites were never so
happy as when they were returning from a ceme-
tery with a 'ap full of skulls and shoulder-blades,
and the cheerful inhabitants of the catacombs
lived in apartments liberally festooned with relics
of martyrs and deoorated with the symbols of
death. Gray, as we had bitter cause to know in
the days when wo were young and guileless and
used to gamble away our school money, wasmuoh
given to sitting in a country churchyard when he
should have been in bed. And, lastly, a bard who
dwells in sun-smitten Yass has fallen into the same
gloomy habit. He shares it with the local goats.
Thunder! perhaps he is one of them. Anyhow, he
has written his mortuary reflections, and the
facetious compositors of the Yass Tribune have
obosen to set them up in a form previously used
for verse alone. To humour their uotion, we will
get our comps, to follow their example. [Note to
Foreman: Pay attention to this, or there will be
trouble. Writer.] Now, then, for the first
*' verse ”:
“ In the lonely graveyard on the hill
Where the piercing winds sweep o’er,
Slumbering in deathly silence still
Are departed friends whom we deplore,
And mourn as dead because concealed
In tho grave from human view,
Beoause those lips evermore are sealed—
In silence sealed to me and you.”
Quaint and original idea, isn’t it? The lips are
sealed! But why not cork9d? We suppose if they
were, this vampire would want to open them with
a corkscrew. Of course, he goes on to say that
the spirits of all those whose bodies lie below are
with the angels. They always are in obituary
poetry. Tell you what it is, if the angels are so
deuced careless about the company they keep, it
is not in their ranks we shall seek our society
when we ascend the everlisting ladder. One must
draw the line somewhere, and we most decidedly
do draw it at angels who hob-nob with every Tom,
Jack, and Harry of a soul that, after a life of little-
ness and petty piety here below, is rushed into
heaven on a burst of psalmody at the last. But to
return to the bereaved bard of YaSH. Here is
another of his “ verses ” :
“ Sooner or later, we all must die,
As riches from death cannot redeem,
Then each with tho other should vie
To leave the most lasting mark of esteem.
Valued by friends that have known us,
Long after has perished life’s flame,
With pride relations will own us
And claim to be friends of the name.”
The first line of this elegant extraot contains a
profound and novel thought, but the second soars
above all praise. “ Riohes from death cannot re-
deem.” This new conception of Death as a sort
of wholesale pawnbroker is worthy of the most
gifted intellect in Gladesville. The fine burst of
lofty egotism in the succeeding lines aptly con-
cludes a poem after reading which the most
hardened sinner might die, serene in the know-
ledge that he had nothing more to fear. Some-
what feeble this paragraph, isn’t it ? But the
liquor has nearly died out of us, and the moon
shines coldly on the windows of the corner pub.
* * *
2,300,000,000 tracts have been distributed
by the Religious Tract Society since it started.
Judging by the return Of converts made since
then it would seem that it takes about a million
tracts to make a convert. Reading day and night
it would take an average man about ten years to
get through this number. And by the time he had
got half through he would probably prefer to bo
damned in his ignorance than read the rest. We
would, anyhow, if we were in his place. Calcula-
ting another way, just for the curiosity of the
thing, we reckon that if the heat of Hell be set
down at, say, 500°, the gross quantity of tracts
issued by the Society would keep Hell going for a
year. This is a pleasant and useful thought, at
any rate.
* * *
This is the song of a Port Macquarie elegist
over a Port Macquarie departed :
“And now that generous heart is cold,
The hand is still that welcomed me,
Immortal spirits gene to enfold
Its secrets in Eternity.
“And is he gone, that faithful friend,
Ah, yes! he’s gone where grief’s no more,
His sorrows are all at an end,
Their bitterness is past and o’er.
“ Immortal spirits gone to enfold! ” Is there no
law to protect the dead against this kind of thiDg ?
As to the second verse, wo can only say:
Yes, he is gone whom you did love:
And you'll have to look precious sharp,
Or, when he meets you up above,
He’ll break your head, sir, with his harp!
COLONIAL CHAMPIONS OF THE
SCULL.
Just uow, while the aquatic fever has laid
such a strong hold upon the general public, a re-
surui of the men whojhave held the position or
champion of the Parramatta will not appear out
of place, and should prove a godsond to those or
our readers who would like to join in the general
aquatieshop talk, butare s uc t up for material.
James Candlish. an importation frutn Newcastle-
on-Tyne, England, was the first to fanev the
present champion course would prove the best
available racing water near Sydney, and in 18o8the
first race was pulled on it—Candlish v. R. Green—
when Green defeated his opponent with the
greatest ease in 23min. 35sec.; so, we suppose,
Dick Green may be looked upon as the first bona
fide champion of New South Wales. The winner
"pulled in a boat put together by Messenger, of
England, father of Charley Messenger who is now
located at Double Bay. Tom M'Grath was the
next to make a fid for the championship, but was
unsuccessful, as R. Green, in a match for £2OO, de-
feated him, after a grand contest, in2smin. 31sec.
flood ti> e and head wind. After this event
the idea of sending Green home to contend
for the championship of the Thames was
mooted, and in August, 1863, the wish
of the colonials was consummat< d, but not with
the result they so devoutly wished for, as tt.
Chambers, the English champion, who had won
upwards of 100 races, put the colonial through in
25min. 25sec., over the Thames course from Putney
to Mortlake. Green led for a mile and a half, when
ho collapsed, and the Britisher won as bo liked. In
1865, W. Hickey, who many good judges consider
was the best man Australia ever saw, came to the
fore, and, after defeating H. White, he, on 20th
January. 1860, met and defeated B. Green for £4OO
and the oj mpionship, in 25min.; and, on 24th
August, 1867, he again defeated Green in the
splendid time—taking into consideration the way
the men were fixed up in those days— of 21min.
52sec. In the same year he again defeated Green,
after an unsatifsactory race Green having run
ashore on the mile poil t. Hickey then had it all
his own way; and, in 1808, he challenged to row
any three men in Australia a three-mile race, to
pick up a fresh man at each mile, but met with no
response. In 1870, the genial Michael Rush first
appeared as a competitor for the championship,
but he had to give way to the invincible Hickey,
who won in Rush did not appear on
metropolitan waters again till 15th February, 1873,
when he defeated Hickey by six lengths and
carried off the championship ia 23min. 35seo. On
10th September, Elias Laycock and Edward
Trickett made their dihut on the Parramatta
River, and, after a desperate struggle, Trickett
won by six lengths in 25min. Trickett
was then sent home to England to row Joe t-adler,
but why he was looked upon as the champion in
place of Rush, who had defeated Hickey on the
Parramatta, and Tricuett, amongst others, on the
Clarence, we coull never understand, but home
he went, and made such good use of his opportu-
nity that on 27th June, 1876. he rowed and defeated
Sadler on the Thames in the most hollow manner,
in 24min 35sec. On his return to Sydney he pulled
Rush for the championship, when the Clarence
River man led for a mile, but was eventually
beaten by Trickett in 23mia. 26see However, this
did not prove Trickett's superiority before he
went to England, as he pulled on a slide and Rush
on a fixed seat, and Trickett himself stated that he
had no idea he had so much to learn about rowing
till he went to Enwland. Laycock and Trickett
met on 30th August, 1879, for the championship,
when Trickett won by nine lengths, in 22min.
On 12th April Laycock and Rush met for
£2OO, when the former won on the post in 22min.
28sec.; and in a return match, on the sth of Sep-
tember following, he confirmed the win by again
putting Rush through his facings in 22min. 41ses.
In 1880 the memorable match was fixed up between
Hanian and Trickett, and it is hardly necessary for
us to inform our readers that when the men met
on the Thames, on the 15th November of that
year, Hanlan defeated Trickett easily, and car-
ried off the world's championship from Australia.
Laycock visited England at the same time as
Trickett, and did everything but defeat the, at
that time invinoible. Canadian. In a very ahort
space of time he defeated William Blackman,
George Hosmer, and J. H. Riley; and received
forfeit from Hawdon, besides winning the £5OO
frize at the Hop Bitters Regatta; but on 14th
ebruary he suffered the usual fate at the hands
of Edward Hanlan, who again defeated Trickett
on the Thames in April, 1882. Laycock paid an-
other visit to England about this time, when he
was matched against Boyd, the English champion
The race took place on the Tees course, three and
a half miles, when Laycock won in the phenomenal
time of i7min. 31see. On March 10, 1883, Laycock
defeated Rush at the Grafton Regatta, and a
broken leg laid him on the shelf till the recent de-
feat by Edward Hanlan on the Nepean. Rush,
after winning the first prize for the Frank Punch
trophy, retired from the arena, and now Donald
M’Donald is looked upon as Champion of the
Clarence. But, though tho old ’uns are laying up
on the shelf, we have men just as good coining on
as fast and plentiful as blackberries, and in Beach,
Clifford and Matterson, we have material to work
upon for some years to come. William, or if we
don’t presume. Bill Beach, we are led to under-
stand, first saw the light in the little hamlet called
London, England, in the year 1.354, and in 1856
his parents brought him out to Australia aud
settled down in the Illawarra district, where
they have continued to reside. William, in con-
tradistinction to the ex-champion, at an early age
evinced a great dislike to the water, and we have
it on good authority it was only by dint of catch-
ing him by the scruff of his nec« andscrouging
his head under tbe liquid that his mamma could
persuaie him to take his morning tub. However,
the dislike wore off as he grew older, and he took
to rowing on the Illawarra Lake, where, on Feb-
ruary 7,1880, he was leading Clifford iu a skiff race
when he broke a scull, and Clifford then had the
race to himself. Beach following him in with a
scull and a piece. Beacb’s first bid for anything
like championship form was a race over the cham-
pion course with Ned Trickett on 28th July, ’B3,
when it blew heavily, and Beach beiDg a bad hand
in rough water, was easily defeated in 20min.l5sec„
which time beat all previous records. A second
match was made, and the day proving fine. Beach
won the race from end to end. still another mutch
was made, and the 27th August proving another
tine day. Beach rowed in splendid form and won in
20min. 44sec., which, taking the day into considera-
tion, is far and away the best time ever made over
the championship course in a race. Beach made
an easy victory of the Hunt Trophy, after whioh
he again defeated Ned Trickett on the Parramatta
in a match, and then he lay on his sculls till
his victory on Saturday last over Hanlan. The
Canadian, though not coming altogether under the
list of colonial champions : has been so intimately
connected with Australian scullers, hitherto to
their cost, that we do not think a record of his
wonderful match wins—unbroken till Saturday
last—will be out of place just here:—Beat Wallace
Ross lor the chamoionship of Canada and £4OO, on
Toronto Bay, on 15th Octobor, 1877; beat Fre crick
Plaistcd for the cOampionsbin ot Canada and £4OO,
on Toronto Bay, 15th May, 1878; beat Eph. Morris
for the championship of America and £4OO, on
Hulton Course, Pittsburgh, 20th June, 1878; beat
Wallace Rots for the championship of Canada and
£4OO, on St. John River, New Brunswick, on 30th
August, 1878; beat Charles E. Courtney for cham-
pionship of America and £l2OO, on Laehene Course,
Montreal, on 3rd October, 1878; beat John Hawdea
for £4OO, on Tyne Course, England, on sth May,
1879; beat William Elliott for the championship of
England and £4OO, and the Sportsman Cup, on the
Tyne Course, on 16th June, 1879. beat Charles E
Courtney for championship of America and £l2OO,
nn the Potomac River, Washington. 19t i May, 1880;
beat James H. R'ley for championship of Amer ca
and purse of £4OO, on the Potomac River, 22nd
May, 1880; beat reward Trickett for championship
of the World. Sportsman Cup, and £4OO on the
Thames, England, on 15th November, 1880; beat
Elias Laycock for tbe championship ot' the World,
Sportsman Cup, and £lOOO, on the l hames, Eng-
land, on 14th February, 1881; beat Robert W. Boyd
for championship of the World and £lOOO, on the
Tyne, on Crd April, ISS2; beat Ei'vard i’riekett for
championship of the World and £lOOO, on the
Thames, Ist May, 1882; beat John A. Kennedy for
championship of the World and £lOOO. at Point of
Pines, Boston, on 30th May, 1883; beat Wallace Ross
for championship of the World and £BOO, on St.
Lawrence River, a' Ogdensburg, 18th July, 1883;
boat Elias Laycock for championship of the World
and £l( 00, on Nepean River, N.S.W., 22nd May, 1884.
Wallace Ross, who has been brought prominently
before the public in connection with the cable of
Monday last, offering to back him against Beach
for £lOOO aside, is described as a strapping fellow,
twenty-seven years of age, six feet high, and
broad in proportion, weighing about 13 stone and
a half. Ross, like all the rest of the scullers, bar
Reach, has had the pleasure of showing Hanlan
his back, and the two raoes in his career most
likely to interest Australians were his defeat by
E ias Layc <ck for the Hop Bitters prize, at the
International Regatta, held on the Thames in 1880,
and his unsat sfact >ry meeting with Trickett ou
the Thames. Trickett defeated Ross, but owing to
a foul the umpire ordered the race to be rowed
over again, when Rosa won with the greatest ease.
Poor Old Ned is now getting in the sere and yellow,
and he no doubt, prefers to play first violin in
Bananaland to second fiddle in the scene of his
former victories. He has challenged any three
men in Queensland to a three-mile contest—we
suppose a fresh man to pick him up at each mile.
But it is all in a life-time. As big a crowd
cheered him tbe night he arrived from England
with the as yelled at Beach last
Saturday night.
BRIEF MENTION.
“ Hanlan's Jidus Acluttcs.” Delicious Latin
—we moan Latin delectus.
It is stated that little notice would have
been taken of Andersen at (say)—Bondi.
“Joking apart,” says one of the writers in
the Shroud. This is the only joke in the paper.
Joseph is surprised they should have made
a cantata of “Antigone.” He had a mine of it once,
he says.
“The Speaking Dead” is the title of a
sermon pub ished lately. No connection with the
Shroud. .
When Joseph was told ihey had an otter in
the Zo , he said he supposed it was kept amongst
the roses.
In Austria, a tnau can’t marry till he can
read and write. Wouldn’t that rule play brimstone
with some of our C.M G.’s ?
Says the St. Vincent Liberal:— “ With
this issue we are 12 months old, and still we live.”
There is no limit to tne mercy of God.
Mr. Heppell is advertised for. He comes
from Kent-a county, by the wav, not so much
celebrated for its Heppeils as its pears.
The latest about tbe Irish dynamitards is
that they are going to invade England in balloons.
It will not be for want of gas if they don’t.
Captain Veitch, of the Bithurst Harmy,
acknowledges in tne War Cry the reoeiptof ”a
large kettle.” No good sending a small kettle to
that man.
Says the Ta * worth Hooke:—“We are
told taat a great deal of sin Is committed through
ignorance.” If this is true, what a hopeless sinner
Hooke must be!
A Christianised Chinaman was arrested at
Cooma last week for forgery and uttering. Put
another half-bull in the plate for the conversion of
tho pore heathen 1
“A suitable reception tn Sir Heury Parkes”
is bi ing arranged: John Davies is an hou. secretary.
Right: a reception by John Davies will be suitable
for bir Henry ParkeB.
Heie is a gorgeous query: “From what
source are we to draw our meat supply ?” asks tbe
Moruza Examiner man. From your head, of
course! Gorgeous, but easy.
J'he remains of the man who struck Buck-
ley have been discovered. Buckley is a township
in tho Monaro district. The man who struck it
was canvassing for the Cooma Express.
Thauk Heaveu! An exchange says that
there is no truth in the report that small-pox has
broken out in the Upper Murray district. It was
only the Town and Country canvasser.
The football man of the Morning Prayer
talks about “ the brilliant Baylis” and “a dashing
dodgy run.” This reminds us of “ a sweetly supe-
rior stay perhaps it reminds him of that, too.
A soap-mine has been discovered near
Queanbeyan. Now then, Alfred, be generous for
one!, and buy ash re for each of yo■;r reporters.
Buch a chance as this doesn’t offer itself everyday.
A Cooktown editor states that in future he
will address his subscribers in “ plain English.”
Two more surprises lor us. English is spoken in
Cooktown, and a Cooktown od.tor is going to
write it!
Edwards, the moral pedestriau, is iu New
York. He announces it as warm there in tbe
Mummer, out states that he e uld stand more h> at.
This must be regarded as rather fortunate for Mr.
Edwards!
“The gardens are braidiug the jewels and
the colours of spriu . upon their garment of per-
ennial green,” is the way Mr. Echo notifies the
tact that it is August. We shall never come up to
that style, we fear.
Mr. Tom Kennedy, manager to Roff the
bill-sticker, was presented with a ring on leaving
for New Zealand It i 3 described, by Alfred, as
being “suitable.” We suppose, therefore, the
stones were of—paste.
It is said that a member of the Queensland
Parliament weat man the other day. Went mail
Some of ou r members are born mad. They get on,
however, as there are few in the House sane
cnougti to uotice the difference.
Says the Cooktown Independent: “It
will be well if the world of Cooktown will learn to
distinguish between ignorant pretension and solid
education.” So we think. But it will be a bad day
for tbe Cooktown Independent.
The War Cry calls us senseless.
I f to bo of s mse possessed
Is, boys, your lucky lot,
To put the matter frankly, we
Would rather have it not.
This lugubrious warning appears iu the
Bitch Watchman: "Look out lor your wives,
lads! There is a snake in the grass iu our midst.”
What in thunder can this mean ? Let's see, wasn’t
there a local preach —[Enough!— Ed. B.]
Twopromineutaldermeu of Bathurst were
lately disputing as to which was the more popular.
“Whenever I go out of town, the people always
cheer me,” said one. ” That s because they think
you are not coming back,” replied tho other.
“Ol Bob Herrick ”is the familiar way in
which the Bega Gazette speaks of the Reverend
Robert Herrick, once a poet and now a harper on
the sea of glass. The editor knows when he is
safe. He and “ old Bob ” are never likely to meet.
They have a snail iu the British Museum
which woke up the other day after a sleep of four
years’duratiou. If there be anything iu the theory
of retrogressive metempsychosis, then must this
snail have been an exceeding good M.L.C. in his
time.
Cue of Alfred’s “crickets ”—a country im-
portation—was observed on the day of his arrival
to look curiously at a drinking fountain in town.
At last he turned away, remarking to himself that
ir, was a rum place to have a ventilator for the
drains.
Buys the Newcastle Temperance Advo-
cate: “ Whisky will produoe a headache, but a
lie idache won t produce whisky.” This is just
where a headache fails. But a good deal depends
on who has the headache, and whether tbe hotels
are open or not. . •
The wife was reading aloud to a News
man, who was drowsy:—“A horse was recently
cremated In a now crematory near London. When*
all was over, the product was just seven pounds of
ash.” He just felt in his pocket for a spoon, and!
dropped off again.
They are not satisfied with the new stained'
windows they have got in St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Don't think them first-class specimens of the art
of illumination. Very Irish thisl They want
stained windows and they get windows stained.
What more do they want ?
“On Saturday last we saw at Mr. Beeg-
ling's shop a carcase of beautiful mutton (a merino
wether) which weighed 671b5.” Adelong again.
Alaslj
“ ’Tis distance ”
But how can we pursue the subject?
Says the Tumberumba correspondent of
the Tumut Times: “ Ere long we hope to be able
to offer sufficient inducement for a medical man to
settle here ” We presume this is a delicate reply
to the delicate hint of the Tumut, editor that he
was going to send his collector down that way
soon.
“ Gentleman saw Emily with basket month
ago. Moore Park, promised to call Nithndale-strcet,
write E. A., G P. 0.” It occurs to us that the gentle-
man who met Emily is evidently connected with
the paper in whioh the “a 1 .’ appears. He would
naturally be curious to know what was in the
basket.
Alfred says that “ coaches travelling over
black-soil roads up country carryspades to ciig out
the mud from between the spokes of the wheels.”
There is nothing wonderful about that. There is
a line of ooaohes on a Southern road on which the
drivers carry a portable diamond-drill to bore for
the horses.
The War Cry:— “There are vacancies for
good War Cry sellers at open air meetings all
along the line. They must be blood-washed. No
others need apply.” What, probably, mattes a
startling distinction between ourselves and Mr.
Booth's journalists is that we are washed—though
not in gore.
Charles Felu is the name of a Belgian
artist who has no hands or arms, and paints with
his foot. He must be a droll Felu! Would it be
going too far to bint that some of our artists might
improve by following his example? They can’t
deteriorate much, anyhow. What do you think,
Mr. Coombe? ?
After all, there is something in a name.
This, from a Cooma paper, is proof Mr. C. Solo-
man, J.P., one of the oldest and best residents, hag
made up his mind to leave Cooma.” Perhaps this
is the tirst time Mr. Solomon has lived up to his
patronymic. Let us hope he will not stop at this,
but resign his J.P.-ship.
The old days of Roman luxury have been
almost revived again by Hans von ulow, who
has the hall where ho gives his concerts darkened
and franKincense burned whilejtbe adagio of Beet-
hoven’s ninth symphony is being played. We
take it that that passage is a popular favourite
with the pickpockets already.
Beautiful thing, philosophy! Sir William
Thomson, one of the most profound philosophers
of the d iy, thus defines sound: “ A sound is sound
if we cail it a sound It' we perceive it as sound, ifc
tssound.” Very sound reasoning, indeed. Lord,
what a lot of study a man must have got through
to arrive at such a conclusion!
The Gunning Good Templars are an un-
reasonable lot. They wanted the Protestant
Standard sent to them gratuitously. The editor,
of course, refused. They must be a nice sort, of
people to expeot a man to go on belabouring tbe
Pope and bangimr the Protestant drum for no-
thing. It isn’t in human nature to do it.
Why? A man died suddenly in Gundagaii
lately. They buried him without an inquest. A
country paper has a paragraph of surprise about
this. Again, why ? Surely a man may die sud-
denly in Gundagai without it being neoeisary to
to inouest him! Hasn't little Bailey a journal
there ? A"d isn’t this enough cause for sudden
death ?
A scientific gentleman is now in Gympie
collecting fossils for the Queensland Museum.
One of tneae days, maybe, he will come down to
Sydney and collect some of the tossils in our Civil
Service. [Ah, bah! give us something new.—Ed.
B.] Ah, bah! yourself; give us a new generation
to write about, and we will give you somethiDg
new.—Writer.
We learn that “polite society likes eu-
phemisms. Cocotte is a word that is now printed
and read, and spoken freely in society, though
society would shiver if the English synonym
reached its delicate ears.” “Cocotte,” and why
not? Wo have no euphemism but the word
“scull,” and that—anynow, you couldn’t cal' a
woman no, no!
“ The police are investigating a series of
frauds committed by a man who gave the name of
Bevan, but who has absconded. He obtained a
piano, some pictures, and other articles, on tbe
time-payment system, but has not since been beard
of.” Someone had evidently been playing him &
little tune upon that piano. We can feel for him—
there's one next door to us!
The public mind in Cootamundra is said
to be “divided as to the site of the new gaol.”
Let’s see—tbe public mind of Cootamundra is
divided. Got such a thing as a match on you,
Mister? Thanks. Good day. The public mind of
Cootamundra L Hollo, hold on you, there! Got
such a thing as Thanks. The pub—lie mind
of Coota—mun —? Give it up.
Melbourne Punch (which gets more and
more dry with the processes of the suns) remarks
upon the circum tance of one Brown announcing
himself as hairdresser and chiropodist “ more amal-
gamation of Professions.” We should rather have
seen in the fact an illustration of the saw “ex-
tremes meet.” Anyway’, Brown would be able to
trim a fellow up from top to toe.
“ He was as good a husband as he knew
how to be ” wae th s somewhat unenthusiastic
eulogy pronounced upon a prominent horse-
breeder who died not loDg ago. We suppose this
means in plain English that he used to stretch her
out with the liat of the axe instead of the edge.
There are —we are proud to say, for the sake of
our common humanity—many like him.
The Rum gives a “ cricketal” notice of the
kids’ “ Grand iJucbere,” of which the following is
an extract:—“ Miss Vida Stanley was a too quiet
Warda ” (sic), etc. Take it off the nail:—
Who the dickens, now, is “ Warda”?
This, by thunder, we implore.
But hardly was a jourual yet
Without a pub. that's just next door.
They were arguing about the Land Bill.
“ What do you know about it. anyhow ?” said one,
after a time. “What do J know about it!” re-
peated the other, with sarcastic emphasis; “well,
if I don’t know anything about if, I should like to
know who does Why, I’ve got two sons in the
Lands Office and the promise of a billet for an-
other!” The tirst speaker, of course, collapsed at
once.
The boss of a station on the Warburton
had occasion, a short time ago, to thrash his nauto
(horse) shepherd for neglect of duty. The stock-
whip was produced, and he was about to commence
operations, when the nigger (a Mission-station
blackfellow) completely unnerved him by calmly
remarking, “All right, Missa Clark; very good you
t rasu me, but first time me want yabber ’long a
Yesuß.”
We shall certainly have to kill little Bailey,
or he will kill us. Here is a sentence from his
election address, printed in his own paper: 1 feel
it an honour at being so strongly opposed by the
‘shadows ’ that envelope Gundagai with their cor-
morantic wealth.” This is magnificent I Fancy
the cormorantic wealth of a shadow enveloping a
town I We wonder how much beer to the meta-
phor there is in this mixture 1
Says the Daily Tot “ Japanese jugglers
are deft smokers. Several of them will sit before
a curtain, and, from the tobacco smoke which


Unshaken in popularity by the competi-
tion of worthless imitations and importations
mendaciously represented to be equally remedial
nr to possess tbo same qualities, Wo lie's
Schnapps will soon drive from the field these
trashy competitors.
Aver’s Sarsaparilla thoroughly cleanses
the blood, stimulates the vital functions, and re-
stores the health and strength. No one whose
blood is impure cau feel well. There is a weary
languid feeling, and often a sense of discourage-
ment and despondency. Persons having this feel
ing should take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify and
vitilise the blood.
Iu our advertising columns will be seen a
card from W. Sbearsby and Co., Merchant Tailors,
ot Temple Court. Elizabeth-street. Mr. Sbearsby
was for the last five years head cutter lor Parmer
and Co., and has now started business for himself.
Hisreputation, as a high class cutter, is well es-
tablished, and he will, no doubt, meet with the
success that bis enterprise deserve?.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys ail
noxious insects. Tins, la.*
“Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks. Jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
Question: Does everyone dearly under-
stand, now that the excitement of the Hanlxn-
Beach contest in subsiding, that one of the finest
sights in Sydney is the superb display of China-
ware at Bray Bros’. Crockery Establishment, 402
and 404 George-streetV*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase* on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 19th August, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kent at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Supply and Delivery of Cast
Iron Pipef ai d Special Cast-
ings for Country Towns’
w ater Supply
Timber Footbridge at Yamba,
Clarence River Heads
Construction of Overshot Dam,
Trial Bav
Laying Wooden Pavement New-
town Road
Supply of Wooden Paving
Blocks for Government Tram-
ways
Bridge ovc- Wallundry Lagoon,
Wagga Wagga
Bridge over Myall River on road
Bulladellah to Upper Myall
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Blayney
Alterations to premises adjoin-
ing the General Post Office,
Bydney
Erecting Stationmaster's House,
Ksk Bank
Supplying Ironwork for Via-
duct, over Long Cove Creek
Constructing Platform Walls,
Bveleigh
Bridge over the Muri ay River,
at Howlong
E ection of Court-house, Gres-
ford
Erection of Morgue, Newcastle
Erecting of Station Buildings at
Coonong and Gate House Wid-
giewa
Electing of Station Buildings at
Yattiong and Gate House at
Bundure
Erection of Quarters for Sub-
inspector of Police, Walgett
Fencing, &c., Court House,
Ashford
Repairs to Light Honse, Seal
Rocks
Manufacture and Supnly of
Main Line Pipes and Valves,
Sydney Water Supply
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
I Dates to whlob
I Tenders can be
I received a t
I this office.
Tuesday,
36th Auvijat,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
3nd September,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
9th September,
at 11 o’olook.
Tuesday,
30th September,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
16th December
I atjl o’clock
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’clock.
6. R. DIBBs.
EOKGE’S RIVEH ESTATE.
800 ACHE SUBDIVISION.
RAILWAY POLICY of the STUART MINISTRY
is said to contain a proposal to construct a Loop
Line of Railwav from ST. PETERS to
LIVERPOOL,
which will at. once add
AN ENORMOUS INCREASE IN VALUE
to the 800-A ere subdivision
in 2-aore, 3-acre, and 5-acre Blocks.
SECURE LITHOGRAPHS AT ONCE
of
THIS WONDERFULLY LIBERALSUBDIVISION
at the offices of the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT,
FINANCE, and LAND COMPANY, Limited.
Hoffnung's-buiidings, 163 Pitt-street. Sydney.
WILLIAM CLAHKE.
Manager.
G
EORGE'S
RIVER ESTATE.
PLANS
of the
Eight Hundred Acre Subdivision
_ in
Two-acre, Three-acre, and Five-acre Blocks
NOW READY,
and being distributed at the offices
of the
Anglo-Australian Investment, Finance, and Land
Company, Limited,
Hoffnung’s-buildings, 103, Pitt-street,
The Biggest Subdivision of the day.
The Most Liberal Terms Ever Offered.
The demand for Lithographs of this estate is
very great.
Auglo-Australian Investment, Finance, and Land
Company, Limited,
103 Pitt-street, Sydney.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
rpHE “ Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thank? to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-ackno wleaged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integritj.
to make the “ Malabar ” Consultations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
First horse ... ... £lOOO
Second ditto..
Third ditto - ..
Starters divide
Non-starters..
400
30(1
300
300
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand P< unds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed:
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
T
HE LONDON CONSULTATION COMPANY
herewith submit their Programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP.
to be run for NOVEMBER 4th, 1884.
Capital, £5OOO, in 5000 shades of £1 each,
to be distributed as follows:
First Horse £2OOO
lOOO
5OO
, 750
750
Second „
Third
Starters Divide
Non-Starters ..
£5OOO
All prizes payable 34 houis after race. Result
posted to all subscribers, and advertised in leading
weekly papere. Manager,
THUS. THORLAND,
Globe Hotel,
ALBURV. N.S.W.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
»OVAt. ARCADE. GEORGE RT.. 4B* HYDNEV ,
53^
mmeoms'
KSSH
T" J " 1 " * ~^
ie only infallible remedy for
>/er/oi/s JjebiLijYT
This invaluable and acknowledged Medieim
affords relief and permanently cures all wbc
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous aut
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinars
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the humau frame
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one loi
365.; if by coach. 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and « 0., 43 Goulburn
street. One Door from George-street South.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY. Regis
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE anc
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated bi
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4pm; 7 to y Monday
Wednesday, and Saturday eveniugs.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Test!
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Pbvsiciani
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. ior Diseases ol
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. lIOLTER.
MANN, Esq , M.P., President —P.(» Box 673.
Ladies' Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen's, No
11. 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Oflios
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA.
TIONS FREE BY II UL OR IN PERSON.
issues from their mouths, will form a succession
of readable letters.” Japs, are badly wanted now
in King-street. Readable letters brought out
from cremated nicotine would be a pleasant change
from the unreadable ones produced from the
fumes of alcohol. Rum Idea, this
Champion-ploughman Poynting was out
’possum-shooting the other night at Culliogra, up
Cootamundra way Seeing what he conceived to
be a brace of 'possum up a tree, he let drive Some-
thing fell, which on examination proved to be some
branches. As he was overhauling them, down on
the top of his back came lumpus a iUib. native bear.
When a bear operates for a fall, and the fall comes
off. it is invariably disappoynting to the fellow who
has speculated for a rise.
The Mahometans of Melbourne have put a
new velvet cover on the copy of the Koran used
in the Court. This is a crusher for the Christians
The “ Secret of England’s greatness ” —that is, the
copy of it used in the City Court—is in a scarecrow
condition. Yet there are thousands of people in
Melbourne who would indignantly repudiate the
assertion that they did not believe in the Biole.
But it appears thatrnone of them believe in it to
the extent of buying the Court copy a cover.
Edward Luck, of Pomingalama, jumped
from the back of a cart while in motion, and broke
his back.
It was not in the glorious fray
The fatal Dlow was struck,
But tumbling from a sordid dray
Was what put out our Luck.
And now, my friends, pray cease to weep,
Nor at Fate run amuck ;
That I am gone, in peace to s’esp—
Why weep for your good Luck?
A Surry Hills boarding-house keeper was
burnt out the other day. The house was his own,
so he is now rebuilding it. “I should like,” said
he to one of our boys—who became acquainted
with him through knowing a reporter who boarded
there once and left by a rope-ladder—‘‘l should
like you to suggest a good, striking name for my
establishmint when|l get it fixed up again.” “ Call
it the Phoenix,” said the flippant youth, after wait-
ing till a policeman was in sight. ‘‘Why ?” asked
the corned-beef chieftain. “ Because it’s risen
from its hashes 1”
When the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher isn’t
sparking with angels here below, he puts in a deal
of his time conferring with those above, and one
of his very latest experiences is that “ God’sangels
hold their noses whenever they look at a Wall-
street broker.” Next time Henry communes with
the white-robed harpers, he might oblige by en-
quiring what our celestial guardians hold when
taking stock of divorce court parsons and money-
grubbing deacons, who atone for six days of
swindling and fraud by humping collection plates
round on the seventh.
The trustees of the British Museum have
acknowledged the receipt of a giant platypus sent
by a Deniliauin gentleman. The people of Eng-
land must have a pretty good idea of the produc-
tions of Australia by this time. M'Elhone has been
among them, and they have gazed upon Henniker
Heaton. Neither of these phenomena is likely to
have upset the belief prevailing in the old country
that everything here is upside down. It only
needs that two or three others should go home to
rivet for ever the notion that in colonial public
life the bottom is always at the top.
A group of Tumut village-politicians were
talking over the present political situation. Said
one—we quote from the local paper: “All things
duly weighed and considered, while taking every
circumstance into account and accepting the logic
of facts without overlooking possible chances,
which should never be lost signt of, you may take
my word for it that if the present state of affairs is
indefinitely prolonged, we may have to wait a long
time before a change comes.” What a treasure
this man would be to the Treasurer, if he could
hire him to make his Budget speech! This is the
sort of luminous nebulosity that would have been
invaluable on the Ministeriil benches to explain
the hand Bill!
Political
Points
Regarding the threatened conflict between
Lords and Commons over the Franchise BilJ, the
Times says that the Conservative chances on an
appeal to the country would be small. “ Neither
blunders in foreign policy nor even flaws in the
Franchise Bill itself would weigh for a moment
against the vindication of the national will against
the obstructiveness of the hereditary Chamber.”
Anyone sitting in the gallery in the House
at the head of Bourke-street (Mel), and listening
to the chatter of the proud legislators underneath,
would, after a half hour's inspection, believe, as
Thersites believed of Achilles, that most of the wit
of the brilliant throng was stowed away in their
sinews. They look lit for something with a spark
in it, but rarely does the spark fly upwards. Their
best energies they reserve for expeditious and not
ungraceful promenades to the refreshment room.
It is, therefore, because a pointof pungent wisdom
is such a rarity on the floor of the House that we
feel inclined to hail with a flourish of trumpets the
expression of the feeling with which Mr. Zox re-
cently declared himself to be actuated. The Chief
Secretary was remonstrating with those members
who refuse to believe that the perfection of reore-
sentative government has been reached, and he
wound up with, “ What's the matter with you ? ”
Mr. Zox replied: “We see you are comfortable.
We are not comfortable. That’s what's the mat-
ter.” Yes, Mr. Zox. A stupendous truth th -re
and everywhere.
“A more thoroughly venal and self-seek-
ing set of men than the English peers,” says
Labouchere, “ does uot exist on the globe.” It is
impossible, he adds, to say whether, in the coming
conflict with the Commons, the Lords “will be
more actuated by their hatred of democracy or by
their fear of coming into collision with demo-
cracy.” Professor Thorold hogers, at a Liberal
demonstration, spoke plainly thus:—“The only
privileges the peers had on the statute book were
that they could walk in and out of a door before
his hearers and himself, and that they had the
right of being tided for murder by their own
class. They had had that right for the last two
centuries, and only one had been hangea. If he
were to tell them how many deserved to be
hanged, he should keep them listening to him
until the following morning. Why, h-dt of them
were absorbed in profligacy. Let them look at the
records of the Divorce Court. These neople were
being frequently brought forward for conduct
which was not found in anything like equal pro-
portion in an other class. He had heard of some
philosophers who said man had descended from
apes, and when he went into the House of Lords
he began to fear that man would go back to apes.
What with their virtues and their vices, he uimost
failed to characterise them, ana he asked whether
the English nation would consent to be at the
mercy and caprice of such an irresponsible body
as the present House of Lords ?”
Tims does the shade of Dan O’Cdnnell, in
conversation with that of Isaac BoH (in Traill’s
“New Lucian I '!,'refer to Parnell:—' No min can
be more thoroughly well-equipped for the struggle
thau he is. Abundant readiness, immovable com-
posure, untiring: Industry, a natural gift of frigid
insolence which may easily pass for sarcasm, a
brain of crystal and a brow of brass—with such an
armament, he would be a man to be feared in any
Assembly, even if he had no nation behind him;
and with such a back ing t do not wonder that he is
winning the battle. His English enemies are bound
to reckon with him if only as a parliamentary
power at every turn; and their most accomplished
experts in House of Commons tactics have no
choice but to make terms with one who can wield
their own weapons more skilfully than themselves.
He has made himself a consummate master of all
their forms of procedure; he has studied their
rules as a prisoner’s attorney scrutinises an in-
dictment. He refutes their parliamentary pundits
out of their own text books, and trips up the
Speaker himself with the authority of the more
learned officer who sits before him. He knows
when to irritate by technical objections, when to
sting by insult, when to scandalise by violence of
speeoh: and he rarely resorts to aDy one of these
methods without success. No wonier that his
countrymen who daily watch the unwieldy English
Parliament floundering under his dexterous blows
like a harpooned whale in a ‘flurry ’—no wonder, I
say, that they should exult in his prowess and
resolve with ever-growing enthusiasm to inorease
his power.”
In an article on “Newspapers,” contri-
buted by Thomas Gibson Bowles to the Fort-
niqhtisY for June, we note the subjoined shame-
less passage:—“The Press has never yet been
officially recognised. Beer and banking, riche?,
romance and poetry have been ennobled, baron-
etcies have been showered on lord mayors, sheriffs,
and doctors; music-masters have been knighted,
but never yet has the fountain of honour flowed
even for the ablest, most enterprising, and most
successful of those who have organized with so
much success the daily brains of the nation.
There are men among them who can challenge
comparison, either for personal qualities and at-
tainments, or for personal position in the country,
with any brewer or banker ever raised to the
House of Lords ; but thev only represent brains,
and brains, though unofficially courted, and se-
cretly coaxod, and sometimes abjectly entreated
in private, are not yet officially recognised in pub-
lic as an existing force in the daily life of Great
Britain. It may be that the time will come when
this also will be changed. If so, it will be well.” If
so, it will not by any means be well. Wbat good
can possibly be hoped for from trioking out Press-
men in trumpery titles ? W hat truly independent
man cares a tinker's dam for the sordid favours of
a Court? Wbat would official rooognition mean
but that they who dispense the patronage will
expect a quid pro quo in the shape of butter?
What could possibly boa more degrading spectacle
than that of Government rewarding the news-
paper man, and the newspaper man paying homage
to the Government ? What else from such an ar-
rangement could be expected than the servility of
the Press, and the decay of independent criticism.
There are too many venal scribes in the ranks of
the Fourth Estate as it is: it would be a terrible
thing were official recognition to encourage their
increase. From official recognition, Domine libera
nos at all events.
Everyone has read of the abortive attempt
recently made by Mr. Woodall, M.P.. to tack on to
the English Franchise B:ll a clause conferring the
suffrage on lovely woman. Lovely woman, or
rather a mo*t unlovely section of her, wishes to
vote—wishes especially to have a voice in making
the laws affecting women and children. “ Give us
the custody of our children!” shriek Dr. Anna
with the blue nose and Dr. Mary with the bottle-
curls and eye-g'ass. “ Give old maids the custody
of their children! ” yelled an Irish member during
the debate-“what next!” Which reminds one
that there was the other day published in the
London dailies a list of 20 ladies of position who
had formed themselves into a committee to bring
about female suffrage. Of thetwenty.it is a some-
what remarkable fact that nine were old maids
who have arrived at about the fifth age of woman,
the other eleven being marrlea women who have
exactly three children between them. The Com-
mons were aslwell canvassed op behalf of the
clause as was the N.B.W. Assembly (by interested
ladies) in favour of the lately-enacted Judges’-
Salaries-and-Pension Bill. At a caucus of ladies
held at the bouse of Mrs. Coleridge-Kennard some
most wonderful arguments were advanced in favor
of the movement—it was urged, for instance, that
the fact that men and women occupied different
legal positions in respect to the matter of adultery
and divorce was a striking evidence that men, in
making laws, unjustly gave themselves privileges
that they were most careful to withhold from
women. Jt did not appear to be understood by
the fair orator that wnile designing woman could
palm off on her husband a child of which he was
not the father (and such frauds have been perpe-
trated on one or two occasions, even in Sydney;, it
would be rather hard for a husband to induce his
wife to believe she was the mother of what Sara
Bernhardt w.ould call one of his “little accidents."
It was quite evident that Mr. Woodall's motion
was a thinly-veiled Conservative dodge, the vast
majority of women being incorrigible Tories. The
disappointed dears and their wire-pullers arc now
going to see whether they can’t get legislation on
their own behalf initiated amon the old
of the Lords. When the question comes to be
seriously debated, there will be a magnificent
chance for one of the golden-mouthed Radicals to
formulate a brilliant Parliamentary oratioD, hav-
ing for its text, “Yes, enfranchise the women—
when you have enfranchised the men.” During
the debate, several Tory members actually had the
impudence to say that because a man was com-
pelled by poverty to live with his wife and family
in one room—and there are in England scores of
thousands so compelled—he was not tit to be trusted
with the franchise. The effect of the present Bill
will be to add to the electoral lists many thousands
of voters, chiefly Radicals. To quote the Specta-
tor: “ Women have never gained so much in the
rectification of the real injustice to which their
sex has been subject, as during the last few years;
and they have gained it in the legitimate way, by
using the social influence they will always possess,
unless they sacrifice it by entering the political
lists, and losing in influence much more than they
seek to gain in power. If their cause prospers,
they may find one day that political gain may prove
to be intellectual and moral loss."
* * *
Those regular Dei gratia blocknoads, Pious
Billy the Teuton and Franz Josef the Hungry-
Austrian, have been colloguing at Ischl. Alex-
ander would have been there as well, but for the
inconvenience of summer travelling in a suit of
boiler plate. To go from his ironclad bedroom to
his bomb-proof salle a manger is rorne enough , for
him... The leaves are beginning to fall from Gar-
field's laurel wreath. One American journal re-
rakes up his Credit Mobilier and De Colyer record
Another puts it that if Garfield was good enough
nor Blaine norTilden can consistently be scouted
on the score of virtue or lack thereof. While
another sees in Garfield a second-rate machine
politician whom the mad extravagances of grief
and rage have orowmd with an unreal fame, that
the pitiless hand of history will rape away. And
hundreds more whistle the same tune.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ W.G.” : Thanks for your suggestion, but
we ar9 almost tired of trying to "shoot folly as it
flies.” It is always flying. We have whipped the
lollies of all sorts of men, from Ministers of the
Crown to ministers of the Looard. We have Dot
been frightened by the wealth or awed b' the
position of the persons of whose folly we made a
trrget. But it is in vain. There are people born
to he fools, upon whom satire is wasted. Perhaps
—who knows ?—in the great economy of the uni-
verse these people have a place and a mission.
They must have. Worms have. Toads have.
Toad-eaters, too Henniker Heatons also. Then
what is the use of kicking against the pricks?
Even Goethe had to acknowledge this, we give
you Sir Theodore Martin’s translation of Goethe’s
Coptic Song
“ Howe’er they may wrangle, your pundits and
sages,
And love of contention infects all the breed.
All the philosophers, search through all ages,
Join with one voice in the following oreed:
Fools from folly ’ti« hopeless to stay!
Mules will be mules, by the law of their mulish-
ness;
Then be advised and leave fools to their foolish-
ness,
What from an ass can be got but a bray ?”
This is almost, as well as we could put it ourselves.
We will say this for Goethe, that, though he did
die without seeing us, he knew, as far as his lights
went, u thing or two in his own generation. Be,
now, “ W.G. , you have heard the opinions of the
greatest philosopher of the last century and the
noblest intellect of this on the matter, and we
think you should be fairly satistted. “ J.P.T.C”:
Try again “K.A.”: Some of the verses are not
wanting in merit, but what of such knock-kneed
and commonplace stanzas as—
" Then out doth burst a bad misnomer,
Worse by far than is in Homer
Or Will Shakespeare;
“ Whence out of bed this fellow gets,
And to a neighbouring pub. he sets
With motions queer” ?
. .."Nimitybelle” : Your neighbour with the hair
trunk on his top lip, probably considers vour pigs,
like yourself, have too much cheek. That’s why
he shoots them. Keep inside, or he’ll por you, and
no jury in the land will dare convict him
“ Maori” : Don’t mind the dawg. He is in train
just now to make war on the Spring poets. Bend
along more sparkles, but above all —be moral
“ Argus Critic”: It's hard enough to have to spell
out your rather eccentric pot-hooks, without read-
ing afterwards a criticism in which we’re not in
the faintest degree Interested, and which measures
two feet: two feet, about your size? "W. 8.
Dinorty”: Not adapted.. “T. J.Holden” : The
Bulletin posted on Thursdays to all agents and
sut-Bcribers.. ."G.1.L.”: Your metre is all awry,
and your metaphors Jumbled.


SPOUTING FIXTURES.
We thall be glad to bane tbit index pouted up bn
teeretaries of rating club* and manager • of
tportingenent* in general.)
RACING.
l'hargomindah J.C August 21,22.
Hawkesbury R.O. (Spring) August 31, 23.
Victoria Trotting Club August 30.
A.J.C. SpriDg Aug. 30, Sop. 2. 4.
Cloncurry J.C. September 3, 4.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Geranium R.C September 17,18.
Liverpool J.C September 20.
Sydney Turf Club September 26.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 1L 18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1,4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20,21.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27,28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) .January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5,7
COURSING.
Victoria Club August 21,22.
AQUATIC.
Matterson v. Edwards August 23.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake. .August 27.
B.R.C. Regatta September 13.
N.S.R.C. Regatta September 27.
ATHLETICS
J. Mole v. W. Neddrie, 100yds., Muswell-
brook August 23.
J. Mould v. W. Weddive, 150yds August 24.
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Bept. 6.
Casino Athletio Club Sports... .* November 10.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Union Raoe Meeting August 30.
Suburban B.C. Raoe Meeting September 15.
The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
We understand a Riverina town holds the
eomirg man in the aquatic line.
EDWARD TRICKETT.—(See page 12.)
At Birmingham, Myers won the half-mile
in lmin. 55 3-ssec., which beats his own best pre-
vious record, and is the fastest time for an amateur
in either England or America.
Dau O’Leary still hankers after another
match with our only Edwards, and has challenged
him for a six-days’ walk for £2OO. Edwards has
now gone over to England for a trip.
In Adelaide the Jockey Club is making a
big bid for the reinstatement of the totalisator in
South Australia. A petition has been started, to
which It is expected some 20,000 signatures will be
obtained.
The North Shore Rowing Club regatta,
fixed for 27th September, will Include a four-oar
outrigger raoe, open to all clubs, for oarsmen who
have never won a senior race at a publio regatta,
or an Intercolonial oar-raoe.
At recent Scottish championship sports,
hold at Edinburgh, J. M. Cowie, of the London
Athletic Club, carried off the 100 yards in 10 1-5 seo.,
and the quarter-mile in 511-5 sec., so that he is now
champion at those distances for both England and
Scotland.
Mr. T. M. Aloock, of the Haymarket, had
more luck on the track than on the wafer last
week. His handsome imported trotter, Midnight,
took first prize in the buggy class. Midnight is
by Elmo out of Maggie, ana was bred by Mr. Seale,
of San Francisco.
This is the funniest thing we have read for
a long time: “ A female pedestrian who is walk-
ing one thousand miles in a thousand hours, near
Glasgow, has been considered guilty of Sabbath
desecration. The Lord Advocate has been com-
municated with.”
Young Stevens has just completed a oouple
of two-streak outriggers for Press, of Woolloo-
mooloo Bay, for letttng-out purposes. The style
should prove first-class for rowing club practice
boats, being light and fast, and still strong enough
to stand knocking about.
A lady was set on lire—the second during
the week—in the Master of the Buokhounds en-
closure at Ascot recently, either by a cigar or the
bead of an unburnt fuzee. Two gentlemen threw
their coats around her and extinguished the fire,
but not before she was seriously injured.
The London Referee says of the race in
which Hanlan beat Laycock by half-a-length only:
“Naturally, with Beach looking on, and with a
match Impending between him and Hanlan, it was
not likely the latter would extend himself, espe-
cially as extension was in no way neoessary.”
The Suburban Bioycle Club have fixed
upon 13th September for their race meeting on the
Association Ground. The programme will be one-
mile maiden open nandicap; three-mile club race;
two-mile challenge (rather dubious, this); one-
mile open; three miles open; one-mile trike; and
150-yards open foot handicap.
Bettiug at amateur athletic meetings in
England lias become such an institution that the
reporters found it necessary to quote the prices In
reporting the various events at a recent champion-
ship meeting at Birmingham—a thing unprece-
dented in tne annals of amateur athletics. We
are not quite so advanced this side of the water.
Not on land, at all events.
In England, the recent five-miles bioycle
championship, held under the auspices of the
National Cyclists’ Union, resulted in a win for
K. Chambers, of the Speedwell Bioycle Club, from
which club our one-mile champion hails. All the
other competitors retired before the termination,
but Chambers kept on to try and beat the Union
Standard—lsmin lOsee. A loose path and light
wind were against him, and he finished in 15min.
36 4-5 seo.
“ Bicyclists.—Meeting of new bioycle club,
Emu Inn, George-street, opposite Cathedral, Tues-
day night, 830 pm ” This is an advertisement in
a recent D.T , and in a previous issue we saw it
stated that the new club will be formed with a
view of comprising both amateurs and profes-
sionals. There is no club in Sydney at present
open to pros., and we should think an amateur
joining the proposed club would not be recognised
by the Union,
Like all the other papers, we had our ac-
count of the big race, or rather the scene up the
River, all ready written out during the preceding
week, but it wouldn't gee, as, by some means, the
telling points we had worked up for the oocasion
—coign of vantage, delirium tremens of excite-
ment- beautiful harbour—pink of condition-
-10,000 000 people—giant roars—and many others
equally as telliDg—were all forestalled by the
dailies, so we tore our copy up in disgust, and
swore to stick to the race proper. Beach, in the
buff, towered over his smaller opponent, who
rowed as usual in his blue guernsey, and, at some
20 minutes past four, the men struck the water
very evenly and started away on their eventful
journey. A nasty south-wester was blowing, and
Beach, having the southern position, held his ovn
for a few strokes, but Hanlan, pulling with
MICHAEL RUSH.—See page 12.)
his wonderful dash, soon drew away from his
opponent, seeming to gain feet every stroke, but,
before the mile poin was reached, an event
occurred which very nearly put a t rmination to
the race, and a blot upon our reputation for fair
play. The Tomki, Beach’s boat, which started a
long way too far down the river, appeared to get
quite unmanageable, and drifted right across
Haqlan’s course, and the ex-champion must be
possessed of iron nerves if his heart did not
thump his ribs when, in answer to a shout from
somewhere, he looked over his right shoulder
and saw the immense mass of iron looming over
him. However, by pulling hard with his right he
ma aged to escape the threatened danger;—when
Beach had to iro through the same danger, which
he did in rather better style than Hanlan, who
caught what looked remarkably like a thorough-
bred crab just after getting out of the difficulty.
When the men avain settled down, the Canadian
contrived to draw away, and at the mile point
(shot in 6 min. 9sec.) he had a lead of some three
lengths. Beach then s ttled down, and with in-
domitable pluck spurted in chase of the leader.
At Breakfast Point it was seen Beach was gaining
rapidly—Hinlan pulling desperately at 38. Beach
doing a couple of strokes less; and shortly after
passing the Point, the hitherto invincible Hanlan
collapsed, and Beach dashed right into him. Hanlan
lifted his hand and claimed the “ foul,” but Beach
pulled straight on as soon as he got clear. After
this little contretemps, the race requires no descrip-
tion, as the Canadian seemed to be pumped out
and did not persevere, and Beach rowed in, the
easiest of winners, in 21 minutes lm seconds.
Hanlan rowed over into Beach’s water, and it is
needless to say Mr. Clark would not entertain the
protest. The race was rowed, for the greater part,
in choppy water, and has completely thrown over
the popular idea that Beach was lost in anything
of a jump. Of the two, the Dapto ;an was most
at home in the rough water, and we are of opinion
that if Hanlan is destined to win back the “ qham-
pio iship of the universe” —how is it the jaynil
Dan never thought of this improvement on the
“ championship of the world —it will be on a
calm day. Hanlan rowed in the last boat turned
out by Edwards, of Melbourne, and it strikes us
he must have held his opponent rather cheap to
row such an Important race in a boat which he
had stepped into a day or so before the race. Heach
rowed in his Donnelly and Sullivan—the men, by
the way, who gave him the opportunity or his
d6but on metropolitan waters—and Tommy Kelly,
a Sydney man, trained him; so that the win has
been New South Wales in every particular.
We have reoeived rather a long list of per-
formances from J. C. Williams, who signs himself
“ long-distanoe walker of Australia.” J.C. was
born In 1833, but his soles still go marching on, and
he now states he is willing to make a match to
walk any man in the world ‘‘longest distance with-
out leaving the track.”
Wiloannia takes the cake for the novel
boat race of the season. The competitors were a
gay Majah, who had for a partner the young lady
who dispenses gin-slings at the local Petty's, and
a Mr. Stanbury, who pulled in the same boat with
a lady from the local Thompson and Giles. The
distance was three-quarters of a mile, and the
gallant Majah and his fascinating partner, who,
by the way, had trained hard pulling at the beer
engine, won by any number of lengths, in some-
thing under three quarters of an hour.
The following proposition was carried by
the Horsham (Q.) Athletio Club on Bth August:—
“ That A. J. Farrell, of Bydney, who ran under the
assumed name of M‘Arthur at last sports, and won
the principal event of the meeting wrongfully—he
having misled the handicappers by entering as a
maiden runner-be disqualified from ever running
at any sports held in connection with this club,
and that the secretary be instructed to write to
the various clubs, informing them of the disquali-
fication of Farrell,” Comment is needless—and
expensive.


MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street. Prahran.
T consider tbere are no superior or mom roMahio
Hop Bitters than those known as reliable
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
JOHN COOKE, M.tt.C 3.. Eng., L.S.A., Lond
Surgeon Alfred Hospital, Melb.
otliin 5, purifies and enriches the blood
mttem Read P ° ° DB in the ByBtem like H °P
..A I '?®® and boos, beetles, insects, roivlit s. ants
Sut Rn^ iCe ’ g D OPhe ™I Z Ted
or£te« A H?»if'iv"‘r M “, rshall ’ s Tonl ° NerTine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ■
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros , Prosser, hoffnuug, Feldbeim, Precbms and
MarkeWtr e eeTsydney HALL BrOTHER8 ’ IWan ’ d 10 »
seizes:
sumption in the system. If you are m need ot fl '
vou 6 wTlfiff? y n LlUn i Sr or Throat disease,
k'SSZgg
According to official time, one Thompson,
of Sutton, at the West Kent bicycle races, rode a
mile in 2min. 39 3-ssec. I
The old 24-footer Wyvern, a very old love
of ours, built by Yates, and a clipper in her day,
has been purchased by agrentleman lon* connected
with open boat sailing, who purposes fitting her
up in style as a pleasure boat for the coming
season. It will indeed be like old times to see the
Wyvern in commission airain. We always looked
upon her as the heavAdcal of an open pleasure
boat, stiff as a house, sailing faster than the ordin-
ary run. and, if the wind dropped, pulling like a
Skiff. The Wyvern did some fast work in her day,
with Colebrook at the tiller, and we remember on
one occasion when the Coryhene was leading her
on the run home from Manly during a race sailed
in a black North-easter, that Tom cracked on a
squaresail and topsail, and the gallant little boat
fetting her shoulder under water, staggered like a
runken man, and then rolled into the gutter; and
how the Sea Breeze, which was running after her
like a race horse with Sam Richardson—we think—
at the tiller, rounded up to the rescue, and bring-
ing the sheet in too fast, also came to grief, the
two boats leaving 28 men struggling in the water;
and how one dashing young blade in the Breeze
nearly came to grief, which catastrophe, had it oc-
curred, would have spoilt an interesting event to
come off shortly at a popular watering place. But,
there, we had better put a olapper on our pen, or
we shall be filling The Bulletin with our musty
reminlsoenses.
Smith, of the London
Rowing 1 Club, a regular
outsider, won the diamond
sculls at Henley, beating
Lowndtg, wh-jse defeat, at
be has been for years past
such a “ moral r ’ for the
event, caused some sensa-
tion.
Raynor, the ped.,
writes deprecatingly on
the sub.leot of our treating
him, as he terms it-“sar-
castically.” His letter at
once suggests the fact that
he must, while writing it,
have made full use of the
dictionary. Only it was
the dictionary of—another
language.
In the match Ameri-
can Gentlemen r. Glouces-
tershire, W. G. Grace’s
wicket was eaoh time
taken by Newhall, who, in
the first innings, got him
oaught for 18, and, in the
second, clean bowled him
for 11. In 1871, W. G.
Grace, playing for the
Twelve Gentlemen of
England against Twenty
of Philadelphia, was taken
each innings br C. A New-
hall, who in the first in-
nings clean bowled the
obampion for 14, and in
second got him caught
for 7. The coincidence is
curious.
In the Oxford-Cam-
bridge crioket matoh, that
usually brilliant cricketer,
Mr. Timothy O'Brien, who
had taken £75 to £1 that
he didn’t score 100 in either
Innings, made a pair of
duck’s eggs. Whereupon,
the undergraduates said
his right name was “O.
O’Brien,” and began to
sing “ Won’t you tell me
why, Brian ?’ r Mr. Rock,
who made so good a stand
for Cambridge in the
second innings, is a Tas-
manian, who, in addition
to proving himself a first-
class cricketer, has taken
two scholarships at Cam-
bridge.
At Brazilian races the
“ welsher ” hasn’t even an
“outside show.” “The
professional bettors are
locked up in a large build-
ing with grated windows
at intervals, at which they
bet with the public, giving
tlokets to record the trans-
action and attest the re-
ceipt of the money; when
the race is over, the win-
ners repair to another
window, and, on present-
ing their tickets, they are
paid their winnings.’’ This
plan could, we think, only
be improved on in one
way; and that would be
by locking up a very stiff
percentage of the profes-
sional bettors in a large
building with grated win-
dows—say Darlinghurst—
and not allowing them to
bet with the public at all.
We notice that the
“official” time—whatever
that means—for the big
race has been given by the
various dailies as 2Umin.
28sec., but we are not far
out when we state that the
“ correct” time was nearly
a minute slower. We made
it 21mtn 26%sec; an experi-
enced amateur, used to
clocking, made it 21min.
27sec.; and Mr. James
Oatley, perhaps as ex-
perienced a hand with the
watch as followed the
race, made it 21min. 29sec.:
so there cannot be much
doubt that the official
timekeeper—it there was
such a person—ran the
dailies all astray. The
third mile in the alleged
time of smin. 16seo. is too
preposterous to need oom-
ment.
We are in a position to give a tip for the
Melbourne Cup. Commotion at 9st. 121 b. ought
to be not far away from the next horse, when
Malua and Le Grand are next some horse near. At
the same time we should not bo surprised to find
Sir Modred turning up the straight full of as much
going as Sir Modred or Martini-Henry, in case
Guesswork or Welcome Jaok do not carry their
owners' oolours somewhere near something or
other. We fanoy, however, that Sweet William
might require fancying for certain reasons. This
is gratis to the general reader, and will save him
the trouble of going through the other tipsters.
We understand that “stroke” of the losing
four at the reoeat M.R.C. regatta twisted his out-
rigger when he caught the first of the series of
crabs which occurred during the race. If such
was the case we were rather rough in our report
of the race. But, at the same time, we are of
opinion still that he rows a groat deal too fast and
scratchy to get in effective work, and he would
want men behind him with the staying powers of
a horse to keep going with him. He comes of a
family noted for their bottom, and it really seems
a pitv he has not dropped into a better style. He
should row for a season behinu a man with a good
swing.
In England, the Military Tournament
at the Agricultural Hall proved a big event. One
of the most interesting displays was the skirmish-
ing practice of the 3rd and 15th Hussars. The
doollity of the horses was wonderful. With
wsaroely any difficulty each animal was induoed to
lie on his side, and the troopers, taking cover
[ behind their chargers, fired volley after volley
with their carbines. As the horse rose to his feet the
Hussar stepped across him, and, rising with the
animal, was In his saddle in an instant. For the
wrestling on horseback the 4th Irish Dragoons
carried all before them, tumbling the burly Life-
guardsmen out of their saddles with the greatest
ease.
Both Matterson and Edwards are stated to
be in good fettle for their match next Saturday.
The race on the Nepean cannot be taken as any
criterion of the men’s powers, as Matterso l had a
handicap in his favour and Edwards was com-
pletely thrown out of it by one of the competitors.
Matterson pulls in a remarkably clean style, so far
as his sculls are concerned, but he shows a great
lack of swing. Edwards is stated to be a bit off
sinoe his knocking about with Hanlan; but, If the
report is without foundation, and Robert is the
Bob Edwards of old, we fancy he will give the
ooming young ’un all he knows to finish in front
of him. We don’t give this as a tip. Since last
Saturday we’re “ off it.”
Northern journalists are kicking them-
selves for joy over the fact that Ned ’lriekott’s
EDWARD HANLAN.—(See page 12.)
advent has given a “ sort of impetus to aq uatic
matters in Rockhampton.” Like “rnobled queen,”
a “sort of impetus” is good, but, so far as our
experiencs goes, is must be a mighty sick sort of
impetus indeed. We also learn that Edward is
giving a prize to be rowed for at the forthcoming
regatta, but whether the trophy is to take the
shape of a second-hand coffin or a gill of rum in a
ginger-bottle is not at present made known to the
general public. And this reminds us that, when, a
few nights after the genial, boisterous, rollicking
Ned opened “Trickett’s Folly Hotel” down here,
a particular sort of cuss indignantly asked if his
host meant to insult him by offering him a glass of
port wine hot without a single taste of nutmeg in
it. Edward apologised; said he was only getting
experience, ran the hired girl out for ss. worth of
the aromatic nuts, and, for a month after that,
every glass of brandy, gin, tanglefoot, &c.—hot or
cold—which was served by Ned was buried under
an inch and a half of nutmeg.
We are iu for more thrilling events in the
athletic line. Donald Dinnie has written the fol-
lowing to the Melbourne Sportsman:— “ Sir, In
reply to Clarence Whistler, the champion Graeco-
wre*tler of Amerioa, I ha ve to say that I
will wrestle him the best of five styles, and allow
him to choose three of the five, for any sum over
£5O a-side. Regarding expenses, I came to this
country at my own expense to meet all comers,
and, as Mr. Whistler wishes to come over, I see no
reason why ho should expect £lOO towards ex-
penses. He can have the match for £500: so that,
if he wins, he will be well remunerated.” Should
the men meet, wo should like to hear from Dinnie,
before the event, what he intends to do—or he may
give us a little more after the match of what he
could have done, & la the Miller and Victor affair.
Miller is getting about again, and a complimentary
dinner to him has been fixed for the 29th instant.
We are rather anxious to see the Professor him-
self again. Then, Donald, look out for squall 3.
In commenting upon the recent sale of
Lord Falmouth’s horses, London Bell’s Life says:
—“lt may be Interesting at the present time to
mention the most important sales that have pre-
ceded Lord Falmouth’s. In the early days of the
century it was the practice to offer a stud privately
in one lot, but it is not until 1846 that we com« to
any sale of great public interest. We refer to the
stud of Lord George Bentinck, which was first
offered to Mr. Payne for 10.000g5., and, on refusal,
Mr.—subsequently Lord—Mostyn became the pur-
chaser. In 1853, Mr. Padwick gave 15,000g5. for
General Anson’s thoroughbreds, and this lot In-
cluded Scythian, the Chester Cup winner In 1855.
In later years Sir Joseph Hawley’s stud was the
first important one placed under the hammer. This
was at Middle Park in 1873, when the whole of the
stud—including the stallions Roslcrucian and Side-
rolite—brought what was then considered the
remarkable amount of close on 24,000g5. Rosa
Bonheur, Marie Stuart, and Fraulein all realised
heavy prices on subsequent occasions for brood
mares, and the last-named pair have never thrown
anything worthy their reputation. The Middle
Park sale W'sa very sensational one, and the price
given for Blair Athol, 12,500g5., was regarded as
about the height to which the price of a stallion
could reach; but this was put in the shade when
the Duke of Westminster gave 14,000g5. for Don-
Cister. Tae rapid strides in the value of equine
blood stock is shown by the prices consistently
paid for the best lots at the dispersal of the Cor-
nish Earl s stud, and while we can only regret the
ill-health that has caused his Lordship to retire
from the turf, we may congratulate ourselves on
the nick of the lots having fallen into the hands of
thorough sportsmen.”
We publish the following letter, at the re-
quest of Mr. George Ellis, the well-known boat-
builder of Waterview Bay:—“I beg to thank you
for the notice of my extension of business con-
tained in your last issue, and, at the same time, to
take exception to your stat ement that I am second
to Donnelly and Sullivan as a boat-builder. Seeing
that the public place considerable reliance upon
your reports relative to sporting matters, the
opinion you express is calculated to injure my
reputation, and I therefore trust you will do me
the favour of publishing this letter. I do not
consider myself second to anyone in Australia,
either as a boat-builder or at the tiller, and am
prepared to back myself and boats against anyone
for any reasonable amount; or, to talk business, I
am prepared to sail the Dreamland against any
24-foot open boat in the harbour, best and best,
over the Manly course, for (say) £5O to £lOO a side.
Man, money, and boat ready at a week’s notice.
I mention 24-foot boats, as that is the class to
which you specially refer as being Oonnelly’s
strong point, but I shall be only too glad to make
a match for any boat of my building with anv-
thing of the same class. I am, &c., G. W. Elias ”
We are sorry Mr. Ellis should have taken the para-
graph he refers to in the light he did, for nothing
was further from our Intention than to cast any
reflections upon the work of such a clever boat-
builder. Ho far as handling the tiller is concerned,
we have always been of opinion that since George
Montgomery died, Ellis has no peer in the harbour ;
but we must still adhere to our belief that he has
never yet built a boat able to beat either the Car-
lotta, victor, or toe 22-footer Rosetta, whatever
be may do in the futuro. As affairs now stand, his
challenge is not likely to be taken up; but were
the Cariotta in the hands of her old owner, Mr.
S. H. Hyam, wo have an idea the offer would not
long go begging.
In their training for
their annual race with
Yale, the Harvard crew
were allowed ice-cream
and cake I But even in
this direction the noble
Australian outshines the
Yankee. Three years ago
one of the Sydney crew
in training for the Inter
colonial boat-race, was al-
lowed to go away and ge
married. We suppose th
cake allowed to the Yan
kees wasn’t wedding-cake
Mr. Courtney, the
great American oarsman
has now, it is deciued by
one paper, “plainly provec
himself a coward and
sneak.” Hi s record is
given as follow s “In
1873, at Philadelphia, hi
boat huDg on the top of
barge in the boat- house
ot the Philadelphia Boa ;
Club. The bottom wa
sawed out of it. in 1877
when he was pitted aguinsi.
rtiley at Greenwood Lake
he was alleged to have
t«£en , Poisoned tea. In
1877, at Geneva Lake, his
boat was upset through
J®P°rted sunken wires. In
18i7, for the third time in
that year, when he was to
have rowed against ltiley
and Plaisted, he had an
alleged sunstroke two
miles out. In 1879, at La-
chine, in his match with
Hanlan, he was suddenly
with a sore wrist
In 1819 again, his boat was
sawed at Chautauqua
Lake. In 1879, at Wash-
lngton, in another match
with Hanlan, he had a
second visitation of sun-
stroke. In 1882, at Geneva
Lake, he had his boat
packed up, and refused to
row. In 1883, at Watkins
Glen, he claimed that
somebody hit him on the
back ol the neck with a
?ami club. On June 7,
1884, he suddenly disap-
peared.”
.Weller, senior, alleged
that a man who can form
an ackerate judgment of a
hoss can form an ackerate
judgment of anything.”
The history of Tom Ward,
the Yorkshire groom,fully
bears Weller out. A good,
steady, light-weight joc-
key. in 1823, he went to
Vienna in charge ot some
nags, and was at once
taken under the wing of
the sporting Duke of
Lucca, whose aim in life
was to lick England on
the turf. From jockey and
trainer. Ward climbed up
to confidential valet, and
thence to keeper of the
privy purse. Next he ap-
pears as a Baron, and be-
fore long took the role of
Minister of Finance, al-
thouerb he was practi-
cally Pr me Minister, and
a leading political power
« i 1,,?, Austrian events
°f 184.-1848. Tom Ward
spoke French, Italian, and
German as fluently almost
as his own Anglaise, and, as
a diplomatist, was as re-
markable for his honesty
as his shrewdness. After
the death of the Duke of
Lucca (known in his latter
years as Duke of Parma,
on account of his acces-
sion to that duchy) Tom
Ward took to farming,
ana spent many years m
peaceiul independent re-
tirement. Tom’s history
ranks as one of the most
remarkable in connection
with the turf. He was al-
ways familiarly known to
the Italians as “Signor
Tommaso."


"pi URNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
H
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Snrlmr streets, Bydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
FUROTTURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. ’
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. '
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-TOUXD BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BttADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITDRE.—Pine Tables, from l(te.
Od.; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. fid.; Washstands from 12s. fid.--
Chest of Drawers, from 4fis ; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. fid.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
DQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOt) strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
jpIHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
■fTI AS Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
XLi DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
Never hitherto exhibited in Sydney.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-Room occasional chatrs.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priceb, from 13s fid. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or RED. V«rv bandv and inex-
pensive, Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, Q’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board. DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
|ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-‘
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L 4 MB.
Framework Io"rDRAwiNG-itooM suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
P' RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Ccnnell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
T>KNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
1) : bmt make- Ir » at prices.
SOCIATY
The baohelors of North Shore gave a grand
ball last Friday, in Myers' Assembly Hall, having
Lor their guests the Hite, the beauty, and the
fashion of that suburb. Most of thefladies toilettes
were exceedingly handsome and stylish, and so
fascinating were their wearers that the bachelors
could not resist the appeals for “ extras, ot which
n number was given, to the line music of kopn:
and Austin’s band. On the regular programme
were 18 dances, 12 being waltzes, and, curiously,
they wore all put in pairs, with a change dance in
between. "Lets have a dance ere we are
married ” was the appropriate motto on the cards,
and quite likely this urgent appeal to the St.
Leonards belles will result in even more interest-
jnsr events boloß “oiitho cards” someday, il all
goes well. Baumann’s catering was voted excel-
lent by the men and maids who combined to re-
peatedly attack the well-spread tables, and one of
the happiest affairs the Shore has seen was closed
iiy the guests departing about 3 a.m.
* * *
On Saturday night, the annual dinner of
the Engine-driversand Firemen’s Association took
place in the Masonic Hall, York-street. About 140
sat down—sterling, intelligent men. There were
no masher collars on the enginemen, no “dress”
suits; but they sat there with their bold, bronzed
faces and brawny shoulders, like men who have
more serious work in life than studying their
toilet in a looking-glass. There were men from all
parts of the colony down for their annual meet,
and they greeted one another from the far-off lines
with a frank and hearty welcome that no
affected lisp in it —with the bluff and fearless tone
fitting to be used by - aen who drive “ the mighty
monarchs of the road.” Mr. H. J. Bland occupied
the chair, having on one side the Hon. Alexander
Stuart (Premier) and Mr. Angus Cameron. M.P.;
on the other side the Hon. John Sutherland, M P.,
and Mrs. Cobb The banquet took about an hour,
and the provides cannot be complimented on his
supply. There was not even enough of ordinary
edibles; and, as the supply of wine wan iniiuf-
tesimal, the enginemen drank most of the toasts in
ale. Of course, the chairman’s table, where in-
vited guests sat, was well locked after. Songs
were given at intervals, and Herman’s band
played, Mr. Campling proposed ” Parliament,”
and Messrs. Stuart, Sutherland, and Cameron re-
filled; but, curiously enough, the toast was not
drunk. Mr. bland proposed the ” Railways,” and
Mr. Harrison gave “ Our Holidavs.” Mr. J. Heron
proposed “Our Invited Guests,” and the Premier
made a (long [speech in reply, just a trifling ram-
bling. but interesting to his audience. Messrs. Mid-
dleton, D C MoLaohlan, S agur, Cobb, &c , also
replied. “The Euginemen's Association ” was the
subject of a neat and pithy speech by Mr. D.
Moore, and the health of Mr, vVm. Sixsmith, the
oldest engine-driver in the colonies, w<,s drunk,
other t >a3ts occupied till nearly midnight, when
ihe social gathering separated.
+ *
On the Ist September ‘'Chatsworth House”
will be the scene of a large ball, given by Mrs. and
Mj - . C. J. Roberts, C.M.G. A new ball-room has
just been completed at this splendid Potts’ Point
mansion, costing several thousands of pounds, and
Mr. Roberts, who has on previous occasions enter-
lained lords and princes and other disilngulshed
\ isitors to the colony, Intends on this date to have
one of the largest private bails yet given in Sydney.
• >ver six hundred guests will be there, and every-
thing that liberality can do will ensure their com-
fort and enjoyment.
• • *
g (Usual number put in an appearance at
the Orange Mercantile Quadrille Assembly last
Tnursuay it beiug the flml night of the season,
although it is Intended to wind up with a Mercan-
tile ball on the 28th Instant. This will be followed
vbout the second week in September by the Fancy
Fayre ball, which is to be the event of ihe year,
i tresses tast.ful and varied adorned he forms of
mazy whirlers, who tripped it till the witching
nour. The daughter of the C P 8., in cream, waa
mimm d ; and a namesake in plain white was pretty.
\ tall lady from Sale-street, in fashionable
of cream, seemed to waltz divinely. Blayney and
Molong both represented; the former by a brunette
i i black and gold satin, the latter by an oriental in
pink llama. A dark lady, in black muslin and satin,
proved attractive; also her friend, in black moire.
,vn editor s daughter, in pale-green and cream
openwork overskirt, was toe Dest leading article
tie has yet produced; and a Lord-street favourite
m demand, as usual Marsh-street sent two -deters
in cream and cardinal, and Lord's-place a little one
i i black lace and satin. Two blondes were from
Anson-street-one in cream, the other in black and
blue sash; and two sisters from the vicinity of the
Exchange found many admirers.
•
Last Monday, the Balmain Private Assem-
i.y held its first social dajee in the School of Arts.
Though starting late in the season, t he committee
nave earnestly determined Dot to be behindhand
m (heir pleasure, and it is intended to have three
more meetings even now before the warm weather
nets in. Mr. W. Mitchell, as hon. sec., and his
colleagues did their best to make everyone at ease,
and when the dance closed about midn'ght ail their
iruests went away as pleased as the proverbial
Punch. Music was by DeGroen, the floor in good
order, and the catering of Mr. Oldham excellent.
Such affairs as these are not supposed to be exhibi-
! ions of elaborate dress-it would be unwise to
make them so; but neatness and grace are truly
always worth a word. And theso were certainly
not lacking among the company. A tall, fair
iadv in broche silk of indigo blue was commend-
able- a pert little dancer from Prince Alfred Park
merry in cardinal and pink; and two young ladies,
whose pa is in the stationery line, did not care
about being stationary themselves—one in blue
looked well, and one in white never waited long
Lor partners to Turn’er. Two other sisters in white
•md blue, respectively, were from Kedfern, and
mi wavs had knights near them—which was only
natural because they are Castles. A brilliant
cerise satin and white lace suited a married lady
.hnrmimrlv: while another wore a tasteful maroon
velvet and white puffed silk skirt most prettily
made Extremely graceful as a dancer was a
-oung lady in neat pink veiling, from North
Shore.—
Her pretty pink was dainty quite.
Her charms caught many a wandering eye,
Her name itself was pure delight,
Because she was so sweet a Pye.
* * *
Mrs Alexander Campbell, of “Rosemont,”
Wnidlahra gave a very fashionable ball last
Thursday at her beautiful house, the grounds of
which w-re lit with fancy lamps. It was one of the
enisMmlls of the season, nearly 200 guests being
n resent Residents from the stylish suburbs dis-
.ovAd their best toilettes, and a tair sprinkling of
i’ Xv belles were seen in the thron. . Waltzes
s ™ J Three at a time. A splendid supper was pro-
‘S ty is°T" Hnn - and it; wa ®. af L er - tw0 u whe P
in rited music ceased echoing through
'i® handsome rooms, and the ball became what alh
Much thfngs must come to be at last-a memory of:
laded joys.
* * *
victoria House annual ball occurred lasi
VrJdav at Nithsdale Rooms. Balls of this kind are
to chronicle, because they are so
H social Now, when a public ball la given
K£m a oioh B it is ’often pleasant enough for those
w y ho are “ n the swing. ’ but cithers stay away,
U 2 fear that they “won’t know anybody,”
through a enjoy it. When for a charity,
s always a irking suspicion that you will
tnere is a'wvj ur guinea, because they wa t
not£etmu Y charity Even private balls
always all the fancy paints them. There’s
agood o y f make-brlleveln society; aqd, after
accepting a hostess’ hospitality, you can’t very
well tell her it was all a bore, even when it Avas;
so you politely fib, and say you enjoyed
it very much, when you didn’t. But an an-
nual ‘'house’’ ball stands on a different foot-
ing ; there is no squeezing to get a suiplus
out of it, no inviting people you don’t like be-
cause you dare not offend them; the bali is given
l’or the one sole object of drawing closer the
soci il ties of those whs, it Is important, should be
on amiable terms with one another. Employes
cannot go on year after year working together
with advantage unless an esprit dc corps exists
among them, and nothing tends m ire to it than
such an annual reunion as Farmer’s people have
every winter. They are more elaborate i ban they
used to be, and the affair last Friday Avas a full
WILLIAM BEACH, CHAMPION SCULLER OF THE WORLD.-(See page 12.)
ball. kept up till nearly 4 o’clock, and with brilliant
toilets a r, d good dancers enough to cheerfully fill
the rooms. The only regrettable feature was
that such a small proportion came from \ ictoria
House itself. It would almost look as if a
number of the employes did not care about
fixing up an amiable relationship with one
another. However, those who did attend
had so many friends that the ball Avas a
most successful social affair. Mr. H. H. Brewer
was the hon. sec , «nd Mr. A. W. Pear- e an agree-
able M.C ; a capital supper was spread, and Mr.
Ernest Ne ids provided fine music. Extras were
given, besides the twenty-four dances set down
A flame-coloured dress was prominent, the colours
so gay that the lady looked almost like one of the
early Christian martyrs suffering the usual sultry
WALLACE ROSS—(See page 12.)
doom. Rather quieter, but light and pretty as the
wreathing snow, were the white net costumes of
two Balmain belles, accompanied by a short-
haired attracter from the mid-city, in white with
black stripes. A laughing blonde from Surry
Hills was also all in white, with real maidenhair
and loses placed nearest where sentiment takes its
rise. A nice little pink was from Balmain; a beau-
tiful dancer from up the river; and a sweet-faced
maid of rather shadowy form from Miller’s Point,
iD black broche set with sunflowers. None could
take the palm for fascinating dai cing from a fair
married lady in myrtle green broche; though an
elf in pink jingled a tiny foot with considerable
skill: and a Surry Hills brunette miirht be for-
given for her odd mixture of colours because she
danced so well. From Darlinghurst, a lady came
in really handsutne toilet, a creamy yellow s''k,
helped along with some other silky, airy, seduc-
tive fabric, and trimmed with ostrich feathers in
an irresistible way. A married lady wore a very
flue cardinal satin top over skirt of white veiling,
beautifully creweiled in green. A tall brunette
from North Shore in pink skirt and flowered top
was a favourite partner. A handsome married
lady Avore a toilet that was deservedly admired; it
was black satin and lace, cut decollete, and
trimmed most profusely with yellow flowers in
bouquets and garlands: it was a work of art, and a
picture of taste.
* * *
Entirely apart from its bucolio aspect, the
Agricultural SboAV is a great social event every
year. Last Thursday would have been a lovely
day for new Spring dresses, only the girls did not
know it whs coming so warm and sunny, and they
had not got them ready. Perhaps they were just
as glad fterwards; for, in spite of fhejexcellent
efforts of the Society, which nas really done won-
ders in improvement, the grounds were terribly
dusty. This will be obviated in time, and after the
experience of this year's show, the splendid at-
tendance, and the oft-expressed idea of everyone,
there is certain to bo a grand stand erected. The
Governor opened the show, and went round a good
deal: and it was quite late in the afternoon before
the earriag- 4 . containing His Excellency and Lieut.
Nathan vis-a-v’s to Lady Loitus and Miss Con-
stable, left ihe ground Each day the band of the
Permanent Artillery played on the lawn, »nd
the parading, trotting, and jumping were all in-
teresting, and sometimes exciting. Several of the
riders were unshipped, and the top rails knocked
out, but no one was hurt, and the ground afforded
grand accommodation for everyone to get a view.
The jumping of a‘.lady rider on a splendid grey
was a source of keen excitement, and they were
loudly cheered. Ladies patronised the show very
liberally, and at any moment there wore numbers
of handsome toilets to be seen. On the first day,
two companion costumes were certainly conspicu-
ous from all others. One was a bright chaudron
shade of sur h satin, with trimming of strawberry
and cream foulard, plush hat to match dress, and
parasol to match the foulard. The other was ex-
actly si ilar in style, but the colours were dark
drab and a lighter shade foulard, respectively; and
(Tor oor.tlnunt.inn "f Soct*u ret next n**re.)


SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Newtown Social August 22,
Balmain Collingwood C.C. Ball (School
of Arts, Balmain)..... August 22.
Woollahra Private 'ssembly (Nithsdale) August 22.
Osborne C.C. Annual Picnic (Mortlake).. August 23.
Australian Club Ball (Town Hall) August 26.
Railway OiFicers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) August 27.
Lyndhurst Garden Party (Botany) August 27.
TUebe Private Assembly iGlebe Town
Hall) August 29
Windsor C.C. Annual Picnic (Tennyson)’August Tib!
Cyclists L nion Sports August 30.
St. Vincent s Ball (Exhibition) September 3.
E.S.A.A. Club Sports.. September 6.
Railway Ball (Exhibition) September 8.
Bachelors Assembly iNithsdale) September 13.
Vaudeville Quadrille Club Ball (Tat-
tt rsall s) September 12.
Subur..an B.C. Sports September 13.
Macly Wildfiower Show September 12,13.
both toilets were tine and fashionable. Mrs.
Alderson wore a perfectly neat black cashmere;
and her young -istcr, Miss H-rdie, a neat brown
velvet and cloth dress, with canary feather
in the hat. Two navy blue cloth o , with hip
drapery, and the alternate pleatings of cardinal,
were a tasteful pair; and a pearl grey beige
in lona pleats, with black velvet panier bodice,
was' also in taste. Mrs W. Cooper wore a
rich mahogany brown moire, beautifully made,
and long mantle, on one day; and afterwards, a
line black satin de lyon and broebe, with a semi-
mantle so flexible and tniekly beaded as to look
line a shimmering coat of black mail with every
movement; beaded bonnet cn suite. One of those
charming combinations of colour which show un-
erring taste was seen in Miss Broughton's toilet,
where a brown cashmere and velvet dress, and
princesa bonnet, were just relieved by a Droad
collar of pale blue, with pretty effect. The sister
of one of the jumping competitors wore a costume
and bat of bright red-rust shade, harmonising well
with her fair style. Madame Vogrich’s dress was
a delicious affair; a tine cream veiling with the
new accord o 1 skirt in very close pleats, dolman of
rich black brocade, and white hat and plume just
tinged with lavender and turned up with crimson
over the handsome, sparkling face. A splen-
did costume was, velvet ruby redingote and
satin skirt of contrasting crimson, together with
a ruby princess bonnet, under a white satin
parachute elaborately flowered. Many of these
sunshades were remarkable for their gaudy orna-
mentation. A moss-green velvet, with chenille
trimmings and silk pleatings let in, green bonnet
with orange feather, made another lady the sub-
ject of considerable attention; while a black vel-
vet robe, with brocaded gold apron and small
bonnet wreathed with gold, attracted admiration
towards a brunette. Mi>s Hill wore a black velvet
and beaded bonnet to match, with a mantle of the
new butterfly velvet brocade, which looked very
rich. Two young ladies illustrated a very popular
style, namely, small and trim bodices of velvet,
with skirts of cashmere to match in hue, pleated
right down, and, in size, shape, and symmetry,
exactly like a good-sized diving-bell. Whether
this extreme display of artificial rotundity would
accord with popular ideas of feminine beauty
probably did not trouble the wearers. To be in
the fashion was enough.
* •
There were 350 persons at the School of
Industry ball at heigh House, and though the
room was rather crowded, and the night warm,
the ball was successful, both from a social and a
money point. It is not aa ordinary public ball,
though tickets are Sold ; probably Lady Lofti a
sold more than anyone else did. Its oatroosl meet
for a few hours almost as at a private gathering,
and as all knew one another, few introductionsaru
needed. But aoyone going there without friends
would be apt to feel cold. There appeared to be
no master of ceremonies, and consequently the
opening quadrille, formed of two devious lines
down tho room, was decidedly straggling. Lady
Loftus and Government House party arrived
about 9 o’clock, and soon all the chairs were filled,
the conservatory populated by pairs, and the
corners of the room crowded with onlookers.
Among the company Commodore Erskine,
Col. Richardson, the Mayor and Mayoress of Syd-
ney, several Nelson oilicers, Col. Halkett, Sir
Patrick and Lady Jennings, Messrs. C. Rolleston,
C.M.G.. C. J. Roberts, C.M G., Unwin, R. Bloxsome,
0. Katalo, &c. Rater on. Judge Windeyer. who had
been chairman at|Cerald Massey’s Initial lecture,
appeared; and Misses Lee, from the Opera House,
entered abuu l 11, and filled their programmes ih a
flash. Thirtee.i waltzes were given altogether,
aud when the .ast one struck up as the hall was
clearing, some half-dozen couples only were left
to enjoy that pleasure which finished dancers find
jn one another when they are well matched and
have plenty of room. Miss Jennie Lee was be-
sieged by a party of suitors, but the wily Private
Secretaiy was the favoured one, and the Nelson
warriors were left lamenting. Although the floor
was thickly occupied during the evening, most of
the dancers were good, some exceedingly so, and
only a lew ladieo wore trains, so, with a little
st. ering skill aud patience, it was pirasaut enough
Sliding round t > the well marked music. Of tue
resses, ballet skirts were seen here and there, but
the great feature was the Dumber of waterfall
backs, which »re so peculiarly graceful on good
dancers, and such tell-tales of inelegance on bad
ones. As the lair we rers floated round in a
whirl of soft rustling fabrics and dainty colours,
the toilettes which were really most beautiful
were so, in nearly e>ery case, not so much
for rionness hh for grace of outline and
Simplicity of style. Two among ihom were
consul u >us beyond all: extra roiusry in colour,
and yet in good taaie—in both cases admirab y
arranged to suit tne physique of the wearer, and
tbereir lay tneir success. Tue flrs f arrested ntteu-
tiou as tho tall and stylish wearer, Miss Constable,
entered on the am of Col. l-iaikett. It consisted
of sleeveless satin bodice, cut low, skirtof flou- ced
pet. and gloves to match—all of Havan.ah brown.
There was no attempt at richness in this unique
toilette; Its charm was in the effect— and in its har-
mony with the warm blonde complexion of the
lady, whose hair, dressed ala Langtry, is of that
unusually pretty tint known as true aub rn. The
ether reinurkaole toilette was entirely of the
brightest snado of raspberry rod, worn by Mis 3
K.vngdon. The fine broche bodice well fitted a
petite form, and tne skirt of cnenille-dotted net
was made very bouffant, and flounced-gloves
matched. There was rnuph charm in the brilliant
costume and its ever vivacious wearer. Some were
not so tasteful, indulg ng in a richness of dress,
which, though it cost theta more, became them
less. A satin of the now nearly obsolete crusheu
strawberry, and sever, ! cardinals, seemed garish
brought into contact with the tlegant white aud
creamy fabrics worn by some of Sydney's fairest
belles. Mis - Rolleston wore a lov&ly white net
postpone in small flounces, with waterfall back,
and large white pompons dangling from the
basque bodice. One young lady wore a moat pecu-
liar dress; it was white satin, and the skirt was
on- m ibs of smajljf rills from waist to hem—there
must have been thirty or fopty of them; other-
wise, the dress wa> plain, and had an innocent
look. Miss Moore wore a broche of gamboge tint,
edged with (icelle lace, which gave the dress a
subdued appearance, A cognate colour was
chosen by Mrs. Moriarty, only it was brilliant and
lovely. It was amber op buttercup broche of the
richest sheen, with semi-sleeves of Jace, and the
small sunflowers in her dark hair were in admir-
able keeping. Mrs. Want wore a handsome black
dress, and the Misses Roberts, one a cream c<s-
tume, and the other a pretty white decked with
buttercup flowers. Almost all the jeunesM, or
dancing portion of the oompany, it. may be noted,
wore low dresses and sleeveless, while the mater-
nal contingent wore da ker dresses and more
of them. Miss Jennie Lee wore black satin,
with immense bust bouquet of orange-coloured
roses, and deep cream gloves reachi g nearly
to the shoulder. Miss Ada Lee also made
choioe of blaok costume, a broche satin beaded,
and lonv suede gloves. Lady Jennings displayed a
charming cream broche dress trimmed with lace,
and richly bordered with gim;>> embroidery. Two
bright-faced sisters, well-known Potts’ Point way,
were gracefully dieased; one in white silk, the
younger in a fairylike toilet of finest white tulle,
decked with golden roses. “ Stepping a measure ”
with the Commodore, a tall, dark lady displayed a
magnificent buttercup broche with train, andjthe
Skirt castellated at tho bottom with small tabs, a
spray of autumn-tinted leaves on the breast; an
extremely elegant toilette. Miss Brennan's dress
was ottoman cord of coral pink, the lower part
only being draped with delicate flowered Jace.
rrom the rich black duchesse satin of Mrs. W.
Cooper gleamed what Wilkie Collins has called “a
bright emphasis of diamonds,” this scintillating
suite of gems .Deluding a butterfly on the breast, a
necklace and pendant cross, and stars in the hair,
ine Misses Hill were in white satin, and in blue
satin aud tulle, respectively. Miss Windevei's was
a really delicious costume of corded silk, a delicate
Pink colour, fresh and crisp-looking, and edged
with ruching of frayed satin to match, and alto-
gether a dainty creation. Miss Benjamin wore
light blue broche and white lace, bodioe trimmed
with ostrich feathers; and Mrs. Moodie, a black
*&tio relieved with white plumes on tne shoul-
defs uwd corsage, with tapl.al effect, Mis. J.hu
Hardie, the Mayoress, wore an exceedingly fine
T V n e mH et ’ Q 'T ith d6uPcad front of ficelle lace
miss Lamb, a low black dress trimmed with lace
beadinir; Miss George was inos
pr ®"7 1 0r ? a ™ and fiowers. A fine dress worn by
a matronly lady was of that unoertain fawn shad*
known as decayed fruit ” Mrs. John Smith en
livened her sornbretmette with a trailing of whit*
a 2 d Miss Gore wore a flowing dress
of white sitin and tulle studded withhold medal-
,loJnkl[>* particularly pretty. A fair lady
we 1 ? 1 ?? been ludulging in a study of
Whistler, her dr*ss being of a most delicate - hrome
with fiowers exactly the same
H^?=o her iu! ouq i lf i t WttB a,B ° a Perfect match to the
M fta| amons wore white satin bodice
beaded, and a net waterfall skirt of which the
front flounces were edged with rows of riband
Mrs. Chipinan wore rich ruby velcet, with pink
* PU ,? B , n P ll nhoulderß. Few would
dkP’Jtctbat Miss M’Farlane, ot St. Leonards, was
bodice!*? °a th ?r,^ all; her toilet was w bite satin
.T* d i ceed ? ed with doWn, and spotted tulle water fall
Skirt. A bright bird s win* resting- on the hair Was
??? ° u ° fi“«b ot colour that by force of contrast
threw out the faultftws simplicity and taste of the
pure white dress. Numbers or other tine dresses
were seen, whose wearers carried them away be-
Indeed, the ball was over at, a re-
markably early hour, the lights being out by nalf-
P!?!* Com Pftgrionl Go. catered the daint, es
«n d «i C^ a * mp ,S wne Cl,p ia 'b tir usual g rod style.
Hpecial trafflo arrangements were made for com-
fort and salety.
• ■ •
On Tuesday afternoon, the 12st instant
Lohort,” Glenmore-road, Paddington, was the
yfif. a very pretty aDd fashionable wedding.
ri ,fi e ' Mtes Sarah, who is the youngest daugb-
ter of the late Rev. W. Ridley, M.A., then con-
sentedto ohango—-No, that’s lust what she didn’t
2,?* I*s are 80 us ?'„ l to commencing in this style.)
A*® bridegroom, Mr. Frederic John Nicholas, is
the eldest son of Mr. Samuel Ridley, lormerly of
Brisbane, and a second cousin of the bride. Family
guests to the nUmbBr of twenty sat down to a
sumptuous dejeuner, and after the usual toasts
were proposed and responded to, the happy couple
drove off amidst showers of ric3 and old s-foes. In
the evening, the company was augmented by a
large circle ot friends, who kept up the dancu till
an early hour. The presents to the bride were
both numerous and costly.
SLIAS LAYCOCK.—(See page 12.)
There were two fine balls at Corov.M in the show
time, when visitors came from all parts by rail
and road Mrs. Coyle was the belle of both the
" al “- ,/ 8 * ,{ n ln i lookcd charming. Miss LUti
ttotton (from Sydney), and her cousin Miss Lilli
Smith (from Melbourne), were both great acouis
tions to the room. Miss Gill looked angelic in pur
white. Miss Edols was dressed in all the colours o
the.rainbow. But the chief colours of dress wer
cream and white. The dancing of Mrs. Bahni an
h»r brother was very much admired ; while
?!^ ar^-?!.^ourie 'j Bf *i latter was 80 enraptured wit 1
the abilities and charms of a Melbourne lady tha
the popular; conundrum since, has been did h
dance thirteen times with her, or was only on 3
danoe lasting four hours ? At any rate, the b'u
cloud ever sailinsr roun 1 the room betokened 011 c
ot the best dancers of the ball.
** » #
On the Bth '•'optember, the annual reuniot
ot the Permanout Way branch of the Railway
takes place down the harbour, and in ibe eveuiug
a ball will be held in the Exhibition, a pleasan
and hearty affair, for sure— A correspondent de
tails to us how certain folks attract an audience t<
a charity concert, and then give themselves anc
the performers a little dance out of the proceed®
This is very naughty ...The Duke of Edinburgh
Highlander s celebrated their 16th anniversary bv a
dinner in the Protestant Hall, provided by Cripps
Lapt. Chisholm was chairman, and soDgs and toasts
were given.. A banquet in the Town Hall at the
end of August will welcome Sir Henry back
Despite inclement weather, about thirty coupies
attended the Xumut Quadrille Assembly ball.
The belle wore navy blue trimmed with silver.
A young lady from Adelong looked winnimr in
pir iu’^ nd wearing of a cream toilette decked
with blue bows received adoration. Dancing till
5 o clock.. Cairns bachelors gave a ball at the
residence of one of them lately. His name is
w nn 8h l ould be Hooked ... At the receDt Mayor’s
ball, Brisbane, Miss Janie Harper, of Parramatta
was much admired for her graceful dancing!
and her tasty cardinal satin and lace toilette
a concc, rt was given for Cobar
Hospital, which netted about £a. r > Only one lady
appeared. Ihe Cobar brass band pave selections,
which, belt g short, were satisfactory One gentle
man sang- ‘‘Happy Moments,” who did not feel
them, and it was hard to say whether he or his
hearers were most pleased when he had finished.
Mayor BaD f, “w 1 had but eighteen pence,”
and Mr. C. Vautinswas a good performance
? r ® makln » some trophies for the
looal flowing Club, whose winners will compote
w.f the ™i th n- tT, ?P h ‘ es - »>ot the ladles) on 30th
aept....The Birmingham Club onened at 201 Pitt-
fnT^™olhurBd^~ 1V ! r ’ Sale, Ichairman. Songs
s)Tt^ip OlfaS0 n ewB b ® p ? d the evening: to pass plea-
. Drapers Association Held a pleasant
«hi bt f B d^ nce 1(1 Tattersall s last week, Nvith the
Th I'ni*' mutual friendliness....
1 Thw ..V ,a v^ 1 n OCCUr p arly in September
....Last rtaurgday, Mr. Correy’s new pavilion was
opened at» abarita Point, Parramatta River Hi
friends banqueted him on the occasion, when
dancing and other pastimes spun out the day .
iii. GosneJl was prescntised a few days airo by hii
on leaving Pi ince, Ogg and Co
An d ‘ odd /* n business as auctioneers ..
An amateur concert organised at Bathurst for the
hosmta! by Messrs. W. H. <uttor and H. Sievert
reaUsed the large profit of £9l .. Tbe Oddfellows
Lodge, Uralln, celebrated their I‘Jth anniversarv
Han he Ahnn?(tf?e 'T ith a ba , U in tho Temperance
M.fh/ * At V°, ut Cl . )uple S circulated until after .lay-
fight, to tbe strains of the singleton band. Two
well-known sisters—one in black and pink, the
other in blue and white-as also a young ladv in
white satin, did credit to tho town. Two blondes
m ai hi U>r t ron > 1 and Kentucky respectively!
adm red m/ y hite . fiat ‘ n ' wor c a'so much
admired....On Monday night, a pleasant Dartv
gathered at the house of Mrs. Marks, Darlinghurst-
road, to speed with good wishes Mr. S. Htftfnung
home again. And a children’s party was held on
hJ 1 ® llowln <f evening — Next Saturday (2ird m-
wan„' £ complimentary picnic is being given to
K* • £•, Prln( '?’ a J Clontarf, by his friends, prior to
tis tak iDg the fatal leap. Mr. Prince’s weddimr
nnd h iB9 Stubbs tak ? B blace on the 3rd September
and a very grand ball will mark the event at
Kahng, Wooiiahra, the residence of Mr. W.liiam
tho^'«'r blcb boaBts one of tho finest ballrooms in
the colony A sociable party was g.von by Mrs
l reernan in the.Glebo Town Hall, on Friday, when
tdfabouMOi m JOy Th 8 ? od . muBic and one another
tut about <5 a.m last meeting of the Bache-
n°rott^ SS t e, i nbly a N , itbsdale . was an excellent one-
pretty girls and dresses abounded. Mr.
C.M ti., and Mrs. Roberts were present, and a flow
ot champagne marked the visit of the vice-presi-
bv the v mb r • A rand “ask ball, got up
™ iss* Kte
uumssking’ut'TicPci “ck** Austraba ’
ad no characters at all, notably a young mau who
was found with his hands in other peoule’s pockets.
At the invitation of a policeman, he passed the
rest of the night in a less cheerful scene
He said it was a cruel ce11... Anion* the com-
V'g balls to be held at Melbourne are the
Pernside Bicycle ball on the ,‘}tith August •
one given by the Melbourne c lub, with the pn-
mise of the Governor’s presence ; the Victoria
Yacht Club ball on the 2sth August, to about 800
guests; and a return bail to the Mayor on the dth
September.... St. David’s Private School gave a
musioal festival in the schoolroom. Surry Hills, to
a grand audience ; G. Withers, M P., chairman
Programme was in two parts, Miss Evans accom-
panist. Mrs. Field, Misses Coombes, N. Hodgkin-
son, E. Collins, Chanman, and Hegarty performed.
a piece titled •• Fairy Tempter," and a chorus
“ Buy my violets," each sieger holding out a
fragrant bunch at the words, were specially pretty.
Several rec tations also pleased the audience, and
a comic song by Mr. Money sent them away in a
very risible humour.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“J.W.”: Too stale this week “An On-looker”;
Memo, too vague....“J.D.H.”: thanks, obliged
to shorten a little ... “ W.S.”: You are not very
imaginative.... “ Stella”: Yes-tella it’s noted..
“A. 8.": Certainly not—you do not even tell us
where it took place.
.. Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—One of the events of last
week was the Lledertafel concert, whieh was held
Si? 1 ® old Exhibition buildiog. So great a demand
was there tor extra tickets, that people were offer
ing twenty-five xhiUings each for them the day
before the concert, and, extensive as the building
, A was laterally packed, even before eight
o clock. Now, I wonder how many tbtffe were
amongst the thousands of people there who went
because it was fashionable, and how many for the
sake of the music alone? The Governor and
Lady Loftuswere there-part of the time, at least •
dhdnclv‘A* waB , in his best voice, and sang
tio V n of y t h o N drT^lfBflrf 8 flr fo C ! o^ t /^ PeCt a l r« descr/p-
-better ihanifbut'W'wSeJ? ffist T h £ d >
publicly demonstrate our feminine
Of course you will have heard that Lad vf oft
Si=£‘«‘Sls
ST/eAff sS
tooAi utffl to Aope* for, G I f eaif 6 *jk: nd wEUst^™
t h al? t he 6 Ft i ta- Bade HIT 1 Am e ert°
the old Masonic Hall to-morroVweek an.P^, 111
hearing the flautist of the world if thPy
chance. But, nous verrons. J miBS thls
t,our h „T Yt,.™
»“ 8 ? olal otMmeothS
i u n T4bJ;ftfc& 0 u To?o?, , fhfe 6o Y?i'j rt M IrJ 1 rJ
tWldlS t Sb“ U JS?SYb/6o e p?liUOT 0 D , “ os ‘^
their published lists of those attend mPA^ pers in
| , o lt ok''you n ßelle S °i n fe C e 1 | fpr
try so hard not to look bored (and often kA
>'»“• wll be Governors' ii“SKSS'j b o u *'
JKf&KS IYST.TS
..^Ju 1 ‘ZTe AoSSt! "
-an ar'icle ol Quin', l UinMi?K? i, h l ’!
even "blanketing cln beVade toAoorbeautmfl 1
iiT^ngUind^Thertl
were many other guests hut Mio fhere
the most distinguished. Now theArn™ A rcy was
£^rr , " , ;- |r °" n 8 ™i"« -•Sofft&S'iTS
here for tea-gowns. Ho the ladies atrninoaAL 1 ., 18
nerve to eclipse each other in the of r hii y
morning toilettes They tried eASS. «i.£ A l P ei *
theyahought there woufd bo anvftreshgmsm’ it
the breakiast-taOle-gentlemen e,7. A 5 Y eBtB at
Well, one night the hostesT received » o i/ neau-
from her handsome son saying he woufd
quite early in the morniug-m fact in
breaklast; So you can justimagine ailwas AxciA
meet amongst the girls. VV hat should Vhf eXLUe *
jsrta? sunrhr ,r*" a“ «»*”*«;
»»v “ i ss ?■? sii ri b pg.“fc, bistx;
au heiress answereu time, it would have hAn
shocking; but a beautilui heiress can do iuiv
thing however singular in taste-with impimiti'
£5O these good powplo conveniently forgot ,AA
shocked, and, indeed, they weie *,v«n 2..., L( i
what they thought was mAs b’Arov’s t.A ua * d ut
of implymg that she intend..d to brfaklaA mTIA
tno next morning, auq the> oougratuiated th. m
selves, too, in in- thought that iney wouid m,, A
of the presence ot so dangerous a rival. Hut win t
was their dismay —mil unmixea with «Hn,, . • ttt
when this eccentric beauty walked &to £k*
last-room lumviug moie charming than AvelAfA
costume ol tue whitest. Ueeoiest, anu finest hnf.
keting you can imagine. The coauet AhPb .
pagne Uiariie-iike j, eaet was boiutreAwUh U » U "
crimson stripes, and the sleeves likuwteeAH.Vn,, he
ot crimson ribbon were at tho throat an J?A d bows
front of the skirt. It doesntgoonAsavw hAh A
LUO Oianket cosiumeu beilo
handsome sou or not, but we will suppAsf shA
It is so much moro romantic v.,.i ne , fJ id.
What reminded me of all ims was in AAhTL’ dear-
the Parisian fashions 1 saw that the nicest hous| r
jackets wore being made.of derm tie orn n A YAA
ketmg trunniL d wim either the red or blue string
or with cascades of creamy lace. How defmmA? 8
2SS* lhoy be " ,r W«s
match between the Oxford and t amhridAf tt° .°
versities, a lady was seen with a real litwlfAwA"
her parasol! Many were the speculatfons T
whether it was glued on or not - andAVthA 8 i aB , to
had real butterflies adorning thelfbonneta and
parasols. Now, when we were sitting iJ? aud
Rummer house one day last summer KduifshAmP
awfully when a lizard ran acrow the seat an d AA
II warrant if she were convinced it were asiuAn’
able to wear the pretty creatures for ornlitw?** °P’
would forget hevfears. Its Just wonder
we will go through for tho safe of Dame f pi ß m hat
I don't like this craze tor iuseJt or laments a AA
not even when they are made of preciAm bt(
like those worn by a lady on the sAne OAeasAAA. 8 ’
tho one at which was figured the live li/ard Tho
latest novelty in dresses is the “ note of mterrnA-
tion” costume. ‘ Little crooked th -m S
ask questions,” primed or embroidered on ch
or satinette, are superseding the hearts s AAa ton
clubs, and diamonds with which the ’su J? de8 ’
Parisian dresses have been so tnimh st summer
lately. The fashion is coAainly an odd B Pn Dkle( J
not a little suggestive. odd one > and
One of iny London correspondents folio .
our beautiful Princess ot Wales is A*? m ° that
driving through Hyde Park, lust like anl P - Been
gentle woman, unattended by anyone sAviiP ivate
rather plan-looking daughters The Ki herowtl
still sweetly prettyf but a look' of slttfcte 88 ia
tinges her countenance, which, however msAA 8
her look even more Interesting. The slrne
scribe goes on to say that English ladies nAP 1 ttJe
attention to their children’s toiieApAfh Pay i tll i )ro
here. There is not the same teudeuov re lad A B
little men of their boys as soon as they are oK?
the nursery, by clothing them in vouihß iA uAA
and long trousers. They have them . kets
msthetic suits, dla Grosvenor and ifiAea 6 Bfed m
sometimes they are seen itf the Picturesque Dmi rfAn
costume, Then, when thev are in thli* au|J
Eton jacket and AoAsers are cor sTdAAA 8 ’ t,IH
manly enough until i he precious da-lK are min®
ass »
SffiJS yeSiSlSPfiS o^*
{•c» nd th . e bem ; short basque
beautiful dark prten velvet. Round hW V! m °i
Bb ®'J , ore an old gold-lice ruffling stud<fed l) hP at
and th- re with diamond brooches fw ere thev AA®
I wonder ?), and 1 tell you she looked lovely y al '
Ever yours,
MAD.


Williams’ Yeast .Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are Bick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. ....
If you are comparatively well, but ieei
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
toeing by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Buttering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach er bpwels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.*
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siekness or suffering or doo*
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNervousMen
Woman Items.
Miss Dawes, of London University, is the
iirst lady M.A. in England.
They were sitting on the sofa in their
drawing-room, conversing in a low, tremulous
tone. They had only been married a short time.
He seized her hand and said, with a voice lull of
emotion, “ Birdie, do you know that it was your
innate modesty, your apparent lndifl'erence, that
ma ie me resolve to win you atall hazards ?” ‘ Yes,
George, the apparent-indifforence game is what
captured you. You are the first one I triod it on.
1 lost three or four eligible young men by gushing
over them too much, before it occurred to me to
change my tactics. I wish it had occurred to me
sooner;” and she sighed heavily.
Miss Muller, one of the leading English
advocates of Woman-Suffrage, who is a member
of the London School Board, refuses to pay taxes
on the ground that, havings no vote, she is not
morally bound to contribute to the revenue. So
her goods were the other day levied upon Dy the
bailiff, and, after the ceremony had been gone
through, a feminine indignation meeting was, with
true feminine incapacity for humour, held in Miss
Muller’s temporarily dismantled rooms. It was
addressed by Miss Babb, Miss Briggs, and Miss
Todd. Miss Babb gave a magnificent specimen or
inconsequence. Bhe stated that she had allowed
her things to be seized in 1871, and had continued
the process ever since, except for one year. Her
heroic conduct is unknown to fame aud without
effect upon legislation, yet she anticipates that the
seizure of Miss Muller’s “ things ” will be the
beginning of a great movement throughout Eng-
land. Another lady had followed her example,
but after a time she married-whioh painful back-
sliding would naturally put a stop to hostile opera-
tions against the Government. Miss Todd thought
that the question could not be presented in too
great a variety of ways, and that this of having
one’s escritoire seized is a very effectual mode.
Woman’s emotions have much to answer
for. Women are just as honest as men, and a deal
more amiable, as far as intentions go, but yet the
fact remains that owing to some peculiarity in
their nervous systems, women are—not to put too
fine a point upon it—untameable romancers. The
absolute incapacity of the sex for repeating a
story j ist as it reached them is a matter of every-
day observation. A woman will unquestionably
exaggerate the merest nothing which has scared
her ; not from any wilful desire to pervert, but
because her imagination is stronger than eirher
her morals or her intellect. All women are not
liars, but there is a something constitutionally in-
herent in them that prevents them making exact
statements of fact; nor does the sad-eyed youth
require to be told that, in her protestations of feel-
ing, a woman can be as false as an epitaph. In-
surance offices have been known to decline taking
them as risks, from the impossibility of getting at
the exact truth regarding the insuree’s age, state
of health, mode of life, &c. For similar reasons,
some financiers have refused to lend the false sex
money. Lawyers know perfectly well that a
woman will break her oath as easily as a biscuit-
slmply because she is too emotional to be exact,
and her statements are inevitably governed by her
imagination. Only very young people are inno-
cent enough to faithfully accept what a woman
tells them, without making considerable deduc-
tions for ** windage.”
N« romanoe is stranger than this brief
nage of history. When toe Tweed ring ruled
supreme in New York, the youngest daughter of
Boss Tweed had a superb marriage, her bridal
gifts alone totting to over £35,000. The costliest
present of all was given by Thomas Fields, a king
of the ring whose wife that night in her dazzling
beauty and queenly mien eclipsed every woman
in the magnificent and diamond-decked assembly.
That is scene the first. The Tweed ring broke;
Fields, no longer a financial king, fled from the
law into the wilds of Canada, and with him a
notorious courtesan. His deserted wife took to
drink. The dresses and jewels she had secreted
found their way into pawn; and in two years, the
magnificent queen of the Fields mansion became a
common drunkard and a street tramp. One
winter’s night, when sleet and hail drove citizens
to their homes, a vagrant in a thin calioo dress was
seen Dy a policeman to drop down in the freezing
slush of the street. Next day, scene two closed
with the burial of Mrs. Thomas Fields in a pauper s
grave When Fields deserted his wife, he had
Dittoed their daughter, then eight years old, in a
convent But the money for her education ceased
to come, and she had to leave. Unable to obtain
employment in New York, her few dollars melted
awav. and she was turned out of lodgings in the
city to starve. Standing faint and shivering in the
verv street where her mother had fallen, the girl,
born in a palaoo and reared in luxury, took her
haggard beauty to the police station and begged
to be taken in, to save her virtue and her life. The
entry in the police-sheet told the closing scene of
this romance of New York.
Of the numberless vagaries of fashion, the
last is the most daring of all. What think you of
a woman displaying in everyday life, and in broad
daylight, those particular charms whioh have
hitherto been seen only above the satin bodice, in
the warm, mellowed light of the glittering ball-
room? Yet this is the culmination that female
vanity has reached. Of oourse, the fashion will
never be universal, for few women have the
SBlendid marble skin, the faultless bust and arms,
that would be necessary for good effect in the
glare of daylight. But those who are favoured in
this respect hail with joy a change where the aegis
of fashion (under whose protection society can do
nothing immoral) is thrown over a habit whose
voluptuous indecency would, in any other circum-
stances, be almost illegally bold The last innova-
tion in dress, or rather undress, consists of a bodice
exaotly resembling in shape the usually unseen
corset, only instead of being worn inside the dress,
it is the dress itself, leaving shoulders, arms, and
chest quite bare. In the street, a small mantle is
worn, and long gloves on the arms come up to
meet it at the elbow, but on entering a house the
mantle is discarded, and then its wearer enjoys her
triumph. The mantle is made of sealskin, or some
exceedingly heavy fabric—for, if it were not
ostensibly very warm, there would be no excuse
for throwing it off. For matinees morning visits,
and similar occasions, the corset-eum-mantle ar-
rangement is already in great vogue, and the
ladies with the most sculptured figures are the
delight of the men, and the envy and despair of
their less favoured sisters, who are distanced
under such severe conditions in the race of beauty.
An observant lady says:—“The women of
New York are not beautilul. Their pale, sallow
complexion and too slight figures forbid the idea.
But they are redeemed by their matchless style.
It is astonishing how rare absolute beauty is. I
saw flocks of pretty girls -pretty with the heauti
da Diable— but not one beautiful woman, that is,
of beauty peerless and unquestioned, like Adelaide
Neilson or Alice Dunning.” Now. we have met
several people who have spoken of Alice Dunning
Lingard as their nearest ideal of womanly physi-
cal perfection. And, us “ Betsy 8.,” of the
Argonaut, has just been comparing these two
women with Mrs. Langtry, we will quote her too:
—“ We have regarded Alice Lingard and Adelaide
Neilson as the two peerless beauties of the stage.
Alice is a woman of superb physique, with a cast
of countenance not intellectual, and yet far be-
yond the reproach of mere prettiness; a magnifl-
cent carriage and an infinite amount of dash.
Adelaide Neilson was peerlessly, radiantly, di-
vinely beautiful. There was grace ineffable in the
long sweep of her linos; richness of colour in the
warm, pale olive of her skin; the blaze of all the
passions in the dark of her gipsy eyes, set off by
the feathery frame of her curling red-brown hair.
There was a wealth of expression in the curves of
her full red lips, and merriment in the flash of her
white, white teeth. Her voice was sweet, and
passion-freighted. No one who ever saw this
matchless creature fairly shining with beauty,
will foriret the picture. Yet both these women
were of common clay. The one is said to have
risen from the slums of London; the other from
the fens of Northumberland.” And the Lily?
Well, Mrs. Langtry is briefly described as “ a good-
looking stick.”
The Mayor of Coventry has made a pre-
sentation of a beautifully illuminated address to
Miss Maude Forrester, the beautiful actress, who
personated the character of Lady Godiva in the
pageant last year. As the costume of the charac-
MAUDE FORRESTER.
ter Is described as having chiefly consisted of a be-
coraincr smil© and a timid ulush, it would hav©
been more appropriate to present Miss I orrester
with a dress than an address.
'£ TF)e hwz2-Saw
Turin log - ?
/erpap does not
it i£ •
Jtreserytly
w&y Wit|7 er J
ip be cay find tr 9) & a y%
to him&elf.' n the blaca rd 09 //?£ ,
Tpusf W Md »bt trutj, -o.^a\U
Mr. John Hayes, of Doon, Ireland, didn’t
exactly fall In love; but a little while ago it oc-
curred to him that it would be a good thing to
marry the daughter of the Widow Ryan, of Temple-
derry, for to that young lady was attached a mar-
riage portion of £350. So he went to the widow’s
house on the evening of 7th March, and an agree-
ment was entered into that he should marry Miss
Ryan on the following Sunday. In the interim,
John obtained from the widow a loan of £5O to
cover the marriage expenses; but when the guests
were assembled for the wedding breakfast, and
the expected bridegroom arrived, he quarrelled
about the money, broke off the match, and left
suddenly. There were the bride-expectant, the
liriest, and the wedding breakfast, but these ad-
unots to matrimony were all useless without the
"broth of a bhoy” who had been expected to
“hitoh up.” However, the deep sympathy and
high indignation felt by the wedding guests did
not deprive those practical people of their appe-
tites, for they sat down to eat what should have
been a wedding breakfast, and oonsumed, among
other things, sixteen gallons of whisky in their
endeavours to dissipate the gloom which hung like
a pall over this most melancholy meal. Miss
Ryan's mother demanded from John (who had
meanwhile married another girl with more money)
a refund of the borrowed £5O. It was too absurd
to pay a man £5O for jilting ner'daughter; but
with almost inoredible meanness Mr. Hayes would
only return £l9, a leging thst the balance of £3l
had bee i spent in entertaining his would-be
brother-in-law and her friends. The widow took
an action and recovered tne £3l swallowed when
tne marriage-feast of her daughter had been
turned into a " wake ” held over that young lady's
dead hopes. These proceedings, though perhaps
almost unique, .ecall an enteriainment held some
years ago in Melbourne. A man who had frac-
tured his s ull was admitted to the Aifre . hospi-
tal, where he lay lor days, unconsci us. The
injuries .ere so extensive that the doctors co •
s dere<» he had no earthly chance of recovery—and
so sure was the house-surgeon about the matter,
that he, before leaving the hospital one day, wrote
out a certificate of death, a>d left it with the hos-
pital clerk io caso the patient should die during n s
a senoe. Wh n the patient entered the institution
he had on his pers< n £3O odd, of which the frenda
who brought him took possession; but these goou
people were so full of sorrow that hey could not
refrain from trying to drown it in a sort of antici-
patory wake, during the course of which all the
money wi s expended. The writer was in the
County Court when the m m with the brosen skull,
who. aftc all, had completely recovered, obtained
a verdict for the £3O against hi relatives, who
could only plead that *‘tuey thought he was de <d,
and know he had left them the money in his will.”
An article in the World, on -the Health
Exhibition, is signed by the ill-omened initials
“C.D.”
Two Parisian sausage dealers occupy ad-
joining shops. One has painted on hw
over a pyramid of sausages, At 30 owtimes a
pound—to pay more is to be robbed. The other
puts his sausages into an obelisk, and paints above
it, “At 40 centimes a pound—to pay less is to be
poisoned.’’
Rev. A. H. Stanton, in preaching to a
London West End congregation told them it was
absurd for them to say they wished forthe coming
of Christ. If he came on earth.they would ha\e
nothing to do with Him, and would say Way, he
is not a gentleman; He is merely a labourer s son
and we know all His people.”
They were two members of the staff, and
had agreed to stop at home for a quiet evening
and do a lot of work. But to commence a quiet
evening meant for one a visit to the Boyal, and,
for the other, a “look in at the Opera i?nnthe
Then they returned, and one threw S,®
sofa, and the other in a chair. How about work?
‘‘Ahl** “ Are you sober ? No. So am i.
“ i’ll take you al' into custody if you don’t
stop that howlin’ and pushin’,” said a poikmimn
to a tumultuous group of hangers-on at the back
entrance of a theatre: “what are you doing?
“ We’re rehearsing,” explained the leader of the
pang. “ Rehearsing for what?’ Well, th ®Al'l
star begins her engagement next. Monday, andl the
manager has asked us to play the excited multi-
tude storming the tioket office.
Two Staffordshire potters have been hauled
up for “ burlesquing the Salvation Array. De-
fendants had followed “ General "Booth s proces-
sion with a donkey, dressed in a black cloak and a
Salvation bonnet. On one side of the cloak was
labelled “ Salvation Jennie, and on the other side
“ Hallelujah Ass.” They also dressed up a bull-
dog with a Salvation bonnet and jersey, the latter
bearing the motto of the Army, Blood and Fire.
Had we defended this case, we should have urged
that the offence amounted to one merely of imita-
tion, not of burlesque.
At a London Police Court, the other day, a
prisoner, on being 1 asked if be bad any witnesses to
call, said, “Only God Almighty!” This wasn t aa
original remark, for many years ago a lunatic, who
declared in Court that he was sane, when asked
whether he had any friend who would go surety
for him, said he had only one friend in the world.
The magistrate asked his address. The prisoner:
“ Ho is Divine Providence, and his address is any-
where or every w here.” The magistrate was slightly
taken aback, but, wishing to conciliate the patient,
remarked, “Yes; but, you see, for the purpose ot
bail we must have some more settled residence.
Stellmicher, an Austrian dynamitard,
under sentence ot death, tried to get bombs smug-
gled into bis cell. It was his intention to apply for
a fresh trial, at which he would reveal important
facts concerning the organisation or the anarchist
conspiracy as well as tne manufacture of explo-
sives; but he would stipulate that, at this trial,
besides the examining judge, the President of the
Tribunal, the Director of Police, and the Ambas
sador of Germany should be present as witnesses,
as he would only make his revelations in the pre-
sence of these persons. Then as soon as all should
be assembled, ne would propose the alternative
that ho should bo liberated at once or that he
would throw the bombs, so that no one should
escape altv .
The English dootors are at hopeless vari-
ance as to the treatment of oholera. One school
swears by opium In large doses, another recom-
mends small doses, and only carried to a certain
point, while a third protests against narcotics in
any form. There is a precisely similar difference
in regard to stimulants. As to other drugs, it
seems as if every doctor of eminence had his own
treatment. Again, some advise ice-water and
solid ice ad libitum ; others are equally strong
against it. One gentleman injects fourteen ounces
of milk into a vein; another says “a copious imbi-
bition of cold water will suffice for the cure of
most curable diseasee.” One French doctor ap-
pears to have cured many cases right off by mak-
ing the patients inhale oxygen.
“How has Adolphus been to-day, deah? ”
asked one of the bloodiest-blooded aristocrats of
Darling Point, a# he leaned back in his elegantly-
carved dining-room chair, and cleaned his nails
with the fish-knife. “ Bettah, Chawles,” replied
his queenly spouse, as she squashed a fly on her
arm with a napkin; “ but, do you know, deah, that
common fellah, Dr. Blunt, had the impertinence
to say Adolphus had the mumps, just the same as
if he was the child of one of those horrid working
people, S ' I ordered him out at once and sent for
Dr. Theodore Toph, and he at once declared that
the pooah child was suffering from acute inflam-
mation of the salivary glands. Mumpsl The very
ideah makes me smile. As if a child of Pauline de
APCloskey could evah catch anything so dread-
fully low and vulgah! Try a little moah of this
mutting, Chawles ? ”
A certain Mayor of some town in the
•“ back blocks” put up at a bush inn while travel-
ling, and urot very much gone on one of the Hebes
of the house. It got to such lengths that in the
end they eloped He took her to reside in a suburb
of his mayoral town, and was lavish in his expen-
diture in regard to her. But what troubled him
was that, however much he gave her, she never
seemed to have any money. One day, while on
the way to perform his municipal duties* he ran
bang against the landlord of the inn. Much
abashed, he humbly apologised to the worthy man
tor absconding with his barmaid. “Oh, it don’t
matter,’’said the man, laughing; “she’s my neice,
and when we knowed you was a-comin’ we had
her sent up on purpose. We ain’t lost nothin’by
it, bless you I She sent all the money homo. I’m
come to take her back to-day. I bear no malice.
Good mornin’ 1” And he sniggered softly away.
At the recent Temperance Celebration
hold in West Maitland, Parson Stead injured a
good story in the telling of it in a most heart-
less way. He said “he did not intend to make
the same mistake as Charles Lamb, who, button-
holing his friend, Coleridge, to read some poetry
to him, became so tedious that Coleridge cut off
the button and left Lamb (who had a habit of
closing his eyes) to speak to the air.” And then
the M Maii/signoramus of a reporter quite unne-
cessarily adds that there was “ daughter.” Great
heavens, we should say so! Who could have re-
frained from laughter that witnessed the holy
man making such a fool of himself 'l It was Cole-
ridge who button-holed Lamb beneath a portico
wher? both had taken shelter one wet morning. It
was Lamb who cut off the button; and it was
Lamb who, returning home past the portico in the
afternoon, found Coleridge still there with the
button still in bis hand, preaching away more suo
anent the Infinities. Ordinarily, we don t believe
in the lash as a punishment, yet were a jest-
mangler occasionally triced up to the triangles, no
word of ours would go against the proceeding.
Here is something neat in obituary
notices from a Goulbourn Valley (Vic.) paper:—
“ M’Leav. —On the 21st July, 1884, in Mooroopna,
Victoria, Roderick, son of the late Donald M Leay,
head gamekeeper to the Earl of Cromarty, brother
of Hay M’Leay, head gamekeeper to the Duke ot
Sutherland, Scotland, aged 49 years. Home papers
please oopy.” No high-lalutin style about this, you
see, but Just making the best use of the materials
on hand. The M’Leay family, though a very
ancient and honourable one, could not claim
relationship with “dooks” and * mar kisses, and
such, so they utilised their connection with titled
‘•pussons** with good effect. Son to the head
gamekeeper of the Earl of Cromarty, and brother
to the head gamekeeper of the Duke ot Suther-
land!” What more glory can anyone wish for
than that 1 What safer passport could any man
hand over to Bt. Peter for inspection ? In our own
case we see a rift in the cloud that opens up a
bright future for us. We were filled with gloom
at the thought of having to fee one of Alfred s
mortuary poets to heave out a chunk of funereal
rhyme when we turned up our toes, but, having
the example of the M’Leay family before us, and
knowing that our paternal parent was head bottle-
washer to a C.M.G., and also that a distant relative
was foreman bootblacker to a libel court Judge,
we can now afford to say, O, Death, whereisthy
sting ? O, Grave, where is thy victory t Home
papers please copy.
“ What’s in aname?” Why, there’s a great
deal in a name, and all the logic in the world canit
alter it. This is one of the reasons why such high-
toned appellations are bestowed upon the heroes
and heroines of those richly-flavoured works of
fiction known as “ penny dreadtuls. Can we sup-
pose that anyone would read about Sally Brown
or Tom Jenkins ? but won’t they weep their eyes
out over the love-sick Florence Emeline Mal-
travers, and devour the adventures ot the tall,
ethereal youth, who calls himself Edwin Horatio
Fitzmaurice? And, again, there are names that
cling to us with the tenacity of the proverbial
leeoh, while others drop from our memories like
water off a duck’s back. We are benafitedbyone
and the other, and our hearts and minds being
ever open to such impressions, the name of out
benel'aotor becomes a “household word. _ And it
is because great and lasting benefits have resulted
from the spirit and enterprise of Anthony Hordern
and Bons, of the Palace Emporium, Haymarket,
tbattheir name has become so deservedly popular.


Cleanse the Vitiated Blood
T o CLEANSE the Vitiated Blood of Scrofulous,
Inherited, and Contagious Humors, and thus
remove the most prolific cause of human suffering,
to clear the skin of Disfiguring Blotches, Itching-
Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and Loathsome
gores caused hy Inherited Scrofula, to purify and
beautify th« Skin, and restore the Hair so that no
trace of disease remains, Cuticura ResoliVENt (
the new blood purifier, and Cuticura and Cuti-
ccra Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautifiers,
are infallible.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new blood Puri-
fier, cleanses the blood and perspiration of
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus re-
moves the cause, Cuticura, the great Skin Cure,
instantly allays Itching and Inflammation, clears
the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers and Sores, and re-
stores the Hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Beautifler, prepared from Cuticura, is indis-
pensable in treating Skin diseases, Baby Humors,
Skin Blemishes.
m
M
JAMES E. RICHARDSON, Custom House, New
Orleane, on oath, says:—“ln 1870 Scrofulous
Ulcers broke out on my body until I was a mass of
corruption. Eyerything known to the medical
faculty was tried in vain. I became a mere wreck.
At times could not lift my hands to my head,
could not turn in bed; was in constant pain, and
looked upon life as a curse. No relief or cure in
ten years. In 1880 I heard of the Ccticcra
remedies, used them, and was perfectly cured.”
Sworn to before U.S. Com. J. I). Crawford.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
B. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Consignees.
I HAVE HAD a Ringworm Humor got at the
barber’s, for six years, which spread all over
my ears, face, and neck, and whioh itched and irri-
tated me a great deal. I have used many reme-
dies by adviee of physicians without benefit.
Your CuTictJRA Remedies have entirely cured
me, taking every bit of humor off my face and
leaving it as smooth as a dollar. I thank you again
for the help it has been to me.
GEORGE W. BROWN, Mason.
48 Marshall St., Providence, R.I.
Price: Cutictjra, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents; Re-
soly sl.oo. Prepared by
P rug; and Chemical Co., Boston
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
( HAM PTON & BRUCE.
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENTS FuR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN*
FIE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
Wnown Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
T
and tramway terminus.
Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
w.
i» PALING
AND CO. (Limited).!
(fWIMHB
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERB,
MV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES.
COMP AGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Loading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and KEFKESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the oitv. First-class Menu daily. Booms for Dinner-parties up-.«tairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.mi Coffee in the Bar until 11 pm.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single M atch at .Wanufao
taring Price.
Silver Huntinsr Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with tbe latest improvements,
£:( lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’ SHOTEL,
BWANBTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
SINGER & CO.
PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders. Chrome
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy:
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Addrcss-R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshirc-streot,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
Sowing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among tho Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and ho who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the prculiar fitness of this applicatiou, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS :
TOZER and CO.,
220 CLARENCE STREET.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS,
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECON3MY IN USE OF STATER.
t3S~ LEAST POSSIBLE WEAK OF ROPES.
m
'////A
V////
'/A
///
<///
/2
wm
II
m
//"///777/77?
YL
UL
wwm
■r
r •* i *
■
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. fcT* SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNES3 OF MOTION. lz" FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &e., to be obtained Lt
HUDSON BROTHERS, Recent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


DE
mm
m
Tut) um) ot Ctas valuable mouth wash laaure*
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thiee kinds, distinguished by a
fellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the fellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That witn the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
Sums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
reps in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against iraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, Lond/m.”
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard aaainst fraudulent imitations,
tee that each box heart the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 839 Oxford-ttreet, London."
Madame Bayard, 7 Southampton-street, Strand, writes:—
aiStiffrT ° f health as ?f beauty,, it i* only right to altend to several little things of the toilet; wel?brush the hair;
?r>r»k- to inairin nf in J urloua J' 0 hair which is already too greasy, while it soils the linen of the bed, and gives a dirty
rendered W°lpt <1 bU n freel y y Be I ® c ?Jf'* 1 =* Electric Hair Brush, night and morning, the most stubborn hair can be
rendered smooth and glossy, beautiful, soft, and agreeable, while the Brush will also assist its growth, and remove scurf.
ML SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH.
A
S'
ten»
$
<K
A
<9
4
%
%
%
*
xA
h\
era
I
%
V
An Honest Remedy
PRESCRIBED AND USED BY OUR BEST PHYSICIANS.
Which has won its way to Itoyal favor in England, been cordially indorsed by tbe
Prince and Princess of \\ aies, the King of Holland, and Prince Bismark, and
written upon by the Rt. lion. W. E. Gladstone, is now brought to the notice
of the Australian Public. It cures by natural means, will always do good,
never harm, and is a remedy lasting for many years. It should be used
daily in place of the ordinary liair Brush. The Bru-h Handle is made
of a new odorless composition resembling ebony, a combination of
substances Frcdtcing i Permanent Electromagnetic Current which acts im-
mediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always
be tested uy a silver compass which accompanies each Brush.
m A WIRE BRUSH
But Pure Bristles.
It is Warranted to Cure
Nervous Headache In 5 minutes!
Bilious Headache In 5 minutes!
Neuralgia In 5 minutes! Dandruff
and Diseases of the Scalp! Pre-
vent Falling Hair and Baldness!
Promptly Arrest Premature Cray-
ness! Make the Hair grow Long
and Clossy! The continued use
of Pills, etc., works Irreparable In-
Jury. Ask any Physician.
Will positively produce
a rapid growth of hair
on bald heads, where the
glands and follicles are
not totally destroyed
PROPRIETORS:
The Pall Mall Electric Association.
Saratoga.
“I cheerfully testify to the merits
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Ilalrßrush.
It cures my headaches within a
fewminutes. ItlsanexceUent
Hair Brush, well worth the
price, aside from Its cura-
tive powers.”
Jaa. R. Chapman,
Mayor.
[From
Kev. I)r.
Ilririgeinun.J
Brooklyn.
“Gents: l
have never before given
a testimonial, but am
willing to encourage the use
of an honest remedy. I am
so pleased with your Hair Brush
that I deem It my duty to write
you recommending It most cordial-
ly. My hair, about a year since, com-
menced falling out, and 1 was rapidly be-
coming bald; but since using the Brush a thick
growth of hair has made its appearance, quite
equal to that which I had previous to its falling out. 1
have tried other remedies, but with no success. After this
remarkable result I purchased one for my wife, who has been
a great sufferer from headache, and she finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy. A. C. Bridgeman,l).D.”
ALL DEALERS WILL REFUND THE PRICE
IF NOT AS REPRESENTED
Many thousand similar Testimonials can be seen at our office.
No 1 Hair Brush, 5/-
No. 2 Hair Brush, 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush, 9/6
No. 4 Hair Brush, 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush, 13/6
MENTION THIS PAPER.
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH,
LASTING
FOR YEARS.
We will send by mail, on receipt of the price named, with Is. added, either
size of this beautiful Brush, postpaid to any part of N.S W. or Queensland.
Request your nearest Druygrist or Fancy Store to obtain one for you, and be
sure Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
MONEY RETURNED IF NOT AS REPRESENTED.
As soon as yon receive the Brush, if not well satisfied with your bargain, write us, and we shall return the money’
What can be fairer?
Remittances should be made payable to PALL MALL ELECT2I3 ASSOCIATION. 54 Margaret St., Sydnar. P.O. Box No. 221.
They can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Cheques should be Crossed Union Bank of Australia.
J.iBKRAT, Discount to thk Traps.
Send for a Circular of Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh Brush, Electric Corsets, and Belts for Ladies and Gents.
5. 1 ' i^ho - L3 on PiticE, M.R.C.S., Mount Pleasant, Leeds, writes: — A patient of mine has been using Dr Scott's Electric Hair Ttnmh ahc bavins
me“S TB me that Bhe W received cousideiable beneflt «• I a fe m troubled with nervSS headafhc? ! sKS
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Buy Whole
Bottles.
\'-v
-A.
llt
STAB
4
SH
i
ii
ALL7&C
///*
r
HiP; I': i
ir/iiiH M \
. I*
*sss
SSN!
w
is. ALLT & CO.’S h Win: sis Stitii Siam aid Callus,
5S§?
CHARLOTTE PLAGE,
SYDNEY.
Acents for—
Messrs. TKUMAN, HANEURY, BUXTON k CO.
Brewers, Purton-on-Trent:
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee ;
Messrs. A. 0. MMJKOVV i CO.,
Copriac ;
E. & J. BuftKE a.
“Eight SparKiing TrtDt A e;
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Bordeaux, < larets;
The Due d- Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France:
The Cnarei.to \ ineyard Proprietors, Charente.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood ChamDeis, Wormwood-street, E.C.
A few years ago—it doesu’t matter how
many—a Victorian Judge, who had acquired a cer-
tain amount of notoriety on account of his parsi-
mony, rather than his brilliancy on the judicial
Bench, was on circuit in the Bendigo district
(Vio), when he put up at a leading hotel, the ren-
dezvous of the commercial travellers in »ana-
hurst. Instead, however, of securing private
apartments for his special accommodation, as naa
been customary with his predecessors in the same
line of business, he elected to take the chances ol
the table d'hote, and did so accordingly, it need
hardly be said that the presence of suob a solemn
functionary seated at the same table with accom-
pany of these rollicking “ bag-men, had rather a
depressing effect a id dinner, under the circum-
stances, developed into a very slow affair. His
Honor proved a very wet blanket, indeed, and
though several vigorous efforts had been made to
give a moderately lively, if not absolutely gay,
tone to the proceeding*, yet they only ended in so
many condemned failures. Even the irrepressible
Joe Norris, whose spicy anecdotes were wont to
make the banquet-room ring again with merry
peals of laughter, found himself gradually but
surely wilting undor the funereal influence of the
Judge; the mirthful Mahaffy s best jokes fall flat
as a prosy parson’s “seventeenthly;' thera;i<st
stories of the inventive Holtz failed to raise even
the ghost of a (mile; the liveliest jeu d esprit of
the brilliant Bresnau seemed only to make things
more gloomy; and the vivacity of the playiui
Props! ine got tinged with a sadness that might
be felt. A dismal state of affairs truly, and ore
J i feel v to last for several days, as there was a lengthy
law list to be disposed of, and the Judge appeared
to like his quarters. What was to bo done ? The
landlord was appealed to, but ho could not suggest
any remedy, and the “ boys,” having all the starch
i aken out of t hem, felt about as gay as the average
man when honoured with an extended visit from
bis mother-in-law. Things were at their worst
when Edward Gleeson arrived from Melbourne, and
he, having noticed the prevailing despondency, in
ids usual cheery voice inquired, “ What The devil
i* the matter here? Bedad, you look gay enough
to become suddenly wealthy by hiring out as
funeral mutes.” Ned, as the “boys called him
for shortness, represented a wholesale whisky-
selling firm in the metropolis, and, to use the ver-
nacular of the South of France, “ he was as dacent
a boy as ever tossed off a rummer ov punch on a
frosty mornin’.” His soft accents were particularly
suggestive of the sighing of the zephyrs that waft
across the Bogof Allen [Neat simile. thatl—Kp. B.J,
and his superior judgment in the matter ot good
whisky, together with his genial disposition, made
him a general favourite on the Victorian high
ways. And when it came to spinning a humorous
anecdote having a flavour of the brogue about it,
then Edward annexed the greater part of the
damper, so to speak. So, in answertoNed squery,
the “ boys ” let up oil the situation, and explained
the cause of the trouble that was gradually break-
iour them all up. “H© must b© the divil intirely if
I don’t give him a bit of a start this evening,” was
the re assuring reply; “and unless he's as thick-
skinned as rhinoceros, we'll get rid of him.” That
evening, the Judge was in his accustomed seat ere
tne expiring echo of the dinner-gong had died
away in the dim recesses of the spacious cor-
ridors of Shamrock [Shades of Miss Uraddon!—
Ed. B j, and the “commercials ” and other tourists
were also lotbe fore, ready to make war to the
knife on “the good things provided ” (we quote
the HUM). Just then Gleeson entered the dining-
room, sauntered carelessly to where His Honor
was seated, and, giving him a hearty slap on the
shoulder, sang out quite cheerily, “Hello, ould
‘Canterbury cake’! How the divil are you?”
“Pardon me, sir,” replied the astonished Judge,
“ but I think you have made a mistake.” “ Not I,
faith,” rejoined the imperturbable Ned; “I never
forget ould friends. Don’t you remember the
spree wo had at Castlemaine that last trip, when
you were travelling for Guest with the Canter-
bury cakes and lollies ? Ah, you’re a sly old dog!
How about the girl on the stairs?” “Sir,” said
the now irate Judge, as his otherwise placid coun-
tenance gradually assumed the colour of a boiled
beet, “ you’re entirely mistaken. I’m Judge Skin-
flint. I don't know you; I never travelled for
Guest; and furthermore, sk, I know nothing
about Canterbury cakes or Tollies.” “Ohl aisy
now; aisy, my boy," said the cheerful Ned, whilst
a ripple of suppressed mirth ran round the table;
“to be sure, it wasn’t much to travel with; but
that doesn’t matter, we never go back on a man
because he’s only doing business in a small way,
and, though the Canterbury cake was only a light
line, yet we recognise you as one of ourselves—
one of the noble army of bagmen of Victoria.
Judge Skinflint. Indeed! Fact is, I suppose, you’ve
got a bit of a lift lately, and you don't want to re-
cognise an old fellow-traveller now that you’re in
luck’s way.” This last sally was too much for His
Honor, and as the merriment that followed was
sufficient to equanimity of Solomon, had
be been round, the Judge left the room, mutter-
ing inverted blessings on the travelling fraternity
in general, and especially the audacious one who
claimed him as one of the brotherhood, aDd even
then as only a iow purveyor of Canterbury cakes.
We’ll draw a veil over the carnival that ensued,
and won’t even tell you with what enthusiasm the
health of the redoubtable Ned was received. There
are some subjects that are even too sacred for our
pen.


THE
IGNO
iPPfIM
THIS
PIAWO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. BUPERIOK to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Is iron-frame#, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, m- Gold Engraved.
f the
Migrnon
p=CLiito
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
PliilTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY !
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
catalogues of the “ MIGNC
WJLMIiU, and all other good instruments
had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOB
AND ORGANS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
„ ?A e . beflt known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
t»A^£ ,I,aiA > headache, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, ISURNS. SCALPT, & c and
•aAen internally cures DIARRHCE A, P YSEJ“ y
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other *utfarn3 aches
lad pains,
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere,
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPruroR,
atelbotjicn-u akno .dney
PAINT
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
• a .„„ REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CUKE for Nor-
th?? »I2 U 8 % nd General Debility, and all complaints
Toot fl S m lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Anm h tftn he t Nervouspeas, Indigestion. Loss of
Cornnili V F^ male Disorders, Liver and Kidney
General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
fr, r Q A°inr,v. ln i ? e ® ect9 at once removes all craving
P y .J ta richness in phosnhorous and
'rONTr 0 v^ 1 r^ alislnf f elements, MARSHALL’S
thewhiu? RV I NE nourishes and gives vigour to
Sold system. Price, 4s. Bd., or 255. a case.
BHOST e ,7 D O 8o » Pr °Prietors. MARSHALL
tag M ;D- 8 ‘> Manufacturing and consult-
-104 and 106 Market-street, near
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should bo
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
* Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
153 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
iu my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds w r e have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
by Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22,1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
* prepared by ft
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO-
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLAND 3 ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and ail dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; suck Row-
lands Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUXONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood.
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair o r golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bhos., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed agamst the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughinv Gao.
.-Ether Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies proscribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Bar Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford
Auckland, New Zealand.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
fcOLl/f
BLEND
[trade}
mars!
("10LLIE BLEND WHISKY-Thi* Is a BLEND
J of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy anddelicaoy
of taste and flavour. CATTKLL A CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IST 308 GEORGE STREET.
mum
‘XELEBRftV*:
-ss
PP
i i
» HOLESALB
OKOCEK
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER
CHANT.
BOLE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
general
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tar MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gcorge-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
guatanteed.
*
/! \\
HOT WATER \bAth S
HAIR DRtSSINGi-WICMAKINC; ESTABLISHMENT
157. 139 & 141 OXFGRO\S T .
HALF HOI lOA Y Cl'S# Y T/YUFISOA Y
OX YU EN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy lor Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 'SW° CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright's (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi.
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
ESTIMATES GIVSN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
C\
\ '
O
r
0
Wa
tflH»
gk
&
539&54IG:€^Me8Ti
•'T>^-SYI)KEY^^<-
ricAjqw'opposiTCPOST Office.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Tlxe ISolxq,Tolo ißxxgfgpios I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
ET BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMDTG, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
IBF’ Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithine
Plumbing, Gas fitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric) and Pneumatic Bell-fitting b
of every description. 6
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, " VACUUM ” WATER-WASTH<
PREVENTERS, &o. abj.is
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.


The aotion on part of the police in charg-
ing the little Makm girl with being a common
prostitute, has its serious as well as its ludiorous
side. The serious side is the extraordinary con-
fliotion of evidence in the case; variations of the
oath, which, had we not hal of late suoh em-
phatic evidence of the truth of the police when in
the witness-box, would probably have caused us
to view the decision of Mr. < •’Maliey Clarke with
aome trifling feelings of surprise. As it is, we
have to congratulate the magistrate upon his de-
cision. In his superior wisdom, he is probably
aware that College-street is by no means the re-
cognised walk of professional women, who parade
the same side of the same thoroughfare “ plying
for hire,” night after night, for years, and are
never interfered with. Mr. Clarke is quite cer-
tain, sansdoute, that the condition of a certain part
of Klizabeth-street is “healthy;” that wretched
girls, half-drunk with liquor there, do not haunt
the “pubs.” until they are closed, and then hold
high revel in the streets all night. It is a secret to
Mr. O’Malley Clarke, doubtless, that two-thirds of
the most drunken, brazen, and thieving women on
the town are allowed to go free, because the police
have “conscientious” reasons for not arresting
them. His Worship, in his superior knowledge,
must know that Crown-street is a thoroughfare of
virgin purity. That, by day and night, a portion
of the street in question, is not the scene of one
shrieking orgie, that the women do not parade,
and curse, and flaunt in tho street, and onaot in
the public-houses scenes of unblushing revelry,
which have even less of the grotesque about them
than the hideous I Of course, this settles it! The
Hilder girl was, doubtless, according to the “evi-
dence,” a desperate, type of immorality!!! How-
ever. she shouldn’t be made an exception of. As
the Rum proposes that ail the Oppositionists should
bo suspended in tho same ma ner as Mr. Taylor,
we propose that Mr. Clarke direot the police to
arrest all disorderly women, whose profession is
to be “ gay/’ but who are not. But, on considera-
tion, no! For, if this wore carried out, what
would the plato-humpers have to do after church
on Sunday ?
Fora “bit of rale divarshun” commond
us to an Irish Parliamentary election, especially
one in the sunny South among the “ bouJa bovs ”
of Waterford and Tipperary. Not one of your
modern elections, though, with ballot boxes, and
scrutineers, and things, but one of the “ould
shtyle,” when open voting was the rule, when
every elector went to the poll armed with a baul-
thaun of blacktborn-a weapon that never missed
Are; the good old days when the “ botboen boys ”
used to form a prominent feature in the neigh-
bourhood of the polling booth, and cracked heads
amongst the voters used to be as plentiful as
blackberries in a hedge. After the defeat of Mr.
Bernal Osborne, at Nottingham, in the general
election of 1868, ho determined to woo an Irish
constituency, and, in duo course, came forward as
a candidate for the city of Waterford in opposition
to Mr. Smyth, who was then an ardent repealer,
but who has considerably altered his views since.
Osborne was by no means the popular candidate,
but money and influence—[Things unknown in our
sunny clime. Ed. B.j—did what popularity would
fail to secure in most cases. The populace refused
to bear him on the hustings, and on the day of
nomination there were “ terrible ructions,” human
gore flowing freely. Hired gangs of roughs, or
1 botlnen boys,” were posted at the entrances of
the hall in which Osborne delivered his election
speeches, and scattered amongst the audience
were several contingents whose business was to
keep the mob quiet by means of brute force.
Lively as things were on the day of nomination,
the excitement on the day of election completely
eclipsed them; and, when the populace learnt that
Osborne had been elected by a majority of eight,
their suppressed vongeance burst out in all its
fury, and a scene of wreck, riot, and disorder
ensued that beggats ad description. Tbesupporters
of the successful candidate narrowly escaped
with their lives, and usborne himself beat a judi-
cious and masterly retreat from the hustings by
being smuggled through a back window into a
draper’s shop, where he passed the night carefully
stowed away in a pile of blankets. Next morning
he departed unostentatiously for the shores of
“ Merrie England,” and in the tranquillity of his
home at Newtown-Anner he spent several weeks
in recovering from “ the success of an Irish elec-
tion.” The following items from the bill which
was presented for payment to the agent of the vic-
torious candidate, give a fair idea of bow the con-
test was won :
“Paid men to protect gate from mob on
the several nights of the meeting.. £IT 6 0
Paid further expenses for ditto 6 5 0
Paid mob armed from time to time 10 0
Paid eighty men on the nomination
day to procure Mr. Osborne a hear-
ing 28 0 0
Gash paid Carty 1 0 0
Paid Maloney, who broke his leg by a
fall from Mr. Osborne’s platform.. 3 0 0.”
Concurrent with the Waterford election, the “ boys
of gallant Tipperary ” were engaged in an equally
exciting contest, the candidates being O’Donovan
Rossa, who was at the time a political convict in
Milbank prison ; Charles Kickham, a eo-Na-
tionalist; and D. C. Heron, Q.C. The result was
the election of O’Donovan Rossa by a big majority,
when a scene of tumult followed, that can best be
imagined after perusing the appended account,
which was sent in to one of Mr. Heron’s election
agents, by a “ broth of a Tipperary boy,” for pay-
ment:—
“From F r, mob conductor, botheen boy,
&c., to Mr. Herring's (sic) eJeetiou agent, for the
following work and murder done on the day of the
polling—
“ Item.—To three shouts for Heron at 2d. £ s d.
per shout 0 6 0
„ Three hurroohs for same at 3d.
each .’ 0 0 9
~ Three bounces in the air at lid.
each 0 I li
„ Four screeches at 3d 0 1 0
„ Making noise for 3 hours 0 1 4
„ Hitting a voter for Kickham the
rap of a dead cat, which I spent
5 hours killing the night be-
fore 0 2 0
„ Making a prod at and giving
two strokes of a wattle to one
of Kickham’s supporters, lor
which I got a most awful bat-
tering from the Kickhamites 0 3 9
„ Gripping one of Kickham's par-
ty by the windpipe or throttle,
for which I g"t. the slap of a
rock over the left ear. leaving
me since in the care ot a doctor 0 6
~ Striking a voter over the sconce
with a mud bog, for which I
received cruel treatment from
the women 0 1 (i
„ On the declaration of the poll,
when Mr. Heron was not de-
clared elected by four ma-
jority, I took a tit of liurroo-
in’, shoutin’, screecbin’. roar-
in’, leapin’, bouncin’, smashiu'
windue, dashin’ into whisky
shops, swallowin’ half-galions
of porter, skelpin’ glasses and
whisky, rowlin’ peelers, srneg-
gin’ sogers, until i found my-
self nearly dead in the lock-up
the followin’ morning, and
had to pay one shilling tine .. 010 2
Total £1 10 7.”
That the charges wore moderate lor “the work
done,” no person can doubt for a moment. And
now we just yearn to get a glance at some of the
bills that were footed up at the last election for
East Sydney.
Solomon, or David, or some other of those
giddy old Israelites who lived several years ag« to
a ripe old age, remarked, with a good deal of truth,
that a virtuous woman is a crown to her husband.
And those old fossils were good authorities when
it came to judging the qualities of the sex. They
had such varied opportunities, you know. But we
reckon that we can go many shekels better than
either of the Jewish notabilities referred to, and
confidently rake in the stamps. For we have dis-
covered a woman who is not only a crown to her
lawfully-wedded lord, but a dozen of them per
week, with board, lodging, and washing thrown in.
This paragon, we don’t mind telling you, lives in
the prosaic little Itownship of Numurkah (Vic.)—
the future Chicago of that section of the Cabbage
Garden—(we never saw a one-horse village that
hadn’t'a great future before It)—where she runs a
snug little hotel on her own hook; and her
“ hubby ” ooouples the position of No. 2 in the
household, for which he is paid at the rate of £3
per week, with the privileges already enumerated
thrown in. Well, this enterprising landlady was
the highest bidder for the right to supply whisky
and other temperance cordials to the rustics of that
wheat-growing region who assembled on Easter
Monday last In a oow-paddook adjacent to the
township, where they held high carnival. They
The model of this girl’s frock with blouse bodice is of white cambric, but would look
equally well in any kind of washing of woollen material. Three flounces, tucked
and edged with embroidery, trim the skirt. The short bodice, closed at the back
with buttons, has a pleated plastron in front, edged, as is also the neck-opening
and half long sleeves, with insertion and embroidery. Lightly gathered basques,
trimmed with embroidery, and mounted on a narrow stuff’ band, hidden by a
coloured silk belt, complete this pretty frock.
had a right good time, and fun was uncontrolled
until, in an unguarded moment, the “ strong and
influential committee” who bossed the show shifted
the athletes’ winning-post from its original posi-
tion in front of the whisky saloon to some distance
away. This proceeding not only visibly affected the
consumption of liquor, but excited the ire of the
landlady, who immediately ordered her other half
to hurry up with a liquor-stand to the new geal
where the pleasure-seekers assembled. A mild
kind of civil war was the result, for the committee
resented this new departure, and handed over the
energetic grog-dispenser to the tender care of the
boula gendarmes, who lodged him deep in a
The crown of this round hat of white straw is four and a half inches high, and covered
with lightly puffed yellow figured net. The turned up edge of the flat brim is
bound with a full stripe of pink ottoman velvet. A large bow of pink ottoman
ribbon fastened with a yellow agraffe forms the sole trimming.
dungeon cell, with the encouraging remark, “ Be-
gorra, I think I’ll be able to find you there in the
mornin’.” Then Lawyer Barrett gave Lawyer
Turner a sly dig in the ribs, and facetiously re-
marked, “ Behold, there are sundry shekels for us
in this thing;” and the forecast proved correct.
James Bauld—we forgot to mention his name be-
fore—was promptly acquitted on the charge of
trespass by the local beaks, so he immediately in-
stituted a County Court action against a septette
of the tyrannical committee for false imprison-
ment, assessing his damages at somewhere about
£2,000,000—a sum, we need scarcely add, that would
seriously inconvenience «he business prospects of
oven these bloated capitalists of Numurkah, had
the case gone against them. When Mr. Bauld
faced the music in front of Judge Cope and an
intelligent jury of four a week or two ago, in
Melbourne, his evidence jogged along somewhat In
this style:—“ lam an uncertiflcated insolvent, and
work for my wife- I have done so for the past
twelve months. I get £3 per week, have no
stated hours ot labour, and keep a banking
account.” That’s his version of It. Now, what
do you think of that for a model wife? After
that, Ann Theresa Bauld becomes the plaything of
the lawyers for a spell, and she starts off her yarn
thusly “I am licensee of the Royal Mail Hotel,
Numurkah, and purchased the booth In question.
I authorised my servant, James Bauld, to apply
for a temporary license for the sports and act for
me at the same, and I ordered him to take the
tables, liquor, etc., near the winning-post after the
sports oommenoed.” And then, in cross-examina-
tion by Mr. Hood, she said: “If Bauld had not done
as l ordered him, I would not sack him, but would
get another ef my servants to carry out my in-
structions.” “James is No. 1 servant, is be?”
queried the barrister, to which the lady replied
with becoming dignity, “ No, I am No. I: he is No
2.” There’s a woman tor you, who holding supreme
power in her own circle yet does not abuse her
authority by bolding the reins too tight. Happily
her other half carries out her instructions to the
letter, even at the peril of his cherished liberty;
but should he at any time feel constrained to kick
over the traces and refuse duty, he would not be
compelled to join the unemployed except as an
honorary member. Some men have all the luck of
it, sure enough. Now, when we took to our bosom
a meek-looking and blushing bride, we had an idea
that this little earth of ours was transformed into
an amateur paradise, but ere a few short moons
had run their course, we [What are you giving
us ?—Ed. B.]
ISTo health with inactive liver and urinary
vrgans. Take Hop Bitters. See.
Thus the N.Y. Tribune, re the aetiug in
certain part of Miss Catherine Hill:—“The la
was a pupil of Mr. Buckstone. She has all the a
swanlike air, the musical volubility, and the talem
of incessant, instantaneous transition, which a
among the attributes so essential to high comec
acting.’’ The N.Y. World says:—“She managec
to convey to the part a buzzing bluebottle emp
ness that was peculiar, and flitted through t
scenes like o.ie of those emphemera that are killec
by the sunshine that hatches them.”
“ Be just, and fear not; let all thou aim’s
at be thy country’s, thy God’s, and truth’s.” Thai
the high-toned motto of the Numurkah Petti
and Wunghnu Wail, anew literary venture pu
lished in the interests of the proprietor in th
Goulburn Valley (Vic.); and right underneath th
lofty moral procept, the “eulchawed,” and w
might saygitted, editor bubbles over inaperfec
stream of sorrow because a local society didn’n
ante-up with an ad. that had been given to the 01
position paper. Showing a reckless disregard fo
the welfare of the nation generally, as well as a
absolute indifference that the Egyptian questio
is not yet settled, that oeneral Gordon still re
mains cooped up in Khartoum, that the federatio
and recidiviste difficulties have yet to be dete
mined, that the monster cabbage and abno
mal turnip await a laudatory par., and tha
the proprietors of the cat and monkey ci
eus which recently visited the townshi
“and gave pleasure to all” —had contractec
for a gushing critique of at least half
eolumn, this erudite scribe devotes just abou
a column of leaded “long-primer” to a laments
tion over that lost ad., instead of bringing h
mighty intellect to bear on one or all of the topic
above noted. Thus, you see, we are driven to th
sad though inevitable conclusion that the “li v
ad.” is dearer to the agricultural editor than h
country, his God, or even strict veracity. Still,
is cheering to note that although he has bee
“euchred,” so to speak, in this instance, yet he
to a certain extent defiant, and, withal, hopefu
He administers a sly dig in the ribs to the local ad
mirers of “ King William 111., of glorious, pious,
by saying, “ We admit there are some quarter
where we are not very welcome, c.g., among thos
who celebrate the 13th of .Tuly as their great da
of jubilee, and we have no doubt these politico
religious wire-pullers would like to see the Guar
plan snuffed out. But we are not, nor do we mea
to be, just yet.” Thus he shouts defiance to hi
foes, and the “ Derry boys ” are now calling on th
rocks, or mountains, or something, to fall upo
them and " bury them dacent.” And then he wine
up this scathing leader by expressing a hope tha
the time is not far distant when his paper will b
found in every house in the district. Well, tha
depends what kind of a country trade the loca
butter-man is driving,
The English church at Coburg ism dauge
of coming to the ground owing to the foundation
giving way. The people that own it thought!
therefore, right to raise some money to prop it ui
and, on Sunday, the 3rd, they trotted out Bisho
Moorhouse to make an onslaught on the genera
pocket. The number of people in Melbourne wh
can draw big houses is small. Emelie Melville
Bishop Moorhouse, Genevieve Ward, and Josepl
Symes are about the only names you can rely o
to crowd a building. Others hit from time to time
but there is no certainty about them. The publi
appreciates good work, and, dull as it is reputec
to be, it sees pretty quickly where it is being go
at, whether the artist professes to be a grta
original writer, a consecrated divine, or a leadim
opera boutfer. And, when the public feels it i
being had, it doesn’t come that way often
after. It therefore follows that all scamped work
perishes, and the moral is brought forth that any
thing worth doing at all is worth doing well, and
that the economy of time or labour which is made t(
justify inefficiency is the seed of death in the work
that’s pretty solemn. But we want to have some
piece of earnest truth in this paragraph. Seeing
that we started to tell what Bishop Moorhouse
said in the Coburg church, we felt it was now or
never. The Bishop straightened himself, and told
the people he wanted money for the old church.
Now, it was known to everybody that there was a
deal of human suffering in Melbourne at that very
time. Here is where the Bishop proved himself an
artist. He at once admitted there was human suf-
fering, any amount of it. No scamped Work there
No blinking a fact, and making believe it didn’t
exist! That’s what your minor artist does. But
look at Genevieve, or Emelie, or Vernon, or Glover
—in their parts they are just like the Bishop. Ah,
we have known ecolesiastics. and they were our
friends, and we liked them to be esteemed geniuses,
but we could never get them when outward bound
for monoy to state piumply that the white faces ol
the poor were staring up at them. And so the con-
gregation were divided in mind. They saw their
artist was suppressing something, and lacked bold-
ness to face them fully. It was not this way with
the Bishop. “The poor are there,” said the Bishop;
“ yes, they are around us. And they want money.
That is true, But indiscriminate almsgiving is a
positive evil. It is against the law of God to pau-
perise the people. There must be poverty—there
must be suffering. Sin is bound to produce these.
It might be positively injurious to a man if he had
instant relief granted from the sorrow and suffer-
ing he brought on himself by sin.” The Bishop's
argument was “ Therefore let the white faces stare,
and fork out for my old walls.” Now, we’d like to
see Glover in the pulpit in that same part. Emelie
and Genevieve in their own line could, we believe,
do it as well, but we’d like to see Glover or Vernou
try it.
The meeting; of the Emperors has received
a due acknowledgment at the hands of fervid
chroniclers. It has been sung in song, and lipped
in eloquence. But age has been telling on it, and,
despite the charm ot strain and period, we were
beginning to regard the contemplation of it as
wearying, when Providence, ever careful to feed
the human mind with large occurrences, stepped
in with a glorious substitute. The theatre was a
room in Monzies'i Hotel, Melbourne. The epoch
was the 3nd day of the present month. The actors
were M. Pailu de la Barriere, ex-Goveruor of New
Caledonia, and Mr. James Service. Paliu didn’t
know English, and James didn’t know French. But
Paliu was a high-souled Frenchman, and James
was c, high-souled Scotchman, a'd both werephe
nomenally broad-so'ed ; and what mattered the
fact that neither knew what the other was talking
about ? At it they went. Awake now, ye histori-
cal scribes, and grind out your chapter ou the new
turning-point ot nations. Awake noiv, ye poetical
rhapsodists, and hang stanzas irom the noses of
the men of destiny. Hold your ears back, and hear
them at it over a decanter of vin de Bourgogne.
James: “Come ou. About them people, about
them people in France, in New Caledonia; about
them people in, aha, in durance vile; them people
qur-l nearly forget my French, Monserr, it's
getting rusty for want of exercise—about them
people ouc ” Paliu: “Le pays ost fertile,
ires fertile, Monsieur, et je pense ” James:
“ That’s what I say. We’re all in the one
boat. When I took the subject up about them
people—aha, le sv.jet, you can grip me, Monserr;
when I took lesujetup—l nearly forget my French,
it’s getting rusty for want of exercise, Monserr.
About them people ” (laying hold of the de-
canter). Paliu: “ Voila mes sentiments.” James-'
“ You know about it ? Well, I kept it up. That s
my way. The country rose against them peopl*.
them people—aha, que—l nearly forget my French,
Monserr; aba, them people que .” Paliu: “Ceja
me plait beaucoup.” James: “I’m a bit rusty m
my French, Monserr, but I’m glad to find I m
making my meaning clear about them people-,
Them people, you see, que, que, aha, monserr. ,
Paliu: “Aha, Monsieur.” James: “Aha, aha.
Paliu: “Aha, aha!” The journals next day re-
Eorted that although Mr. service found the French
inguage had slipped from his memory he had yet
managed to impress upon M. Barriere his convic-
tions regarding the relapsed prisoners’ questions.
The source of this report was, however. Mr. ser-
vice himself, and his native modesty forbade a
truthful exposition of the matter. Our exposition
of it is but bald. But, don’t you remember, we
called on the historical scribe and the poetical
rhapsodist to awake ? Give the lads time to yawn
and scratch their heads and empty out their talents
over what went on in that room in Menzies, aiw
you will refuse to ever again read the story of
meeting Of the Emperors.


■hire
COUNTRY MILK.
b y the
& Ice Co., Limited,
r,^Food
» T ‘ culu upon as bei!_ n
Hb^ob^t YS PURE '
*%la either™ Bu4t er.
*aornimr^ln 6 daU y> Sundays excepted
' t; ofift* £«l™ ry is made. Butter b;
» QSUiy BUblirhfi timp
Ttoiieit, »Mtter«
from a tb I p a^ tu + red at tbeir own depSt
rQ ' lai i'y distri, t K Jeat butter-makers in the
'eekjy Car t: St^ K i^{i ve ry is made.Butterbj
• ’ «ly, suburbs, three time.
** Food &fa C 0" Llmlt ed,
i>a Hbihjh street.
tus
14
Study economy
and
n aveyourUmbrella Frump?
re-covered, and your
varasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
rarasols made to match eos-
iUme». Rfißaiw neatly gip
8
1
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this Brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
flpe, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
p EAPES and SHAW
h |* RESPECTFULLY invite inspection of their
tw SEASON’S GOODS,
Wss' anr! »L; as follows
Children's Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles'and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
•'CUT
l2 8.6 d. t Q 4 R . MAD 3 ULSTERS,
"““ icao
ftUr'P 17 ' 1, JAckSS Ulsters . New Cloths
•ip E KETS, in NEW fa isrnv \r
from ss. 6d. to 30s.
NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 3Ts. 6d
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER S , from 12s, fid. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles; in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
„. « Standard
now op.
Section of the- DY ' MAD ®
Tweed Clothing;.
>en for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
_ J CLOTHING IN THE CITY* and would specially recommend
various classes of goods enumerated below.
1 Cpj
*4-5, E S Stoats, cut long,
sJEVten LI N CLOIH > ~ sa - !«b..
S TER S , LINED WOOL, 80s.,
M t !} t^ K OVERCO AT S, 635.
Sur Passe(3. t r Good Honest Value
K S ' 8d, > 35®.f 4^ R ® AS FO LLOWS :
n 3 -' 63s - Hie SUIT.
ock dats a ( b^ dd Vest, 50s.
4 ° f En »lan d Broadcloth),
1 0 >, Vefl° sh Rla t lc Doe shin, 255., 30s.
«Sao d - h Unk and weli made>
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPPS. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool,-from 15s. Gd, to 525. Gd.
■“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, l(b. Gd ; the
Suffolk, 12s. Gd
Beys' Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Soys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
oys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 80s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT FIATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. Gd , Bs. Gd!
9s. Gd., 10s. Gd., 11s. Gd., 12s. Gd.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
and SHAW.
GE STREET. f
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
Sz Son’s
all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
premises, 107 pm street,
ILTo-w Open.
HOTEL,
* of KING and CABTLEREAGH STREETS.
(late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
s WcCLEERY
☆
ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
& 5®
VIS
Vs
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
i fUST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco
, ’ Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture,
Sdqu ON QUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position. «
of PiD«a CUrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
"ROR»»
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, nary, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival: the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADE
jMAnK.
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS)
extracted from the hark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting- of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extraot for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy forthe cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Solo Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
ik ' Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly mode/?a te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists m MARKET^T E
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hefei.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnifleient s.s. Ulawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
XT aa. dertalrer.
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
S
W ANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
They clear the complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative, Organs.
SWANN'S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
SWANN’S suitable for both sexes ; PILLS
SWANN’S gentle, yet thorough in their PILLS
SWANN’S action. PILLS
SWANN’S Sugar-coated, PILLb
SWANN’S and PILLS
SWANN’S Easy to Take. PILLS
BUY NO OTHER.
Price Is., 35., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P,S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
“ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann's
Pills,’ and find that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. They are free from mercury,
and are composed entirely of vegetable ingre-
dients. I consider them a mo3t valuable aperient.
“ Fred. Wright,
f “ Drug Analyst.
“ Sydney, Juno 19th, 1884.
1!!
170
R.BURGIS
TAILOR..
s
it!®
t: S'i
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for S€ Admeasuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
W THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£©,frULrecL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
ln bond for Expert at the Distillery,
d epnsurners may, therefore, rely that It
Wh.SPtJ? 6611 / 1 * bands “ W hiskey Doctors.”
I*’ Bee ,, that , you sret it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
MS
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality are no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARN S in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET,
—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. EL JLriell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing- a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—-Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J4,}4 and lib. tins.
WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand,
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
■ .
Hew Tobacco Factory.
J REM TER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable’ qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NO RRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
1117 & 319. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSES. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTEn OEFORS
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISSBBS.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,and
1 tcill do it oh cither bald head or
bare fare. jf'ou'Cß heavy Mom*
tachein from 2 to 4 toeehs and n ever
fails, 20,000 young men already
- wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. Ko injury, easily applied, certain in effect .
each, 3 for ‘M, Oil., post paid sent under cover, free from observation •
fAddrett, Frank I)ougla» t Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,jN.S.
«eFons aptbw
Copy rtghted
Packett 3*. Of.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OP PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
tar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY'
Country Order* reoeive prompt attention.


G-old
T e lloxy" -
(REGISTERED.)
%
/
*
fix!
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
nmi mi mm, cafe gold watches, k
LATEST FASHIONS.!
■WATCHES, T'TZOIvL 30s.
Special Novelties, &e. Country Orders punctually
WHAT IS
ASIC YOUR
IT
wtf>vn»fa
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with
in the colonies.
any other Gallery
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE^
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOT# 1^
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING
TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMARKET , c jiof*
PRIOR
Come Early and Secure Good Fashionable Clotuins u>r
J. J. RYAN, 760 George Street, Hay
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Fruit Mar
RY
BW Jl
>
ALTED COCOA
J. S. PEY & SORTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
' ** An ordinary Cup contains mono of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—LANCET.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Pllh|
RNE
|M®d'
t£4nOM
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOItNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will lind a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Hiaaiirs
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CRURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
n ILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
VJf Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can bo recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUfKKB & CO., Sole Agents,
876 Georsre-etreet, Sydney,
WALLACH BROS.’
ITEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS!,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ABTB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERiTAND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORINand CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T, GA YEN’S
ScbtJapps and Geneva.
A. MWLVltTand SONS’
Edinburgn Pale $
itXHIBJTW
mm
T. JONES and CO.,
66 MACQUARIE-STREBT SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
8&
m
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
Aim
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
6 lock, Station , and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE'S I
STEAM
17
GBEG 0 ?lfe
p , t t stp
sypNE l>
ARE SOLE AGEN? s *^
andhaveinStoc^ 0 .
FIRE PUMPS -
BOILER-FEED ,
TANK OR LIGHT *- J .ft
MINING PUMPS 0 01/A a
COMBINED AIR&°
TANNERY P UM JL P S
3UGAR-HOUSE P°
vacuum PUMte,
DEEP-WELL-SINE
w „ A j*o
SEND FOR PRICE®
CATALOGUES eo*
J
•SIIO
SINIVd
<y
O'
Office: 330
STORES
P*tt prr '
m
WJ\
ae
EL
LATE) HOWLANDS & LEWIS, i VW
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor ®*
BALLARAT* MELBOURNE, and at jf
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Li^ ue j
