

±- .£>--CT , 'TTT2v£;.fcT a- ’WZIfcT'X'IOXS. ±©Q-£L
:E=X3OT7"XXDBI3S.
palace EiL^iFoißi'crrvd:.
>narx
ET, ONE'S’
In every one of our
TXSXXST’Z'-SIXX DEE^pA-ISTMEWTS
WE HAVE BEEN
king: Special Preparations
FOB THE AUTUMN AND WINTER TRADE.
>
MCE
HORDERN AND SONS
P
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
Hl »mirecl Cases of CHOICE and GOODS.
; Vx K ETS! BLANKETS ! BLANKETS ! for which the Palace Emporium is justly celebrated.
MANTLES, MANTLES, MANTLES. The Latest Parisian Fashions, in very great yariety.
r,. DRESSES, DRESSES, DRESSES. New Patterns. New Materials. New Styles.
L NOTHING, CLOTHING, CLOTHING. The Best Cut. The Best Made. The Best Wear.
W HOOTS, BOOTS, BOOTS. Acknowledged to be the Best and Cheapest in the colony.
6ri * Assortment of everything Novel, Beautiful, and Useful, carefully collected from all the
markets of the world.
markets at the worm.
WONY HORDERN AND SONS,
V
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin New Series


OF II SI
Corner of GSOHGE and MAHEET
LOTS Emus OF TIE EESOI"
Ha a Si
X 6^«
si
oh*
y;
7 '
SB
city
\Q£
m
* i
BO
PA LAC
l:4
UN
nrow
BiaAflliiw.w'*.':
wm
mi
i
->v. Manuf^ ct ° r v^
Branches:—Rundle-st., Adelaide, S.A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-st., Sydney
SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
IBBSp BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Prin , cipal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office: HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c„ &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &e,, &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c,
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redrurah—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt-Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. *
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria —James Fry and Co., W. and A* Reid, D. Gibson. .
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
XKCcurtlxi. KLeesliaiig
STAR AND DARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mins Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &e.
JL Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S, Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
San Francisco Palace of Art ,
LATE
IS «£> "Sr
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same .staff of Artists, who hay© rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (1F,,000 in number) taken during' the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies -may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
P.~ jR.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPl®,
let®®'
Begs to announce to Ms town and country friends, that he has just coihP
extensive additions to hia Jitld'
Whqiesale and Retail Bottle D e P£l#*s
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines a
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore J
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, its per the following list, hopes 0
patrenage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to 1 I
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top • • •• 6 6
Ifemiessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5 6
Pine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***)
Martell’s Very Old ***
Martell’s Old
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks
..6 6
..6 6
5s and 4 0
..5 0
2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good ..
Better
Still Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2,
No. 3,
No. 4,
Flasks
2 0
2 6
3 0
5 0
4 6
4 0
3s and 3 6
Is !)d and 2 6
6s and
JAMAICA RUM.
PALR.
Very Finest ..4 0
Red Heart .. . .. . .. - 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..60
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. . - 2s 6d and 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Ettamogah, fed ..
„ Muscat
„ Reisling
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
quarts 3
pints
PORT
WlN®*
4.0-year old, Gilbey’s , " •
Celebrated Pour Diamond •• o id)
Quality—No. 1 (very superior .
No. ***** grape
**** f> •' ..
No! *** »
No. ** ..
No ’*
Draught Port Wine, per Ir&V
iHl {
gHBRB^*
40-year old, Gilbey’s --- , r y dr'
Very Finest Amontillado o •-
Pine Amontillado , gh@f"
Celebrated Pour Diamond o _ ...
Common Sherry...
Draught Sherry Wine, per
:
James Heddle’s Ginger Win °
Orange Wine
IRISH
Jameson’s *** . y v
Old Dublin Whisky (** V
Kinahan’s unrivalled B b
bo
py
jji)
Kinahan’s unriva.W* ~
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s •** ... .ala 1
Dunville’s ... -y. xmP erJ
J
JJUUViUC O ... - -,
Kinahan’s Draught, pel ■
Jameson’s ,»
Flasks *“ vT(3 kf‘
SCOTCH
Walter’s 7-year old, in bu (
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
ft
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ••• ,
G-lenlivet Whisk
Flasks
per
•jinpetr
ia ia^
oitf*
&
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal , |
Celebrated Key Brand’J r 0 «
bottle containing m
Flasks Key Gin ...
ff>
ail f f V
J
Weddinar and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits oftPc h , de i ,
allowed lor. JST” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, ja
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free ot ouarfco. t0 i gflM
P. 11. LAPKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.- On r caS e W 1
erenuino articles will he forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed m , A*
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 ° uart S-**»«*
*3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, < '»«>-« rema rtt
1 Quart
6 Quarts WEST INDIA RDM, 1 Q uart b '
TOTAL—I 6 QUARTS. ( W
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed o pie
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent u
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Oihce.
J,
Kindly Note the Address— Jflw
p. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spin!
George and Gipps Sts., Haym ai '^ e ’


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 44—New Series
SATURDAY, APRIL 19. 1884.
Price—od.
A Remarkable Criticism.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 19, 1884.
Jf Henry George’s great work were gene-
rally known to the public of this colony by
perusal, instead of by scrappy excerpts and
condensed description, a deliberate attempt
to prove it a series of blunders would be as
fair as it would be likely to be harmless. But
to pick positions from any work which de-
pends upon consecutiveness of reasoning,
and to deal with those positions as though
they comprised all the reasoning of the
author, is dishonest, and may be mischievous
when such partial demonstration is dissemi-
nated among people who have no accurate
acquaintance with the work thus abused.
This plan of anticipating in New South
Wales the dissemination of George’s treatise
has been undertaken. Wealth held without
corresponding exertion is ever jealous -and
timid, and has at all epochs been able to
oommand the services of hired bravos of the
sword and of the pen, according to the
fashion of the time, whose function it has
ever been to quell the insurrection of op-
pressed peoples, or becloud and misrepre-
sent the ebullitions of unshackled intellect.
The staff of the Sydney Morning Herald
has been commissioned to cover George’s
facts and demonstrations with a cloud of
confusion and contradiction ; and as the
work itself is not yet fully current here—
very few copies having been procur-
able—the task may be within their abili-
ties, as it conforms to the tastes of
these willing slaves of almighty Property.
After all, we are not, sure that it matters
much. To men free to think for themselves
without forfeiture of salary or of that com-
fortable mental slumber which agreement
with everything conventionally settled up
to date affords, the great work of George will
shine as a sun, piercing and dispersing every
prejudice and preconception which labori-
ous sophistry may create. We should have
said “men free to think, and capable of
thinking.” The Herald may take heart of
grace. The number is inconsiderable. In
serious earnest, we do not expect for
George’s demonstrations any great recep-
tion from Australians of this generation.
In all countries the weight of established
influence and respectability will be against
the acceptance of these ideas, as a matter of
course. A system which would abolish the
enjoyment of accidental advantage, and
tend to a fair distribution of the gifts of
Nature, can appear only horrible and offen-
sive to those who hold such advantages, or
imagine their personal interests bound up
in the perpetuauce of the system denounced.
• * *
It may be accepted at once that George’s
ideas are not “respectable.” It follows
almost as a matter of course that they are
also “ impious.” The great human organi-
sations which style themselves “churches”
are invariably so closely allied with the
dominant classes that they have gradually
made it an implied article of religion that
all change or desire for change is wicked.
It is well for mankind that that vast con-
spiracy, the Church of Rome, has no longer
a monopoly of the pretended claims to
rule men’s consciences. Had it still
the influence it exerted prior to the
reformation, George’s “ Progress and
Poverty ” would simply have been cata-
logued in the IndexExpurgcitorins, and there
would have been an end of the matter. As
it is, the Church of Rome is, perhaps, less
absolutely leagued with aristocratic institu-
tions than the Church of England. It is
probable that the Vatican will denounce
Jorge’s philosophy; it is" certain that no
clergyman of the Church of England who
does not loudly declare his abhorrenoe of
the man and all his works can ever hope to
prosper. What owner of “a living” ivould
confer it on a man who agrees that the lay
ownership is a sin and a scandal ? If the
principles embodied in “Progress and
Poverty” win any adherents in the Church
of England, it will be among the most in-
considerable, in a worldly sense, of its
ministers. For promotion will certainly
abandon ministers who fly in the face of
those fortunate persons who have power to
promote. The division of the Protestant
Church into numerous sects gives an ad-
vantage to all progressive ideas. Those
religious communities whioh are least es-
THE HON. P. T. SARGOOD, OF VICTORIA.
teemed, in a worldly sense, are often-times
instrumental in reconciling Christianity
with piinciples which it had discarded or
forgotten. Thus the ideas of which Henry
George is the modern expositor, and of
which Jtsus Christ was an earlier expon-
ent, will find no endorsement in t the more
splendid temples in which redundantly
salaried divines help congregations of
wealthy “dissenters” to believe that they
can reconcile sharp business habits with
devotion to the principles of the Christian
religion. Butin Little Bethel, where a busy-
brained cobbler holds forth to congrega-
tions of earnest or excitable labourers who
find the world a hard place, and look to the
next as likely to be a great improvement,
the suggestion that ‘ ; Thy Kingdom come”
may really have a mundane realization, as
the Saviour and his Apostles taught, and
for centuries all Christians believed, may
be received with considerable alaority.
• • .
The most remarkable feature, in fact, of
Mr. George’s system is its extraordinary
harmony with the primitive principles of
Christianity, before the teachings of our
Saviour became overlaid, corrupted, and
obscured by theological compromises con-
ceived in the interests of temporal expedi-
ency. This is only rendered the more appar-
ent to any man who has examined his own
heart in a candid spirit, by the character of
the objections which are levelled at George’s
proposals. This [is sharply defined in the
oritioism which prooeeds from the offloe of
the S. M. Herald. Says this authority :
“ He (George) says that the conflict will
wage more over the question ‘ls it right?’
than ‘ls it wise?’” The Herald objects
strenuously. “We hope it will not,” it ex-
claims. Now, this is exactly the attitude of
mind which has frittered away the essence
of Christianity. Christ indicated oertain
clear precepts. In the Sermon on the Mount
He explicitly condemned “public worship,”
so called:—“And when thou prayest, thou
shalt not be as the hypocrites are; for they
love to pray standing in the synagogues
and the streets, that they be seen of
men. . . But thou, when thou prayest,
enter into thy closet,” &c. Again, He is
equally clear about accumulating “ pro-
perty.” “Lay not up for yourselves treasures
on earth. . . For where the treasure Is,
there will the heart be also.” And, again,
“ All things whatsoever that ye would have
that men should do unto you, do ye even so
unto them.” And in the all-sufflcient form
of prayer he recommended is the petition,
“ Forgive us our debts as we forgive our
debtors.” Now, if we apply to this the
Herald’s text —not whether it is right, but
whether it is wise to live up to these prin-
ciples—common sense, worldly prudence,
self-interest all unite in declaring that al-
though—being the inspired teaching of the
Saviour —it must be right, it will not be
wise to shape one’s life in accordance with
these principles. To observe them would be
to court beggary to begin with, and all the
ills which follow in the wake of penury.
No business man could hold his ground were
he to be perpetually forgiving his debtors.
The world has seen the impossibility of act-
ing up to this, and a theology has been con-
veniently framed to suit the demand for a
comfortable compromise. Thus we have
every Sunday our synagogues crowded with
professing disoiples of Christ, who, in direct
contravention of his teaching, actually pray
as thehypoorites do, standing, that they may
be seen of men. And the main support of
many ohurches consists of an elite of ad-
herents who are enabled to strengthen them
by the very oiroumstanoe that the business
of their lives is to “ heap up treasure.”
Practical Christianity is not wise, and
George’s theories oarried into practice would
be, for similar reasons, not - wise. It does not
seem to occur to the sagacious worldlings—
the men who succeed in striking a real com-
promise which insures to them comfort-
able times in this world and the next—that
their wisdom may be foolishness. They
are at odds with their Saviour in thi 9
matter. The tendency to dodge plain in-
structions because they seemed hard and
impracticable was foreseen. In the same
address the Teacher expressly provided
for the oontingenoy, “Whosoever heareth
these sayings of mine and doeth them, 1 will
liken unto a wise man.. . . And every one
that heareth these sayiDgs of mine and
doeth them not, I will liken unto a foolish
man.”
• • 9
But the small wisdom sits in judgment
upon the greater wisdom, and undertakes to
show that what was plainly said could not
have been meant, because the small wisdom
cannot comprehend what will come of it.
Hence we get the determination to let policy
prevail over abstraot right. “In politics,’*
says our Mentor of the Herald “ expediency
is the grand test by which we are to be gui„
ded.” Here wehaveastrikingexempliflcation
of the influence of the fundamental error al-
ready indicated. Politics is here treated as
though it were a thing distinct from religion.
The Herald would never have dared to put
it that “ in religion the great test by which
we have to be guided is expediency.” The
assumption is that mankind can be shufflers
and play fast and loose with the eternal
verities in politics, or political eoonomy, and
do no wreng. In short, that religion is a
thing apart from the conduct of human
affairs. That devious paths, and inhumani-
ties, and falsities, and injustices, and
violences, if only carried out on a scale big
enough to entitle them to the name of
“ polioy,” cease to be sins. The terrible error
here is the stumbling block of the epoch.
That religion consists of ceremonials, and is a
separate department of life, and that there
are many things external to it. Whereas the
vital truth is, that it is not the standing up
to pray in the synagogues, or the periodical
or partial devotion which constitute religion,
but that the religion of a man or a nation
is all his life and all his policy. Neither man
nor nation can be swindler and robber in
action or policy, and saintly in repose,
or at stated periods, or in reference


DBL I C
NOTICE
j, a co:s
BRIAN BORU
WMi§»
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
Hr*
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severa.
years before being 1 bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian eon-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, vn great demand
for this old Irish brand in EugJand, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold bj leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOIJNS, KING A CO.. Distillers. Belfast,
I™! 1 *"?’ so,e owners of BRIAN BOBU
“ HISKY*
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Fllnders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
iar PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
is. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
©cL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHIBKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
GLYNELISH WHISKY
Bs. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Be. od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
to certain departments of existence.
Where it seems that the foolishness
of those who “heard these things and
did them not” lies, is in want of
faith and comprehension. If one man
followed the precepts of primitive Chris-
tianity amidst our spurious institutions, ruin
and obloquy would assuredly be his portion*
But if all men would but follow those pre-
cepts—why,[there is the Kingdom upon Earth,
right away. But it is hopeless to suppose
that all men will. The millenium is a Divine
promise, but it is hopelessly lar ahead !
Granting that the theory of the Saviour be
true, it could not be practically carried out;
and wc shall have to wait for Us realization
till we have reached that millcnial state
■when poverty shall have been extinguished
by the perfecting of human nature. We have
printed the foregoing sentence in italics,
because we wish to emphasize an obligation
we have to own. We have borrowed that
sen teuce verbatim from the Herald’s writer,
by whom it was applied to the theories of
Henry George ! We are, then, not to listen
to the millenium promptings, not to work
towards the Kingdom-come, because the
perfecting of human nature is one condition
precedent. Admirable teaching! Moral con-
clusion I
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Murder!
There was some pretence made a little time ago,
when the frightful catastrophe at the Rink
Theatre in Vienna had attracted unusual and
horrified attention to the dangerous arrangement
of tho outlets to places of public entertainment,
Of having each buildings in Sydney inspected and
regulated. Tho old Queen’s Theatre was con-
demned, and a door or two knocked in the walls of
Borne others. But anyone who attended the last
concerts given by the Sydney Liedertafel, or, in
fact, any entertainment, in the Protestant Hall,
must huve seen that, so far us that building, or
proper supervision of internal fittings is concerned,
tho protended inspection has been a sham. The
“ means of egress” from the galleries are so con-
structed that in case of a rush they would prove
mere death-traps. The doorways (two in number)
may be adequate—although that is doubtful. But
one Hap of tho southern door has been closod by a
temporary but substantial wooden structure for a
cloak-room. Probably the other door is in the
same case. Anyway, were the doors in every respect
sufficient, they lead to stairs so totally vicious in
construction that a frightened crowd could not by
any miracle osoapo horrible death there. The flights
are steep; there are sudden twists; and it requires
tho utmost care and deliberation to descend them
without accident in a throng, even when every
one is taking time and proceeding with caution,
us everyone instinctively does when descending
those dangerous lligbts. The authorities should
insist upon tho means of escape being rectified in
that Hall. Bhould there occur any catastrophe
after this warning, the trustees of the hall will be
guilty of manslaughter without extenuating cir-
cumstances.
When a circus is in town one can usually pretty
accurately guago its average performing merit by
the noise its band makes, i.e., if one only takes the
precaution of calculating the excellence as being
in inverse ratio to the din. 8o with some other
things—including Churches. Whenever the drum
ecclesiastic is beaten most loudly, then, In ninety-
nine cases out of a hundred, one won’t be far
wrong in coming to the conclusion that the troops
in the clerical garrison are endeavouring to supply
deficiency with sound. Dr. Barry gave a good
loud roulade on his episcopal tambour Just before
having England. Hpeaking of that new develop-
ment of England's power-the Greater Britain—
lie specially roferred to what he called “our
National Church,” which (having identified it with
Ctiristianity), he declared, had before it “a future
of energy and triumph, even if revolutionary
power should shake the institutions of our sooiety
and threaten the timo-honoured landmarks of law
and of 1 tilth.” Surely a large order this I when in
the old England tho‘'National” Church is decaying,
and in tho Greater Britain there is no such thing!
I'hk Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
ar«h—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12s. od.;
quarter, oe. od.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per lnoh;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
Under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony ma he sent, if more convenient.
King Tawhaio and Qneen Tawhaio.
The passing visit of the Maori Sovereign has
invested that potentate with some interest.
It is not every day that there is a chance of
seeing a king, who is generally so hedged
around with “divinity” and sycophants as
to be inaccessible. King Tawhaio, however,
is an exception. The ohief of a disappearing
race, he has no favours or fortunes to bestow
—no “honours” to confer; nothing, save
the poor title, to attract lickspittles. Con-
sequently, he has been comparatively neg-
lected by the tribe of flunkeys who abase
themselves whenever a visitor allied to a
more practical Royalty comes within hail.
Tawhaio goes to visit England. God help
him!
FACT AND FANCEY
FOCUSSED
Miller Hayes, of N. Wagga, recovered £483
lately from the Government, for damages caused
by sparks from a railway engine firing 40 acres of
wheat, some 90 orchard trees, a cottage, etc
“Big” Jim Tyson is in the Wairarapa (N.Z.) dis-
trict, on the look out for more land.... The Gtw-
nedah Advertiser has an odd, provincial way of
expressing itself; thus, for example, does it com-
mence a funeral par.: “Last Sunday we had the
unpleasant duty of followingtheremains of ” etc.,
etc. In the metropolis now, the RDM's young men
or Alf. would gush about its being a “ mournful
privilege.”... The S S. Austral transferred to the
Anchor lino (Liverpool to New York) Total
expenditure on N.S.W. tramway service for lines
in operation to close of 1883, £528,101; gross earn-
ings £190,699; working expenditure, £177,276, net
earnings, £18,423 Gross earnings of existing
lines of railway during 1883 £1,934,695; working ex-
penditure, £1,117,852; net earnings, £745,843. In-
terest payable on railway capital expended on lines
open—for 1883, £722,108....W00ds publican, Gee-
long, fined £2O. for having in his bar a bottle of
tobacco juice lor doctoring liquor. Nicked for
nicotine Lowest assay from the output of
one silver mine, at Silverton, at the rate
of 6000 oz. per ton, highest over 20,0000 z
Jack Broomfield, ArchieM’Lean, and Ben .Jeukins,
elected Marine Board wardens.. Windeyer, J.P.,
appointed Fre® Library trustee vice Badham.. .
Volunteer Kngineer corps: Lieut. T. S. Parrott to
be Captain vice Rowe. 2nd Reg. Vol. inlantry:
Lieut. Fegg to be Captain vice Bartlett; 2nd Lieut.
Sloan to be Lieut, vice Fegg. 4th Reg. Vol. Infan-
try R A. Waddy to be Captain of Morpeth and
East Maitland corps: J. W. Scobie to be 2nd Lieut,
of ditto. Vol. Artillery: Lieut. Kyndon to be
Captain vice Remington; 2nd Lieut. Smail to be
MAORI ROYALTY.
KINO TAWIIAIO AND HIS CONSORT.
Lieut, vice Kingdon A. Campbell, M.L.C., has
introduced a Bill providing that any company
may keep extra-colonial registers. Notice to be
given to the registrar of joint stock compani s
where such register is kept. Such register to be
doomed part of tho company’s register of mem-
bers; no transaction respecting shares in an extra-
colonial register to be registered in any other
register — W. Giblin (father of the Tasmanian
Premier) died last week, aged 75. Over half a
oentury in the Van Dieman’s Land Civil Service...
Education report for ’B3 :—1340 Public Schools ;
average atteudanoe Docember quarter, 91,566 ;
ordinary attendance, whoo nothing to cause tem-
porary slackness, 95,000; on the books, 155,824 indi-
vidual pupils; only 16 small schools uninspected;
of 94,860 pupils examined in reading, 75 per cent,
up to standard; of 50,821 pupils examined in
writing, 83 per cent, up to standard ; receipts,
£824,500; expenditure, £821,852 (new buildings, ad-
ditions, repairs, &0., 46 percent.; teachers' salaries,
&o„ 43 per cent.; inspection, 2.8 per cent; ex-
aminers, 1.3 per cent.; school attendance officers,
1.6 per cent.; architects’ office, 1.1 percent.; Minis-
terial office, 1.3 per cent.); 211 new buildings and
29 additions to accommodate 24,496 pupils ; ex-
pended on land for sites, £51,181; existing arrange-
ment* for training teaohers unsatisfactory; 8
teachers i. A., 261. b., 180 ii. a., 331 n. b., 418 hi. a.,
311 111. 8., 262 111. 0., 493 probationers, 788 pupil
teaohers, 155 work-mistresses; no difficulty in
securing an ample suppy of teachers.... Queen-
sland Supreme Court Bench hold that F. H. Swan-
wick was not merely suspended in December, 1882,
but disbarred with leave to apply for re-admission
after twelve and before the expiration of the
succeeding six months. F.H.S. says he’ll bo
hanged if he wasn’t suspended...."Downing”-
street, dear Granny, not " Dowling’’-street, is the
hub. of the Empire —William Hampson, of the
Permanent Force, possessed of high character and
two good oonduot badges, sent up for ninety-six
hours and Afteen lashes for indecent behaviour in
William-street It is strange how frequently
“ highly respectable ” people get into trouble.
Fact is, one rarely knows how high a char-
acter a man possesses until he gets run in
A victim to the Rabbit Act Nuisance bewails (in
tho Western Grazier) what he denominates the
“literary humbug ” thatis indicted on leaseholders
by Abbott’s pet measure. Says he:—" Since Sept-
ember we have been required to furnish reports
of our operations carried on under the Act in ac-
cordance with the instructions of the inspectors,
principally with a view to recovery of the subsidy
of 75 per cent, of our outlay. These reports are
furnished on circumlocutory papers, formulated
by the department, which papers none but the
initiated noodles who formulate them can see the
utility of Nor do even they, seemingly, see it. for
after putting us to the trouole of complying with
the required forms, the payment of the subsidy ia
postponed repeatedly, on the plea of new and
amended circumlooutlou in the shape of other
forms, the utility of which does not appear a whit
more perspicuous.” Bruce’s theory is that as the
“ red tape of centralisation proved most destruc-
tive injts effects upon the bunny Ade selector it
ought to prove deadly to the rabbit.... Great Britain
has 28,000,000, the United States 50,000,000, Austra-
lia and New Zealand 76,000,0j0, and Argentina
94,000,000 sheep Henry Denziger wanted. Re-
spectable man arrested for him at Orange, and
sent along to St. Leonards. Police very sorry;
but no compensation for the victim of their
stupidity. This kind of thing is far too frequent.
Governor Loch appointed for 8 years (?)....
Blending of the orange and the green as a result
of the last Sydney election—an Abbott Minister
of Instruction Kiama hoodlum fined £6 for
sending indecent valentines to two young women.
... Sir John right for once. Three Warnambool
cabbages turned the scale at 1001 b., one running
331 b. A veritable “cabbage gardenl” Railway
locomotive explosion near Sunbury, Victoria.
The fireman and the engineer were killed ... Peo-
ple who travel by the trams should bear in
mind the old proverb about silence being golden.
One of the shining lights who adorn our Civil
Service, was heard on Tuesday, running down our
most successful charitable institution to a Victo-
rian Civil servant, now on an official visit to
N.S.W. And yet a strong party in Melbourne
wishes to establish a similar institution there on
the same lines as the K.S-W. one, because of its
greatsuccess — Orientiiner Cambodia, s s., arrived
in Port Jackson lately with 594 immigrants. No
serious sickness on the voyage ; but over crowd-
ing, inferior feeding, and bunk arrangements that
Saul Samuel wouldn’t have thought 0.K., had his
own married daughters been Intending passengers.
Fontana’s statues of the Queen and “Wales”
and New South ditto arrived last week. As
Itiverina complains she gets no attention from the
Central Government, we suggest to the Cabinet
the propriety of forwarding these Parkea-ordered
marbles to either Hay or Wilcannia. They would
suit admirably as caryatides for an up-country
lock-up
To Leopold’s coffin our A.G.’s sent a wreath of
eucalyptus,
Symboling Death hath in sorrow for his demise
ducal dipt us.
[This is the sort of rot our elegiac poet tipt us -
bad cess to him I]
N.S.W. Revenue for quarter ending March 31st
last, £1,498,265 (as against £1,512,861 for correspond-
ing period of ’B3). Victorian revenue lor name
period £1,040,485 (as sgainst £1,475,083) Railway
line from Goulburn to Tarago much damaged by
recent floods. The old story. Whitton won t pro-
vide snfficieut bridges in the first place : Then
floods rudely say “you must,” and at vast extra
expense to “ capital account ” the outlets have to
be made—Remains of George Vidal, C.P.S
Cassilis, found in the bush much mutilated by
native dogs —Gordon Thompson who eajs
he's the oldest living Victorian colonist, has pre-
sented his portrait in oil to the Melbourne City
Council Aldermen Tooth and Booker of Mary-
borough (Q.), say their town is the most stinking
spot in the colony, and a disgrace to civilised men
The Mayor said, “ No, no ! ” his two negatives being
possibly meant as an affirmative endorsement of
the statement. Indeed, his worship’s nose couldn’t
help but admit tho scents of the allegation
George King, Ballarat speculator, missed his way
among scrip. Creditors mourn to (circa) £BOOO
George Coppin observes, “ No loGks or fencing are
necessary on the Vernon. It is surrounded with
water, with a good supply of sharks constantly on
guard. The look-out is beautiful, cheerful, and
inspiring.” Whose look-out? The boys’ or the
sharks ? Victorian Anglers’Club now numbers
60 members. Talked Ash in Bourke-street on night
of 28th. Then adjourned to Zelland’s, and ate Ash
till midnight. Soon there won't be a Osh in the
South. Had some chance to survive the eating,
but the talking will kill them right away Foxes
increasing in Victoria. Farmers losing their
poultry. Skin and brush versus skin and bones
Service has an eye on the Press. A secret about
truant olAcers leaked out. Service mad® 70 clerks
sign a document declaring they didn’t blab. Public
Service ... B. C. Harriman, secretary Melbourne
Law Department, twelve months’ leave of ab-
sence. Thirty years in the one post. Matthew
Byrne locum, lenens ... Rev. 8. P. Lush lectured in
Melbourne Gospel Hall on “ Shams and Humbugs.”
Usual rule observed. Present company always, &c...
Victorian Government about to take over entire
telephonic system of that colony. Another Board
and another set of commissioners L.L. Smith is
on the warpath for a tank for sea-lions and a pond
tor seals in Exhibition grounds. Now, why not
have a park for land-lions, where L.L. could paw
the ground? W. M. K. Vale wants a school of
design for Newmarket. His design: A seat next
election—Victorian Alliance have resolved to
issue a large supply of new literature. More work
for tipsy Bohemians Burnett away, Booth away,
Glover going. Looks as if ribbonmen will soon be
able to have a rare old burst Melbourne D.T.
says: “Few positions in English society are more
envied than a Prince of the Blood.” There’s some-
thing wrong about that word “ envied.” Can’t be
done unless you give the word a foreign meaning.
....R. W. E. M’lvor banqueted in Yorick Club.
Going on an agricultural tear Programme of
Melbourne Philharmonic Association for 1884 :
April 11. Gounod’s “ Redemption;” Aug. 5, Costa’s
“Ell:” Nov. 11, Handel’s “Jephtha;” and Dec. 25,
Handel’s “Messiah.” Glover at Richmond: 199
pledges. “More joy in ’eaven over 199 as made
beasts of! theirselves an’ took Glover’s pledge than
over t’other fellow who was never drunk, and said
he didn’t want to 'ave nothing to do with no Glover.
.. .H.M. ships (fore-and-aft schooners). Undine and
Harrier, in Port Jackson. The Undine (originally
Baron Rothschild s yacht, Czarina), is of 276 tons,
carries one Gatling gun, and is commanded by
Lieut. CutAeld. The Harrier (also formerly a
yacht) is of 152 tons, carries one Gatling gun, and
is commanded by Lieut. Wilcox.... During the
last Queensland election, Mr. Boyce bet Mr. Face
—they are both Oapricornians—the of two
hats that such and such an event would come off,
lost his wager, and paid the amount to Face’s
credit at the “Q. National.” Face, in ignorance
that the bet had been paid, took out a summons
against him in the Rockhampton Court, got a
verdict (in Boyce s abseuce), and put an execution
into his house, for which act a Supreme Court
jury has mulcted him in £5O damages. Serves him
right. On the face of it his act was hat-rociously
Boyce-strous. [Gently.—Ed. B.]


EPO[?]
[?]ROPS
In the House of Lords the prayers are
even more mechanical than in the Commons. The
late Lord Grey used to tell a story of having seen
that pillar of orthodoxy, Lord Eldon, eorrecting a
private Act of Parliament whilst on his knees at
these prayers. On Lord Grey expressing surprise
at this, the Chancellor replied, “D it, you
would do it in church if you were worked to death
as I am.”
Yet another. Tho
Rev. Canon White, of
Musclebrook, is off for
the orthodox continental
« spree." He bagged the
usual testimonial and 240
sovereigns before start,
ing. Thorough “ white-
men” those Muscle-
brookers.
The Rev. Fred. C.
Boyer, newly appointed
Minister of the York-
Btreet Wesleyan Church,
is a good all round mus-
ician, and especially
shines as a performer on
the organ.
An English farmer,
recently called on to pay
£8 10s. for Church tithes,
resisted the claim. There-
upon the rector of the
parish took proceedings,
and seized a haystack.
The bailiff who took
formal possession did not
consider it necessary to
sleep on the premises, as
he sbould have done, and
when the property was
offered at auction, theie
were no outside bidders,
and it was finally knocked
down to the man of God
himself for £2. When he
Eroceeded to investigate
is purchase, however,
he lound, with pious
horror, that it consisted
of hedge trimmings, hop
vines, dead leaves, and
other rubbish, with a
thin coating of hay out-
Bide, worth a few shil-
lings—a regular tip-top
illustration of the old
gentleman’s religion :
rottenness at the core,and
an outside veneer of
piety, holiness and all the
virtues extant.
Primate Harry, in
his sermon in Christ’s
Church, South Yarra
(Vic.), on the 2nd instant,
retailed the Dream of
Wesley in a very impres-
sive manner. It may be re-
marked that Wesley once
dreamed he had been
transported to the gates
of heaven, and, given to
Interrogations as he was,
he stood there and asked,
“Are there Papists in
there?" Silence. “Are
thtre Presbyterians in
there ?” Silence. “ Are
there Lutheransin
there?" Silence. And so
on round all the denom-
inations of Christianity
that the pious zealot
could find the names of.
To every question, how-
ever, the same chill
silence was the only
response. "Are there
Christians in there?”
asked Wesley at last.
Then the whole court of
heaven burst into mel-
ody, and Wesley awoke
with a new thought in
his head. The frimate
made a great " hit ” with
this anecdote, in hie
argument that when the
State menaces the use of
the Bible in the Public
achooisall the denomina-
tions should join hands
and pull together. But
easy a bit. Surely it is an
easy consciousness of the
fitness of things that
applies Wesley’s beautiful
dream to the subject
matter in hand, and as
easy a consciousness of
the meaning of te,rms
that enthusiastically ae-
cepta the application.
Why, the refusal of the
State to permit religious
instruction in the Public
Schools has, as its most
vital consequence, the
annihilation of distinc-
tive sects. Is not this
consequence in accord
with Wesley’s dream?
The Primate’s exhorta-
tion was intelligible, and,
as a strategic manoeuvre,
is the only effective way
to put the State in a
corner, but the illustra-
tion which loot the charm
to the exhortation carries
anyone who wiil take the
trouble to think right
away about to the other
camp.
Bishop Barry loquitur: —“ Of any questions
•r discussions which may have been created in the
past with regard to the filling of this See, I have
known nothing, and I desire to know nothing.”
Loud applause—from the low churchmen who
during the election proceedings hadn’t scrupled
to speak very nasty spiteful things about the
heterodoxy of one Alfred Barry, Principal of
King’s College, London. Naturally these men are
pleased to know that their malicious words are not
to be east up against them.
We read in Uie Borbal O’Kane how a
" travelling correspondent of the Church of
Bngland,” on arriving per coach at a town not far
from Charters Towers, alighted, and seeing a sub-
stantial looking private residence made tracks for
it, and said, “ Mr. Blank, will you give a Keeris-
tian gentleman luncheon.” Blank pointed to the
hotel over ttl& way, but tho holy man eventually
got at the soft side of Blank, who asked him in.
At the end of a week the pious one said he had
lost his purse, and had not the wherewithal, to pay
his way to the next town ; the good-natured
Blank procured him a cheap ride from a friend,
and also lent him a cheque for 3)3. When this
Angler-can got to the end of his journey he said,
“Mr. Blank is a very nice gentleman, but he is a
D. flat.”
Beat the tom-tom and send round the
plate, dearly beloved, for the support of the
mission to the heathen of Booridilchooska, and
shut your eyes fast against such reports as this
(clipped from the Gunnedah Independent) “ A
drunken mother, followed by three children,
whose ages varied from about three to eight years
was to be seen staggering about Barber-street
yesterday morning. Almost every person she
met she treated to a volley of oaths and vile
A Recommendation.
TOM GARRETT: "I have known him for years, and always considered him a most
temperate person.”
language; and occasionally showered some on
her little children.” Woe to such hypocrisy as
compasses sea and land to make the islanders of
the sea believe in a Christianity veneered with
British commercial economy and missionary trade
principles, and glibly talks of the civilising in-
fluences of its pinchbeck creed, while in our own
population centres, where those influences have
been in operation for years, there are men,
women, and children by hundreds who are in-
finitely more degraded than the heathen. Why,
that unsexed Guonedah mother swearing at hor
children, in her beast-like drunkenness, would
appal a heathen—if he were innocent of rum,
missionary, and shoddy.
Austin Pember is on the right track
towards a mighty big truth when in his jnst pub-
lished “Pericles Brum” he writes:—“A certain
philosopher, being desirous of describing the con-
test betwixt reason and the priesthood, thus spoke:
‘ Bewildered in an immense forest during the
night, and having only one small torch for my
guide, a stranger approaches and thus addresses
me, Iriend, blow out thy torch if thou wouldst
make sure of the right path.’ This stranger was a
priest. The idea is cognate to that of W. C.
Bennett, whore he says:
“ A people dwelt in darkness,
In gloom and biindlDg night,
Till some grew tired of candles,
And dared to long for light;
When straight the established lanterns
Were stirred with hate of day,
And loud and lawful rushlights
In wrath were heard to say:
O, have you not your lanterns ?
Your little shining lanterns ?
What need have you of sunshine ?
What do you want with day ?”
Quakers in the United Kingdom number
18,000. of whom some 2000 (22 congregations) are in
the Lon lon district. The Bedford Institute, Spital-
nelds (named after the late Peter Bedford), is the
centre of a home mission, including similar estab-
lishments at Bunhill-flelds, Bethnall-green, Kat-
cliff, Clerkenwell, Deptford, and a convalescent
cottage at Epping. 1800 children and adults regu-
larly attend the schools and gatherings. A hundred
and thirty friends give their services as teachers
and helpers. Income from subscriptions, about
£2lOO per annum. Lending libraries, magic lantern
lectures, young men’s mutual improvement asso-
ciations, temperance bands of hope, cricket and
football clubs, sewing classes, clubs for procuring
blankets, boots, and bedding, adult classes, a
school for sookery, a flower mission, penny banks,
and free Sunday breakfasts for the homeless among
the varied forms of work. The promotion of
temperance a prominent feature in all its branches.
In the summer months, emersions, outings, and
cricket clubs are well c»»c*uraged. For wet
weather and winter, libraries, lectures, and discus-
sion classes are rendered available. Occasionally,
industrial exhibitions and cookery competitions
are held. The committee of the Bedford Institute
have established near their premises a temperance
colfee tavern. The convalescent cottage at Epping
has received within a few years more than lOC©
inmates. A charge of 3s. a week for board and
lodging is required from each inmate, and half-
price for children. And all this sort of work is
carried on without any attempt at proselytism.
“The Departed Qliosta of Dead Men” is
the title of a lecture In which one, Tom Owen,
seeks to substitute for the orthodox notion that
the body Is but a tabernacle for the soul which is
the man, his own ideas that the body is the man,
and that when the body dies the man dies never to
go again until “ the Lord Jesus Christ shall descend
from heaven with a shout” waking “ the sleeping
dead to life and immortality.” Orthodox folks
may be right in their notion, so may Owen be in
his. Both notions deal, according to the agnostics,
with the absolutely unknowable; and as far as
these are concerned, it’s about six of one and
half-a-dozen of the other. Their maxim is—
Here is our good and our treasure store,
This let us gather and crave no more.
This world is lovely whate’er befall—
We know not the Cower behind it all.
They hold that man “knows not” and has no
means by which to acquire a knowledge of the
after life (if there be an after life) hence his specu-
lations about it are of less worth than the shadow
of thistledown.
A clerical “pain.”—
Tom Paine.
A queer scene hap-
pened in the Hobart
Wesleyan Chapel the
other week. After the
Rev. Lavers had wound
up his “ discoorse ” a Sal-
vation Army man In the
congregation mo u n t e d
a seat and began to
hold forth in true har-
monious style. The par-
son and his hearers for a
time were dumbfounded,
and just as a suggestion
to kick the Intruder out
was about to be acted on,
the former started a re-
sonant hymn, and tho
congregation joining In,
the harmy spouter col-
lapsed into silent prayer.
The Sutton and
Epsom Advertiser
(Eng.) under date Feb. 16,
■ a yB= - “ The Rev. G.
Is orth Ash, M.A., senior
curate of Sutton, has
been appointed by Dr.
harry, Bishop of Sydney,
to the important chnrch
of AH Saints, Sydney. He
will sail on hoard the
Liguria. It is not every-
one who would care to
leave England, but Mr.
Aoh leaves Sutton for
one of the finest cities in
the southern hemisphere.
He is not going into the
bush or the desert, or
among savages who only
appreciate clergymen
when they are cooked.
Mr Ash. is admitted to
be one of the best preach-
ers in the neighbour-
hood. Which “All
Saints ’’can be meant,
fbat at Woollahra (where
little Mr. Mort “ in-
cumbs”) or that at Par-
ramatta) where Parson
Biomfleld has care of
souls) or that at Peters-
ham (where Rural Dean
Baber holds the fort) ?
Under the heading
“A well-deserved Ke-
buke,” the Evening
Nooze recently told the
following story : “ A
well-merited rebuke was
given to an impatient
member of his congre-
gation by the Rev. J. D.
Langley at St. Simon and
St. Jude’s Church last
night (Sunday). The
gentleman ’ was seated
in the front, near the
pulpit, and attracted tho
rev. gentleman’s atten-
tion by pulling out his
watch, looking at the
time, and closing it again
with a loud cliok, which
was heard nearly all over
tho church. The Rev.
Mr. Langley Stopped,
looked at his own watch,
and turning to tho im-
patient one, said “ Never
mind the time, it will only
be a quarter of an hour
more. The person addres-
sed looked very uncom-
fortable indeed.” On the
broad hypothesis that
the cad who wrote that
Ear. is not a liar, Mr. J.D
angley must not feel
surprised if people regard
him as a very discourte-
ous and sillyfellow. There
are a hundred reasons
why a man might need to
look at his wat c h in
church—fer instance he
might have to catch a
train or a tram or to go
home to administer medi-
cine to a sick friend. For
a minister to cooly as-
sume that a particular
looking at a watch during
sermon time, is an im-
pertineut act deserving
censure,is an exceedingly
impudent assumption,
and a most un - Christian
one to boot, since it im-
putes evil where in all
likelihood no evil is in-
tended, or even If it be
intended where it is ab-
solutely out of the min-
ister’s power, to say for
certain, that it is in-
tended. As Barry, the
Bishop, says, an educated
clergy is sorely needed—
the education to include
manners.
THE LONDON WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER
Lokdoh, March 5,1883.
Leading 1 Article :**••• While on the subject
of Waltham Watches we may mention that we
have seen a letter from the commander of the
Gordon Castle (Castle line of steam packets), who
■was fortunate enough to save life at sea, and who,
for his gallant eonduet, was presented in September
last with a Gold Keyless Waltham Watch by the
President of the United States, on behalf of the
London Local Marine Board. Referring to this
presentation watoh he says ‘ When I left London
the watoh was six seconds fast, and on my arrival
at Singapore it was only three seconds slow, a
most extroardinary performance for a watch, as I
carried it on my person the whole time. I com-
pared it every day with my chronometers on the
passage out, and it seldom or ever differed one
second from them; in fact, I found it almost if
not as good as my chronometers, which is a great
deal to say for a watch carried about and subjected
o all kinds of jolts.'"


HER SPEECH RESTORED-
Clair View, Inver ell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. She retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to sec Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were'
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
X remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
4AS. R. HATCHER.
Prepared according to the directions oc Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &0.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
_ Sandusky, 0., May 81, 1880,
I have used your Add Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as Hie gastrio derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish drculation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston. Maas., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and In all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
" Hereford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, • it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable oompound.”
Can toe toorne toy the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance ef com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomaoh. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Parely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substanoe, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
■tomaoh, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Mortous, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use In
oase of emergenoy, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou tine colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very test
steel and Norway iron, severely tested betoie
nsed
BBCAkTSE the trimmings are of the bert No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
nsed in their kniah
BECAUSE they are each and all built under speoisl
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leuding carriage builders inAmrjica.
and specially constructed for the Austie'ian
climate
And because all who use them say they a re thb
BIST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
■AKRON .MOTHAM A CO.,
Ml* AgfPt*
Personal
Items
The King of the Belgians has expended
*400,000 oa the International Congo Mission, and
made testamentary arrangements for continuing
the work in case of his doith.
Gladstone has asked Goldwin Smith to
accept the Regius Professorshlo of Modern History,
Oxon., in the place of Stubbs. Goldwin Smith is
the “ social parasite ” of Beaconsfleld's “ Lothair.”
Gray, who murdered his wife a little while
back, has had the death sentence commuted to
one of twenty years’ imprisonment. Gray is only
uixty-Hve years of age now, and it is hoped that
lie may see his youthful follies in the right light
when he comes “out” and begins a new life. A
man’s judgment ought to be matured at eiyhty-
)loe.
Mary Anderson, the divine, declares she
has faithfully followed Longfellow’s advioe, given
hor at the threshold of her career, that she should
see a beautiful picture, read a beautiful poem, and
hear somo beautiful music every day. But it
wasn’t Longfellow who told her to wash down
three beautiful plates of cowheel aud tripe with a
beautiful quart of lager evory night at supper.
Letup. We’re getting just a trille too much of
me and Mary."
The Jingos are easting it up against the
Grand Old Man that hlg father wus a large slave
owner. Wore he to retaliate in kind and to give
biographical details of tho fathers of somo or the
Jlngos, he’d have to treat of worse subjects than
slave-owning in a good many cases—specially
would it bo so, were he to tackle the paternal
records of the Australian Jingos 1 It isn't to be
wondered at that the G. O. M. replies furiously to
the Opposition when their atrtocks are winged with
malicious invective (foreign to the issue) and
gross violations of tho etiquette of seemly debate.
Mr. Hugh Conway, the pretty jcmiejrramlcr
of the Hay market Theatre, London, has lately made
a successful dibut as au author, his novel, '* Called
Hack,” having been very favourably received.
Conway, as a stage lover, has for years made sad
havoc with tho hearts of boarding-school misses,
and, doubtless, his new-gotten fame invests him
with additional interest in the eyes of his fair
admirers. Like Pinero, the playwright (author of
‘gThe Squire," “Imprudence,” &c.), Conway was
for some time under Irving’s management, and
pldyed in ‘ The Bells” soon after its original pro-
duction.
Didn’t know Sir ’Enery was a recognised
British author? Well, read the following from
the Athenaeum of 23rd February “ The Com-
pany of Authors had its first meeting on Monday,
at the offices of the Social Science Association.
Bir Frederick Pollock took the chair, and Cardinal
Manning was among the speakers. The company
already counts between seventy and eighty fellows
and associates. The list includes the following
names Mr. R. D. Blackmore, Lord Crewe. Pro-
fessor Foster, F. R. 8.. Cardinal Manning, Sir Henry
Parkes, Sir F. Pollock, General Sir F. J. Goldsrnid,
Sir H. Thompson, Mr. Wilkie Collins, Mr. William
Black, Mr. Charles Roade, Mr. Bala,Canon Frisham,
and Miss C. M. Yonge.
Before Buokle had been appointed to suo-
ceod the late Chenery in the editorship of the
Times, Yates,wrote in his World:— “The ques-
tion, in brief, is whether tho editor of the Tim vs is
to be a superior literary clerk, who will do well,
doubtless, but will not act poworfully ; or a man
with sufficient vigour to breathe a new spirit into
its columns, and to make, in one way or another,
its inlluence felt throughout the paper If the
latter, Mr. Chenery’s successor can scarcely be
looked for within the limits of Printing House
Square. Who, theD, is he to be ? “ Yates when he
scribbled that question had a certain Edmund in
his mind’s eye as the man with sufficient vigour
etc., but, for the second time, his darling dream
perished in the dreaming.
The Marquis of Normnnby, being merely a
qniet and respoctable old gentleman of mediocre
parts, has not, politically, found favour in the eyes
of tho Melbourne Aob; and the noisy little journal
worked itself up into a considerable excitement
over the farewell address, presented to tho out-
Soing Governor. The Aoe, from a high senso of
uty, finds it necessary to oxplain that “it would
bo most lunfortunate if the Governer whom we
are now expecting should suppose that Lord Nor-
manby was an example to bo imitatod, orsh-uld
be led to believo that ho had earned either respect
or affection during his residence amoDgst us.”
Yet, in its righteous indignation, the Aoe has
surely got a wee bit mixed, for, later on, it l emarks
of the unfortunate Marquis, "If no one can say
much good of him neither can anyone say much
harm.’
The Western Grakish, in referring to the
fact that Mr. Police Sub-inspector Hitch had tem-
porarily occupied the local Angiicau pulpit, re-
marked:—“We have often had the privilege of
hearing Mr. Hitch expound the criminal law in the
Police Court as it affects tho temporal interests of
the State, with considerable power, lucidity, and
emphasis. And bearing in mind that Mr. Hitch
hid the benefit of a theological training in early
life, when the ministry was the profession designed
forihim, we doubt not that tho vindication of the
eternal verities of “—etcetera, and so forth. Well,
wealßoharo had the privilege of hearing Hitch ex-
pound the criminal law in the (Ilurrowa) police
oourt, and, on the strength of our experience, arc
prepared to back him to drop more h’s and intro-
duce into his discourse more sesquipedalian jaw-
broakers than even Dan O’Connor or the only
Nlnian. Woshuddcrtothinkof 'ltch in the pulpit,
though on the subject of sulphnr treatment ho
should be an authority.
The Hon. John Macgregor, who died in
Melbourne on the 27th ultimo, was one of the old
identities whose life was not wholly written on
water. A quarter of a century ago his business
as a solicitor was sufficiently advanced to enable
him to devote a share of his energies to public
questions. For the next fifteen years'ho wasactlve
and honest in council and debate. There was a
roughness sometimes about him and a doggednoss
in his manner and demeanour. But a great deal
of his work was good. He might almost be called
tho father of tho Bill which determined payment
of members; ho stoutly advocated a national sys
tern of education when the heads of his fellow
colonists were not nearly so clear on the subject as
now; and he lent his arm to the destruction of
Stato-aid to religion. He was not Vicjtorian born,
but was oduoated in that colony, having landod
there when a boy of 16. His age at time of death
was 56. It was his own impression that ho was a
Presbyterian, but no doubt ho was mistaken. Ho
sprang from Skye off the coast, of Scotland, and it
is to be hoped that ho has now sprung sky-ward
again.
Judge M'Farland was buried on the 7th.
As author of the “Digest of Mining Law of Vic-
toria ” he deserves to bo remembered for some
time. Over 20 years ago he was thrown among a
vast pilo of goldfield precedents, regulations, and
practices, through which it was by no moans an
eusy thing to explore a passage. Ho succeeded
well, in the first instance, as a practitioner, and
even better afterwards as a writer. His life was
Short, but up till a few years ago it was an aetivo
ono. Perhaps some will say that the Judge’s
bench is also a sphere of great activity, and if it be
so, Judge M’Farland was active throughout. He
was certainly active enough a little time back,
When Nathan’s appeal case osmo up. Somo
thought that on that occasion he lost his head.
His law, however, seems to have been right
«nough, as the event demonstrated. It seems only
fair, with the after light thrown ou his bodily
condition, to place the vagaries of that occasion
to the credit of an infirmity over which he had no
control. He had almost lost the use of his
stomach. His parents are still alive, his father
having carried on the business of a saddler in Bast
Melbourne since he arrived in the colony. The
family came from the North of Ireland over 30
years ago, and, as John was then but a bov, ho may
be said to have acquired all his education in the
colony. He died in his 46th year.
J. Dods, the Bourke-street baker, will be
some time before he'll do it again. Nearly all the
ills that happen to us are traceable to alcohol or en-
thusiasm. Dods gave way to the latter. He ex-
hibited some household bread at the show in the
Melbourne Exhibition, and, on winning first prize,
appears to have lost, his head. He arranged for
the delivery of batch after batoh, and spread the
loaves out on a set of tables in the building, and
made the press free to sample them. Never since
Ceres baked the first cake was there such a spec-
tacle of persistent sampling. When the building
was being shut up at night the line of men with
pencils in their waistcoat pockets that filed down
the steps would have made Colonel Sargood think
that the entire militia force had been on duty.
This, however, did not satisfy Dods. He yearned
for another notico from the press. He rushed
away to the market, and bought a lot of kegs of
butter. Next day he male the press free to sample
the butter on the top of the bread. Talk of a
bivouac ! Where all the men who professed to be
pressmen came from was a mystery, but after
ceasing to investigate that mystery, the still more
inscrutable mystery of where all the bread and
butter went to assaultod you. Reflection on these
two mysteries will occupy Mr. Dodds in his idle
hours lor the balanco or his natural life. He ad-
mits that he has been noticed by the press, and
that whether exhibitions come or go, he will never
again put bread and butter in its road. Take.it
easy, Dods. You got off safe, considering. Had it
been tripe 1
Major Smith—who after personal experi-
ence of the recent collision near Little River,
ought to know something about bis subject—has
been holding forth at Ballarat, on the iniquities of
Victorian railway management. One of the worst
iniquities, in the eyes of the gallant Major, is the
engagement of Mr. Speight, as Chief Commissioner,
for although “ it was true he had spent twenty
years of his life amongst railways, thoso years
were spent at home and not here. ’ Poor. Mr.
Speight, having been merely the manager of the
Midland ltailwuy Company, couldn’t, according to
the Major’s reasoning, be the right man to put at
the head of affairs in Victoria, where " oolonial
experience ” was essential; but it’s needless to men-
tion that the eloquent warrior was able to put his
finger on the party for the position. Now, “ colo-
nial experience,’’ in the particular matter of
Victorian railway travelling, has been so very un-
pleasant of late that the majority of our friends
across the border hailed Mr. Speight’s advent with
delight, and no sensible man thought of laying the
blame of the recent mishap at Little Kiver upon
the shoulders of a Commissioner who was only two
months in the colony. Mr. Speight has a heavy
task before him to sweep away the accumulated
evils of long years of jobbery and mismanagement,
but, unhappily, the very nature of his work will
ensure for him the bitter opposition of patriots,
to whom the very word “reform” is obnoxious.
Judging from malicious “pars.” in the Melbourne
press, and certain recent public utterances, the
new arrival needs to be blessed with a thick skin,
and a stout heart, indeed.
Some Victorian has been sending photo-
graphs of Dr. Moorhouse and Mr. James Service
to the Phrenological Magazine, humbly ask-
ing for an opinion of their respective cranial
developments. And the Magazine (it’s awfully
nice of it) has published the result of its profes-
sional studies cf these two interesting subjects.
The Bishop, it appears, has been exceedingly well
eared for by Nature in the departments of bene-
volence, veneration, conscientiousness, hope, and
spirituality. Now, we’re not much impressed
with the originality ol the Phrenological
Magazine in this description, because everyone
knows that all bishops are great in 8., V., C., H.,
and B.—it’s their business to excel in these matters.
If we had been informed that the worthy divine
had a strong inclination to turf pursuits, or was a
professional pedestrian at heart, it wouldn’t have
looked quite so muoh like a “ cooked ” opinion.
But the description of the Hon. James Service is so
startling, yet so decided, that we feel impressed
with its genuineness, despite our previously con-
ceived notions:—“ He is a man of great intellect, as
sharp as a Toledo blade in his criticisms. .
His humour Is a peculiar facultv, and enables him
to enjoy men’s company, as well as to turn them
to profit. (Well, he's Scotoh.) Not many men are
so well qualified to govern men. . . . He would
have made a humorous writer if he had given his
mind in that direction.” Here, at last, we get a
glimpse of the genuine James, through the medium
of his bumps, wig humour is a “ peculiar faculty ”
(so it is - peculiar in its modesty In always keeping
well in the background), and he’s “ well qualified
to govern men. After that we won’t believe any
of the stories about Graham B. having “ a little
lamb ’’—they’re calumnious. We will readily be-
lieve, too, that James “would have made a
£H. m 2 r S u ? wr , iter '” but feel duly grateful that he
didn t give his mind in that direction.” By the
way, though, no montion is made of the Hon.
gentleman’s roving disposition and love of travel—
the photograph oouldn’t have brought out the
bump of all that properly.
The information hied against the printer
of the Brisbane Courier by Sam. Griffith’s
Attorney - General, ex-parson Rutledge, makes
James Foote, Chairman of Committees, the princi-
pal puppetof the John Doe and Richard Roe order
The ‘ false or scandalous ” libel was stated to be
that Hill, the printer “ unlawfully, wickedly, and
maliciously intending to injure the said James
H oote and others in character and reputation as
members of the Legislative Assembly of Queens-
land and members of ‘The Committee of Elections
and Qualifications ’ aforesaid, and to cause it to bo
suspected and believed that they were corrupt
and wicked In their office and conduct as members
of the said Assembly and of the said committee,
and acted in the performance of their duties as
members of the said Assembly and of the said
committee contrary to their oaths, and from
corrupt and improper motives, and were prepared
and intended to continue so to act, and to do the
will of the then First Minister of the Crown of this
polony in all matters and questions coming before
them as‘The Committee of Elections and Quali-
fications, without reference to the truth or justice
of the matter or question did publish." &c. This
parade of language reads rather comically to thoso
who know James Foote In Queensland ho is
or usod to be, popularly known as “ Jams Futt’’’
in reference to a generally accredited iegond that
ho used so to sign his own name before ortho-
{rraphic apcuracy became important to him.
Jams Futt was an illiterate small huckster in
Ipswich, Queensland, his handwriting was
in keeping with his spelling, and bis* ideas
of the conscientious obligations of a publio man
w #* re harmony with both. Not long
after his first appearance in Parliament he dis-
fc K B ' U i, Bh J 3d adm iniatering, to a member
who had challenged some vote or other, on the
ground that ft was directed by a personal interest
a severe rebuke The idea of a disinterested vote
appeared to strike “ Jams ” with amazement
aQ d ho seemed to consider that he was exposing
a sort of idiot when ho retorted that "a
man who voted against his own interest was a
The incident is historical in Queensland.
and j|'! ie memory of it throws a glare of grim ab-
surdity on the solemn assumption that to allege
that James hoote could be swayed by party con-
on theffaoo oH* false ’ wlclie d. and perverse idea
George Thorne, junior, of Wellington, is
the official who farms out and dry-nurses the host
rn.Tr?? Bto* 8 to* “Seats employed by the N.Z.;Govern-
ment Lire Assurance Department. Geonre baa a
Bt * l * ry °J £j3 ° a-year as Superintendent of*Agents,
«n‘!R 1 K kS ) UU a j ew c J um bB by way of commission
nrri o a 8 n nn BB done tor .bis department by his sub-
ordinates. Ihe commish” amounted, for the oast
year or two, to the tidy little trifle of £3600a-vear
the salary, you see, foots up to a
not far behind the pay of the President nf « Rn
public of fifty million of people. It shows what a
liberal-minded lot Qf idiots the half million wlon-
lets of Njpw Zealand must be, to pay a tenth-rate
official such a thundering big screw. Why, hang
It, it’s nearly enough for US I And this Is how
George Thorne, Junior, puts in his time for the
money. He has about three thousand agents under
him. (They are not included in the census anv
more than the rabbits are, but they are there all
the same, and equally active and pestiferous).
George sits in his offioe in Wellington, and keeps
the wires at work directing the movements of this
horde all over the colony. Their instructions are
to make tracks straight for the pockets of the
long-suffering colonists, and they obey them to
the letter. The department allows a commission
of 30s. per £lOO for lives taken (quite a liberal pre-
mium tor murder, by the way), and of this the
super pockets 65., the canvasser getting the balance
of 15s. When a new agent is put on the road,
George at once makes himself legally responsible
for soles for his boots; and when a few proposals
have been sent in and accepted, he is prepared to
buy a second-hand dickey and some paper collars,
to put him on an equal footing with the par-
son of the district. These advancements are
duly deducted from the canvasser's commission.
Joseph Mackay, ex-canvasser, now on bail
for the alleged embezzlement of Government
moneys, has been unkind enough to publish
several of his late superintendent's telegrams.
This is one of them, addressed to Joseph :
“ Wellington, 38/11/83. Urgent.—(Confidential.)—
Honorable Loader and Walters, Director and Man-
ager Victorian Mutual, aboard express train
Duuedin to-day spying with view starting N.Z.
Have few bankruptcy placards and others in all
carriages. Do not canvass them, but be the news-
paper man travelling. Apply the pump handle
judiciously. Tell them that Government Insur-
ance agents are thick as bees; hard enough for
them exist. Mutual agents starve, or worse;
sympathise and deprecate the unfair advantage
Government Insurance possess. They are
to be canvassed again in Dunedin by Ed-
monds.—George Thorne, junior.” Now see
where the fun comes in. Joseph interviewed the
Honourable gentlemen mentioned in the above
telegram and was at once engaged a i a good man
to canvass New Zealand for the company. Then
on a dispute arising between Mackay and his late
employers about commission—Joseph retaining
some monies in hand to pay himself—ho was
promptly arrested and safely lodged in gaol. But
this oold blooded adventurer took his revenge in
a particularly cruel manner on the estimable sub-
ject of this par. George Thorne, junr., was called
as a witness for the prosecution at the K. M. Court,
Geraldine, when the case came on for hearing, and
Joseph, who conducted his own defence, kept the
poor dear gentleman in the witness box with no-
thing to drink, day after day for nearly a week,
under the most terrible fire of cross-examination
ever witnessed in that Court. But he survived it
and had the satisfaction of seeing his unruly sub.
committed for trial.
• • •
Dr. Burgoyne, of Emmaville, Glen Innes,
has dropped in for 10,000—not pills, but^-“sovs.”
Henry Hanton, who lately struck it rich at
Bingera mines, is off on a “tower” to “Ould
Oireland.” Madame Elmblad, neS Miss Menzics,
the pianiste, is about to settle in her native Mel-
bourne.
• • •
Miss Mary Anderson sat in the ladies’ gal-
lery of the Commons for some time one February
night, but left in time for stage duties When
Madame Ephru6Bl (daughter of Baron Rothschild)
was presented at the Russian Court, where Jews
always receive scant courtesy, the Empress passed
her without notice— Great excitement was caused
in Paris by Mrs. Bonanza Mackay’s treatment of
the great painter, Meissonier. After painting her
portrait for £3OOO, she was so dissatisfied that she is
said to have consigned the work of art to a limbo
whioh respect for good taste prevents ns'even
hinting at. At any rate, she destroyed the paint-
ing. ... Miss Fortescuo’s lawyer is Mr. Charles Rus-
sell, Q.C., one of the most brilliant advocates of the
English bar; a gentleman, moreover, who is politi-
cally a strong opponent of Lord Cairns— so he is not
likely to be merciful in cross-examtion. The trial
comes on at the height of the London season, and
of course it will be necessary to give no admission
to the court without a ticket. Garmoyle has gone
to Greece, and the general opinion is, he might go I
to Gehenna, and be no loss— It is seldom any one
rises to “forbid the banns,” still seldomer that the
person happens to be the bridegroom himself. In j
a Lancashire church an old gentleman of 88, whose
name had just been announced rose to dispute the
point. The oause was simply that the lady had ;
ordered the banns to be announced without con- !
suiting the old gentleman. As she had been nurs-
ing him, and he was rich, she thought it worth
while making a bold stroke.
An English lady states that by stopping
her cook’s perquisites she was saved £445 per
annum out of her housekeeping money, and haH,
therefore, decided to raise cookie’s wages to £3O
per annum. Generous creature I You would not,
however, have thought that a lady who has thou-
sands to lavish yearly on her household ex’s,
would have troubled about the grease, etc., her
servant sold to the rag and bottle-man. We sup-
pose her ladyship now sells the grease herself, and
that she is a good customer to those oriental
gentry who give you the highest value for old
clothes, jewellery, umbrellas, babies’ clothing, and
every kind of property. Ladies and gentlemen
called upon at their own residences. Hold on till
our Biloela butler gives next door’s dog the
head of our red herring again. She’ll cop it!
The red herring, that reminds us, is a viand quite
apart from all others. It has a dis’inct indivi-
duality. It’s power is infinite. Perhaps there is
no man alive who could eat a whole red herring at
one sitting. But he doesn’t think so. As he takes
it out of its Tribune wrapping, fresh from the
shop, and looks into its expressive face, he loves it
and feels almost inclined to send over and get
trusted for another. Its expression is placid, and
there is that dreamy look about its eye which we
miss in the oyster. The oyster, when cooking, is
the reverse of assertive, whereas when the girl
puts our military friend in the pan, he exhales
an odour sufficient to let the whole street know
that there is no expense spared in your
domestic arrangements. At first, when a man
begins on a red herring at breakfast—or say 7
o’clock dinner—he takes a large bito. Next time
he moderates it. Then he takes a smaller one still.
Next go he contents himself with holding his
bread-and-butter four inches above the centre of
his plate. Then he tells the girl to take the|damn
thing down to the bottom of the yard, and hastily
begins to gulp down his thirteenth cup.


WeakWinmiisHen
Whore debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
m ier stomach
instruments. Thfßtrtsfraentof
Hervous .Debility and
Physical Decay isnsffonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnocrifl,
new mid direct methods and absolute eh or.
onirhneM, Foil information and Troatiße free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52CaBtlsrcngh St., Sydney
JpUBLI£ NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON * CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
late 482 and 484,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE.
Ob. TWO DOORS NORTH OB’ OLD SHOP
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.
Rochester. U. .A.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
239 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
236 and 237 PITT BTREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENIIALL STREET. LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
BTREET, DUBBO.
tSf Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
□Tla.© SB'U-g-g'fLes!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER, OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPKESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEBT MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
FIRE! "
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
C2S^i.2vd s EZRTXCE
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
187 PITT ST., (Opposite Coxnpagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Otmaa Pianos, Smith Ops, ait Htv Music.
Note the New Address —NEAR KING STREET.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE <
FOII 1884,
S~ plHI ' ■ ■'
"■"yyViBWHMH
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Oar Prices t T fl Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion . customer.
Write to us,
OR
Call on us.
JamesM COMPY,
W GLX)HUD STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Memoriam.
J.B.
[By Baron Tennyson, &c. &c. &c.-“ on for ever.”]
[Our friend, Mr. Hugh K Liptus, has forwarded us
a note of exasperation sent to him, for us, by B.
Tennyson. Thus the Baron, musingly:]—
0, would his name were aught but Brewn,
Or, being Brown, were aught but John!—
Ah! what a name to “ muse” upon !
My Melpomene, do not fvown.
I watch long nights in moated halls,
I mix my thoughts with milk and rum-
go mote the inspiration come;
But naught comes, save the lone cat-calls.
You say ’tis but a barren theme—
Cold-hearted, you would make a pun
Unworthy of a Tennyson,
And dear e’en at a “ crown" a ream.
But what care I for smile or frown ?
On Age’s breast my song will throb:
And, since I can’t sublet the job,
I’ll do my beat for old John Brown.
I’ve tried “ Descendant of De Bruce.”
Or “ . ? cot who’d hae wi’ Wallace bled,”
Or “ Chiel o’ Freedom, highland bred,”—
I’ve tried them, but it ain’t no use.
The spiders spoil the cornice gilt,
The plush is hanging on the peg;
The whisky still lies in the keg,
Untouched, untossed, is the thrown kilt.
No more I’ll oil his ready hand,
Nor work with gold his rusty mind;
He had a soul above his kind—
I saw his footprints on the sand.
I’ve got a ton of such-like stuff.
About as true—about as trite;
But still I’m crying for the light—
Though some might think me light enough.
0, cruel I hew my bosom bled
The Grand Old Man to give that gibe.
He said he’d tip some other scribe
To write his praise when he is dead.
My theme demands a lowly lay,
For one who draws his team, around—
Would we could have a “drink allround,”
And write the “ par.” another day I
Plant gilliflowers on his grave,
And wet them with the mountain dew;
I’ve blown my pipe till all is blue,
And here’s a “ bar ’ let’s end the strain.
The Prisoner of Geelong.
I.
Mv ohin hang* down, but not with time,
Nor hangs it so
Through a villain’s blow,
As sometimes happens in our clime.
Mv nose is stopped, though not with cold,
But with the want of olden smells,
Por it was wont to catch and hold
The whiff of breezy death that wells
From out the vat in which I had
The drink that seat the people mad.
My ears hang flabby down my neck.
Great flapping flags that tell of wreck.
And all these ills are on me cast
Because I held the grand old faith
Which teaches, whether life or death
You deal in. make your money fast.
We were seven. One, though, died,
And in a little, by his side.
Another threw his bones about.
And then another sliddered out,
Which left but four to fight the cause
O’ the grand old Faith against the laws—
Four fearless champions, bold and strong,
To fight the battle in Geelong.
Tt.
James Miller was the first that fell;
He kept the Olive Branch Hotel;
His was a heart t hat scorned the gains
Springing from Drudgery’s weary pains.
He looked aloft, he saw the stars,
Defied Oppression’s iron bars.
And, like Prometheus, rose on high,
And stole three stars from out the sky.
He bottled up, and each bright star
Shone from the bottle o’er the bar,
And men who tasted felt the flush
Of high, etherial, godlike lush.
But as Prometheus on a rock
Was cast for having stol’n the fire,
So James, to satisfy the ire
Of law, was cast into the deck.
Eight guineas he was forced to pay
Unto the tyrants on that day.
hi.
Then Mrs. Pinge, the loveliest soul
That ever stirred punch in a bowl,
Who also had the gift of Faith,
The grand old Faith that laughs at death,
.And who am'ong the stars had been,
And 8tol’n a few, and brought them down,
And shook their lustre out, was seen
By the grim tyrants of our town;
Was taken by the ears, and she
Was made pay eight pounds-three, or “gee;
She did not “ gee,’’ she paid the tin,
And hoofed it to the Phoenix Inn.
. iv.
Thus thinned we were, we four whose aim
Was but to keep th’ old Faith aflame,
"When William Brown came with a moan.
Whatever happened William, now
I cannot say, but he, somehow,
Slid out and left me there alone!
Mine was the strongest faith of all,
It rose to heaven among the stars,
It roamed the earth, and if my fall
Be sung of afterwards at bars.
Be sure you mind the hearty zest
With which I did my level best
To make you exquisitely blest!
My turn was practical, and I
Did not steal all down from the sky.
There’s an elexir sweeter far
Than found beyond the farthest star;
Than in the bowels of the earth,
Down, down, beside the very deuce,
And when men drink it, gad, there’s mirth—
It is tobacco juice!
Poor old Prometheus, T can say
I felt for him upon his rock.
When I looked round upon that day,
And saw myself within the dockl
For he was like me —he would not
Give in a peg or yield a jot
Of the grand faith that lifted him,
In my mind, to the seraphim.
And when my tyrants said to me,
“ You’ll have to fork out fifty pounds.”
I curled my lip and answered, "Zounds!
Seize, keep me in captivity!”
v.
And so they ran me in behind,
And days have passed and I am worn,
And all my head and face are shorn,
And I am getting blind.
My chin hangs down, my nose is stopped,
I wish my long soft ears were lopped
Off at the base, they wobble so!
But still throughout my bitter woe,
As to Prometheus, so to me
The old faith shines still bright and stroDg,
And tells me I yet will sett
A glorious triumph in Gbplong.
He was so Clever.
There was a man who was so clever
That he seemed more than a mere mao:
His friends would say to him, “ You can
Do anything, if you endeavour.”
But he was so extremely clever
That he could, somehow, fiever bring
His mind to stoop to anything—
All was too small for his endeavour.
Write ? He could write you rings round any
Or all the men you chose to name I
But he had no desire for fame —
He left that to the vulgar many.
Speak ? Why should he waste sound or sense ?
Your orators of onion-beds,
With waving tongues and bulbous heads,
They could supply your eloquence.
Your Reids, Buchanans, and such maulers
Of all the rules of rhetoric,
Your M’Blhones—it made him sick
To listen to such caterwaulers.
What he could do if he determined—
In law! Well, he would never boast,
But he’d somewhat surprise each ghost
Of jurisprudence, wigged and ermined.
If you peaphance would say “ Some flashes
Of genius this man has,” his shorn
Long upper lip would curl in scorn,
And he would murmur “Dust and ashes!”
Or should you say, as you might do,
“ Now, here’s a man with wit, I guess,”
He’d smile in utter weariness,
As though he pitied him and you.
The burden of his thought was ever
“ I pity the poor witless mass;”
And, as he looked into the glass,
“ I am so very, very olever 1”
So he did nothing. Hawsoever,-
A man must live on something: he
Now lives on prison hominy,
Because he forged a chequ* so clever.
A Lover's Appeal.
You say we must part—that you never can love me,
And can only esteem me a brother or friend;
That I am the last you could dream of as lover,
And that all that to dearest between us must end.
But have you thought well on the woe this entails,
dear?
Of the tears, and the heartache I ever must kno w ?
Of days full of anguish and nights of repining,
And the clouds hanging dark o’er the way I must
go?
A bark without compass, I’ve roamed o’er Life’s
ocean.
Ever seeking an Isle I have seen in my dreams,
Where breezes of love on the mountains are blow-
ing,
And the flowers of Joy orowd the banks of the
streams.
Long years have I sought for this sweet Eldorado
Ever Hope’s gleaming pennant nailed high on the
mast,
Till now, o’er the waste of the ione, dreary waters,
Domes a fragranoe that whispers, “ Fruition at
last!”
I know I’m unworthy of such an Blysium,
But my bark fain would linger near yon precious
goal.
Ob, think of the darkness that soon must enshroud
me,
When the light of your love leaves the sky of my
soul!
Sav not I must leave you, to roam on for ever
Through the night and the storm where Hate’s
thunderbolt darts,
But let me cast anchor in Shelter still near you,
E’er to bask in the fragranoe your presence im-
parts.
MILT. C. SPEER.
Love's Clasp.
Away! Unclasp thy waxen arms,
I cannot gaze upon thy charms.
Away! Enveil thy star-like eyes
Where death in dazzling beautv lies,
Or outward launched, a upas dart,
With ruin blasts the gazer’s heart.
Away! I dare not look on thee,
Or gazing, ever blinded be;
Those neotared lips I dread to press.
Thrice deadlier in their loveliness
Than Papua’s fruit of deepest gold,
Where venom lurks in every fold.
Away! Nor will I wind a tress
Though flowing in luxuriousness
It tempts the touch, a serpent-twine
I see in every ringlet shine—
As on thy brow, whose crystal white
Exoels yon moon’s translucent light,
I mark a grisled spectre glare,
The death-fanged shadow of despair,
That warns
Away I thy arms unclasp,
Ay, rather crushed in python grasp
■«y tortured spirit I’d resign
Than feel that hateful clutch of thine.
Away! I cannot press thy lips,
Though buds in beauty they eclipse;
Ay, sweetly pouting reddening glow,
As rosy flowerets opening blow;
And tempt my soul that yearns for bliss—
But hold! Avaunt 1 I shun thy kiss,
As fatal yielded in thy clasp,
As barb of life-destroying asp—
Thou art too deadly-dear to me,
I dread thy love—yet worship thee!
HECTOR A. STUART.
“Knocked Only."
[A COLONIAL PICTGRE.]
You see that “ cabby ” doling on his box.
Wearied of wistful waiting: for a fare;
His bat bears traces of some nasty knocks,
And “ cabby’s" coat is woefully threadbare;
His tangled locks look innocent of comb—
Yet, what a dash he used to cut “ at home !’*
In other times we knew the fellow well
(Those happy, golden days when all were young)
Tales of his escapades would toadies tell—
His praises by gay ballet nymphs were sung;
Adown Pall Mall he drove his four-in-hand—
That battered “ cabby ” slumbering on the stand.
The foremost figure of a fast-lived set—
Fair-weather comrades voted him, always,
The ‘* nicest fellow that they’d ever met”—
Until, alas! he fell on eril days,
And Fortune—who is ay* a fickle dame—
Frowned on her former pet, and— down ho came.
Then friends all vanished, like a summer cloud,
(How light is n friendship" in the balance
weighed!)
And “ cabby," who was sensitive and proud,
Asked for no pity and besought no aid;
But bore his troubles with a smiling face,
For men (like steeds) have pluck that “go the
pace.”
Like many another one, the seas he crost—
Hoping vain hopes, and scheming phamtom
schemes—
To find, afresh, the fortune he had lost:
With what result? Poor “cabby!” now he
dreams
Upon his box, sweet, mocking dreams, maybe,
Of youth, and “ home,” and what he used to be.
A sigh for “ cabby.”-yes, one little sigh
Let pity find within your cynio’s breast;
Don’t, tell us that “He didn’t work, like I
Was lazy, listless, worthless’’—and the rest;
But. many better men tomindrecall,
Who, once high up, were laured by sudden fall.


There is a very earnest Anglioan parson
who rewards the best scholars In his Sunday-school
by taking them occasionally to the pit of a theatre
to see a good play. No, his name is not Macquarie
Cowper.
A gentleman has been writing from Beech-
worth (Vic.) upon the subject of “Red Sky Sun-
sets.” In an awfully lucid and interesting letter
to the Melbourne D.T., he tells us that, “ having
occasion to be out at 5 a.m. on a recent morning
(gay dog, evidently), when in this clear mountain-
top atmosphere, with a silvery moon in the zenith,
there seemed every incentive to a universal diffu-
sion earthwards of its mild whitish light, I ob-
served a most remarkable appearance. (Many of
us ‘see things’ at 5 a.m.—but no matter 1) This
was, that on the grassy slopes facing me to
the eastward there was a gorgeously red re-
flection as of the last rays of a setting
summer sun, when we commonly say it be-
tokens a hot day for the morrow. This aspect
continued till the usual yellowish dawn obliterated
it from my sight, but meanwhile my mental vision
had grasped more firmly (getting scber, appar-
ently) my previously formed idea that these red
sky sunsets and day dawns have not been ade-
quately explained by any ascertainable terrestrial
cause, but, as light takes time to travel, are the
natural precursors of the advent of a new lumin-
ary.” Now, that’s not bad, just by way of a
commencement, is it ?—'but it’s nothing compared
with the thrilling remarks about “equilibriums,”
44 vapour bedewed volcanic dust,” and other little
trifles which immediately follow. Later on the
Beechworth xavant sets us in a perfect twitter of
excitement by saying: “And now I must come
to disclose my ideas as to at once the
possibility and the probability of this remarkable
red brilliance of our evening and morning sky
betokening the advent of a new luminary. Hither-
to, perhaps, scientific reasoners may have followed
my line of argument, and are, perhaps, preparing
to demolish it.” We don’t think that. The man
doesn’t breathe, in our opinion, who could demol-
ish such arguments, much less the “ideas” that
follow. Briefly stated, the “ideas” are these:-
“ England will not permanently hold Egypt and
the Soudan, but she must be paid for her expendi-
ture of blood and treasure. She may, therefore,
well stipulate, in abandoning her hold upon these
countries, for the cession to her by the Turkish
Government of the Holy Land, and throw it open
for the reception of 4 the dispersed of Israel.’ . .
They are to come eagerly, 4 like doves to their
windows,’ 4 their silver and their gold with
them.’” Then we have some rather mystify-
iug scriptural passages, which, according to the
Beechworth gentleman, mean that a “ radiant
light beaming upon or over ” the Holy Land, will
attract all our Jewish friends thither in the course
of a few weeks. He concludes by saying that
“possibly our red sky sunsets herald the approach
of a literal light.” After carefuliy studying this
letter we feel certain that its “ideas” are solid,
ajnd already wo take a melancholy interest in every
Hebrew we meet, and in noting their striking re-
semblance to doves. Yes, we shall soon be losing
them. England (very likely) will throw open the
Holy Land to “the dispersed of Israel,” and they
(still more likely) will 41 take their silver and their
gold with them.”
B
UY AN ALLOTMENT for your Children at
_ I ROND ALE.
It might prove a fortune. It cannot be a loss.
The Sale is on SATURDAY WEEK.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
IRONDALE.
THE NEW TOWNSHIP.
Adjoining the Wallerawang Coal Company’s
Colliery,
Intersooted by the Mudgee Railway 4 miles
from Wallerawaug Junction.
In the Centre of the Riohest Iron District in N.S. W.
SATURDAY, 20th April, at 1 p.m.
WATKIN and WATKIN sell by auction, on
the Estate, as above,
IRONDADE.
So named because it is the centre of the most
favoured locality yet discovered in this
" colony, so far as the proximity of the neces-
sary materials for Ironmaking are concerned,
viz' ORES, FUEL, and FLUX.
Here within a radius of 4 o lies are found Iron
Ores of at least three varieties, Coal and Lime-
stone, all of which can be won at a low cost.
The successful establishment of the Iron Indus-
try here will give N.B.W. the lead of other
Australian Colonies.
The Iron Industry has largely contributed to the
preeminence of Great iiritain over other nations;
and, to quote the Thunderer,
“ Iron and Coal aro4n their combination
the sinews o* industry and the
master key of trade.”
The Successful Establishment of the Iren and
Steel Industry in this Colony cannot much longer
be delayed, and the Auctioneers make bold to
aSBort Tbat Successful Establishment
will be in the
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBOURHOOD
of
IRONDALE,
Because, to repeat, nowhere else yet known in
N S. Wales are the materials necessary grouped.
Warned by the failures of the past, given suffi-
cient capital and competent Bktll, ana success is
certain.
The Government, alive So the necessity of domi-
ciling the Iron and Steed Industry, have colled for
tenders for
160,000 TONS STEEL RAILS.
The Coal Industry is already established in this
distriot.
The Colliery of the Wallerawang Coal Company
immediately adjoins
IRONDALE.
This Company seoured the contract, some 50,000
tons, for looomotivo purposes for the year 1884,
and are now satisfactorily delivering some.
The Lime Works, two miles from Irondale, em-
ploy a large amount of labour.
So that altogether Irondale bids fair to become
an industrial centre, such as New South Wales has
not beforo seen.
The Site is a particularly suitable one for a
Township, as will be seen after five minutes’ in-
spection.
■The Subdivision has been carefully planned by
Surveyor Weeks. Most of the streets are oleared;
in feet, it is a subdivision which vendors, sur
veyors, and auctioneers need not be afraid of hav-
ing criticised either before or after inspection.
WITH A VIEW to THE DEVELOPMENT of
healthy ATHLETIC SPORTS, the vendors have,
with a spirit of iinerality too rarely exhibited,
given no less than eight acres of the choicest part
as AN OVAL FOR RECREATION PURPOSES.
The Lots rango up to areas of over 3 ACRES.
The TITLE is under TORRENS’S ACT.
The TERMS are-
£s per lot deposit, if balance paid within 31 days
10 per cent, discount.
£5 per lot deposit, balance by 2-1 monthly pay-
ments, without interest.
Special Train leaves Redfern on Day of Sale.
Return tickets, 10s.
The auctioneers’ instructions are to sell, and the
public may rely on this—
THAT EVERY LOT PUT UP WILL BE SOLD
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER.
IRONDALE, Che NEW TOWNSHIP,
TRON
X sou
RONDALE.—The future Birmingham of New
South Wales, adjoining the Wallerawang Com-
‘ Colliery. Sale on SATURDAY WEEK.
Train. Tickets. 10s.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DREBS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Legitimate Triumph and Tremendous Success of
Mr. WYBERT REEVE’S
AUSTRALIAN SOCIETY COMEDY DRAMA,
in 4 acts,
PASSION,
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
and every evening until further notice,
Mr. WYBERT REEVE as MADDOX DYSON, and
his most POWERFUL COMPANY in
PASSION.
Kinchela’s New and Beautiful Scenery received
with thunders of applause. Marvellous stage
cffocts*
The elegant Furnitur-s of the 3rd Act from the
Globe Furnishing Warehouse, corner of Park and
Castlereagh streets. Box Office at Paling’s Music
Warehouse, George-street. Prices: Private Boxes,
£2 25.; Orchestra Stalls and Reserved Seats, Gs.;
Stalls, 35.; Gallery, 28.
Business Agent, Mr. G. A. COLEMAN.
WA HOURB AT HAM E.”
PROTESTANT HALL.
TEN NIGHTS ONLY,
Commencing
THURSDAY, Ist MAY.
KENNEDY’S
Final Farewell.
Mr. Kennedy and family return to Scotland almost
immediately.
Change of Programme each evening. Com-
mence at 8.
Admission, 35., 25., 1.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
. AUB
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
For future engagements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above, till further
notice.
A N C I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday evenings.
Advanced Classes and Visitors on Wednesdays.
Private Lessons, day and evening.
The suite of rooms (8), largest, coolest, most
elegant in Australia, to rent for Balls, Weddings,
or Assemblies. Apply Academy,
261 CABTLEREAGH-ST. (near Bathurst-street).
V" •
,f,7 1.
"N
The Autophone I
The oriental cold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophono is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its musio with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child oan correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music whioh suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orohestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &c., can
bo played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churohes,
Sunday Schools, the Family Cirole, and also for
Dancing.
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
ss new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
Price, 30s.
PETERSHAM. —There can be no mistake about
the Bona Fides of next Saturday’s Sale,
when the Veudor names an UPSET PRICE of £3O
per lot. Torrens s title. Termp. £5 deposit on each
lot, balance £1 per pippth, W. Pritchard, Auc-
tioneer.
IRONDALE,— The future Birmingham of New
South Wales, adjoining the Wallerawang Com-
pany’s Colliery, Sale on SATURDAY WEEK.
Special Train. Tickets, 10s.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 15, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
M
ETROPOLITAN ART UNION-
To be disposed of by subscription on the Art
Union principle, by permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General,
£5250 WORTH OF PICTURES, £5250
In 5000 Shares of £1 Is. each,
comprising Landscapes and Portraits by the best
European and Colonial Artists.
Committee :
Augustus Morris, Esq. I R. W. Robertson, Esq.
E. H. C. Bristowe, Esq. | W. T. Bennett, Esq.
J. A. Parker, Esq.
Ist Prize, valued at £lOOO ; 2nd Prize, valued at
£750; 3rd Prize, valued at £500; 20 Prizes at £25
each, £500; 50 Prizes at £lO each, £5OO ; 400
Prizes at £5 each, £2OOO-£5250.
The drawing will take place on MONDAY, 26th
May, under the directions of a committee to bo
elected by the subscribers Purchasers will be
found for all prizes over £lO, at a commission of
10 per cent., should the winner prefer selling.
Pictures will be exhibited for a fortnight before
the drawing, notice of which will be duly adver-
tised. Winning numbers will appear in all the
leading papers. Applications for tickets to be
made to the undersigned to Box 606, G.P.O. ; or
105 Pitt-street, Sydney.
W.T._BJWNBTT, l Treasurers.
J. A. PARKER,
3
UY AN ALLOTMENT for your Children at
IRONDALE.
't might prove a fortune. It cannot be a loss.
The Sale is on SATURDAY WEEK,
WATKIN and WATKIN.
aiik.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay*
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARKABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
BUY AN ALLOTMENT for your Children at
IRONDALE.
it might prove a fortune. It cannot be a loss.
The Sale is on SATURDAY WEEK.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
PETERSHAM —There can be no mistake about
the Bona Fides of next Saturday’s Sale,
Vendor names an UPSET PRICE of £3O
per lot. Torrens’s title. Terms, £5 deposit on
each lot, balance £1 per month. W. Pritchard,
Auctioneer.
rpiE GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION
A FORTUNE FOR ONE POUND.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
£BO,OOO WORTH of CITY LAND
ia
GEORGE-STRE ET,
and
SUBURBAN LANDS
at
COOGEE
(close to the Baden Baden Hotel).
TO BE GIVEN AWAY.
iST’ 180 PRIZES.
Ist PRIZE
2nd PRIZE
3rd PRIZE
4th PRIZE
6th PRIZE
6th PRIZE
7th PRIZE
Bth PRIZE
9th PRIZE
10th PRIZE
11th PRIZE
13th PRIZH ..
13th PRIZE
14th PRIZE
15th PRIZE
16th PRIZE
17th PRIZE .. /
And 163 ADDITIONAL PRIZES
(making 180 Prizes in all),
Value from £lOO each to £2O each Prize.
THE GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION
will take place
MONDAY, 26th MAY,
by a Committee of Gentlemen, to be appointed by
the Subscribers.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Way and Way,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
Bank of New Zealand,
with whom all monies will be deposited on trust.
£20,000
£BOOO
£4OOO
£3500
£3280
£3200
£2BOO
£2730
£2700
£2680
£2600
£!650
£2600
£3460
£2400
£2350
£2300
Nearly 10,000 aflroady subscribed for in Sydney and
Melbourne.
Early Application for Tickets necessary, and
should the Drawing take place earlier than
26th MAY,
Due notice will be given in the
DAILY PAPERS.
A MOST BPLENDID CHANCE
for
SPECULATORS.
The GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION OF
SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE FOR £l.
TICKETS IBSUED DAILY.
AMOUNTS RETURNED IN FULL
Should the Distribution Not Take Place.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
Principal Agents,
m, PITT-STRBBT,
Sydney.
N.B.—Local Agents appointed in Country Towns
of N.S. Wales, also in Queensland and Victoria.
The Property to be Distributed consists of over
631 FEET FRONT AGB to GEORGE-STREET,
opposite the New Five-story Building of the
AUSTRALASIAN STEAM NAVIGATION CO.,
and close by the
P. and O. Company’s and A.S.N. Company's
Wharves, and also Beautiful
BUILDING LAND at COOGEE,
close to
BISHOPSCOURT,
The BADEN BADEN HOTEL,
and the COOGEE TRAMWAY TERMINUS.
APPLY PERSONALLY or by LETTER.
RECOLLECT—A FORTUNE FOR £l.
REMEMBER the GRAND TONTINE
DISTRIBUTION.
PRIZES in REAL ESTATE of Undoubted Value.
TICKETS £1 EACH.
Payment must be made by notes or Post Office
Orders.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
133, PITT-STAEET,
Sydney.


Remember that a little Hop Bitters saves
big Docto ’s bill?, and cures when all falls. Read.
Don't Die in the House.—" Bough on Bats”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugr,
tiles, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co , Sydney, General Agents.
Analysis has demonstrated the spirituous
element of Wolfe's Schnapps to be absolutely
pure, and the highest medical authority sanctions
its use in preference to any other preparation
where a stimulant is required.
No man of reflument uses inferior perfum-
ery, for the simple reason that no woman of refine-
ment would tolerate him if he did. In this country
the toilet outfit of a gentleman is considered in-
complete without a bottle of Murray and Lan-
man's Florida Water.
If this should meet the eye of any one
suffering from Bronchitis, Consumption, Asthma,
or any Pu monary Affection, we would refer them
to Dr. .layne’s Expectorant, which will, in all
cases, afford speedy relief, and in most, effect a
speedy cure. To be had of all Druggists and
Storekeepers, and wholesale by Elliott, Bros ,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor promotes the growth,
and improves the beanty of the hair. It imparts
an attractive appearance, a delightful and lasting
perfume. While it stimulates the roots, cleanses
the scalp, and adds elegance to luxuriance, its in-
gredients are harmless, and its effects are endur-
ing, and thus it proves itself to be at once the best
and cheapest article for toilet use.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 36 O’Connell
street, Sydney. %3BT Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Ag, nts for
the salo or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Rt-nnk.*
Tne Diamond Dye# are the best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other eyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale byxUliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
6s. 6d.
7». 6(1. ss. 6d. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
s^*ppf Bt^.l i aa i PIa i u e of busin es», 474 Uaorgre-
reet, opposite the Central Entrance to the
haS season, and pro-
Artfcllvi nf HS * I J E .- GIFTS from ss. to £5:
A whi,°h rofn da t 5 design and enduring beauty,
which will give de ight at the first glance, and
nPTWM-n A T aBt a lifetime,
of the ß alJhemi^ L i D K S f very latest discovery
good and ii«o*lu t (SL}? b « rator J- Thcr ® have b een
It- Qi^ 8 tf f imitations of sterling gold before
thl H b tri bave b °en thrown into the shade by
of modern science. Articles of
tinguiBhed o lrom n t n h ot,af< ; e iT y ® arBof wear - bo dis-
-B m&h“sn nnMJ?' 0 .costliest wares of the gold-
goods of old o »ia J hi ? m ® taJ * fchat no tawdry
turedoflt Thedu lDferior ? eai S nß are manufac-
tureaotit. The discoverers have not condescended
THK very t a S&WZ to base uses.
ERY JEWELLERY
tan eonsi yw it th el r ** « im ul-
"•vAv # u lolltT >ruritea up 111 ()
and e< Dlaced V *frtn t H <?,r ii )r *u metal"
a d, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
- w.i V V./LI C 7 61 laJ
thp piiTcr !! 1 trom the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
w on compared with identical models of sterling
DIAMOV f nS®.n^ 8 are mo ' un ted with the NEW
jliia munds, another masterpiece of the chemist*
CALL AND INSEECT-eXACTLY OPPOMTE
issffissr amo “
Here are a few linos for customers’ guidance
At Sft. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
a m”-*r* - Studs."
A Natty Brooch.
4 Pa i r °f Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. 6d. each.
Handsome Brilliant King.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Halr-pln.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At ISs. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Braoelet.
Brooch. Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Soarf-ptn.
bolitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Buperb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At J&i each.
Radies! Snlte—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch
Ladles’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Ger p<fndantf Bthetlo Fob Ch ain, with Steel
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystel Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
A&ert Chafn 6d Works ’ witb Oriental Gold
(Stem-winder—6s. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting or Onen Face
(with Crystal Glass) Wat£h?ta Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
1 imekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert.
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, In sterling Silver Cases-a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
v/iiain.
, m (Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
C p en .Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, fuli
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Sliver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Gent’s Sliver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At *5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughoui
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BV POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—lf the articles do noi
answer expectation on receipt, re-paok them ai
once and send them back. If this Is done withli
two days, or, where mails are few, by the flrat posi
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, w(
will return the money, deducting only the trifl<
expended on postage. You can keep any out
article and return the rest, and we will return tin
money foe the articles not kept. Every watcl
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by *
written warrantry for two years. Remittances tc
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-si., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rotad—“ Tho Silver King ” p 8
Opera House—'“ Strategist ” ib.
Oh, so easy, is it not—
Easy as to lick poor Trickett ?
Oh. so easy, is it not.
To be a dramatic “ cricket ?”
Splendid life, you know it true,
You who’venever writ a line—
When the players “ lay for you ”
Glorious, lovely, gorgeous timel
Push into the “show ” for naught
(Reads just like a fairy story);
Not a ticket to be bought,
Thunder! what a lot of glory.
We’re oppressed with all this—aye!—
f'verwhelmed, Sirs, be it said,
Yet sometimes we moan and sigh,
Wish that all the pros, were dead!
Wish that all the pros, were dead,
Women, lovely women, even!
Won’t they swear when this is read,
But, yoH know, they’ll go to heaven!
All those “boys ” with brazen pins,
Think themselves as “ big ” as Kahlo;
At the corner there’ll be grins—
Will all have a trump and halo.
“ Silver King ” crowd, ev’ry one,
Will most certainly be winging
Their bold flights above the sun,
Hymns eternally be singing;
Flitting ’bovo the sky so blue,
Oughing psalms up ev’ry minute,
Why should they not all this do
When the parsons all are in it.
** * *
Mr. Tommy Hudson who is a small
gentleman of infinite resource as well as of infinite
merriment (and, we may add—since it costs
nothing—humour, which, by the way, is a far
different thing!) started a show on Easter Monday
of a highly intellectual—and, we may say, invigo-
rating character. Mr. H. Santly is in charge of the
company, and he assures us that it is the most
moral troupe he ever travelled with. He has tried
all he could to be giddy, but the ladies of the com-
pany, though daily “ speechless,” are not to be led
astray. They won’t even answer invitations to
go to Bondi, and to little suppers, with mayonnaise
and “ fizz,” they turn equally a deaf ear. Harry
is, therefore, pensive, and wishes almost that he
had a troupe of Blondinelle minstrels.
* * •
And this reminds us. Teddy M‘Clean is
going away in a week with a troupe of Blonde
Minstrels—a*l ladies. We met him leaning against
a lamp-post meditatively picking his teeth with a
belaying-pin. We timidly asked him why be
picked his teeth with a belaying-pin, and he ex-
Slained that in his early years, when he was more
eautiful (if possible) than he is at present, he was
brought up to the sea-faring. He stilt had a kind
of clinging to old associations; and all that was
left of them was the belaying-pin. So he clung to
that [Tut, tut!-Ed. B.] We tried to urge him
not to take away a crowd of female minstrels,
but he would not be persuaded. We told
him about the last man who did it, and
what his fate was :—this was in the gleam—or
glow shall we say [Say what you like, only hurry
up.—Ed. B] of Luna s ray. His name, we think,
was Gibbons or more probably Gubbins. How-
ever, he opened here under tho auspices of Young
Dutcby; when he had the classic academy of Music,
and after about a fortnight we went to see him
off He presented a singularly feeble spectacle ;
and hs language in the steerage of the “ Rodondo ”
was of such a nature as even to freeze tho fore-
cabin steward. He had a kink in the back of his
head, all the hair wrenched out, a"d only one side
of his moustache left. Several offers were made
by heartless members of the profession to shave the
balance off with hoop iron ; but he sadly but
courteously declined all the offers of embellish-
ment. He clung to it, he said. It was a memory I
Ho wondered, vaguely, over a pannikin of rum
whether one of his company would come to see
hi n off. He had, he explained, always thought
well of them, and only for unforseen circum-
stances. . . . Just before the boat sailed two
of his company did came down. They brought
him a souvenir. We forget what it was now—but
we have a suspicion it was heavy. We consider,
on reflection, he thought so. But he didn’t speak.
That, however, wasn t his fault. He had many
faults—but that fault wasn’t his.
* * m
To return to Hudson’s Marionettes at the
old Masonic Hall, we have only to speak of the
performance with unqualified approval. We have
borrowed this from Alfred. For obvious reasons,
this was all he would lend you. There is one special
feature in the performance that deserves mention
above all. It is this. There is a troupe of Minstrels
in this company; and there is something pheno-
menal about the troupe. They are all sober.
And there is a Pantomime—and a transformation
scene. “And the ushers are most attentive and
polite.”
* * *
It is only fair to state that the chief attrac-
tion of the show is a skeleton—that, as Santly puts
it, with his grim humour, or we put it-[We think
we put it. Ex>. B.]—of the last proprietor of the
show. This skeleton is, we must add, the most
intelligent and agile we have ever known.
* * *
And we should be good authorities. For
we have known so many skeletons in our time.
We have belonged to an evening metropolitan
paper.
*• • *
“ The Silver King ” is a real bonanza, not
only in name, but in reality -that, is, for the man-
agers now presenting it at the Theatre Royal. We
dropped in on the evening of Easter Monday, just
to see how many men were left, after the day’s
slaughter at Randwick, with money enough in
their pockets and buoyancy enough in their
natures to pay for a ticket or two for this favourite
entertainment. Before the curtain went up on
the opening scene a shade of sombreness seemed
torest upon the complexion of theaudienc<». Here
and there one could easily pick out a man who had
backed Martini-Henri against Le Grand. Even
the ladies looked gloomy, and when the fine or-
chestra struck up an overture it sounded like the
wail of a lost cat in the Wilderness of Woe. But
when the curtain did go up it opened on a scene
particularly befitting the occasion-the private bar
of a London hotel on the evening of the Derby.
There was the usual compliment of bookmakers;
there was Wilfred Denver (Mr. G. 8. Titheradge). a
young married man of good connection, who had
staked and lost every shilling he had in the world;
there were the men who congratulated each other
in having wrought their fellow’s ruin; there was
Henry Corkett (Mr. Hans Phillips), a young clerk
who had won more money than he ever saw be-
fore, drunk and dressed up and right on the
“shout;” and there was the thief, Elijah Coombe
Mr. A. Redwood), who relieved the young swell
of his money, broke his heart, and otherwise dis-
arranged his anatomy.
• • *
It fell to tbe lot of Corkett and Elijah to
enlighten the gloom, and they were not long in
setting the faces of the audience in a glow of
pleasure. By the way, if we remember our
ancient history aright, this is not the only scene
in whioh Elijah has assisted in enlightening the
gtoom. Whether the Elijah of the Royal is the
Elijah of old, we have no accurate information.
He looks old enough, and villainous enough, to
borrow another man's trap, saturate it with kero-
sene, set it on fire, and then gallop away to make
the owner believe the whole concern vanished in
flame. But if this is the original, ps we hare
reason to suspect from his antiquated appearance,
we should like to know how he got back from the
red-hot ride he took over in Syria sotpe centuries
ago.
In the la«t scene of the second act we have
interesting trio, Parkyn (Mr. Sefton), Binks
l^:^ a ? ielB iv and hrownson (Mr. Leston). These
constitute the three (dis) graces We do
remember to have seen three such comi-
X,? 0 * 8 bunched together in one scene
+hl°J e ‘ Tb , e ? al * Beem to have been struck with
, Bam ® club, a nd the only pity is that the blow
1 ratal. Binks has a nose long enough to
poke a dog out from under a table, and, as a
matter of course, he can't keen the far end of it
out of other people's business. We don’t know
i ? re ,-, r> Daniels borrowed that nose, but it
looks like one that some old maid might have lost
at a recent tea-light. We wouldn’t advise him to
follow that nose through life. If he does, he will
nave a very. career. Mr. Parkyn has
n ni*i e v « n . l X5 r ’ a H drawl, all the bulk, but only
a little of the godliness of a parish clerk- He has
a very church-like appearance, which is accounted
tor easy enough, for there are two churches in
Jt’arkyn s neighbourhood—one with a chimney, the
otner with a steeple—and between the two Parkyn
is always in attendance at service. In fact, there
is a ruddy glow about his face and danger-signal
nose that says pretty conclusively that if the local
optionists went against his favourite place of
devotion, he would resign his holy office and move
out of the community.
• • •
We would like to know where Harry
Leston, the Tipsy Passenger, got that bundle and
stick. It is the same stick and the same bundle
we once saw an Irishman trudging along the road
with over in the mountains of America. To all
Bppearances it is the same Irishman, the same suit
of clothes, the same hiccup, and the same old
drunk. If Harry didn’t appear so tipsy, he might
introduce a song with good affect, for he can sing.
He had lodgings next to ours down in Melbourne,
one time, and before he had been there a week,
there wasn’t a rat in the neighbourhood. If he
tad stayed a week or two longer, the chances
are that he would have been the sole inhabitant of
a once happy and populous suburb. The casting
of a good man for a weak part is one of the
strongest elements in the success which attends
■ !?/ n , a P a ® r ?ment. In any other but Mr. Leston’s
skilful hands the part had better been left out,
but under his handling it becomes one of the most
laughable features of the play. The Publicans in
the vicinity of the Royal ought to club together
and present Harry with a gold watch and an illu-
minated address, for he looks so happy, so suggest-
ively jolly, that when the curtain goes down on
nim half the men in the audience go out and get
three-penceworth of the same stuff, and the other
half wonder what in thunder ever made them sign 1
the pledge.
** * *
Miss Melville (we are at the Minstrels now)
is a nice little actress, but she isn’t much of a
Girard.” It maybe that she can kick. Doubt-
less she does when she thinks of some of the
notices we didn’t give her, and of some th >t the
other papers did. Perhaps, too, the loss of her
salary through tbo failure of a manager might
induce her to “kick” just a little; but wo don’t
believe that she will ever be supple enough to tie
herself into a bow-knot and then walk off on the
ends of her fingers.
* * *
Mr. H. Carroll, the man who burst up an
opera company by swallowing the leading soprano,
has not yet succeeded in coughing up the canary
birds she had in her pocket when she went down.
In this particular line, this artist is a success. All
he wants is proper pngeing and a leather b"ck t'
make him a second edition of Dickens’ Chr s mi s
Carroll. Although he has a base voice, we intend
to let him Carroll away as long as the genial Fred
is willing to pay for it, and the public like it. We
should like to see him throw his soul into opera, and
then we would advise the management to take him
to China or to Alaska—any where that is hard to get
away from. It is rumoured that the Girurds g>t
most of their agility in trying to climb up <m some
of Carroll’s high notes. We shall enquiro into
this after he gets back from the frozen north.
We’re in no hurry.
* * *
Horace Bent was evidently brought up in
the Yankee school of Oratory. There is a sus-
picion abroad that he once rubbed noses with a
coloured Methodist preacher. If he had a bottle
of whisky and a dog-eared Bible he would
be a whole nigger (aup-meeting, when Horace
was a boy his father told him that “as the
twig is Bent so shall it grow." He tried it once,
and found it hurt less than a trunk strap. Since
that he’s been right on the “twig.” Beaumont
Reid is singing better than ever; but while his
voice grows more robust his face grows thinner.
Perhaps his voice is absorbing his flesh. He might
try the experiment of tying a string round his
neck and feeding his face for a while. The min-
strels are good the whole way through. The jokes
are mostly new, and the old ones have been worked
over so cleverly that the originators of them
wouldn’t reoognise an ear-mark, nor even the
point of some of them. Happy public ! ’Apuy
Iscocks 1
** * *
The Opera House has been crowded every
night since the arrival of the Polks. As a comedy
“The Strategist ’ attains to a high order of merit,
and is fuller of free, rollicking humour than a
chair cushion stuffed with bumble bees. From the
minute the curtain goes up in the first act, Jack
Rutledge Polks (!) fun at the audience, and in the
morning the janitor sweeps up a basketful of
buttons that were rudely burst from their moor-
ings. A lady told us confidentially, the other day,
that Mr. Polk had written his play in the interest
of the Anti-Corset Society or Boston, U.S. She
declared that no woman would go to see it the
second time without letting out a reef in her lao-
ings. We don’t know whether this be true, but
we do know that a good, healthy pair of lungs and
a robust liver are bound to assert themselves when
“ The Strategist ” is on.
* * *
An outline of the plot was given in our
last issue Jack Rutledge (Mr. Polk) is in love
with Nellie Howard (Mrs. Polk), and the match is
mutually opposed by the parents on both sides.
As soon as this much has been told, you know, as
a matter of course, that the young people will
marry in due time. It always turns out that way
both on the stage and off it. But the happy event is
seldom brought about in such an ingenious way as
Jack adopts, that is. by a series of stragefic move-
ments that make the parents on either side howl-
ingly determined that the match shall come off as
a matter of revenge on each other. It has often
been said that true love never runs smoothly, but
with Jack and Nellie everything seems to have
been oiled up for the occasion. At last they run
away, just for the fun of the thing, and thus get
the best of the old folks all round by marrying
on the sly.
* * *
Of course, there is an Irishman in the
play, and his name is Terence O’Flam (Mr. Harry
Power), a direct descendant of the Kings of Oire-
land, who has a penchant for black-eyes, and the
heart of a dynamiter. He is a harmless-appearing
little fellow, and at first you don’t know whether
it’is an Irishman or a monkey you’re looking at;
but when his landlord hustles him out for non-
payment of his rent, it is then that the soul of Mr.
O’Flam begins to assert itself, and he turns out to
be a second edition of Donnybrook fair. We 'ike
Mr. O’FJam, but it would never do for him to play
such a part in tobacco-chewing America ; some-
body might expectorate on him and drown him.
Harry Emmet, as Major Howard, is hot and
peppery enough to season a Spanish dinner, did he
but look in the pot. Sergeant Grumbleton (Mr.
Edward Lest«r) is full of German eccentricities,
and is funny enough to be shot. The Rev. Mr.
Mildman (Mr. George Forbes), who collects for
the heathen, is a man who has never bitten off his
nose to spite his face. The reason for this, pro-
bably, is that he would have to use a step-ladder
and a gang-plank in order to get at the end of it.
* * •
Mr. Wybert Reeve is entitled to our hyste-
rical gratitude. He has produced at the Gaiety,
for the first time on any stagre, an entirely new
Australian society comedy-drama, entitled r ’ we
n^hiSl 104 *?? , a piak Play-bill) “ Passion." This
“ 8 (oHce T m ore we study our prog ram me)
Af ra* rw?„il y ii^n 1 "' w / bert Keeve, and founded on
nf r ‘^!U p^e lf r ?. e d ® celebrated Queensland novel
tho a ? d Passion.’” What we think of
nmn IJ2 - c .? of Producing the play, our readers
voJHfcP 18 may P cr baps derive from this notice;
of tho^fiS a - n be no Question as to the sly sarcasm
WviELP 41 ® i. a r ? ffar d to the “ Passion ” part. But
OiXS.n.io«^ ho haa dramatised this 41 celebrated
hfiin» n ‘‘o^f l v, no y e i’..r lancy a Queensland novel
thm£hf C ti? b * rate u d I-waa always a sly dog. We
takimr I na t oii*i W K eil flrBt we Baw dim in Fosco,
and ™£?r. al ia w ® ar * n *T his own hairs (three)
nfro^ m K kl ? g everybody wonder how in sulphur
hIi t noh h^f VIDB K bcen se , en “doing the Block 'in a
■*“•««■ be,Me - he
• • i
As “Vanity Fair” was a novel without a
Passion” is a play without a plot. AVe
oonmStJfiaf^nni 10 ®! ° tfer Mr ‘ Reeve our eifusive
wri L l!^, tU o )nB \-.u Any amount of dramatists have
ho r o lt «™* p ! ay s Y ith a P lot > hut Mr. Wybert Reeve
w evo, Y e a dramatic composition
Mr h ßM™%^ 8 consider that soores several for
nmn»r oV n'f l< l tß . are common. We mean plots
prop®!;* V. pIot ? lm proper—such as that of Pink
T^f e h only to blush and say nothing,
selvia *L? nk p’ ID l®?u’ 418 the D oininocB them-
ntof in' “ r>aL tho V, B 'A there 18 to U 8 no perceptible
Onn ’oni P^. 10 ?’, there is anyamount of humour.
th d d J< s® 18 that Maddox Dyson (Mr.
wo monHnn tfontleman—we don’t know whether
p.fm'PK n iVu ned jbefore—who dramatised “Mrs.
Campbell Praed s Celebrated novel!" is an “ M L.A.
explorer.” This is droll! Healise to your-
senes, gentle perusers of these panes, any man
hnwo an A ' and not a land a«ent! After all,
sonlP Ver i’i,^'^;. A ' B ,? ft ?P are explorers in a certain
?j ey hardly ever have time to leave
of Bacchus tbe cbeese and onions on the counters
• • •
* Rot consider Mr. Reeve a success as
'IT a n aQ explorer, He didn't got drunk;
hP»nt oP5 y P°u d 7 an adjective substantive
infn„-7 a he dldn 1 hlt anybody on the noso. The
imPw rBona^ol v therefore, notwithstanding that
w Q o a bon ' ™®™ber was loaded with theatrical 44 fat,”
was pensively received by a pit that knew better.
His make-up was good, uowever; his own faoe
being carelullv concealed behind a beard, and he
V ad a forehead on him that seemed to belong to
I>avid Buchanan. Indeed, but for the idiosyncra-
cies we have mentioned, he might have passed in
an y public-house (say) for that learned and
talented gentleman. Mr. James Carden “Mem-
ber, for Kooia, Premier of Leichardt’s land”
(well die of this great drama!!, was really
impressive. If he failed in any point, it
was probably owing to his having been
horn in Wapping (he was born in Wapping).
and therefore being unable to form a cor-
rect o inception of what the Member for Kooya
and Premier of Leichhardt’s Land ought to do
with himself. Mr. P. Appleton was 44 Harddress
Barrington, an ex - officer in the Gmards. ”
and played the lover with a big moustache
(military reminiscences!) and an into leotual crease
down the front of his trousers. This is evidently
owing to a recollection, on Mr. Appleton's part, of
Mr. Woppies dresser. It remi ds him not to get
his legs in profile.” And, alter all, creases are
less conspicuous than waters.
* * *
The biggest hit was made by Maggie
Knight, who played the Premier’s daughter. She
was made love to by the ex-officer, who proposed
things (wo regret to say) of a “giddy” nature-
proposals which sho repelled with scorn and a
hand that was dramatically pointed. Mr. D’Arcy
Stanfled ouaeted Lord Adolphus Basset, and
seemed to labour under the delusion that no mem-
ber of the English aristocracy could be adequately
represented without a straw-coloured wig. Mr
Stanfield gave up painting for acting, which is
a good thing. Wo mean it must be a good
thing to act a lord and say “ya-as” in
a straw-coloured wig! It must be, as the
Spaniard said—" Very pieasaunt.” If we hadn t
got to write the paper wed bo doing this.no
doubt—or dancing on tho tight rope. Wo were
always gaily inclined. Mr. Edwin Palmer played
a mailman in a red vest, which gave him somehow
a dreamy resemblance to the Militia. 44 Lady
basset. Australian born,” was Miss Ethel AdMe.
M'ss Addle is u charming young lady with a flue
set of teeth. Being “Australian born" the idea
prevalent in the minds of the pnites was that she
would throw her shoe at somebody. Hut she
didn't, and that rather militated against her po -
ularity. But still she was undeniably picturesque.
MissMarSion Leigh was an "adventuress,"and very
gorgeous sho looked in some superb dresses. But
it struck us that she always adventured too much
and too quickly. Consequently every body could si e
from the start that she was going to be bowed
out. And this slackemd tho intere st. An adven-
turess ought not to too suddenly adventure. The
liPt one we knew told our fortune (nlways wrong)
weekly for half-a-crown a bang, and it took us
fully a year before we could give her six months.
She is now prospering greatly, we believo, in a
genteel sunurb, and is tho proud possessor of a
44 house and lot ’’—our own fronaied ambition.
• • •
To finish up— 44 Passion ” is a great play.
But it is rather too great lor our small imagina-
tions. Anyhow, dear public, patronise it. You
might like it. We mean that section of the public
that has a bulbous brain. We haven’t. We can
keep our brains in our shoe. And there is room
for them there; and for a small boating party.


PEPPER AND SALT.
DOMESTIC DUTIES.
"WELCOME, DR. BARRY!”
—Nooze.
Let loud rejoicings fill the land
From palace down to fish-shop,
The Evening News bolds out its hand
To take that of a bishop 1
Let Waterloo keep out of sight
Just now, its visage Gorgon,
While Alfred rigs a choker white
On its especial Organ.
Let those who down the harbour go
In snorting tugs and launches
(Men who have prospered here below,
If Truth’s in human paunches),
To meet a prelate, out of choice
To save our souls from hell, come,
Be radiant that the Nooze’r voice
Joins theirs in crying “ Welcome.”
Let those who prizo far more than pearl
Or diamond, tales that shock eye
Or ear (such tale told Danby’s girl,
The now historic Cookeye),
Who love to learn that flesh is frail
And in Bin’s fingers plastic,
Hear Alfred’s cheerful “ Welcome 1" hail
The swell occlesiastio.
Let those who read, 'mid tears and sighs,
His novels blood-oongealing,
Feel glad that in the “ Brevities ”
He shows a kindly feeling
For one who may be useful yet
His heroines to marry
To those they love—real dukes, you bet—
And welcomes Dr. Barry.
Let those who think that Alfred’s pen
Ne’er runs in smooth or calm ways,
But deals in horrors wrought by men
Kindle the Fire Mornings.
Eat What’s Set Before You.
Make Yourself Useful.
Face All the Duns,
Remain at Home nights.
And Amuse Your Offspring.
And massacros on tramways;
Who judge his mission is to seize
Ail horrid themes, and dish up
For sale—feel good to note the ease
With whioh he greets tho Bishop.
Let the great news be cabled home,
And be this paragraph road
From “ Brevities ” for years to come
Tho Bishop won from Alfrod;
Let all the nations know who met
The Bishop—blest is his lot—
Let Down and Gctmtree6 sell, and lot
[Let— up right here on tMe lot.— Ed. B.]
* * *
The New York Sun devotes considerable
spaoe to a description of the surgical operation
performed on Bruno Knorr in tho Bellevue Hos-
pital. It seems Bruno was unfortunate in love,
and he shot himself on tho 84th of last January.
The bullet entorod the forohead, passed through
the brain, and lodged in the back of the head. He
was successfully operated upon, and the attendant
physicians are now of opinion that he will com-
pletely reoover all his powers exoept that of
intellect. The case is supposed to be so exceptional
that arrangements are being made to have it
discussed before tho New York Surgical Society.
Now that suggestion is wrong. But it might be
allowed to pass were it not that it is accoompanied
by an opinion about the subsequent mental
aberrations of tho patient. If Bruno is not a
member of a royal or noble family the prospect of
being an idiot for the rest of his life will prey
injuriously on his constitution. In consideration
of Bruno, then, it is advisable to draw attention
to a parallel case. From it Bruno will bo able
to learn that there exists a walk of life,
thoroughly respectable and independent, in which
it is possible for him to cut a distinguished figure.
To embraee it, it may be necessary for him to come
to Australia; but that will not be of much conse-
quence. Instead of giving the cs§? in pur own
words, we shall let the gentleman, the subjeot of
the operation, tell IJie tale in his own person. No
doubt, if Bruno be a reader of A’” - alian papers,
he will be able to detect further aeneee of the
gentleman’s abilities. Here is his account:—
I was a happy youth one time and learned the
proud profession
Of draper in a country town, and here is my con-
fession:
It is a simple truthful tale of sorrow and of sad-
ness
That finished up the other day with compensating
gladress.
A little accident befel that blighted my existence,
And left me on the world without a prospect of
subsistence.
But now I'm right, I’ve found my sphere, I laugh
who failed as draper,
For I have been appointed to write leaders in a
paper.
’Tis twenty years gone by to-day since on a sunny
morning
I took our gun into my hand, despite my mother’s
warning.
I thought my dad had emptied it upon the night
preceding,
For he brought homo across his arm a duck all wet
and bleeding.
But I learn’d after, it came out in the succeeding
quarrel,
That dad had stol’n the duck and had not used our
single barrel.
I put the muzzle to my head, as they can tell who
knew me,
And then they took me off to bed and brought tho
doctor to me.
The doctor said tho slugs had gone right through
the brain, and settled
Down in my occiput, but cried, “The curious oase
has nettled
"My skill, and I will operate, and use the best
devices
And as before he’ll be as wise and probably as nice
as.”
He drilled tho back part of my skull and got the
slugs so horrid,
And thsn put in a rubber tube that reached unto
my forehead.
This tube was perforated, and its object was to
swallow
Extraneous matter that might lie within the sacred
hollow.
It swallowed, swallowed, for a month, at which
time he withdrew it.
And then looked in tho hole and ran two strands of
catgut through it.
My skull closed gradually round, with the delight-
ful issue
That all the catgut was absorbed into a fibrous
tissue.
And so I rose in six months’ time from off my bed
and wended
Unto the draper’s shop to tend as I before had
tended.
But soon I found that rubber tube that I was won’t
to flatter
Had taken all my brains away among th’ extrane-
ous matter.
The draper said, “Young man, get out, but don’t
think me a hard stick ;
You’ve really not a fitting head for tapeline or for
yardstick.”
And so from then I’ve wandered round and found
no work to suit me,
Tho man who’d give a job to-day would come next
day to boot me.
And I hare cursed that rubber tube till, though
my beard is brownish,
My eyebrows have grown white with rage and all
my features clownish.
I thought there was no work on earth to suit a
wretched hatter
Whoso brains had all been taken out among ex-
traneous matter.
But, joy! the other week a man said to me, with-
out laughter,
“ Your eyebrows and your looks bespeak the genius
I am after.
“ Do, write a letter, write a few, ours is a leading
journal,
It circulates throughout the land and is a grand
diurnal.
“If you can catch our tone and style,” and here
his voice was solemn,
We will remunerate you at two pounds for ev’ry
column.”
I seized a pen and wrote away, and things at once
grew brighter,
He asked me down and fixed me up as special
leader writer.
And so the rubber tube I cursed, again I’m bound
to flatter
Because it took my brains away among th’ ex-
traneous matter.
* * *
The love which professional gentlemen
bear to one another may be fairly likened to that
which the devil is generally supposed to display
for a sprinkling of holy water. Not long since, a
pair of street nymphs had to toe the mark at the
Melbourne City Court, charged with annexing a
couple of sovs. from a sportive youth, who earned
the money by compounding hash on board a mer-
chant vessel; .but as the evidence against the
annexorswas hardly conclusive, Mr. Call dismissed
the case, at the same time remarking that he had
no doubt but the ladies had taken the cash. “ I
assure your Worship that they haven’t got it now,”
replied Mr. Daly, the solicitor for the soiled doves.
And then the genial Kane, a brother profefsional,
observed in a stage whisper, “No, I’m sure they
haven’t got it now; it has been collared by the
learned profession ; the first robber has left the
dock, the second lias just addressed the Court.’’
The Court smiled audibly, and, after remarking
“Boilencel” in a loud tone of voioe, Sergeant
Macwhinney called the next oase.
• * •
Ho greater benefactor to his species than a
certain Swedish professor has ever been born into
this world of trouble. This gentleman, a pro-
fessor in the University of Upsala, offers to freeze
any persons who may care to volunteer, depriving
them of all appearance of vitality, and bringing
them round again at the expiration of two years
without injury—" as they were," in fact.
A NEW IDEA.
Here’s a chance for a miserable “ chappie”
(Prince, publican, porter, or priest)
To lie down to rest and be happy,
For two years, or so, at the least.
’Tis a sleep (the Professor has stated)
Quite entirely free from all pain—
One is merely just refriger-a-ted,
Till his prospects look hopeful again.
Say a fellow’s gone wrong in the city,
And contrived to get deeply in debt—
(Such things do occur—more’s the pity I)
There will be no occasion to fret;
If “ the wife ” drives him mad with her chatter,
Or the creditors worry and tease,
He can put a good face on the matter,
And make up his mind to a “ freeze.”
There he’ll lie, in the refriger-a-tor,
Secure from all “ nagging ” and strife,
Till Death shall come—sooner or later—
To bear off his duns and his wife;
No troubles then left to oppress him—
Fairly out (so to speak) of the mire—
The Professor will take him and dress him,
And put him in front of the fire.
* * *
One more candidate for the top of fame’s
greasy pole. Mr. B. S. Haines, of Richmond, Vic-
toria, has presented to the Government plans of
an apparatus whereby, when an enterprising dis-
trict likes, it can break up a drought without hav*
ing recourse to prayer or psalm-singing. Some
will be sorry to find the old industries superseded,
but most people will be glad if Haines can manage
to get his chin on the top of the pole. From bis
plans it would appear that the first thing he wil
prepare will be a captive balloon. Into this cap-
tive balloon he will put 800 cubic feet of hydrogen
gas. In a cask hanging from the balloon he will
store away 501bs of dynamite. Then he will sit
down and wait for word to begin. Say they want
rain out at the tnallee. Mr. Haines takes his
apparatus out there, sends it up, contracts for a
stream of electricity to hit the cask at the right
time, and 10, the fiood-gates of heaven are blown
to smithereens and down comes as much as vou
like. Mr. Haines will try it first in New South
Wales. Curiously enough, they are glad of that
down in Victoria. Some hope it will do away with
one objection to federation. It is hard to foretell
the ultimate results of any invention, but the old
fashion of praying and psalm-singing as a means
of forcing heaven “to bleed” is so played out
that most people would like to give Haines a
chance—if he goes a good bit off and in among
enemies.
• • •
Mr. James Service lias been giving a little
fatherly advice to the youthful scholars of the
Castlemaine state schools, He believes (so he told
them) “ that a book was wanted in school to teach
manners. There were habits which were inclined
to grow on persons, but which were not desirable-
Children should be taught what to follow, and
what to avoid. It looked bad to see boys, ten or
twelve years old, walking along the street smoking.
As he entered the hall he thought it had been
raining, but only a number of boys had been
spitting. In Canada he saw cards in schools asking
chiidren not to spit.” Mr. Service forgets that in
Canada many of the little dears carry a little quid
of tobacco in their infant cheeks, and it’s on ac-
count of the coloured expectorations being so
unsightly, that this pathetic appeal is posted about
the schoolrooms. That habit though doesn’t
appear to prevail at Castlemaine, or Mr. S. wouldn’t
have “thought it had been raining,” merely. The
thought occurs to us that these youngsters would
be invaluable out Dubbo way, where prayers for
rain have been so plentiful. Only pack them off
fora half holiday to the droughty district, and
the visit would do just as much good as a six inch
fall.
* * <f
Mrs. Langtry, who has been keeping us in
a hot and cold condition for months with rumour®
and counter rumours (a sort of “first she would
and then she wouldn’t”), has never seriously enter-
tained the idea of visiting Australia at all—or so
it seems. The final announcement of her inten-
tions was a crushing blow to us, and a bad thing
for the “dailies,” who’ve been getting three or
four pars a week out of her, for months past.
First, Freddie Gebhard was going to take her
around; anon, her mother (who, by the bye
“ lives apart ” from the Lily’s papa), was to obape-
rone ; and now—it’s all moonshine.
LINES TO LILY.
Lily, once our hearts beat high,
With the hope of, bye and bye,
Seeing one so fair;
Biz., they said, was all arranged,
Yet, it seems, the scene is changed—
We are in despair.
You would come-so Rumour said—
With your faithful lacquey, Fred—
That tale was denied;
Next ’twas whispered, near and far,
You would come with your mamma—
Once more Rumour lied.
All this weary while, it seems,
We’ve been dreaming idle dreamt
Of the whole affair—
(Would that Rumour’s voice were dumb!)
You have never meant to come—
We are in despair.


The schoolmasters of Victoria should have
spoken out In a body on the subject of the royal
bereavement. As it is, they left it to two mouth-
pieces, neither of whom, for what are oalled obvi-
ous reasons, can he taken as a representative.
One kicked the sympathic renadir with the toe of
his brogue and the other struck the sympathetic
zenith with his bald crown. Listen to the nadir-
man as he drives down his brogue : “ What is all
the fuss about? Leopold 1 Dead! Pooh! Wish
the whole family were dead!” Liston to the
zenith-man, as he climbs up with his bald head:
“ Oh, my dear young friends, the youngest son of
our august royal mother has been taken away
Such an affliction to us, such an affliction to Her
Majesty whom we in this eolony unceasingly
adore! How can heaven be so cruel as to so smite
the heart of our royal mother ! Were there not
plenty of others, O God! to satisfy Thee if Thou
didst want to break a mother’s heart? Was I not
“More Leaves from My Journal”;
OR,
A BROWN STUDY.
Mr Brown never saw anything like
this before.
1 wnup made Browi. a prwannt of a biscuit-ho x and
aomt onyx studs He wept, and said it wap too
much.,"
I was much distressed at break*
fast to discover that Brown’p legs
had been dreadfully cut by his
wet kilt." r-rr-t-l ~
Dreadful state of Brown’s
legs after the accident,
which, it would appear,
began to swell *
But after the judi-
cious application of a
haggis poultice—
Mr. B 'a extremities
soon recovered their
proper functions.
Mr. Brown s method of dealing with the Press
cV
/
His vexation at tilt
death of Biddulph
Leaves from Her Majesty’s Sketch-book.
here ? were not these children here? How darest
Thou, then, stretch out Thy hand against our
royal mistress? Yes, I will say it with all rever-
ence, and I speak, I am sure, with the voice of
Victoria, Thou art nothing but” But why didn’t
the other masters say something? For obvious
reasons these two men are discredited. One of
these reasons is that both of them must have been
drunk.
“In Greek,” says Dr. Murray, the editor
of the Philological Society’s New English Diction-
ary, “the termination ikon never co-exists with
the privative a’—that is to say, the term ‘ agnostic
has been formed in violation of a rule in Greek
grammar. Now, whatever may be said as to the
intellectual postition taken up by those who style
themselves ‘agnostics,’ it is a little unfortunate
that they should have selected a name whose
formation involves a grammatical blunder.” Now
this is real jam lor orthodox folks 1 Not knowing
how to answer the agnostic argument, they will
be able to elicit comfort from poking fun at the
ungrammatical “ ic ” in the agnostic appellation.
Although, says an English paper, of the
Queen’s book, the Queen has given the gillie
Brown a prominence which has exolted almost
universal ridicule, notwithstanding that non-
courageous persons and papers carefully veil it;
yet there i 8 something to be said on the other
side. It is this : The noblemen around Her
Majesty, who are valets from choice, simply from
their own innate disposition towards toadyism,
never did anything to raise their functions in her
eyes or in those of the world. Tkey have been
useless parasites drawing large salaries. But John
Brown, who was a valet from necessity, made him-
self really useful and worked hard at his peculiar
duties. He was trusted because ho was trust-
worthy, wanted no brevet of nobility, and did not
quarter himself and his relations on the British
*^‘P a 7!' r - This is true, for all the stupid rumours
about his dying worth a million are now dissipated.
Andh<owever rough he was, perhaps it would be
within truth to say that Brown was the most res-
favourite that a British monarch has yet
delighted to honour. In this view, the gillie
would be more worthy of his place In the book
than many of Her Majesty’s more aristocratic
valets. But poor though the book is in a literary
sense, it is even yet more disappointing in that it
contains absolutely nothing of the life of the
Sovereign as ruler of these realms, nothing of high
politios, nothing of impressions of men and events,
(except a tribute to Dr. Norman Macleod) no liter-
ary criticisms, Jittle of the higher life at all, much
about taking tea, and too much about John
Brown, to whom the book is dedicated, and whose
virtues fill the final chapter. It is eloquent about
little things, an over-turned carriage, the comedy
of a tea-kettle left behind at a pic-nic, Brown s
frayed legs, and pages about “dear duchesses"
who were foolish old gossips. There is nothing in
the book whatever of high interest. It should be
called not “ Leaves,” but “ Leavings from a
journal.”
The other day, down in Melbourne, a con-
stable was summoned before the Chief Com-
missioner for a very grievous offence. A gentle-
man who was going home with his wife from a
performance at the Opera House, went into the
white Heart to get a drink, and to have his flask
refilled. He would not take his wife into tho
hotel, nor did he wish to leave her outside alone,
so he asked the constable on duty to take charge
of her. The guardian or the peace utilised the
opportunity by making indecent proposals to her.
She complained to her husband, who took the
man’s number, and reported him on Monday. And
what was the result? Did the constable get six
months at hard labour, with three Hoggings of 25
lashes each, like many another poor devil whom
he had run in for a less offence, and had convicted
by his unsupported testimony ? Oh, no he didn’t.
He was fined £3, and told not to do so any more.
Verily the w.iys of the Lord are not the only ones
that are past finding out.
The Prince of Wales has paid a visit to the
London “slums,” made an appropriate little speech
on tbe subject in the House of Lords, and had
himself appointed to a place on the Koyal Com-
mission to inquire into the condition of the outcast
poor of the great metropolis. This is undoubtedly
a sound stroke of diplomacy on the part of the
Heir Apparent, and one that may moreover pro-
duce really salutary results. For some time to
come, it will be quite “ the thing ” for the duchess
and countoss to affect an interest in thoso “ dear
poor people,” and to put up their double eye-
glasses, affectionately, at the stage beggars in the
drama. That an epidemic of “ charity Concerts,
and Fancy Fairs will do much to wards a permanent
amelioration in the condition of the poor wretches
—slowly starving, by thousands, in the courts and
alleys of the richest city in the world—is too much
to expect; still playing at philosophy” can do no
harm. An immediate result of the Prince’s pro-
menade through the “slums” will be an increase
in the incomes of the professional b; ggars who
have “beats” in the west end of London. They
make a pretty good thing of it at any time, but
now that such an august personage has “taken
up” poor people, the crossing-sweepers of Bel-
gravia and Mayfair will soon be in a position to
keep their carriage and pair. The sham charity
will be bestowed on the sham poor, and the genuine
“outcasts” will remain in much the same condi-
tion as usual.
Thus the Melbourne D.T. on a circus per-
formance “ The equestrian performances, to-
gether with thedro’leriesof the clowns, (oh, dear!)
combined to afford a most enjoyable evening’s
entertainment, and the feat of the lion-tamer was
received with a feeling almost akin to awe, but he
performed his perilous task with such marked
courage that the spectators, when he emerged
from the cage, gave enthusiastic evidence of their
appreciation or this daring acr.” Wc guess this
was the first circus the D.T. man had over attended
for ho evidently fancies that lion-taraers. In the
general way, stand In a corner of the cage aDd
tremble. Now, if he can discover any dyspeptkj
old circus lion that exhibits “marked courage)?
we’d like to go and see it. We don’t mean to
insinuate that there’s any particular “ catch ”
about throwing yourself promiscuously into the
society of a wild beast, however old and languid It
may be. Ouce, at Joe Beef’s notorious establish
ment at Montreal, we were inveigled Into descend-
ing into a cellar, the privaie abode of a very old.
but very big, grizzly bear. The cellar was almost
pitch dark, and we (there wore three of us) were
told to grope our way along in the gloom (in a
stooping posture, fot the ceiling was low) and we
should find the bear at the far end, securely chained.
And when we found that the drunken manager
had pi yed a joke onus, and that the “grizzly”
was groping his way, without a chain, in our direc-
tion,—well, we retired.
Happy Jim, the jolly Salvationist of Bal-
larat, has gone to tho Beautiful River. Jim broke
more commandments ia his time than any half-
dozen men in the South. There was a time when
breaking commandments was his hobby. Philo-
sophers know that there is no great mind without
Its fad, and Jim’s little fad for a protracted period
was to buret up tbe Decalogue In a general sort of
'*ay. But philosophers know that where the fad
i» of a destructive kii A, and where a ready vr. a.
mind is the possessor of it, a limit is always reached
»r. which a constructive laculty comes into play.
With an imperious mind the limit is reached when
oopositlon is completely broken down, and, as it
were, in fragments, cries for quarter. Jim had an
imperious mind, and, one morning, looking at the
debriB of the Decalogue about him, he said, *• See
’ere, ole Law of Gord. ye’re now under. Darned
if I don’t stick ye together again, and hump ye
about.” And he did. And in the strange atmos-
phere, curiously called a religious one, this reso-
lution of Jim was pronounced to be of the Spirit's
working, and Jim yauped at the street corners and
was called a saict. W ben he lay back to die at the
corner of Greriville-street. men and women burst
into lamentations, and when be kicked out for the
Beautiful River, Ballarat swooned with emotioD
There is something touching in tome corner of
this, but we don’t like looking for tho corner lest
we should be drawn into a general disquisition on
human foolery. By the however, Happjj
Jim s other name was Hogan. Perhaps some
reader called Hogan, with plenty of time on his
hands, would look for that corner and squeeze out
the pathos


“Eat and Live.’’—lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen ed«re of
appetite, ask chemist for Marshall’s Ton*?
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at Messrs. Elliott Brothers and
P/osser s. Sole Proprietors, Marshall Brothers
M.P.S, 101 and IC6, Market-street, Sydney.
BRIEF MENTION.
A light-headed thing— A eandle.
*A high old time of it.”—'Twenty-tour
o’clock
Cut it short,” interjected a very dwarfish
and impatient juryman to a barrister, the other
day. “I will, sir, almost as short as you yourself
are,” was the curt reply.
A spiritualistic medium in Queensland has
raised the ghost of Lamont Young, the Bermagui
victim, out of a quicksand. This is a happy way
of solving the mystery, as it’s tolerably certain no
one will try quioksaud diving in order to test it.
A pious infant who, the other morning
spotted the sun and moon together in the sky
shocked his mater by yelling out, “Oh. Mammy
God must have been awful tired and sleepy las ,
night, for he's been and gone and forgot to hau
his moon ini”
It has been remarked thafr, although the
Queen’s book is dedicated “to the memory oi'
John Brown and the Queen's loyal Highlanders,’
very few of the “loyal Highlanders ’ will read it
They’re not the sort of men to waste their baw-
bees on roval literature.
The goody-goodies at Adelaide are raising
h-adcs over the famous “Chios” picture, now being
exhibited in the Art Gallery tinre. '1 hey ostensibly
are very anxious to give an evil public a piousdote
of CdloS-reform, but most people regard their little
game as hypocrisy in virtue's Caloe-thing.
When the people of the South-eastern dis-
tricts of New South Wales heard of Judge M'Far-
land’s demise they were quite jubi ; or, rather
when a little later on they heard it was the Victi
rian Judge of that name who had turned up his
toes to th« daisies, they were exceedingly sorry.
Mr. Chenery, the late editor of the Times
was so unassuming that even his doctor, it is
stated, was ignorant of the honorable position
that his patient held. There are a number of
Sydney pressmen who aro equally reticent about
their business address-to many besides their
doctors.
The Echo told us lately as a wonder-
piece of news, that “ Mr. Tebbutt, the
Windsor astronomer,” had predicted a total
eclipse of the moon to take place on the 10th. .So
had all the "lmanacs made the same prediction
months before. Why accord Tebbutt particular
praise in the matter ?
According to the Melbourne Hebaud, this
is how tho Mayor of that city commenced a fare-
well address to the Marquis of Normanby “ May
It pleaso your Excelleucy, when it became known
that you had resigned your position as Governor
of this colony, and was about to take your depai-
ture.’ if the printer isn’t at fault here, how
frightfully his Excellency must have shuddered.
Mr. R. M‘Kay, of Tumut, some time back
struck the one-to-twenty-four-o’ciock scheme.
In fact, he constructed a clock on that principle,
which is now on exhibition at a hotel there. A
party who was “suffering a recovery ” slunk into
the bar tho other day, and when he saw ten
minutes past sixteen o clock sticking out before
his optics, he yelled “ Got ’em again 1” and scooted
for home like a Btartled paddymelon.
When we were young and used to go to
Sunday-school, our mother taught us to sing:—
“ I want to be an angel,
And with tho angels stand;
A crown upon my forehead,
A harp within my hand.”
But since we have grown older and learned to
appreciate the good things of this life, we are
wont to warble:—
I’d rather he a squatter,
And with tho squatters stand;
I’d tip the Crown Inspector,
Ana dummy all the land.
Melbourne sausages—pork sausages—are
likely So declino in market value, a Mrs Anderson,
of Coburg, having taken vigorous measures to
bring them down in price. It appears that some
sixty mattresses, oondeu nod by the Melbourne
Hospital authorities, were (after tho Corpora-
tion had refused to allow them to bo burned
within the precincts of the city) satisfactorily dis
posed of to Mrs. Anderson, as bedding for her
mgs. Some of the mattresses belonged to the
erysipelus ward, and were " saturated with dis-
ease/’ so many people are grievously concerned
about tho temporal welfare of those poor, d*>ar
pigs. In the fulness of time those pigs will be-
come “pork” —or sausages, maybe. Now, a
sausage “saturated with erysipelus” would he
more savoury than sanitary.
There’s something in this notion of the
Northern Miner: —“The civil servant is a
very good fellow until ho gets imbedded in local-
ism. When he is a prime factor in local cliques;
when he puts his finger into every movement for
exclusiveness and selfishness; when the public
interes f is sacrificed to private gain; then it is time
to give the civil servant tne ‘ rout.’ They get to
know too much übout people’s business. In a
town not a thousand miles from Bowon a trader
was compelled to use cypher when telegraphing
to his branch in a neighbouring town. Why?
Because ordinary telegrams were communicated
to a rival in tho trade, and he was undersold, his
prieoa being revealed. It is the secret correspond-
ence, the ‘tips’ given in trade: the revelations
made in the telegraph department; tho wholesale
disregard of a sacred obligation to secrecy, that
do the mischief.”
“The Queen’s New Book” contains pas-
sages which will hardly commend themselves to
the mind of the humble commoner. We re not
referring to the royal remarks about the “impu-
dently inquisitive reporters ” who persisted in
taking notes of the royal movements, even in the
“complete solitude ” of Inverlochy. And we’re
not going to write a poem in defence of that “one
in particular,” who “iar down and watched with
ateleßeopo” his sovereign sketching (like a tout
on a training ground or a tourist Interested i»i
ladies’ bathing), and even ventured to band v wore s
with John Brown, when the faithful gillie tola
him to “git. ’ Perhaps we know too much about
reporters to sling ink in their behalf, or it. maybe
that personal experience of the clo o scrutiny to
whten greatness is over subjected, provokes our
hearty sympathy with this little griovancs of the
Queen’s. But we can't so thoroughly enter into
tho royal ideas about the “inexplicability ” of the
Prince Imperial’s death; wo can’t, indeed. Con-
found it all, it wasn’t the fault of tho other fellows
that the ‘poor young Prince" couldn't get into
the saddle and ride away as smartly as then did;
and as regards “ fighting for him ’—well, they
might have done that for tho other two troopers,
who came to grief at the same time, if there had
been any fair “show” of si doing. And its hard
to'see how being ‘ ais?gaied ” in the back was any
more “monstrous,” “fearful,” and “awful” for
the French Prince “doing” the Zulu war, at his
own particular desire, than for the two English
soldiors, doing duty for their country. The vulgar
herd, at any rate, won’t think that being born *• in
tho purple ” made any difference to the horrors of
dying in Zululand—they haven’tthesamo innooent
belief in the “ Divine right cf Kings ” to have
cease made pleasant, that people “ in the purple ”
appear to possess.
a royal point of view.
Oh I ’tis awful and shockingly dread full
The thought quite deprives us of breath—
That one born and bred in the purple
Should die such a horrible? doath.
And those wicked, low, life-loving troopers,
Who so unaccountably tied—
(A “ star ’’thus forsaken by “ supers.”)
Oh, why didn’t they die instead ?
Such a fate is too horrible, really—
A Prince thus cut off in his prinne,
While common men got away clearly
Thiough making good use of their time.
To think men should be so disloyal—
Nay, more, so absurdly ill-bred—
LetMng Zulus shed blood ihat was royal.
Whoa they might have suffered instead.
Political
Points
In Skye ’7,000 people are privileged to live
on the island by the will of 11 proprietors. That
ievolutionary firebrand Henry George has the
i decency to allude to the fact as Illustrative of
the evils of landlordism. What next?
The English Social Democracy have now
an organ, Justice, which has a tolerably clear
voice. It counsels working men, when “locked-
out,” never to appeal to their Trade Unions for
support, or ask for out-door relief, but with one
accord, and in as many thousands as possible, to
throw themselves into the workhouses, “If this
were done,” says Justice, “as we believe it will
bo done in all parts of the country ere long, the
confiscating classes would have to do a little honest
work themselves.
Henry George, writing from Glasgow
under date February 17, to a friend in Australia,
says :-*My trip here is, I believe, giving a great
impetus to the discussion. Against all difficulties
we are doing a work that cannot be undone. I
have spoken everywhere to large audiences, and
everywhere have carried them with me. 1 am
just returning from the Highlands and Skye. I
speak here to-morrow ; in Aberdeen on the 20th ;
and then in a number of other places. I want to
try to aret homo about the middle of April. There
is a great advance on this side since I was here
before, and every day it gains.
THE COLD TRUTH.
VISITOR: “Youlook upon your children as great blessings, I presume?”
HOSTESS : "Well, mum, to be candid, I must say I’d be willing to sell one for money.”
VISITOR: “Money is a curse.”
HOSTESS: “Yes, but it would be a change in sich a crowd of blessings.”
The vote for salaries to gaol chaplains is a
most objectionable one. The State might just as
well be called upon to pay the travelling expenses
of the relations and friends who visit prisoners.
The sects who boast of their missionary enterprise
might surely find the needful for the remunera-
tion of gaol chaplains. The vote, as it stands, is
only justifiable on the hypothesis that the clerical
staff perform a considerable amount of work that
is absolute'y penal-and even then the spirit of the
age is averse to torturing criminals!
One in an gets up a lottety ‘on the art-
union principle” as a moans of deposing of houses,
lands, mills, and what not, and is allowed to pull it
off, legislators even consenting to superintend the
“drawing;” and another fellow soils Californian
soap at a shilling a junk and gives a hidden trea-
sure in, and is hauled before the beak and fined £5,
in default three months; and yet there is no more
or no less swindle in the one case than the other.
Would Mr. Attorney-General or Mr. Minister of
Justice kindly explain why this is thus ?
In Rostov there is a society of child
murdereis, who poison children by means of
uaseotics, on the principle that it is every woman’s
duty to spare the evils of life to as many children
as possible, and to make them share in the bliss of
heaven before the earth has contaminated tbeir
souls. Not so foolish an idea after all when one
comes to refleot on the kind of life to which the
great majority ot Russians are born. Isn’t it Sims
who sings
“Hath not a mother right to shield
Her children from the yawning hell.”
The re-construction of the Victorian Cabi-
net results in lighter work all round. There was a
neriod recently in which some unhappy Ministers
h id half-a-dozen departments to administer. Now,
‘dr. Deakin is the oniyoLe with three portfolios
hanging aoout his neck, while Messrs. Levien and
Gillies have two each. The two leaders have com©
to the prudent conclusion that one department
each is enough for them, if they are to keep their
hands ready for pommeling opponents. The
balance of the Cabinet have only on© portfolio
each, until we get to Mr. Thornley. who has none.
That’s the easiest of the lot, but then he gets no-
thing for it. And, likely, he’ll only give the value
of what he gets.
The Evening Alfred, in a singularly
fatuous article about the appointment of Look to
the Governorship of Victoria, says inter alia :—“ If
Victoria bad a voice in the matter it would de-
cidedly prefer to see men like Sir William Clarke
or Sir william Stawell raised to the post.” Clarke
aad Stawell! Here, indeed, Us extremes touenent’
Fancy democrats like the Victorian majority
voting for a petulant Co iservative like Stawell, oi
a tlunkeyish nouveau riche like the Baronet ol
Sunbury I Had the men of New South Wales a
voice in the selection of their next Governor,
would they prefer to see men like Sir Burdett Bmith
or Sir A. Stephen raised to the post ? To suppose
they would, is to insult them. Yet, in analogous
fashion, Alf. insults Victorians.
Service’s last trick to get his name up
shows a bit of cunning. The cable had intimated
that the French Senate would specify no Island
as a place to which to transport the unfortunate
recidivistes. Thereupon Jimmy wired to the
Agent-General to make it known “That nothing
would satisfy this colony but the removal from
the schedule of the Recidivistes Bill, now before
the French Senate, of all the islands in the
Western Pacific.” Why, Jimmy only thought of
this when he heard the Senate had made uo its
mind to do it. But his object is to keep dust still
in the eyes of the community, and to gull a part
of the people by making them believe that one
event, over which he had not a particle of in-
fluence, was brought about by the vigorous head
of “thiscolony.” If the Frenoh Senate changes
its mind again it will be found that whatever the
l esult Is, Jimmy will get away a telegram so close
on its heels, and requiring just so nearly what the
Senate has given, that it will want a patent chro-
nograph and a skilled expert to show that the
French Republic was not guided by him in the
passing of its Bill.
Messrs. Tucker and Langridge have been
awav out Mallee-wards, emptying speeches and
bottles at a great rate. The speeches were
emptied from them, the bottles toward* them.
The people of N°rajuha and Natimuk rose splen-
didly to the occasion. People who can be
addressed as Naradjuhacks and Natimuckers,
demand, in the very nature of things, that
if language be slung at them, it must be done
chastely, elegantly, and recherchecally. it
was done that way. Besides the speeches,
however, these classic pooplo wanted a railway.
This the Ministers deliberated upon to an accom-
paniment of flying corks. These ancient people,
although modernized to the extent of feeling the
want of arailwav, were an couremt with the pro-
per way to help Ministerial deliberation to a happy
issue. Therefore, the aforesaid accompaniment.
After playing it for a while, the Ministers and the
Natimukers and the Norsdjuhicans were all of one
mind. The reporter who was present must have
been lifted up astride of the same note in the
musical stave, for he wired: “The Ministers pro-
mised to recommend the extension of the line
from Horsham via Natimuk and Noradjuha to
Mr Gillies.” It would appear from this that Mr.
Gillies intends to take up his abode and lie out
there for the rest of his l*fe, so as to serve as a tor-
minus for Natimuk and Noradjuha. To lie there
would be easy if he were only willing. But he is
not. To fulfil, therefore*, that promise of the
Ministers, it will be necessary to reach him at the
capital. It’s there only Mr. Gillies is willing to lie.
Queer as the people out there are, their line of
railway promises to bo queerer.
There was a man in the land of the US.,
and his name was John. He was a man who
had great power, even over kings and princes
(such as they were), and he was exceedingly
well liked by the “wurrukun” man as well.
And when the latter came to him and said, “Sire,
I am told there is an engineer’s billet open at the
railway, and lo ! thy servant is just the man to
fill it, for verily he knoweth no more about the
work than the bunyip does about Freemasonry ;
wilt thou give thy servant a line to the superintend-
ent that he may secure the job?" His lord,
rising up, would write a few lines, seal the
envelope, and then, handing it to the son of toil,
would say “Friend, deliver that to the superin-
tendent and be will do unto you even as I would do
myself.” Then the poor man would lay hold of the
back of his head, and duck it forward as he kioked
out with his hind leg backward, and then he would
swiftly away, looking as happy as a Madagascar
monkey with a tin tail. But he nevergotthe billet.
And in like manner did he try for the tide-waiter’s
situation, for a p°st-office, for a water-works,
'turncock,” and last of all for a tram-guardship;
but although his friend always gave him the same
sealed letter of introduction which was to do the
trick still he most successfully failed to get a
single job. So he once more applied to bo
put on the rail, got the sealed letter
again and opened it. Then he read—“ January
1084. Superintendent of —, Dear —, this con-
founded idiot is bothering me again. Stall him
off once more, as it’s no use giving ourselves away.
There is no likelihood of a general election f or the
next six months, and I don’t think he has much
influence anyway, but it’s always best to keep on
the safe side. Choke him gently again in your own
felicitous way. Yours, truly .” That night
some one poisoned the great man’s favourite dog,
smashed all his front windows, and fired his fowl-
house, but no one could ever say who did it.
The mountain of Victorian politics, after
a period of protracted labour and some splendid
surgical achievements, has hpen delivered. The
result would seem to be the legendary mouse.
so many thought that the contortions
indicated only an accumulation of stale wind
that it is a pleasure to catch the little mouse b*
the tail and examine how many teeth it has got,
Messrs. R. Richardson, at Clunes, and Smith and
Dr. Quick, at Ballarat, have started to run, arm
d ? c i? ,re carry with them the programme
or the new Liberal party. They will not be left
alone in their gallop. The customary black cloud
of kindred minds is likely to follow. And
“In it wil’ be several Englishmen of pith,
Sixteen called Richardson, nineteen named Smith.”
But, so far, the issues raised by these new Liberal*
are not very coherently put. The Hon. R. Richard-
-Bon gave a full programme. Briefly stated, it in-
cludes (1) supreme control of lands by Govern-
(3) local option; (3) abolition of plural
of courts of conciliation:
and (5) federation and annexation. What should
be done with the land is the world’s question at
the present time. But the new programme goes a
very short way towards its solution in simplv
asserting that the land is to be taken back undf'r
the control of the State. Expropriation is defen-
sibie. Local option, although in its essence a
Liberal idea, lies actually outside party lines, and,
like oourts of conciliation, will only have efficacy
in as far as it is not a party question. Federation
and annexation, together with the millenium, will
y come i Q time, but the machinery where-
with the new Liberalism will expedite them is not c n
view in the South. The one item in the programme
around which Liberals can rally would seem,
,£? r< iu ore i, 1 ; 0 the abolition ot plur 1 voting,
whether this could not be achieved without a new
party would be worth consideration, had not the
new party determined to get born whether they
were wanted or not. Major Smith makes this de-
termination very evident. The perfidy of Mr.
Berry, wedded to his own vanity, was bound, in
~5 pI P lon idol of Ballarat, to produce a
Boiltiea 1 youngster strong enough to kick. And
'r. Quick is of the same opinion. And others ar#
hurrying up to say ditto. It is only fair to give
the youngster his chance, but it must be confessed
that he has made his first appearance before th®
public with very little baggage on his back.
Professor Alfred Wallace, the great dis-
ciple of Darwin, although in his work, TBb
PROFESSOR ALFRED WALLACE.
Nationalization of Land, he seems to recommend
the same remedy for inequalities in social condi-
tions as Henry George insists upon, does not agree
with George’s radical and peremptory methods.
He Is represented by a Tory paper, to have de-
HENRY GEORGE.
clared that he would “take ‘every opportunity
to oppose what he considers to be ‘grossly unjust
in principle, highly injudicious in ite effect, and
altogetier illogical and inconsistent from Mr
George's own standpoint M r. Wallace, in fact,
holds that to tax rent is not to give land to the
people, but in many cases to increase the cruel
pressure of the monopoly.'”
Reconstruction of Victorian Cabinet •
Service drops Education, and will mind th«
Treasury only ; Gillies will boss Education and
Railways ; Berry drops the Postmaster-General-
ship, and will only act as Chief Secretary • Tamps
Campbei l ML C„ goes to the Post Office ; and
Tbornley.M.L.C.,accepts a portfolio without office..
There can hardly be a doubt thatan Act regulating
the width of tires would be most advantageous to
the common-wheel [Ugh.- Ed. Bl ...John Woods
thlnks that “if half of the money that is being ex-
Pepded by the Government in the erection of
palatial State schools were spent in the erection of
workshops attached to or near such schooJs. where
the boys could loarn a useful trade, our boys would
become mote useful colonists, and would be the
means of performing work in this country that wo
are forced to have doue in other countries, and
for which large sums of money have to be sent, in
tt. pl w e °i doi £S our own work.” Hear, hear,
John Woods.... Parnell’s sons-in-law. the land
agents, to put “biz.” through! Ahem!.. In
view of the late disastrous season and the looming
deficit, the Government should let the Queen's
statue question rest in statu quo for some while
yet to come, Fontana's approaching visit notwith-
standing — There Bat least one sensible Mutual
Improvement Society in the world, and that is »t
Cobar. It has just decided that a Republic is yards
ahead of a Monarchy. Now. Jingos, send down
“ our army ” Cobar way at once.
• • •
Lord Belmore, of course, condemned the
righteous action of the British Government in re-
moving “Rossmore, Grand Master,” from the
commission of the peace, the head of the Corrvs
P ° B? ‘bl e; » HtUe more bigoted than the
head of the Westenras.....The English Attorney
General prosecuted the Birmingham Gazette for
libel, in alleging that he had refused his flat with
regard to the Birmingham Consolidation Bill from
party motives, but the jury found the defendants
not guilty ... Colonel Makins, M.P. for South
Essex, has introduced a Bill for the abolition of
actions for breach of promise—
“ If it passes, Edwin, faithless,
Yet another maid may win,
And the law will hold him scathless.
And not ease him of his tin.”


Dyspepsia, biliousness, nervousness and
miserableness all cured with Hop Bitters. See.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tias, I*.*
“ BncHtt-PATBA.” Quick complete cure,
all atm<i\ irs Kidney. Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Dnußvims. MowJSMom « Co„ Genera, Agents.
Woman Items
The New Victorian Governor is said to
have been a favourite with the ladies of that
•colony in 1830. It’s nice to revisit the scenes of
one’s early triumphs.
When “ That Man ” was produced in New
York it scored a success, and the first night there
was the usual vociferous call of “author !”
Rising from a box seat, nervously untying a few
bonpet striogs, and making a few hasty thrusts
after loose hairpins, the author stepped before the
eurtain—a woman. Her name is Celia Logan.
Mesdames Flanagan and Higgins sentenced
to death at Liverpool (Eng.) for the murder by
srsenical poisoning of Mrs. Iligsrins' husband.
These good ladies made apraclice of administering
solution of fly-paper to relations and friends on
whose lives they had effected insurances. The
precise number of murders committed by thorn
not accurately known.
Poor “Christianity ! ” It is brought in ns a
plea for every pious noodle's hobby. When it was
lately proposed that Oxford should allow women
to compete with under graduates in honour
Schools, Cannon Liddon objected “ because Christi-
anity taught us that woman was man’s helpmeet
and no■ his rival.” The Canon, however, fired his
fossil cannon in vain, and Oxford declined to
make woman the slave of obsolete psendo-
Ghrtetianity.
The draft! of a Bill just prepared for the
English Parliament is the shortest on record.
After the usual preamble “be it enacted,” &c.,
the wording is:—“ 1. From and after the passing of
this Act no persou shall be entitled to maintain an
action in respect of the breach of a promise to
marry; provided always that this shall not apply
to any action commenced before the passing of
this Act.” Nothing could be terser; arid we feel
sure Lord Garmoyle will vote for thte excellent
Bill.
Says an exchange Mr. Barr-Smith, of
South Australia, has had an unlucky experience
of English life. The other day he left his wife's
jewellery, valued at £20,0(0, in a hansom. The
TEMPERANCE LESSONS IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
TO MAKE THEM EFFECTIVE, THE CHILDREN MUST HAVE ACTUAL PERSONAL EXPERIENCE OF THE HORRORS OF DRINK.
result is that, though he has advertised a re-
ward of £lOO for Its recovery, he has not yet re-
ceived any tidings of his missing pioperty.” Serves
hint jolly well right. By the time his wife removes
all the hair from his scalp and makes him sit on
the edge of the bed for a month of Sunday morn-
ings, sewing buttons on his shirt, he’ll probably
learn the value of a spouse and will look alter her
things a little more carefully. We suspect that
the cab driver considers himself the luckiest man
on earth Bar-Smith, bar no body.
A-woman’s dress is always describable. Its
numerous changes, its vast expansiveness, the
dubious uncertainty as to what it contains, de-
mand the compliment of a description. To
report a man’s appearance when he is in
full dress Is something adjacent to a super-
fluity. But oecasionally a dress suit arises on the
field of vision which is interesting per se. Such a
one has been the envy of its owner’s companions
lately. The trousers were a dream. The coat was
a miracle. But the actual resplendence of the
outfit lay in the waistcoat. There was not very
mueh of it, either. It was an impressionist waist-
coat, and the greater part of it had been scooped
away, leaving a shield-shaped expanse of linen as
broad and shining as a poet’s summer’s sea. No
dude could look on it and live—happy.
“Marie Burroughs, the newest American
actress, will make a sensation before she
dies. Half New York is talking of her
beauty, and, though the youngest aciress
at her theatre, sne takes the honors from
two of the most popular women on the
stage. All the dudes (including young Fiske and
Gebbardt) and regulation first-nighters >vere there,
and sat through the whole performance without
once going out to see a man between the acts.
They remained to gaze at Burroughs. The theory
has been advanced that Burroughs is not intrinsi-
cally beautiful, but that the charm of her presence
is entirely due to graceful carriage ana superb
eyes. An accurate description of her lace would
not give any one the impression that she is a beau-
ful woman. Her real name Is Lillie Arrington.”
A Timaru (N.Z.) correspondent writes
“ Tight lacing is spoiling the shape and squeezing
the life out of our girls,” and “their maternal
guardians seem rather to enoourage it than other-
wise.” This is a sad commentary on the gallantry
of the young men of Timaru. In Sydney the girls
don’t have to resort to tight-lacing. Every last
one of ’em can get squoze Into any shape sb©
wants by the strong right arm of her best young
man. Apropos is the dialogue said to have occur-
red in the Garden of Eden : “Do you know dear,”
said Adam, “ whv my arm is like a spring In a
great desert?” Eve : “No.’’ “Well I'll tell you
dear. ’Cause it makes glad the waist places.”
Eve: “Do you know, i dam, why your arm needs
medical attention?” “No.” “Well I'll tell you
dear. ’Cause its out of place.” [This dialogue
may not have occurred in the Garden of Eden,
but there is a moss-covered scent about it that j
savors of antiquity. Ed. B ] 1
Not long ago the London World described |
a new Invention for making ladles taller. Jt eon- j
stats of a very iight-Ittlng eorSet, shoes wteigbtedj
with 5011). each, and a ring endirblmg the water
suspended from the ceiling at such a height as to
prevent the febt from touching the floor. The
weight at the feet plills the lower portion of the
body downward, while the corset forces the upper
portion upwards. By this means, it is asserted,
the spinal column may he stretched 2in., and the
knee joints 14in., thus giving to the body an addi-
tional height of 3fin. Simpkims, wnose wife —a
very short woman—asked him for mon?y enough
to fit up one of these machines in her boudoir, re-
plied; “My dear, what you women want is not a
contrivance to make your bodies taller, k ut some
sort of an arrangement that will drive your
tongues up and make them shorter.” Then, as he
dodged the potato-masher and slid into the bath-
room, he heard someone hissing after him—
“ Beaste-e!”
In the Spectator of December 15 appeared
a review of a novel from Miss Jay’s pen, entitled
“Through the Stage Door,” containing the follow-
ing strictures:—“ This is a regrettable book. The
coarse vices of bad men are not material whereof
women should weave their fictions . . . Ex-
ceedingly repulsive features of a novel which has
no attractive ones. . . . The very vulgar
company of this novel is, however, preferable
to its fine company. . . The Fane family aie
not at all original, we have met them in
many trashy novels. . . ‘lt will readily be
understood,’ says Miss Jay,‘that on reading the
above authoritative condemnation from a quarter
I so much respected, I at once assumed sackcloth
and ashes, spent a distressing l Christinas, and re-
solved never again to write a theatrical novel.
Imagine my surprise, therefore, when, on opening
the Spectator, a morning or two afterwards, I
read a second review of ‘Through the Stage
Door,’ containing the eulogy which follows:
‘ We are inclined to think that this is the best, as
it is certainly the pleasantest, story that Miss Jay
has yet given to the world. . . . The effect of
the book generally is good, and its tone sound and
wholesome.’ ”
THE HUSBAND’S LAST REQUEST.
A POEM.
“ Dearest Mary, T am sinking, I am sinklDg very
fast,
My pulse, dear girl, beats slower every day;
And it's better so, I m thinking, for the longer I
may last,
The longer doctor's bill you’ll have to pay:
Thus the little bit of money that my prudence has
amassed
Is shrinking (like as I am) right away.
“ Yes, dear Mary, I am going, I am going very
soon,
No mortal skill can save me from my fate,
And there's something nice in knowing, dvar, that
ere another moon.
I probably shall try the “ future state ”
A change which I shall welcome as a blessmg and
a boon:
It can't be worse than this, at any rate.
But, enough of melancholy, Mary, never look so
sad.
For wives lo husbands better when they're
gone.
And a widow’s cap looks jolly, and a widow's
gown’s not bad,
And widows, dear, are seldom left forlorn.
You are young, and you'll have offers io a month
or two, begad.
’Tis folly, idle folly, dear, to mourn.
“Yet, you’ll sometimes think of hubby when an-
other one you wed—
You’ll sometimes think of hubby “number one,”
When your cheeks aa-ain are chubby, and your
eyes no longer red.
You’ll not forget me, though my course be run;
But will praise me to the “second,” like—or, so
I’ve heard it said—
All widows, since the flood, have ever done.
“In some cosy woodland corner let my mortal
part be laid,
Where the sparrows overhead their vigils keep,
Let dog, Ponto, be my mourner-he’ll be pining,
I’m afraid,
When he finds his poor old master is asleep—
And (I beg, my dearest Mary, that my wishes he
obeyed)
Give ordei s that the grave be dry and deep.
“ Let a handsome iron railing, dear, encompass me
around—
’Tis always best to have one, I am told
(Alas, my breath is failing 1) it keeps stragglers off
the ground,
Who love to walk on people when they’re cold.
In the matter of the railings, don't be careful to a
pound—
But have them nicely done in blue apd gold.
“Now, you won’t forget, dear Mary, the instruc-
tions you’ve received
Respecting ho I wish to lie at rest.
And you needn’t fret, dear Mary, for, unless I’m
much deceived,
Before the grass can grow above my breast
A “second” you’ll be taking, and—if books may
be believed—
A second husband always treats you best.”
When the term “fast” is applied to an
Englishwoman, it may mean she is the very op-
posite of prudish, or even of prudent, but it does
not follow she mu t. be therefore immoral. It is
simply a matter of external manners, generally
rather mannish ones. She will be independent and
very self-possessed, *tj li‘h, “ Hirtish ” perhaps, but
with little leminine refinement as a rule, bhe
always uses slang, often smokes, and sometimes
shows her s ookings. It would not be fair to ap-
ply the appellative to the Princess of Wales, for
although—despite her cold dignity in public—she
is genial and free in private, jet she is always
ladylike. She has been known to wear dresses as
decolieUe as any one; but that is a matter
which from a feminine point of view is utterly and ■
entirely separate 'jon morals. Where one woman
sees fluotfaer in an open bodiee, the
question is not whether it is proper to show so
much, hut “Is it worth showing ?” It’s a great
mistake to suppose in this respect that one woman
is ever shocked at another’s want of propriety: if
she’s displeased at all, it’s at her want of taste in
exposing a poor bust, or because she's terribly
Jealous of her good one. And considering that
ler good mother, the Queee, insists tuat modest
young girls shall always njake their first apnear-
ance before her, even on the coldest winter day,
with nearly half their bodies entirely nuae, ex-
posed to the gaze of hundreds of criticising eyes
(for the rule is unalterable that a girl cannot be
prasented at court except in a low bodiee)
considering this, it is natural to suppose
that the Princess of Wales and her friends
got accustomed to show, and t«> see, a good
deal of one another at an early stage of their
maidenhood. But the Princess Louise i 3 de-
cidedly fast. She talks unblushingly with men on
subjects which are usually supposed to come ex-
clusively within the masculine province of dis-
cussion, and can appreciate the point of a joke
whose recital would have delighted Dean Swiit, or
would make some other women’s hair stand on
end. She has always a hearty laugh whenever
she tells the story how, on returning from her
honeymoon, she telegraphed to the Queen, at
Windsor, “The Campbells are coming,” and how
her motner absurdly supposed it was a delicate
announcement of an interesting character. “It
was too utterly silly of mother, she always ends
up; “ why, we were hardly a month married.” It
is whispered she suiokes since coming from Canada,
and she is certainly a judge of wine, and won’t
drink any but the very best. She never hesitates
to show, not only her feet (which are better out of
sight considering their size),but a considerable por-
tion of the stockings above.them whenever occasion
offers; and what is more excusable, for she has one
of the prettiest necks in the world, her evening
dresses are about as decolletic as a maucouid wish.
And, touching once more on this delicate question
of undress, we can’t help repeating what Gladys
Countess of Lonsdale once said about it—yes, and
to a man, too. He happened at dinner to make a
chance remark upon some other lady, when the
“gipsy beauty ” looked him fairly in the face and
said: " I know there are lots of women who say I
wear my gowns too low, nut they should remem-
ber it is not fer their benefit I do it, at all events.”
This lady is wonderfully pretty, aud travels often
with no one but her maid as escort. Perhaps the
envy of less favoured women may account lor
some of the naughty stories told about her; yet
she does sail “ pretty close to the wind.” Lady
Augusta Fane is her great friend—a daughter of
the Countess of Stradbroke, whose par about the
Earl of Lonsdale has just get Edmund
Yates three months’ imprisonment and
quite as rapid as the “ gipsy, ” both of
whom regard husbands as sometimes a
convenience, and sometimes a bore. Lady Seb-
right is undoubtedly fast. She is an amateur
actress of the most prononciS character, and thinks
nothing of sending to dashing young gentlemen
such telegrams as these: “I am Pauline to-morrow
night at Windsor; come and be my Claude;” or
“ Will you be my Romeo for a counle of nights ?”
There are many other women noted in their seta,
but who are not famous beyond. The Chamber-
laine belle seemed merging in the set of “fast
ones” onoe, but recently she has disappeared As
for Mrs. Cornwallis-West, her husband stands by
her, and he has position enough to assise him in
slurring over the things she does. But her tawdry
style and painted cheeks are getting too panude
now to attract the attention they used. Mrs.
Wheeler no one ever so much as hears of now.
These women,however,unlike the others, got their
start of notoriety by their intimacy with the Prince
of Wales. When he dropped them, so did every
one else. They have been dropping themselves
over since.
* * *
Miss Lloyd, who is to go into history as the
only genuine “Bunthorne’s Bride,” is not only
pretty and talented, but rich, so that when she
becomes Mrs. Oscar Wilde, she and the poet of
passion and of pain will not (happily for them
both) be dependent upon his publishers for their
bread and butter. .. Nervous young Henpeok
objects to the divided skirt innovation. He says
it will give Mrs. Henpeok so much more freedom
in the use of her No. B’s.
Mr.Fosberry says: “Theeonductof thecon-
stabulary generally continues highly satisfactory.
I constantly receive communications from country
benches, magistrates, and others, commending the
oonduct and efficiency of the police: and it is
difficult to withstand the practise, which has be-
come inconveniently common, of presenting val-
uable testimonials to members of the force.” It
is presumed that after reading this information,
from a reliable source, those impecunious scrib-
blers for the daily press, known as reporters, will
hide their heads in shame. All along they have
been declaring that when a policeman is wanted
he cannot be found: that when a row occurs, the
paid minion of the law scoots down a back alley,
and gets as f«r from the scene of action as possible;
that if an intoxicated man has any cash about him
the best thing be can do is to join a band of mags-
men for protection, as if he falls into the hands of
the police he will never hear of that money again;
that if a murder or robbery occurs, the best place
to look for a policeman is in the private parlour
of an out-of-the-way hotel, or outside the back
fence talking to the servant girl over the garden
wall. We are glad that Mr. Foseberry has come to
the rescue of the police in this official way, for we
have always looked upon them as a class of indi-
viduals who very much need rescuing at the hands
of somebody. And we quite agree with the In-
spector-General that “the practice, which has be-
come inconveniently common (to hotel or •-
prietorsi, of presenting valuable testimonials (£5
notes and the like) to members of the force,’’ls
not only “ difficult to wii hstand ” but is moreover
demoralizing to all the efforts put forth by the
righteous few who a>e opposed to their reigh-
bu.uis enjoying a glass of Sunday dinner ale tetsfc
from the tap.
To Henry Georgs,
From Ues Lullbtijv.
Seer of the new great dawn I whose sferoogr voice
rings
Across drear wastes of life, where Life grows
pale,
And oalls “Ansel” to wan-cheeked men that
wail
Beneath the iron feet of men—made kings—
Speak I and shed light as from an angel’s wings
Upon a world where Mammon is the Baal
That claims man-sacrifices, held entail
By tyrants damned, like to him who clings
With frantic fingers to a wavering hope
Of yet more empire—him, the shuddering Pope,
Who rules with fear the hearts he fears, and
cowers
In secret ceils from all the blades that grope
To find his heart, while sympathetic powers
Hail as Heaven’s wreath, Hell’s crown of poison?
flowers.
Speak! till the ghastly faces, wet with tears,
That lift to hear thee, from the footworn ways
Of pain and want, grow manlike in the rays
Of Hcpe upburning from the atoning years
Thou bringest message of—when earth’s fair ears
Which God’s large hand of ample bounty lays
For mankind’s feast, no more shall mock their
gaze.
Speak! till each glutted king and priest who hears
Shall tremble, knowing that the hour is come
When they that knelt before him, blind and
dumb,
May see the morning-glow of Truth afar
Lit up by him who seeks to raze the sum
Of wrongs and sufferings that warp and mar
This life—who comes, a Christ-like guiding star!
Wendell Phillips, the great American
anti-slavery agitator, is dead, he stepped
out he sat down in a cool spot to think over the
Irish trouble, and what he thought was this:—
“ Seven handred years of oppression have earned
the traditional right of opposition, whose creation
is four millions of men, every one of whom katas
England with right good causo. And English
statesmanship knows that either France, Germany,
or Russia has only to land twenty thousand men,
one hundred and fifty thousand stand of arms, ana
ten millions of pounds in Ireland, and Englana is
obechmated; sh© cannot move hand or foot.”
Gracious goodness! There’s a chance of Britannia
requiring the assistance of Morray-Smith’s sardine
box Armada, alter all.
Harlington says the British Government
mean the evacuation of the Boudan, but if Gor-
don’s safety is jeopardised England will assist him #
Egyptian troops sent to strengthen (?) the
British Garrison at Souakim The scheme for
the creation of an inland sea In Nortk Africa is
approaching realisation. M. Roudaire is about to
proceed to Tunis with a firman from the Sultan
authorising the work... 2015 papers published In
the United Kingdom, England—London, 401; Pro-
vinces, 1177. Wales, 80; Sootland, 181; Ireland, 160;
Isles, 20. Of those 176 are dailies A new explo-
sive, as powerful as dynamite, has just been In-
vented in Saxony. It produces no noxious gas;
and is unaffected by cold or moisture. Should
this leak out we wouldn't be an Irish landlord or
the Czar of all the Russias for a million a year
Father Lima Cano, of Brora Cathedral, and a Peer
ot Portugal, shot himself last February, in the
Cemetery, Lisbon, while under the influence of a
monomania which took the form erf the appre-
hension of persecution. Had it be*n a Liberal
layman now the apprehension would have been
well grounded —« taancellor of Exchequer pro-
poses to license bankers end to reduce the value of
the half sovereign to meet expenses of coinage
Second reading of British Government - * County
Franchise Bill carried by a majority of 120 ...At
El Fib .Stewart’s cavalry brigade charged—like
attorneys England and Spain can’t aeree on the
basis for a commercial treaty Rosebery moan*
to ask the “ Lords” to sustain what is tern ed the
Australian protest against the deportation of
French recidivistes to Polynesia. A resolution of
the “Lords” is a brutum fulmen now-a-days
Orient Bank to strengthen reserves reduced
its nominal capital one-half, a step followed
by a rise in shares from £5 to £8....
The Paris Town Council mean to call one of the
new streets In the Quartier des Ecole< after the
name of "Darwin. ’ Imagine (says Laboucbere)
a “ 1 arwin-st.reet ” in London A scare now Hnd
again, attended by a doubling of guards and a
fresh influx of detectives, the only sign of
troublous times in Dublin. Society going its old
way .. Bastian, the spiritualist, has recently been
holding seances in Vienna. Archduke John and
Prince Rudolph made some errangements pri-
vately, and when Bastian made a tall figure In
mourning arpear, the Crown Prince'lsuddemy
pulled a s'ring, which closed a secret door, and the
spirit, who was Italian himself, tried to escape
amid the laughter of the audience.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to ham this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
A.J.C. Autumn April 14,15,18,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23. 24, 25.
Dubbo J.C. April'24, 25.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrumbidgee J.C May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May lfi ' 1R -
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Richmond J.C ■ May 29.
Mudgee R.C.. ? u , n ® n 4, l n -
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
ATHf/ETICS.
Miller v. Dinnie, Wrestling Match, Sydney.. April 17.
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18.19.
Windsor Grammar School Sports April 26.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports May 17.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 20,21.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 21.
Royston College Sports May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 24
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The secretary of the Adelaide Athletic
Club says he can find a lad who can beat young
Murphy. Trot him out by all meaDsl
The Sydney Orientals won the Cootamun-
dra match last week by 147 runs. Kidman and
Patterson made 60 each, and Warren 30,
The annual Rugby match between Scot-
land and Ireland, played at Edinburgh, was won
by Scotland by two goals and one try to one try.
At Forbes, the looals played Grenfell on
Saturday last, and, as the time would not allow of
a finish, the match was decided by the first innings,
which were : Forbes, 140 ; Grenfell, 66.
The Birchvillites recently had a wallaby
drive on a big scale. After the slaughter, the
operators adjourned to Mr. Bulley’s residence,
where a lunch was set out in Bully style.
A Yankee paper says Slade, the half-caste
pugilist, has turned in £7500 during his stay In the
United State*. This is more than they can make
out of Macquarlo-strcet “turn-ups.” More gall,
David.
Winning mounts of our jookeys who run
into double figures, from Ist August to Bth April,
Inclusive:-Hales 33, Nicholson 31, Colley 14, Batty
13, Kelso 12, Gough 12, O’Brien 12, Williamson 10,
Power 10.
The Viotbrian Greyhound, Be Happy, by
Bright Idea—Daisy, by Bed Rover—Juno, Bright
Idea being by MagnaDO-Playful, was recently
maliciously poisoned. During his career he won
23 out of 26 courses.
Miller and Dinnie are to wrestle at the
Melbourne Exhibition, three falls Grweco-Roman
and three falls Scotch, on April 19th, for £2OO.
Victor takes up his customary couple of inches in
last week’s sportsman and challenges Dinnie to
wrestle Gracco-Roman style.
Some enthusiastic sporting gentlemen in
Toronto, Ont„ have had printed on their note-
paper a device consisting of lacrosses and oars
entwined with maple leaves, indicative of the fact
that the championship of the world at rowing and
lacrosse are held in that city. The design wants a
“ gas”ometer to make it complete.
The following are some of the top fees
chargod for English stallions for the year 1884: Her-
mit2oogs., Sterling 160g5., Rosicrucian lOOgs, George
Frederick lOOgs., Baroaldlne. Beaudere, Bend Or,
The Duke, Isonomy, Klsber, Lowlauder, Macaroni,
Peter, Petrarch, Robert the Devil, See Saw,
Speculate, and Springfield, 50gs. each.
The Victoria Coursing Club held their
opening Bracelet Meeting at the Ova], Diggers’
Rest, on Saturday last. The Ladies Plate, for 13
dogs of all ages, was won by J. Murray’s Exile.
The Ladles' Bracelet, for 14 dogs of all ages, was
won by the Hon. W. M’Cullooh’s Manifesto ; and
for 16 dogs of all ages, by R. M’Culloch's Ixion.
In Melbourne, the Mines Department de-
feated the Treasury ditto in a four-oar race. Our
Lands, Audit, and Treasury Departments have
races amongst themselves, but never compete one
against the other. A Civil Service regatta would,
without doubt, prove a good afternoon 8 sport, as
we have some iirst-class men scattered through the
various olUces.
Still another “champion” wrestler has
arrived in New York. Hans Rink, the champion
wrestler of Switzerland, arrived in New York on
February 27. Ho was born in Basle City. Switzer-
land, in November, 1867. He stands Oft. lin. in
height, and weighs 16st. 101 b. Ho has won ovtr
fifty matches in Switzerland, and is well up in all
branches of wrestling.
Before playing a game of four-handed
euchre with a voung lady from the back blocks bs
his “ pardner,” a knowing Sydneyite told her that
every time she held the joker it was a sure sign
her “ ioker ” was thinking of her. Then, when
the fiend watched her faoe during the progress of
the game, and saw the peach bloom rise to her
cheek, he made a pretty shrewd guess as to where
the joker was.
Still another champion has turned up in
Melbourne. Mr. Lovelace claims to be champion
bicyclist of Australia, as he defeated all-comers
between the years 1870 and 1876. It is a wonder
Mr Lovelace still lives to write of his wondrous
performances, considering the bone-rattlers that
were ridden in his day; but should what he states
be true, the prefix of ex should figure oetore the
title claimed by him. , „ „
Frank Wostenkolme and G. Crookes con-
tended with gloves, “for endurance,” at Wood-
thorpe, near Sheffield (Eng.), for £2O, the former
knocking the latter out alter two rounds had been
fought in five minutes, it seems strange the
number of short battlos, with gloves, that now
take place when taken in comparison with the
knuckle encounters between old timers, such as
Bayers and Heenan, Gully and Gregson, Langbam
aud Sayers, and a host of others.
Mineral Water, the winner of the Waterloo
Cud. on the night of the draw (Tuosday) was
quoted at 1000 to 12. After winning two courses,
and when the card was called over on Wednesday,
18 to 1 was offered; and on Thursday night, when
only four dogs were left In the stake, 4 to 1 was
taken and offered. For the deciding course, .* to 4
was laid on Mineral Water beating Greentlck. Last
year’s winner was quoted at 100 to 1 on the night
of the draw: but Wild Mint wns a rank outsider,
and won by the greatest of flukes.
The Parkes J C. races extended over no
less than three days. On the opening day, the Bth
April, Examiner won the Maiden Plate ; Biddy
won the Ladies’ Bracelet; Orphan Boy carried off
the Town Plate; and Pinkie, the Fiying Handicap.
The second day opened with the Shorts Handicap,
won by Junius; Viotory was all there in the
Prince of Wales’ Stakes; Student made an easy
win of the Jockey Club Handicap; and Harlequin
won the Consolation Stakes. The concluding day s
BDort consisted of the Farewell Handicap and
Shorts Handicap, which were won by Barney and
Reg ulus respectively.
Ivo Bligh does not think very highly of
our Ted Evans, judging by his account of the
match against New South Wales, he says Our
opponents’ list included the far-famei Evans,
whose name has been so often impressed upon us
at borne as that of the best all-round man in Aus-
tralia—a title to which, at the present time, he is
most certainly in no way entitled. Indeed, we
rather question whether he would find a place now
in their best eleven. Magnificent fieldsman though
he undoubtedly is, his batting cowers seem to have
almost deserted him, and his bowling is hardly up
to the high standard of excellence in that strongest
of bowling elevens.”
Says a Yankee exchange“Hosmer, the
Bostc n oarsman, says he has had enough of walk-
ing matches, and that he will now go off to the
country to fatten up for the rowing season.
Hosmer says he will be ready for any man in
America, bar Hanlan. He thinks either Hamm or
Conley can beat Teemer, although the latter is a
good one. If Hosmer’s walking matches have not
injui ed his rowing abilities, he will make it hot for
any oarsman except Wallace Ross, George Lee,
EdwardJHcnian, and John Teemer, and they are
Just a class ahead of him, although at three miles
he might succeed in beating anyone but Hanlan or
Teemer.”
About the most leary crowd it has been
our lot to witness together for some time past,
under the guidance of a “captain” who owns
several ocean going steamers running between
the aristocratic suburb of Pyrmont and Lime-
street wharf, “got left,” to use a Yankee phrase,
at the boat race on Saturday. The leary ones
waited in a launch round Uhr’s Point, and as the
boats passed them joined in the procession, but
before reaching One Man Wharf they ran on a
reef, and the subsequent proceedings interested
them no more. The Commodore people gave
them a “chivvy” as they passed, but the Captain
and his “ boys” hadn’t the civility to respond.
A correspondent has asked us if we can tell
him anything of William Sheriff alias Prussian,
who is one of the candidates for the pugilistic
championship of the world. Sheriff was born in
England, in August 1847; his height is 6ft. s*m.,
and weight list. 2 lb. He first entered the ring in
1857, beating J. Barrow, of Leicester, in 15 rounds,
occupying one hour. A year later he defeated
J. Marshall in 30 minutes. In 1860 be defeated
Fred. Orton, of Leicester, in 35 minutes. In 1861
he met George Orton, the police interfering after
the fight had gone on for three hours. He did not
appear in the ring again until eleven years later,
in 1872, when he fought another member of the
Orton family—Jack. Sheriff won easily in 35
minutes. Six years later, in 1878, he undertook to
THE TRUE GUIDE FOR THE “ LATCH-KEY.”
Tired landlords and waiting wives will hail its advent with tears
of joy.
I beat Badger Brown in 30 minutes, but the autho-
rities prevented the light. He next fought Denny
Harrington The constabulary interfered after
the light had been in progress ;43 minutes. After
much wrangling, the stakes were awarded to
Sheriff, Harrington declining a second meeting.
The sawdust worriers are making a big
struggle to work up the agony in the States.
Vaughan has accepted our William Edwards’
challenge for £3OO a side, and in all probability
Harriman and Dan O'Leary will chip in and make
it a sweepstakes, By the way, we see the N.Y.
Spirit of me Times holds a deposit of £5O from
Vaughan in reply to Edwards’ challenge. The
Spirit does not devote a line to even boxing
matches with gloves on account of the alleged
brutality of the sport. In our opinion, a bout
under Queensberry rules cannot hold a candle to
the prolonged strain of a six days’ contest, so far
as a brutal exhibition is concerned. Edward
Hanlan received £lOO out of the plunder of the
last Yankee go-as-you-please, which was won by
Fitzgerald.
Says an American paper“ I was not
surprised when Bogardus informed me that he
was going to England to meet the many English
wing-shots, because I think there is more money
in England at the game than in this country.
Dr. Carver is also going at the same time. It will
not amaze me much to see Carver and Bogy an-
nounced to shoot for a large stake after they
invade Albion. Of course the match will (result
according to the betting. Ido not believe there is
any spurting man who could, with safety, back
Bogardus to beat Carver, or shift the cut and put
up money for Corner to beat Bogardus. Both are
on the make, and it is the betting which in nine
cases out of ten decides Hie matches they engage
in against {each other, not the merits of the con-
testants.”
The Hon. Ivo Bligh, before leaving Mel-
bourne, threw off a few oracular remarks about
the prospects of the “fourth Australian Eleven.”
The Hon. Ivo thinks that the present team is
altogether stronger than any of the previous
ones, and (says the Melbourne Herald) “an
opinion like this, coming from so sound an au-
thority,is very gratifying.” Without rejection in
anv way upon Ivo’s judgment, we may be per-
mitted to remark that the fact of a ttfun being
skilful at cricket doesn’t make him “a sound
authority” on the game by any means. The avorage
jockey is usually one of the very worst judges in
the world of a race ; the professional oar man
delights in discovering invisible excellencies in tho
wrong crew ; while the ordinary “hactor” can
never see the good points of a popular per-
former. No, the "public” is the soundest au-
hority we know of.
London Bell’s Life says:—' Many com-
plaints having been made during the past season
in America with regard to certain competitors at
regattas being systematically blocked by others,
with a view to securing the victory of some par-
ticular sculler or crew, the matter is at present re-
ceiving the attention of several prominent mem-
bers of the committee of the National Association
of American oarsmen. It is stated that at the next
meeting of this body a new rule will be added to
the existing code, giving umpires and regatta com-
mittees power in case a sculler or crew is wilfully
impeded by others in a trial heat to allow such
scullers or crews to take part either in a supple-
mentary or the final heat ” Such a rule would
not be amiss in the colonies either, for it is not so
long ago that a man was wilfully, or what appeared
wilfullv, fouled in the final heat of a race, which
foul allowed a third or fourth rater to annsx the
prize.
Reggy Bloxsome, who now lives at
Ranger’s Valley, near Glen Innes, has been trying
his hand on the turf at Inverell, but so far has
not turned up trumps. Reggy thought to scoop
the pool with a grey named Trumpeter, but the
brute ran a good last in no 1 '-'ss than three races. It is
rumoured that a local undertaker, Thorley is in
treaty for the steed, and, should he succeed in
obtaining the fiery mustang, Trumpeter wiil be
painted black and given a trial to see whether he
is fast enough for a funeral procession. Cecil
Bloxsome, a brother of Ileggy’s and another
howling swell, drove into the recent pionic races
in a dilapidated trap, to which were attached four
untamed steeds, and raised the envy of the
Invercllites by the manner he performed on a
trumpet which, like the trap, had seen better
days. He drove out of town the next morning
and had a very narrow escape of being “ run in
as no one but a milkman is allowedlto blow a horn
going in or out of a town-at least, so says a local
trap.
It is rumoured that one of the very fore-
most jockeys is to be warned oft the turf when
the first opportunity offers. It is not Archer; and
the Spouting and Dramatic News adds : “ It is
assuredly not Cannon; Fordham is out of the
question; it is not little Martin nor 8. Loates, and
Osborne cannot be meant.” “ All this,” says the
English correspondent of the Spirit of the
Times, is merely a round-about way of naming
Charles Wood. He it is, of course, and h’s license
to ride has been renewed only with a severe oau-
tion to him to take heed to his ways. Whether
Wood will ‘ stay ’ through the year remains to be
seen. I know that an illustrated paper proposed
to give coloured portraits, this year, of four lead-
ing jockeys, and the question of choice had to be
considered. Archer came first, as having: headed
the list of winning riders for a dozen years. Wood
was passed over, as it was considered by no means
certain that he would be In active servioe a few
months hence, and the others are therefore to be
Cannon, Fordham, and Osborne.’*
Hilaria Balsau, the young Frenchman who
wanted to swim the whirlpool rapids of Niagara
last summer after Captain Webb met his death,
but who was prevented by the authorities, has
turned up at Montreal. He says he intends to at-
tempt the perilous task as soon as warm weather
setsiu. The mistake made by Captain Webb, in
Balsau's opinion, was in trying to swim through
the immense waves of the rapids. When making
the attempt, Balsau says he will keep close to the
Canadian shore, and on reaching the rapids will
allow himself to float along the surface. He ex-
pects to come to the surface to breath once every
minute. In less than five minutes he will be
through the whirlpool; therefore if he could
come to the surface five times in the passage he
would be safe Balsau is working in a leather
factory and says he has influential friends in
Canada, who assure him that he will be allowed to
attempt the perilous task without hindrance. If
they do, it will be the best proof in the world that
they want to rid themselves of him.
Tom Cannon, vron the Sandown Grand
Prize (Handicap Hurdle Race) at the Bandown
Park Club First Spring Meeting, with the Amerl-
rican-bred horse, Sachem, by war Danoe, out of
SI v Boots. Tom Cannon has, so far, won two races
with Sachem. The American-bred horse ran ten
times as a three-year old in England without once
passing the judge first. In 1883 he was beaten six
t imes in succession, and thon, after a dead heat
and the disqualification of his opponent, managed
t > credit his owner with the Brighton Autumn
Handicap. He acquired the evil reputation of
being a soft or ungenerous horse, although that
such censure was lully deserved may b< ’"'bted.
As a rule he ran consistently enough, alt on
one occasion last year, in the Koyal Hunt Cup, he
did not appear to be on his best behaviour.
Asa hurdle racer Sachem promises to take high
rank, the victory at Sandown on Wednesday hav-
ing bees a very hollow one indeed. Probably
rachom is the first American-bred horse that has
wonareallyimportaat “jumping” race in England.
For the past three years females have had
it all their own way with the English Waterloo
Cup, through Princess Dagmar, Snowflight, and
Wild Miut, but this year’s winner. Mineral Water,
is a dog by Memento-Braeroum. For the deciding
course, between Mineral Water and Greentlek, the"
dogs had scarcely left the slips when it was seen
that Mineral Water was left behind pretty well a
length. They had, however, gone but a few strides
when he raced past and came on to move his gam o
four lengths la front, then, shooting forward on
the line, he ran up a sequence of four strong
drives before pussy broke from him, when, howfr
ever, he quickly replaced ‘himself for two other
drives, and then sent the hare round to Greentick,
who scored twice and lost his place as the hare
broke away. The white at once dashed clear
away, but pussy whipped from him, when Green-
tick shot up on the inside, and again used his game
twice, when the hare again shot away clear.
Mineral Water exhibited superior speed, and
knocked his game about three times before
serving Greentick for a single effort, after which
the favourite shot out, wrenched and killed—a
very easy winner.
At Jem Mace’s showatLeioester (Eng.), on
January 31, one of the attractions was Captain
Charles H. Austin, the champion rifle shot, who,
among many feats, attempted to split a potato
placed on the head of his wife. This feat was suc-
cessfully performed fromtthe ordinary shooting
position, when the Captain placed himself in a
lying position across a chair. Breathless silence
prevailed, but immediately after the shot Mrs.
Austin uttered a scream. Blood flowed profusely
from the head, and Austin immediately seized his
wife and carried her to the retiring-room. As
might be expected, the utmost possible excitement
prevailed; but, fortunately, a doctor happened to
be a spectator, and his services were of the utmost
importance. Austin stated that his wife made a
slight movement simultaneously upon his pulling
the trigger, and that he knew some injury had
been incurred. The doctor, in describing the in-
jury, said that the ball struck the scalp on the left
side of the head, making a wound about three
inches in length. After a short interval, Smith, of
Baltimore, better known as “ Smith of Liverpool,”
had a set-to with the veteran Mace, but they could
not shake off the damp the accident had cast over
the audience.
Another of the periodical outcries against
“gambling clubs” is just now resounding through
London society, and the proprietor of a small
baccarat hell, in Park Lane, has been mulcted in a
very heavy sum. People possessing a grain of
sense smile, of course, at the notion or this isolated
prosecution doing anything towards curing an
evil so deeply rooted as high play. The “warmest"
clubs in London are quite beyond the jurisdiction
of a police court; the Turf, for instance—where
the Prinoe of Wales is almost a nightly visitor
when in town—is notorious for the heavy stakes
won and lost within its sacred precincts. Besides,
if gambling were abolished, some of the best known
among the “ fast set ” of the English aristocracy
would be in the position of our old friend Othello
—their occupation would be gone. More than one
heavy swell with a “handle”—and a good “han-
dle,” too—to his name, is known to have devoted
many an hour to acquiring (in some sung little
private room) certain sleights of hand from a man
who is clever with the “ broads,” and to have paid
handsomely for the tuition. Several prominent
patrons of the turf would have come to grief long
since but for their ability to (quoting a sly remark
sometimes heard in the “ring” when their lord-
ships have had a bad day) “ get it back at dealing
after dinner."
The citizens of Wanamie, U.S., recently
went in for a little gentle sport in the shape of a
bucking match between two worthies named
Evans and McCauly. The contest was a desperate
one, lasting 36 rounds, and it is thought one of the
combatants, Evans, will not recover from the
effects of injuries received. Both men went into
training some time ago, and on the moraing when
they faced each other, weighed 310 lbs. each. Both
men were possessed of big heads, and built in
ln the first round Evans bueked
tcOauly In the stomach, and threw him over the
ropes. A foul was claimed by McCauly’s friends,
as he said he struck him below the belt. The foul
was refused. In the next round both men bucked
their heads together, and the report was so loud
that it was thought by the spectators their heads
were broken. They were not hurt much, how-
ever, and the fight went on. In the Eleventh
round Evans had his nose broken by a terriflo
blow from the head of McCauly, and in the
fifteenth round MoOauly had five teeth broken in
his mouth by a similar collision. In the twentv-
flfth round both men came together with such
great force as to send them back reeling. Evans
was knocked down insensible and was unable to
come to the scratoh. His scull is fractured, and
he is not expected to live. McCauly is not in a
much better condition. Thousands of dollars
changed hands on the result. Brutes I
Charley Mitchell, the English pugilist, has
returned to the Stites, a bigger and stronger man.
He weighed nearly 13 st. when he left England, and
stated he would try for anothershot with Bullivan,
with or without the mittens. Sullivan continues
as big a blackguard as ever. According to an
American paper, he attended the dinner given to
Manlan, Lee, and Cotsford, at Victoria (8.C.)
Sullivan had been imbibing freely. He told one
gentleman to ‘ dry up or be would make him,”
and continued to exhibit his amiable proclivities
until his remarks became so offensive that the
chairman requested him to isit down or leave.
He chose the latter alternative, and saying he
could wipe out the whole crowd and other
like expressions, finally left the room. While at
the table he drank three bottles of champagne in
quick succession out of a beer glass. Slaae has
left the champion’s troupe. The pair were on bad
terms for some time, and on February 23, the night
of parting, had an open row in a drinking saloon.
Sullivan, it seems, was considerably the worse for
liquor, and after butting Slade in the face he was
seized by the latter, thrown to the floor, and held
there till the arrival of a policeman, who had been
sent for, and who put Sullivan in a hack and sent
him to the Palace Hotel. Sully, who until his
elevation to the championship, thought such
vanities as collars and cuffs beneath him, now
dresses a perfect “ dude,” even going to the extend
of yellow gloves, upon his ham-llke “mashers,”
with which he recently put to sleep a lumDerman
named Lang, in seven seconds, the shortest time
on record.
The N.Y. Bpikit of the Times gives a
vastly different account from some of the other
Yankee papers with regard to the alleged perfor-
mance at Boston, of Mr. F. P. Murray, the Ameri-
can amateur walker, who was reported to have
done a mile at the winter games of the Union
Athletic Club of that city in 6min. 2i%sec. It ap-
pears that when turning the corners at the upper
end of the track “he assisted himself by taking
hold of the supporting posts,” in other words he
swung himself round by their aid. it also tran-
spires, according to the Spirit of the Times, that
the centre of the floor is an asphalt parallelogram,
at whose comers are four huge posts. Around
this is a board floor 31ft. in width. On this board
floor the surveyor laid out a path whose four
straight sides were 13ft. 6in. from the outer edge
of the board, or 17ft. Bin. outside the asphalt, and
whose four corners were quarter-circles turned on
a radius of 33ft. The path thus laid out was 754‘2-
7ft in circuit—an exact seventh of a mile, and this
was the path to which the surveyor certified. In-
stead of laying out this as surveyed, and placing a
ourb eighteen inches inside its measured line, as
was directed by the surveyor, the managers of the
building made no curb, but used for that purpose
the edges and corners of the asphalt floor, thus
making all portions of the actual path many feet
inside the surveyed and certified track. The re-
sult it that, roughly estimated, the path is seventy-
five feet short on each lap, or over five hundred
fe?t short on each mile. This will also nullify the
record of Meyers, who, at the same meeting and
on the same track was alleged to have run three-
seventh’s of a mile in lmin. 89)4sec.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Alexandrians defeated tbe Terrara
Cricketers on Saturday last, by 32 runs.... Last
week the Press defeated the Stage in a cricket
match by 103 to 68—Mr. Mat. O'Shanassy fills the
vacancy on the Y.R.C. committee occasioned by
Dr. Fitzgerald’s trip to Europe.
* * *
In a match at shelling corn with their
teeth, in a saloon in Schenectady (N.Y ), February
36, Fritz Jaas defeated William Crouch by half an
ear, he shelling a dozen large ears in seven


isy our blood
Impure and loaded with the poison of Scrofulous,
Inherited, or Contagious Humors, causing Glandu-
lar Swellings, Ulcerous Patches in the throat and
mouth, Erysipelas, Abscesses, Carbuncles, Boils
Tumors. Cancers, Ulcers, Sores, Loathsome Erup-
tions, Wasting of the Liver. Kidneys, and Lungs,
Rheumatism, Gout, and Neuralgia ? The Outi-
cura Resolvent will surely cleanse and purify
your blood, perspiration and urine of impurities
and poisonous elements, whether inherited or sell-
contracted, no matter bow severe or chronic ;
l while the Outicura and Cuticura Soap clear the
13kln and Scalp of Itehing, Scaly, and Pimply
Humors, heal Ulcers, Sores, and Wounds, soften,
whiten, and beautify the Skin and restore the
Haly,
THE GOMPMNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the A.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking 1 Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Rfanager.
Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PAL.VCE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 llrst-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
CALMED METALLIC WES OR SHINGLES!
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, oall and inspect the above at
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street.
ISF* The PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Sbno
ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor—
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continental
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciation.
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions In the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to SO Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 8 Buttons length,
4s. fid.
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLOVEd, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4ri. fid.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, Os.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. fid.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, ss.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 4 Buttons, 3s. od.
per pair
KID GLOVES, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d per
ir
GLOVES for Gentlemen, walking, 4s. 6d.
r pair
GLOVES for Gentlemen evening', 4s. 6d. and
ss. per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Gauntlets, velvet tops
KID GLOVES, fur tops, Gauntlets, lined
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
pair
KID G
pair
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Giticura
evi-rv
A'M)
i
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
£
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
"■"'DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and. Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enscmia, Pysemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
arc positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood os pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic a ad Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of. all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus, removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
.Tolly for external, use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, chars the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandmff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura loap, an exquisite Skin Beauliflcr
and Toilet prepared from Cuticuha, is
Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough. Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcura Hein exile*, are absolutely pure, and
tho only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetabla poison whatsoever.
Far Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
CUTICURA, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cutktura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cutiocra Resolvent, sj.oo per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
'D.S.A.
minutes.... In a hslf-hour beer-drinking tourna-
ment for $5, at Ross and Plaisted’s saloon, Pits-
burg (Pa.), March 1, William Glbbage won by
drinking 37 glasses Football should be encour-
deed by the undertakers at their annual picnic.
At Bath (Eng.), January 19. no fewer than five
Sayers were injured. One of them, George Her- 1
man, died in consequence. The game was played
under the Rugby rules... C. P. Blatt, “ the cham-
pion man-fish, ’ who is now in America, has stopped
under water 4min. the longest time on
record. Blatt offers to bet £lOO he can remain
longer under water than any man living.....
Recently the greyhound Snowflight, winner of the
Waterloo Cup in 1883, and the runner up to Wild
Mint for the event last year, was sold to Mr. Faw-
cett, in London, for £5OO Mr. R. J. Hancock, of
Virginia (U. 8.). breeder of the famous trio, Eole,
Eolist, and Eolite, does not believe in racing horses
before they are three years old. When ne sold
role it was stipulated that he should not run
before he was a three-year-old. Eolist was only
run three times a 1? a two-year-old, and Eolite he
kept himself until he was three years. It is said
that the price lately paid by Gebhard for the last-
named was £2400. War Song has produced three
sons, who have been sold by Mr. Hancock for £5OOO
in the aggregate, and this, too, as untried colts.
IRISH ILLUSIONS.
[The following article is from the pen of
our late Theological Editor. This statement needs
some explanation. Briefly then, there have been
so many new brands of liquor introduced to the
colonies of late years, and the public mind has ex-
panded so much in consequence, that, in order to
keep our place in the van of the march of intellect,
we were obliged to engage an Editor of Theology.
This department was formerly conducted by the
gentleman who edits the mixed drinks when our
admirers call upon us, but these had increased so
largely and the mental vision of the editor himself
had become so kaleidoscopic that we had te
transfer the theological portion of his duties to a
calmer and less promiscuous intellect. The gentle-
man we engaged was recommended to us as a
person of the highest order of ability and of stain-
less moral character. This latter quality at once
secured him the unanimous derision of the other
members of our staff, but we took no heed of this.
We were determined that we should have at least
one contributor to our oolumns who would write
Of religious matters with some personal prejudice
towards purity of conduct, and an acquaintance,
however slight, with a few of the common virtues
such as truth and temperance. The late Irish
gala-day suggested several things to us, and we
looked around among the members of our literary
staff for a man to write us the article we wanted.
We required something cool and rational, yet to
the point, written by an Irishman if possible, yet
having none of that celtic Are and fury which so
frequently repel people of other nationalities when
reading anything about Irish affairs written by an
Irishman. Our new Theological Editor seemed
the best man we could select. He was an Irishman,
but a philosophical one, and able to take a cosmo-
politan view of the affairs of his country. We
Erint the article as he wrote it. We may state
ere that he left our staff shortly after. Chief
Editor B.]
• • •
• • •
• • •
There is a superstition very popular among
some classes of Irishmen to the effect that God
created Ireland. This notion, absurd as it appears
to the English mind, has taken such a firm hold
upon them that even writs of ejection are power-
less to drive it out. We may oail this the first
Irish illusion. The second is that God created
Ireland for the Irish. These two illusions, with
Borne others—all of which are innate, whatever
Locke says—are the cause of most of the troubles
that have affltoted this unhappy because unphilo-
sophioal people from the earliest period of their
history. We are aware that a great many writers,
who are considered authorities on the question,
have ascribed the troubles to other causes, sueh as
poverty, priestcraft, landlordism and so forth, but
this view must be wrong as these evils have not
always existed; but Ireland has always been in
trouble. Plainly, then the source of all Irish
misery must be sought in the Irish nature. Surely
the whole world knows all about it I Has it not
been analysed in novels and pictured in plays ever
since before we can remember ? Do we not alj
know the reckless, free-hearted, Pat equally ready
at repartee with his tongue or his stick, and never
so crushed with misfortune as to be unable to
make a joke or dance a jig ? This interesting but
impossible creature is the generally accepted
type of an Irishman. He is another illusion.
And, curious enough, Irishmen themselves are
the most taken in by him. As a matter of fact
the Celtic temperament is wild and melancholy.
The old Irish songs are a proof of this. They are
in almost every instance mournful and dark of
thought. Even ths fun—wherever there is fun-
is grotesque. And grotesqueness is the humour
of gloom. The Irish wit is like the phosphores-
cence that plays upon the water when the
night ia darkest and the storm is rising. And
the truly typical Irishman does not wear his
heart, in his sleeve any more than he wears his pipe
in his hat. He is frank and free-spoken, certainly,
but not a bit more so than Is good for him. After
ho tells you, as you think, everything, he has a
sufficient reserve left to guard himsolf and defeat
your plans in case you should try to use the infor-
mation ho gavo you to his disadvantage. If the
Irishman is anything he is a master of subtlety.
His generositv, however, is pure, and may be
allowed to him without any qualification, exoept
perhaps caprice. He is undoubtedly kind-hearted
—and very kind to his own kindness. These are
the qualities that make him miserable. He is
melancholy by nature and this in itself Is enough
to make him a discontented beiag under any cir-
cumstances. Then his circumstances happen to be
poor which, of course, intensifies his discontent.
His generosity is gall to him because he cannot be
generous in the manner he would like. His suspicion
and reserve make him consider every foreigner his
foe. So, after seven centuries of continued effort
for the welfare of Ireland, the English Government
is as much disliked by Irishmen now as ever it
was. What can you do with suchpeoplo ? How
can any government settle their diificultins? The
policy of settlement by starvation is no doubt the
best plan that the rulers of Ireland have hit upon
as yet, inasmuch as when there is nothing left in
the country to eat, there will be little left to
quarrel about. But it is slow, and the people have
in some miraculous fashion so adapted themselves
to it that they seem to be able either to d > alto-
gether without food or to live upon what nobody
ever suspected to be fit for food before. Perhaps
they live upon recollection. And speaking of re-
collection, another Irish illusion is, that Ireland,
like the landlady whom we have met, has‘‘seen
better days.” This is simply a nursery »ale. There
was a time when there were no potatoes in Ireland
—ay, and a time when there was only a very poor
prophecy of Kinahan 1 There were certainly
more kings and chiefs and bards than there are
now. hut we doubt if the people at large had
much more to eat on that account. Think of the
first race who came to Ireland after the flood
—the Partholian, we mean. When they landed,
the country was bare ; the air was un-
disturbed by a sound save the roar of,
the waves dashing on the stormy. ooast;
the land looked a loqely and forgotten land. And
so it was. These were no fairs there then, no
flghte, no wakes, no whiskey. With dark pre-
sentiments the Partholani got out of their trough-
shaped ships and went ashore. They did not find
even a dead crow in the whole island. And as the
more nutritious class of vegetation had not had
time to come to the surface, they had to mine for
it. The traces of these mining operations are
seattered all over the country at the present day.
But the roots soon played out, and the Partholani
gradually ate each other out of existence. There
is not a relic of them now, not as much as the
material for a toothpick. This is one of the Irish
golden ages that patriots and poets are fond of
regretting. There can be no doubt, to a calm and
philosophical mind, that the most peaceful period
of Irish history was the time when Ireland was
uninhabited.
* * v
Irishmen are the prey of illusions. Another
of these, and perhaps the most popular among
them, is that they are by nature the cleverest
people in the world. This makes them all the
wilder when they think of being oppressed by a
race intellectually inferior to themselves. Here,
in the colonies—to take an illustration nearer
home—you will see that when Irishmen get into
political life they usually say more and do less
than politicians of any other nationality. The
writer is an Irishman himself, so he cannot be
accused of prejudice in making this statement.
To give Irishmen their due, they are quicker in
emergencies and more elastic by nature than either
Scotchmen or Englishmen, but they have not a
tithe of Scotch judgment, or a twentieth part of
English solidity and tenacity of purpose. They
will not like to hear this, but we are telling the
calm and solemn truth. It is a poor thing if a
writer in this philosophical age cannot deal with a
subject without being biassed by his nationality,
* * *
here the theological editor went out for ten
minutes with a friend.
* * *
Of course another cause of Irish trouble is
Irish pugnacity. There will hardly ever bo much
peace in a country where men foam at the mouth
on seeing a piece of green or orange ribbon. Until
this miserable faction-feeling is stamped out, there
will be little hope of happier times in Ireland We
who live in a free and (to to speak) enlightened
atmosphere can afford to smile at such barbarous
folly, but it is no matter for smiling to those who
live in the midst of it. The only real cure for it
is to educate the people. Education has done
wonders here in the oolonies. It has made the
rising generation tolerant of all creed,sand believers
in none. To the calm eye of the educated man the
antics of Orangemen and Papists, with their im-
mortal memories of Lknerick and Benburb, Lon-
donderry and the Boyne, are alike paltry and
ridiculous.
* * *
At this point the Theological Editor went
out with another friend.
There is no stability in anything that any-
one should become enthusiastic over. The rhyth-
mic roll of the waves of history, the choral march
of the ethnic procession across the earth, like
shadows ohasing shadows across a field of poppied
corn, are seen and heard by the Thinker only in
the solemn watches of the night. These are the
hours when the voices of Time shiver in small
sopranos upon the mysterious background of the
awful major motive in the fathomless fugue of
Eternity.
* * *
Here the Theological Editor went out again
by himself.
• ■ •
After all, whatever may be said against
the Irish, it must be admitted by even their worst
enemies that they are the cleverest people now
living on the face of the earth. The Scotchman
may have some poor virtues—what else could you
expect from a poor soil ? such as thrift and per-
severance, but he has no judgment to bo compared
with that of the Irishman. As for the Englishman,
he has certainly some good mulish qualities, but
in solidity of intellect and indomitable will he is im-
measurably inferior to the Irishman. That this
statement Is not the outcome of prejudice may be
seen by studying political life in this very colony.
Who so ready to jilan, so vigorous to execute, as
the Irishman ? Who so frank and free and light-
hearted as the Irishman ? And how is it that a
race so full of noble qualities as the Irish has been
so long poverty-stricken and miserable ? Plainly
on account of evil Government. We wish to apeak
moderately on the matter, having no belief ia furi-
ous declamation, but we certainly think the time has
arrived when the English nation should take some
steps to lighten the burden of poverty and misery
under which the patient and peaoeable people of
Ireland have groaned so long. As far as the latter
themselves are concerned in their own manumis-
sion, we would advise quiet and constitutional
measures. Any other are unsound and unphilo-
sophical.
• •
Here one of the most dissolute members of
our staff dropped in and' the theological editor
went out with him also. Both returned in about
half an hour, the dissolute villain smiling.
* * *
What is the oause of the troubles in
Ireland? The base and bloody Saxon who has
danced for seven centuries on the body of a bleed-
ing people. What is the remedy ? Fire and
blood. Else and tear down the gory oppressor.
All talk of peaoeful measures is puerile palaver.
We are proud to say we are Irish, and we are
proud to say those are our sentiments. Rise O,
down-trodden people! Forty patriarohs look down
from the Pyramids upon you. Strike till you
bring the brutal Saxon to his knee and make him
render up again to you your birthright. Let
‘‘every man his own Banshee” be your watch-
. word. This is the keystone of true liberty. Trample
'upon the bigoted Orangeman. Remember
Aughrlml Remember the Broken Treaty! Down
with the tyrants I Rip out the good old chorus :
The White Oockade has come to town,
To pull the Orange and the Purple down;
And over the water we shall wade
To follow the laddie with the white cockade 1
I’ll sell my rocket, and I'll sell my reel,
And so will I my spinning-wheel.
And oyer the water we shall wade
To follow the laddie with the White Cockade!
Whoopi Gore!
v * *
To H—l with King William!
[At this juncture we came in and found
our Editor of Theology fighting with the manacle-
keeper. Glorious thing, isn’t it,to run a paper? We
had him—the editor—tied, and sent homo in a
covered cart. And now we have a vacancy for
another Religious editor. We are not weak and
will enough to expect the next one we get to he
sober, but we do expect him to confine himself to
one kind of liquor when he is writing a philo-
sophical article. No man who has a moral charac-
ter—unless it is a particularly hhlious one—need
apply for the situation. We have had enough of
piety; what we want now is vice—haggard, un-
blushing vice.—Ohikf Editor B.]


Jjt URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLE7 v, WTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
snd
LIBRARY fURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
* 7?t4t?, LES ' t BOOKCASES, secretaires,
keADING and LOUNGE CHAiRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
Wall c
VERY EL-
Newton, and Lamb
for Choice China, &c.
'Just received. Bradley,
FURNITURE.— THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THBCOLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
uaMB, O Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gixat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
T7IIGHT-POUND BEDRO.OM SUITES.—The
JLI4 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
gteAA agd two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 365; Chests Drawers, from 40s: Wash-
from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dlrnng Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 265; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
1&>; Folding-Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell a
streets, Sydney.
I and Spring
v,..L, v
jfe!
O
-OOPI PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
f*UU strong, and durable. Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaoh and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 86s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
OCASIONAL’TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ABY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
Self-adjusting hammock chair-
Patented.
m
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the oeoupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
©onstruetion; works automatically. Tn»e above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that oasn be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-ehore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Or
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-]
Ormolu.
room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JD TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, ana
LAMB.
B
W
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate^.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Com
neU-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
GARDEN SEAIS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-street.
Bentwood furniture.—a very complete
Assortment: best make, lov ast prices.
SOCIAL
A fruit soiree was advertised. It is not a
common event, like a tram-hash or the mobbing
of a Chinaman, which we can revel in at any time;
and we hanker for novelties; so we went. The
place was quite full, mostly with ladies. The
soiree was got up by the Congregational Debating
8 iclety in the Bourke-street Schoolroom, with the
object, we understood, of rubbing off a debt. A
very excellent idea; though our persoual experi-
ence of attempts to accomplish any such feat has
not been encouraging. We don’t indulge in
chimeras now. The hall was nicely dressed, also
the ladles; and one glance at the packed audience
all simmering with sympathy and anticipa-
tion showed that the Bourke-street girls are
very fond either of fruit, or debating societies.
Kev. J. Hill presided, and told the young
men that cultivating their brains would make
them as great as if they joined a team of gentle-
men and went home to play for gate-money—or
even greater. A mixed programme was carried
out, in two parts, Mr. A. Flower being accom-
panist, and he, Miss E. Flower, and Miss L. Lane,
played several piano selections. Miss Lane sang
"Yesterday” and another ballad rather sottly,
but with much sweetness ; Mr. Neote gave *• Lon-
don Bridge ” and another song with a smooth
correctness which contrasted with the excessive
vigor of Mr. Hawkins’ " Will o’ the Wisp,” Mr.
Wtuart recited “The Little Hero,” and Mr. Batch-
elor recited the most meritorious item of the
evening, entitled “ Not on the Programme ; ”
telling how a pretty young widow was en-
gaged by a theatrical manager, and how,
amid the crash of cheers that greeted her success
one evening, her sailor husband (not drowmd;
rushed on the stage while she fainted in his arms,
ami the audience would have him in his sailor
clothes, and no one else, to lead their pale, trembl-
ing, but happy young favourite in front of the
curtain again. The pieee was very long, and most
creditably spoken. Kretschmanu's young pupil,
Frank Smith, gave a clever violin solo, accompanied
by ms sister, Miss Ada, on the piano, but he de-
clined an encore on t,be ground that he was already
exhausted by his exertions iu the public cause.
Miss Ada Smith, who is a pupil of Miss Hastings,
recited * The Spanish Champion” with admirable
self-possession, and when encored she told in a
charmingly piquant way “How Dennis took the
Pledge.” Wo had almost forgotten thefruit-it
came on in the interval. AU remained seated,
except a few selected young gentlemen adorned
with red ribbons, who handed round light eatables,
fruit, cofTee, lemonade, and so on, of which there
was plenty, and the idea altogether worked well.
It was quite worth the evening to hear Frank play,
or Mr. Batchelor s tine recitation; but we would
lreoiy give ihe moderate price for admission again
to-morrow, only to gaze oil Miss Smith's admirablo
Langtry friz.
• • •
Ivo Bligh, lately reproduced, with some
variations, too story of the Peer who being nonett
inventu* on his wedding-night, was found snoring
comfortably in bis library. After the wedding,
Ivo and his bride repaired to Macedon, and that
night ho strolled out to smoke a cigar, while his
lady-love retired to rest. Ivo, however, failed to
return, and the newly-made bride passed the night
sighing, like Mur dana, “ Toe night is lone and
dreary : ho ootnoth not.” &o. At early dawn, she
roused the house, and the napless bridegroom was
found “ bushed ” a quarter of a mile from the
Slaco. Meditating, doubtless, on his new life, he
ad aimlessly wandered on, and thus got “jugged”
on his wedding-night in the mazy Australian bush
Bligh could hardly look upon this as a Bligh-tho
beginning to his married lire.
• • i
Rand wick Town Hall is like the Pickwick
pen, It comes as a boon and a blosslng to meu-
ani worneo, too, who are gaily inclined. It seems
to belike Goldsmiih’s seats, for talking age and
whispering lovers made; they all go there, on
filciul fanclos bent. The season’s ■'ncials opened
Ith a large and gay gathering last woek, about
150 being present, with Saurbier’s music, a good
lloor. and a most tasty refreshment table which
contained everything consistent with teetotallsm.
Homo proHMammes were nearly full beforo the
dancing commenced. We hear that the committee
desire to discourage this, and will request fair
ladles in future to bring blank programmes only
Into the room with them. The Mayor and Mayor-
ess were present, and seemed to be amongst old
friends, and to thoroughly enjoy themselves also.
Mss. Hardie wore a flue black sstln; her daughter,
Mrs. Alderson, looking well In a pretty pink nun’s
veiling trimmed with lace Mrs. Kiss, of Vpntnor.
wore black silk, and her eldest available daughter a
dress wnieh suited her exeollently - old gold satin
body and cream satin skirt. Mrs. Thomas, of Floral
House, wore a Hue black satin and passementerie;
and Mrs. Richards, of Holkham, a handsome prune
■llk poplin and brocade, long trained. Mrs. Pemell
in black silk, Mrs Stutchbury in black broehd, and
Mrs. Carson in black and silver grenadine, all
looked well. Two fair sisters. Misses Muir, wore
conspicuous dresses—de.-p pink satin bodies and
black skirts witn pink sashes. Mrs. Wiley, of
Waverley, wore the prettiest and airiest dress in
the room, a pink broolui bodice with Elizabethan
laee ruff, and pink tullu skirt with waterfall, all
dotted with pink and blue chemllle drops, and
long looped bows of pink and blue ribbons. It was
exceedingly artistic. Another tulle dress of black,
with cardinal satin body, was noticeable on ac-
count of the peculiarly boomerangy shape as-
turned by Its woaror when dancing. Misses Penrco
wore oream and blue satin dresses ; Misses Fltz-
Stubbs, of Manly, pretty striped white dresses,
with gathered bodies, flounced skirts, and gold
belts ; two Idolised dancers, Misses Walton, cream
satin and muslin, trimmed with birds. One stylish
dress whs whlto brocM and silk, adorning a grace-
ful brunette. A pretty pink muslin, draped with
laco, was worn by u merry-faced blonde with short
hair ; and a mauve broch< combined well with
cream lace. A cardinal velvet redingote and
erushed strawberry satin skirt were prominent
and handsome ; Misses Wentworths’ tall figures
were garbed, one iu blue sateen nnd pearls, the
other in black velvet and cream satin. A
stylish toilette was black velvet top, ./Ith bow (n
shoulder, and blue satin quilted petticoat. Miss
Turner favoured a flounced pink skirt and
black velvet bodice; while Miss Harvey, of
Llanfoyst, adopted white muslin and a bluo
cornflower embellishment) for her hair. Miss
Clarke appeared pensive in old gold and cream
satin ; a sbort-sleeved and low-necked bluo satin
was particularly becoming to a blonde lady, and
Indeed this style of toilette was rather popular. The
toilettes generally were showy and good, and the
social was one ot the nicest affairs yet enjoyed in
Itandwick, Dainty programmes contained 20
dances, and when they were done a special tram
was in waiting to convey visitors home through
th« calm moonlight.
v * *
Not far north of Coalopolis there was a
grand wedding at Christmas, nnd much pains were
taken to decorate the church. It was only on
entering to take a general bird's-eye view, ten
minute* before the oeretnony bogan, that the
bride’s mother discovered tier well intontioned
friends had stretched right across tdie altar a
banner bearing iu large letters the words—“ Unto
us a child is born.” It was thought advisable to
remove it) beforo the clergyman entered upon his
duty of explaining to the young couple the rites
and purposes of matrimony.
* * *
On Wednesday next, April 23rd, a meeting
Is to be held in the Gymnasium, Liverpool-street,
to consider the possibility of securing more suit-
able premises, and of enlarging and extending the
op«*athma,<>t the Boys' Club, Ultimo. To achieve
Jy Unwed aud’*fleeilivt> action is uecessasy, and
also a much larger number of workers, to secure
whom is one of the primary objects of the meet-
ing. This Club is not connected with any sect or
association whatever, so that helpers of all shades
of opinion will be welcomed; and it is to be hoped
that all those nterested in the subject of how to
enable lads to pass their evenings harmlessly and
pleasantly will attend. Experience shows more
and more plainly that the problem is one which
cannot be solved except at the cost of some per-
sonal sacrifice.
• • •
Last week, two clever musicians were
joined in holy union, Mr. Percy Jones, the popular
vocalist, and Miss Lottie Hyatn, of Balmain. The
bride wore a pretty short ivory satin, with full
lace flounces caught up by ribbons; deep reversed
pullings with paniers of lace at waist, and full
drapery behind; sleeves trimmed with lace and
finished with bows; flowers at neck. They went to
Melbourne for the honeymoon by express, whence
they were hurriedly recalled by the sad death of
Mr. Jones’s father, on Sunday. Miss Hyam has for
years been known as one of the most accomplished
pianistes in the colony.
To gain that skill, what hours resigned
Have been to practice in the past!
But now, Mi?s Lottie, may you And,
Like all good girls, reward at last.
We trust two voices, joyful, clear,
Will blend in sweet harmonious tones,
And you, so used to Percy-vere,
Will happy be with Percy Jones.
♦ * *
The Olde Englyshe Fayre was revived on
Easter Monday in St. James’s schoolroom at Forest
Lodge, with a view of clearing off the parish
debt. From what we saw, it is very likely to clear
off some of the parisn gins as well. They are
choice specimens of persistent prettiness, with
“taking” ways; and then they are so good, too.
We went there as a stranger, and they “took us
■in” at once. In opening the show, the Rev. H. B.
Callachor explained that only fair devices would
be used to get money. We are sure he said it con-
scientiously ; but is it fair to pick the best-looking
girls in the parish, and, when they’ve got their
daintkst drosses on, and their hair piled up dla
chinoUie, and their lovely faces set in eternal
smiles, allow them to attack male persons who
never did them any harm, but who have con-
fidingly stept into the Fayre just to have a look?
Is it fair to open a battery of female fas-
cinations on th>! said men that leaves them in
one short quarter of an hour dazzled and totally
destitute? if that’s fair, we pass. Mr. Henry
Daley also made a speech. In it's general effect,
the Fayre is pretty and ingeniously arranged ; six
stills with old fashioned red gable roofs, in charge
of ladies as follow Harp of Erin, Mistresses
Bcott and Whelan ; Shamrock and Thistie, Mis-
tresses Young nnd Chisholm ; Cornucopia, Mis-
tresses Brennan and Meline ; British Lion, Misses
Lawn and Edmunds ; Rose and Crown, Mistresses
Saclier and McDonald ; Little House under the
Hill, Mistresses Robertson and Lea. Then the
Post Office was evidently manulactured by a
humorist—an exact imitation of a little red brick
shanty whose cracked walls were covered with old
notices—“ Ye Forest Lodge Males will depart for
Sydney every morning at 9 o’clock ”—and “ Ye
Fee-males wid meet at ye Post Otth e as usual—on
ye blocke,” &c. The Mistres.es were assisted by
a body ol light skirmishers in fancy dress, and
proceedings opened (under the direction of Mr.
T. Callachor as Sir W. Raleigh) by their marching
round headed by a tiny golden-haired Queen,
Miss Slattery. She was attired in white satin,
quilted petticoat, and a court train of blue plush
borne by pages, and behind followed six little
maids all in bridal array with wreaths of orange-
blossoms complet\ The o her BKirmishers did not
confine thmselves to the uid English style, but
launched oat into any style they considered suitable
to plunder; more especially that time-sanctified
combinatiou of white muslin, black \elvet, and
red bows, which at Eayre time soofien transforms
ordinarily nice girls into merciless female banditti.
Miss Alleyno was an English peasant; Mrs. Hen-
sleigh adaughter of the regiment; and Mrs. George
Shelley, a C<ipsy. Miss Eastmure also carried on
her depredations as a Gipsy, in an extra-pretty
dross of’ blue veiling, bodice ending iu small pointed
tabs with bells, and a short scarlet skirt. The
wheel of foitune was spun by Miss Maher; and
little Miss Florrie Guy was the Old Woman who
lived in a Shoe. Miss Florrie Eastmure made a
delicious Dolly Varden, In scarlet quilted petti-
coat, wutteau over-skirt, and hat wreathed in rye
and poppy tlowers. It made us feel almost
“poppy.” Peg Woffington was the character of Miss
Meline, and Willrida, a Saxon lady, was that of
Miss Djnnellan, though we suspect the vivacious
young lady was really no more Saxon than the
doll she carried and couldn’t sell. Red Riding
Hoods role was archly taken by Miss Wilson; a
Norwegian peasant by Miss Davis; Misses Agnes
aud Alice O Connor were two of tho Marie Stuart
galaxy—Mary Seton and Mary Beaton. Two pretty
maids of honour were Miss Lawn and Miss Martha
Lawn, ill * dress of green sateen, ridged sleeves in-
let with ruby puffings, iu one case, being varied
by crushed strawberry and sleeves Inlet with
yellow in the other; and both wore pearls, and
looked stylish and handsome. Miss O’Rourke was a
dear little sailor; and there wero other belles too
numerous to catalogue, too pressing to refuse,
and each and all more likely to be famous for
tholr beauty than their conscience. They arg still
on vlow.
* # +
On Wednesday, the 9th of April, Mrs.
Marshall, of “ Falrllght,” Elizabeth Bay, gave a
very pleasant dance at her residence. Tho guests,
numbering about fifty, began to arrive soon alter
half-past eight, p.m., and dancing was carried on
with spirit until an early hour next morning. The
verandahs overlooking tho pretty and romantic
grounds (whioh command a lino view of our
“Beautiful Harbour”) formed an agreeable
promenade for couples between tho dances, and
were much availed of for strolls en clcux. The
hostess, who wore black satin, was Indefatigable
in her attentions to htr lriends, and most desirous
to promote their comfort in every way. The
aquatic eleven was well represented. Some pretty
costumes wore noticeable among the ladies of the
company. It Is, as we know, to feminine t*sto in
dress that so much of a ballroom’s charm isdue, for
a room would be sombre ludeed if only dependent
for effect on tho orthodox dress suit and white tie;
it is at fancy balls alone that the sterner sex can
hope to vie, even to a small extent, in personal
adornment with their fair neighbours. White,
cream, and pink seemed the prevailing and
favoured shades, and one or two black ones were
to bo seen as well. Miss S. Eagar wore a light and
elegant white spotted net over white silk, and
Miss King, of Kiama, a pretty pink dress; a cream
and cardinal on a brunette young lady was effec-
tive, and a white flounced muslin with gold waist
ribbon looked nice on a tall damsel. Tho visitors
began to depart between three and four o’clock,
after taavlug spent a very enjoyable evening.
* * *
An organ recital, complimentary to Mr.
H. A. Stuart, poet, was given in tho Wesleyan
Church, Bourke-street, recently by Mr. Fred. Mor-
ley, organist of the church. Tho entertainment
was by invitation only, about 600 tickets being
issued. Tho programme comprised se'ections
from tho works of Bach, Mendelssohn, Handei,
WtMv, Rink, and Rossini, which were rendered in
a style that evoked marked recognition from the
critical audience present. Mr. Morley has a
reputation for expression and finish in delicate
passages, and those on the programme of this
character—more especially an adagio of Mozart
—showed his taeto. Wcly’s Uffertoire No. i,
tho triumphant concluding movements of
Rink s “God save the Queen," and Bach's “St.
Ann s Fugue”-the latter, perhaps, one of the
grandest organ pieces written—were faultlessly
given ; and the overture to *' Tancredi,” one of
Rossini’s best efforts, fairly raised enthusiasm.
The recital was interspersed with vocal selections
by the Misses Shipway, and Messrs. M’Clelland and
Callaghan, members of the Churoh choir. The
entertainment was closed by the “ Hallelujah
Chorus.” A unanimous wish was expressed that
Mr. Morley’s objections to public performances
might be so far overcome as to induce him to play
on decent public instrument, that in the
gseat irall uf the University.
Rev. Canon White, having laboured 24
years at Muswellbrook, takes a holiday. His
parishioners gave him a comfortable £240. The
Canon ought t.o go off cheerfully.... Mr. W
H. Giddy, in addition to the send-off given him
by the Liedertafel, was bidden farewell by
about 60 gentlemen connected with the in-
surance companies who drank his health and
spoke well of him Mr. D. L. Dymock, of
Kiama, who has returned from an European trip,
was affectionately fed by over 100 of his friends at
Kiama, the Mayor in the chair... When the station-
master at Old Junee was going to leave, it was
found the Railway Department’s rules would not
permit his accepting a testimonial. So they gave
the sovereigns to his wife, and she gave them to
him. It’s just as easy as dummying land, you see...
• Gladys” gives the best costume worn at the
grand Masonic ball in Melbourne, as, an amber
tulle, beautifully shaped and spotted with gold
beads, the bodice being of bronze-brown velvet;
and very pretty it must have looked, especially if
the wearer had sunset hair. A great many dancers
waltzed in the new “ Kensington ” attitude, which
consists in the gentleman’s holding his partner at
arm’s length. There is no particular gain by a
gentleman’s handling a lady just like a mowing-
scythe, but it’s the new style ...Tne ladies of
Levuka gave a leap-year ball last month, and the
young gentlemen who were not asked to dance,
looked very Fiji-ty —An ingenious Blue-ribbon
man wears his badge under the coat flap. When a
friend offers “ to stand,” he drinks as usual. When
it comes to his own turn he just turns baok the
flap to show the blue ribbon, and explains that he
cannot outrage his religious convictions No
banquet to H.E. the Marquis of Normanby. Those
minute guns explained why A lady applied for
tho use of the Paddington Council Hall for dancing
lessons. Horror 1 Declined.. Mr. Thomas Rowe,too,
who is President of the N.S.W. Institute of Archi-
tects, and Major of the Enginering Company of Vol-
unteers, was entertained at Baumann’s Caf6, prior
to the home-trip. It is rather as an architect than
a major that Mr. Rowe’s name will go down to
posterity—This is a cheerful little fragment we
picked up. “Of courses, you will go to the Lieder-
tafel. Miss Agonisa ?” “ Well, I’m not sure. You
see, Nellie has the typhoid, and we can’t go if she
gets worse. Oh 1 i do hope Nellie lasts over
Friday.” They were playing croquet, and she
inquired : “ Shall I go in front of this hoop ?”
“ Yes,” he replied, “ all ladies go in front of hoops
now.” Her face resembled a No. 4 red.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Rand wick Races April 14,16,18,19.
Public Ball (new Masonic Hall) April 36.
S.A.A.C. Sports May 3.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball May 6.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
AshSeld i.A C. Sports May fO.
Worth Shore Rowing Club Ball (Nlthsdale). .June 5.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,— Easter, with its hot-cross buns
(which, by the way, are never hot when we get
them), red-coated volunteers, uncertain weather,
and sacred concerts, is about over, and has been
just as dull as Easter should properly be. We
went to hear “ Stabat Mater,” at the Theatre Royal,
on Good Friday night, but I am sorry to say I
can’t give you a favourable account of the per-
formance. Why the concert did not commence
until twenty minutes to nine we were at a loss to
understand, and the absence of programmes was
also incomprehensible. We could have forgiven
these trifles had the concert been even fair-but it
wasn't. The soloists were : Madame Merz, Miss
St. Clair, Mr. Hallewell, and a tenor whose name I
forget. All the performers had an air of de-
pression which led me to think they had eaten too
many buns for breakfast. The conductor, evi-
dently being aware of the weak points of his
chorus, made special efforts that they should keep
time, so beat with foot and b&ton, and in the first
crescendo passage got so exeited, and emphasized
his strokes so vigorously, that he sent his baton
Hying into the audience. This, as you may be
sure, highly delighted the uppermost circle, who
were not altogether complimentary in their re-
marks. The first and second soprano duet, sung
by Madame Merg and Miss St. Clair, was not what
we expected to hear from two artists, the
scale passage in thirds being extremely rugged, but
Miss St. Clair's and Mr. Hallewell’s solos were two
of the rede ming points of the Stabat Mater por-
tion of the concert. The unaccompanied quartette
had also some merit, but in the “ Inflammatus,”
Madame Morz's voice was altogether too severely
tested. Of the “Cujus Animam,” the best that
can be said is that the singer did his best with a
pleasant voice of small compass and indifferent
culture. A great number of the audience left the
theatre at the close of the first part, being, per-
haps, unaware that there was more to come. The
orchestra played ” The War March of the Prissts,”
from Athalle, as an introduction to the second
part of the concert, and in it seemed to be some-
what roused from their apathy. Mr. Beaumont
Reid’s rendering of “He was despised,” was very
delightful, and I must say his voice sounds as pure
and fresh as ever. A few more solos were given
by various singers, when terminated what was on
the whole a disappointing concert.
As a matter of course, the day being Good Friday,
the circle dresses were inclined to be sombre. A
pretty young French lady, who is following the
musioal profession, wore a black lace dress cut half
low, with a white tucker and white kid gloves. Her
?:olden hair was dressed high and fastened with an
mmenso gold ornament, but a rieh loose plait
hung down the back as well. A trio in white
dresses with black sashes, hair bows, and long kid
gloves, and silver bangles, looked neat. There
were only about two coloured dresses to be seen,
and they were a very handsome pink satin and a
pale blue of the same material. Amongst so
many blaekg and whites they stood out well, and
were quite a relief to the eye. Miss St. Clair
always dresses in a fashion her own, and shows
nice taste, too. Her dress was of the richest white
silk, with deep flounces of white duchesse lace
oovering the whole front of the skirt, whilst the
long train waa simply of the silk lined with purple
satin. The bodiee was in the Elizabethan style,
the lace collar being very high at the back of the
nock, but falling open in front and displaying a
low-cut watst-c*at of the purple satin, over whloh
the bodice was caught at the waist by a handsome
brooch. Madame Merz wore a black lace dress
with long train and cardinal flowers.
We went to the Canary Show the other day, and
now I shall never know what the canary colour
signifies. Some were pale primrose, others as deep
as butteroups, and a good many were nearly green,
whilst there were heaps of a nondescript colour.
Just fancy a little oanary being worth a hundred
guineas 1 There were very few people there when
Cflor continuation of Social,,’ S&tfex t page.)


Mr. W. P. Cox, whose concert on Good
Friday night was something of a lizzie, has per-
sonally been rather hardly dealt with. The chorus
was the weak point, and, as sometimes happens,
“supers” who had rehearsed and practised did not
turn up at the concert, and volunteers who had
not practised at ai l did. Mr. Cox has good creden-
tials as a violinist and conductor.
Visitors to Randwiok races last Easter
Monday were agreeably surprised at being able to
obtain a good luncheon and plenty of it. This
augurs well for the new caterers, viz , Compagnoni
Co., who have secured the catering right for the
ensuing two years. Mr. E, D. Tollemacho, the
manager, has proved himself to be the right man
in the right place, and no doubt all growling at
Kandwick luncheons will now oease.*
PETERSHAM. —There can be no mistake about
the Kona Fides of next Saturday’s Sale,
ween the Vendor names an UPSET PRICE of £3O
per lot. Torrens’s title. Terms, £5 deposit on each
lot, balance £1 per month. W. Pritchard, Auc-
tioneer.
PETBKSH.AAi.**There can ue uo uuschko auuuo
the Bona ot ucx.t Saturday’s Sale,
when the Vendor names an UPSET PRICE of £3O
per lot. Torrens's title. Terms, £5 deposit on each
lot, balance £1 per month. W. Pritchard, Auc-
tioneer.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
BS?” Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersinithing, Blaoksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
STEAM, BREWERS’, AND SHIPS’ COCKS, COUPLINGS, PORTLIGHTS, &c.
mm
■.|U .«
il
53?” DIVING GEAR, Pumps, Helmets, Dresses, Boots, Couplings,
Underclothing, and all accessories, always on hand.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” &I“PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM
WATER-WASTE FRE VENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Pxliaust Fan
Cowls, lias Fires, Heaters, Warmers, tec.
SIMS’ PATENT BINNACLE LAMP.
Ranges fitted with hot water circulating apparatus and boilers.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 and 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
W" VERITY BROS’, is the most perfect sjstem of ventilation, and
is adapted for supplying fresh air, or (by reversing the machine,
which is worked by a fine jet of water), for extracting foul air from
public or private rooms and buildings—solbs pressure giving air at
the rate of 1000 cubic feet per minute.
Full particulars and price on application.
ON THE
IBric3s±ielcL Hlill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LAGE CURTAINS.
t&~ These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
*3
mm
i
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Nankins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table (
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. (S? Examine carefullF the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| lace curtains | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | lace curtains'!
fgtT Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
PETE RSHAM.—' There can be no mistake about
the Bona Fides of next Saturday’s Sale,
when the Vendor names an UPSET PKICE of £3O
per lot. Torrens’s title. Terms, £5 deposit on
each lot, balance, £1 per month. W, Pritchard,
Auctioneer.
P E J, ER| SHAM.-There can be no mistake allou t
the Nona Fldes of next Saturday’s Sale,
when the Vendor names an UPSET PRICE of £3O
per iot. Torrens’s title. Terms, £5 deposit on
each lot, balance £1 per month. W. Pritchard
Auctioneer. *
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
I BOND ALEThe future Birmingham of New
South Wales, adjoining the Wallerawang Com-
pany’s Colliery. Sale on SATURDAY WEEK.
Special Train. Tickets 10s.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
,T)UY AN ALLOTMENT for your Children at
'JJ IRONDALE.
It might prove a fortune. It cannot be a loss.
The Sale is on SATTTRDAY WEEK.
WATKTN and WaTKIN.
IRONDALE. —The future Birmingham of New
South Wales, adjoining the Wallerawang Com-
pany's Colliery. Sale on SATURDAY WEEK.
Special Train. Tickets, 10s.
WATKIN and WATKIN.
B U IRONDAi/F?™ ENT f ° r y ° Ur Ch,,dren a
It mitrht prove a’fortune. It cannot be a loss
The Bale la on SATURDAY WRKK.
WATKIN and WATKIN,
we went, but it was no wonder, for the weather
wasn’t at all tempting. I never like to see birds
cagod. I think it is dreadfully cruel to rob them
of their liberty; but, then, when they are worth
io.much, it is almost worth while to overcome
gtuJh scruples. And such handsome prizes some of-
them won!
We left the pretty little dicky-birds to their
prisons and their prizes, and went to Paling’s to
get the song you asked for. When there, our
attention was drawn to a beautiful Cottage Piano
which was shown in the window. It was a French
Erard; and, if the inside workmanship equalled the
ease, it must, indeed, be a magnificent instrument.
The splendid marqueterie work of various woods,
ivory, malachite, mother-of-pearl, heavily gilt
brass, and other materials, was really something
to admire. I generally doubt a piano with a hand-
some case, but we were assured that the tone of
this one in question was simply perfect.
I saw a pretty design for a smoking cap yester-
day. Instead of being braided, embroidered, or
worked in crewels it was simply made turban
shape, of plain but rich velvet, and in front the
wearer’s monogram was worked in gold ; and an-
other had the full Christian name embroidered in
silver. A happy idea it would be to have beside the
name or monogram, a symbol of any special hobby;
for instance for a boating man, a boat or pair of
sculls—a cricketer, bat and ball; music, a lyre and
BO forth.
I hear it whispered that Messrs. Moser and
Maclean’s operetta “ Populaire ” is again to have
a semi-private rehearsal at Paling's rooms, on
Saturday. Surely Mr. McLean will be wise and get
together some good voices and do his composition
justice ! At the same time it is a terribly difficult
thing to patch up a good chorus, and as for soloists,
they are nearly as scarce as civil Poßt Office Offi-
cials. I wonder why we so seldom hear of poor
Packer’s “ Crown of Thorns ? ” I have heard that
Mr. Stanley, of Stanmore, is' responsible for not
a little of that beautiful work, but I cannot vouch
for the truth of it. Anyhow, if he is, he is very
modest about it.
The prettiest walking dress I have seen this
week was a white flannel with royal blue sleeves
and piastion. Each flounce had a good broad
binding of velvet, and the tunic was very short
and full. An enormous Duchess hat with
heavy black plumes completed this pretty
costume. The Duchess hat is having a hard
fight with the Henri deux, but I think and hope
the former will be victorious. You must certainly
let me order you some “ Silver King ” collars, for
I know they will please you. They are made with
a linen band, about an inch in width, from which
is taken a rich frill of good embroidery-quite
simple, you see, but very becoming. And, talking
of the “Silver King," reminds me of a most un-
common dress I saw in the theatre one night last
week. Black velvet with old gold plush epaulettes
and slashings. The neck was cut half low and
edged with rich old gold Spanish lace, and you
would hardly believe how effective it was although
so simple. A real rosy red satin with lace trim-
mings was worn by a tall dark lady, and although
the colour was daring, it was so arttullv modulated
with the lace that one could hardly call it bad taste.
I notice the peculiar taste for wearing silver and
gold insects in hats and hair is fast growing upon
us. A iady sitting close to me one night had a
tiny silver moth in her hair, and for a moment I
really expected to see it take wing it was so true
an imitation. I don’t dislike the butterfly or moth
ornaments, but the spiders and lizards are atro-
cious.
I have no Brisbane news for you, excepting that
M.T. is soon to be married, and a bonnie bride she
will make, tool—Yours ever,
MAB.
The Australian Jockey Club had magnifi-
cent weather for the opening day of their Autumn
meeting, on Monday last, and the attendance must
have counted over twenty thousand. In the
Hurdle Race Flamborough defeated Yately by
three-quarters of a length, after a great race up
the straight, War Eagle third ; Morpeth started at
6 to 4 on him for the Autumn Stakes, but was
unable to run into a place, Sardonyx taking pride
of place by three-quarters of a length from Archie,
Bweet William third: 5 to 4 was laid on Bargo
for the Champion Stake, and he justified
the confidence placed ia him by defeating his
stable companion Salvo by a neck for first place,
Garfield third ; only the pair Martini-Henry and
Le Grand toed the scratch for the St. Leger, the
lir3t named at once taking command and leading
to the distance, when Le Grand shot o>it and won
oomfortably by a length, in 3 rnig. 10)4 sec., the
fastest time yet recorded for a St- Leger ; Rataplan
led from start to finish of the Doncaster Handicap,
Victress, 2nd ; Hypatia, 3rd ; and | Ventia de-
feated Oairngorn by half a length for the Trial
Stakes, Tremando third.
The Tam worth trouble deepens. We men-
tioned in last issue that we had received a letter
enclosing newspaper clippings, and inviting us to
“slate Hooke. The following was the letter:—
“ Tamworth, April 2nd, 1884 Editor Bulletin,—
Please try and make something out of this, and
slate Hooke, so that I can copy it, and oblige.
Fours truly. S. Joseph.” Our rejoinder was
published last week, and was to the effect
that we would enjoy tweaking the nose
of the fellow who invited us to be the
ohannel of his spleen. Since that was published,
we have received a letter Mr. Sol. Joseph, of
tne Tamworth News informing us that he sent
no such communication as that received by us.
On comparison of the first and second letters, we
find no similarity whatever in the handwritings.
It seems, therefore, as though some verv clever
person has perpetrated a little joke, at the slight
cost of exposing himself to a prosecution for
forgery. It goes without saying that we sym-
pathise with Mr. Joseph in the annoyance he must
have suffered, and that we are much concerned at
having been made the instrument. We will co-
operate with him in endeavouring to bring the
offender to account.
Some few weeks ago, a short description
of Mr. J. G. Harborow’s bijou establishment, 470
George-street, appeared in these columns, and now
it appears that the enterprising proprietor, in
order to keep pace with the goddess Fashion, has
determined to open a new department, viz., Paris
millinery. The first shipment of these high-class
goods will arrive by the incoming P. and O.
steamer Rome, and arrangements have been made
that the newest and latest styles will arrive by
every succeeding mail. Mr. tiarborow has given
his home buyer carte blanche, and if that gentle-
man displays his taste for selection as well as he
has chosen the present magnificent and well-
assorted stock, some very fashionable and tastenll
specimens of milliners’ art may be expected.
Owing to increase of business, Mr. Harborow has
found it necessary to enlarge his already immense
stock of hosiery and gloves, and amongst the new
lines just received is a complete assortment of
Dent’s gauntlet gloves, in all sizes and all the
newest fashionable shades. The establishment is
most centrally located at 470 George-street, oppo-
site the Market", and, being convenient to’buses
and trams, will no doubt be a favourite resort with
our fashionable ton.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plum cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
T.M.A.” (Bathurst): To answer your
letter would require a disquisition, and the best, of
course, is the original, tend to a bookseller for
" e ? r £?. B £ wo works: “Progress and Poverty,’’
and Social Problems.” You will find that all
your objections are anticipated and dealt with. It
is really astounding to notice how much of what
is published consists of confident nonsense by
writers whose very arguments expose the fact
they have never read the work they pretend to
criticise—"Temora”: Of course it is irregular,
but we presume the bishop will have something to
say in the matter. A preaching parson is bad
fnoiiffh, but a preaching warden ! Oh, Lord 1
Grasshopper ” : That’s what you sign yourself,
dear, and then you ask what “opera” “ His ’art
was true to Poll” is taken from —from Don Gio-
vanni, of course. Why—why do you try this
little game on us ...“Equality”: Oh yes. We
got your letter right enough. We were
innooent when it came. We are not n0w....
“ Steve Hargraves ”: Letter received, but no
sketches....“S. Nathan”: Of no public interest.
“H.C.” (Walgett): The social squabbles of
small towns ate too sensational for us. Still, ’tisn’t
every day you get an editor straight from the
Rom, so you should make the most of him. En-
courage him as much as possible in flashes of
silence, and, if he still talks and writes, why, of
course, the river is handy.... “ J.M.”: Not adapted.
“ W.L.E.” (Toorak: We feel instinctively that
your “InMemorium” would double our circula-
tion, but we are afraid to print it—afraid that
when our regular puets caught sight of your
lines:—
“ All nations ’gan to sorrow, and list with saddened
horror
To the tidings of that Prince so young and dear,
In direful thrill,”
or,
** Then fare thee well, Prince, thou’st made a
gallant fight.
And bravely fell
they’d crowd round and bombard us with road
metal and decomposed mammals. If it stopped
theiic we wouldn’t mind. But when, in your
“Idyl of the Heart,” you work in:—
“ Oh! the heart is an airy thing
Toying in flowers,”
we know they wouldn’t stop there, but burn us
out. So, now you know how things stand
“Maud : Always welcome.
Mr. Mark J. Hammond, ex-Mayor of
Ashfield.
The subject of this sketch, Mr. Mark J. Hammond,
ex-Mayor of Ashfield, was born in Sydney, Nov.
15,1844. His father, a sterling representative of an
old Kentish family, came to tha colony three years
previously, and entered upon agricultural pursuits.
Heavy losses by drought, which at that period
were general all over the colony, resulted in the
family removing to the goldfields. This change in
their prospects found young Mark Hammond,
then but a mere youth, resolutely battling with
fortune, and few men s histories exhibit such
vicissitudes, or disclose such self-dependence, cou r-
age, resolution, or perseverance. He may be said
to have virtually had no boyhood, for, at the age
of sixteen, with no friend but a younger brother,
he was a lull-fledged miner, on ~ew and distant
goldfields, exercising the right and voting as a
miner under the existing law. He experienced
the varying successes of the Turon, the Lambing
Flat, the Macquarie, Forbes, and other goidHelds.
His intuitive Knowledge gave him a mastery over
the men he fell in with, the result, in most cases,
of correct judgment in the search of the precious
metal. Before he was eighteen, young Hammond
had accumulated a considerable sum, but was vic-
timised by designing speculators. Changes of for-
tune found him pretty near direllct at Hawkins’
Hill. Certain shareholders of the principal mine,
to ensure Hammond's assistance, bought him a
share for £5OO, transferring it to him "without a
scrap of paper or document. Mr. Hammond, while
still retaining an interest in several mines, then
came to Sydney, where he has been successful in
real estate investments. His career on the gold
fields was not without profit In another way. He
fell in, as it were from sympathy, with the beat
educated men on the various fields. Experience
shows that many a man who wooed fortune in the
rugged pursuits of gold-mining, in the good old
days, had passed through the English Univeisities,
and was a capital companion for an observant
and reflective lad. When Hammond ceased his
mining operations, be thus entered upon the pur-
suits of city life with a knowledge of men tested
by experience. His work in the metropolis has
been of a very valuable character, and his contri-
butions to the Press on all the great questions of
the day demonstrate him to be a man of philo-
sophic thought and practical research. He Is the
author of some of the ablest vindications of John
Stuart Mill as to assisting native industry. Mr.
Hammond likewise uided the removal of the
gold tax. His contributions on the necessity of
mining-law reform have beenjproduotive of practi-
cal results in the way of preparing the pub-
lic mind for reform in the existing law. In muni-
cipal work Mr. Hammond has proved himself a
thorough representative. As an alderman of the
Ashfield Council, ho originated the idea of a system
basing taxation on capital value, leading to a more
even and equitable method than had ruled; and
’though delayed and hindered, his proposals are de-
stined to become law, and to meet with adoption,
not only in a municipal, but a national sense.
Mr. Hammond, although defeated at the last
general election, is now again a candidate for
Legislative honours. Having offered himself for
the seat vacated by Mr. W. H. Wright, for the
electorate of Canterbury—and taking as a cri-
terion the able manner in which ho has conducted
the municipal affairs of the Borough of Ashfield,
where he had the honour of being elected Mayor
three consecutive years, and his character for in-
tegrity in the private and public relations of life,
the constituency might choose a far worse repre-
sentative.
Hanlan gave a second show at Manly on
Easter Monday, when he rowed a desperate three-
mile race with Bob Edwards, went through the
old tricks, and performed the unrehearsed feat of
trying to travel head first on the water with his
galvanised tanks attached to his feet.
Bush missionary visiting black’s ciAnp, re-
lates the old anecdote about Jonah being in the
whale’s belly three days and nights. Blackfellow
misunderstanding, is under the impression that
Jonah ate the whale in that time and exclaims
“ What a- for fish!”


U.
For ages the alphabet was a happy family.
The letters lived together amioably, and allowed
their creator, Man, to combine them in an endless
variety of syllables, words, and sentences, for tne
{mrpose of communicating with his distant lel-
ows, or passing his thoughts on to posterity. They
were divided into patricians and plebs. There
were five of the former A, E, I, O. U, just like our
own five orders of dear old English nobility, while
the others were commoners pure and simple, with
no hope of ever being raised to the peerage, and
no voice in public alfairs, except when acting
under the leadership of one or more of the nobles.
The positions of W and Y were peculiir and occa-
sionally humiliating, One had a vote in the ITpper
House when he was in charge of a few of the mob,
and stood at their head, while the other eDjoyed
a similar brevet rank when marching at the rear
of one or two privates. But their position was
unthankful and irritating at the best When,
owing to their temporary appointments, they
enjoyed the privilege of associating with the
hereditary aristocrats, A, E. I, O, and U. the latter
superciliously tolerated them just as the officers
of a war-ship the advances of the bo’s’n,
Travellers’ Troubles.
far
(On n
JPentenar, Aj
0e leJ'fJ y°fflsP h ffiay
one - /
717 umUfa ter Me
nu-ifet*
fa* I*' 1 *'
■fk*
/,' /<>"&>'* rkesea *
1 <J' ar * r ' r Me ' e ar *
of »*«j" vrly «oo n /*r,if»c^
T;r
J /y^ mt^/ya/u. re &e//£7- you !vo u o*a* »•**<l
"fkor* my yearfyi«<i3 e
h'ky tma M° U f,
olxyM foAnovS 7/\£ b
//i/s' //‘me*"
if «/■» » *
yj Aitfn 7fes /A* font* urn. qfAe
* Jounej Ay faces
af Tes/oeeta Af?
ofc/ fen/feme/u-
and whon—their mission being ended—they
returned to the ranks, they were hustled and
ohivvi»d by the roughs from B to Z who,
with the brutality of low natures, rejoiced at the
misfortunes of their botters. The llvo representa-
tive peers—vowels they were sometimes called—
wero tho belly of the body corporate and the
othors—they were known as consonants-the mem-
bers. Once or twice it was said tho latter rebelled
and endeavoured to set up a government of thoir
own, but their efforts ended in a failure more or
lesa complete. No on« could understand tho
language they tried to speak, and tliov couldn’t
understand themselves, so that they had always to
comeback and submit to their natural leaders.
If, was only under these that they were lit lor
polite society. Twice, indeed, they came very near
to a soparate est thlistatnent in Wales and in
Russia. By cumbrous combinations they some-
times succeeded in getting a hearing on the Steppes
anti amid Welsh fastnesses. But it was whon they
tried to go on their own hook, among the French,
Spaniards, Italians and others deriving their
tongue from old Uorao, that their discomfiture
was entire and humiliating. And yet the cause of
this ill-success is not quite clear. Some of them
such as L. M. and It. were rather fond of society,
•nd could conduct themselves in any company,
frqt others, especially X and Z were 111-favouned
and rebellious and Introduced diseord into any
society foolish enough to give them a footing.
* • •
One clay A, E, I, and O, were in council
talking of the phonetic style of spelling that was
making such havoc in the department of ortho-
graphy. X was on duty at the door chiefly to
keep out W and Y, who were loafing about out-
side waiting for a chance to dodge in before they
were wanted. Just then U came in crying and
took his place without speaking. On being asked
the cause of his sorrow he wiped his eyes and said
he'u been subject'd to a gross indignity at the
hands of an American schoolmaster. “I was in
his parlour as usual,” said poor U, “when he came
in whittling a clothes’ peg and whistling ‘Yankee
Doodle.’ Directly he saw me he howled ‘here,
blad. you, didn't 1 tell you I didn’t want you in my
parlour any more ? If I can't put you out o’ my
house,’ he continued, ‘at all events I’ll shunt you
out o’ my best room. So git, or I'll hist you, and
you may be thankful to be allowed to stick in the
mud outside, where you’ve been eversmce I knew
you.’ ‘Sir,’ said I, haughtily, for his insolence
nettled me, ‘ I’d have you know that Lhold a place
in the proudest, as well as the humblest houses. I
have been brought up in a court. I have been
constantly associated with use and beauty. With-
out mo they would not exist. This is the first
time I’ve been asked to give up my position in a
gentleman’s parlour. I hold the second place in
Europe and Australia, and the first in the United
States. Even Russia's Ctnsar cannot issue a ukase
without my help, or ’twould be a kase with
him. A stranger to the past and present, I
have an important interest in the future, and am
always in the very middle of youth. Though but
an unassuming vowel, i am constantly in request
and never shirk duty.’’ “Yes,” said he, sarcasti-
cally. “and whenever any humbug is being served
round I notico you’re up to your ears in it. Be-
sides," he said, with an offensive leer, “if I shift
you from my parlor, it's because there was only an
interjection between you and L.” “Sir,” I con-
tinued, scarcely deigning to notice his insinuations,
“ but for me music would bean unmeaning jumble,
your big drum dlent. and your flute without its
centre joint. Even in your ‘lush’ I am present,
nor can you eject me from the rum you drink or
the lump of sugar you sweeten it with. Without
me you would live in perpetual silence—sound
would be unknown—the very bounds of your great
nation would be changed to bonds, ilndeed, al-
though you may succoed in hi-isting me, as you
elegantly express it, out of your parlour, you
cannot banish me from your soul. I shall still be
found in your haunts, your soup, and your suppers.
Whenever you listen to the truth, for which the
newspapers of your great Democracy are famous,
or tell it, which (this was desiccating sarcasm) Is
devilish unlikely, you will find me coiled up in the
midst of it. You took me in with your suck, and,
as sure as my name is U, you’ll never have luck
without me. “ And. now, sir, I added,” backing
towards the door, for I didn’t like the light in his
left eye, “ you can banish me from your favor,
your parlor, your neighborhood, but you can’t
separate me from honour.” He tripped me up
before I reached the door, and, taking me by tho
scruff, yelled, “Yes, the American Eagle has
busted up bigger tramps than you afore uow an
win agin. You can no to your rotten old Europe,
or bentarn Australia, and plant yourself right in
their slums, but you don’t bang round this neigh-
borhood uo more. I lost 103 dollars in ink last year
by giving you the run of my house and grounds.
So, git and tell your mates, A, E, I, aad O that our
\ ankee boys ’ll prance in among them too one O’
these fine days, an’ give ’em fits with this new
phonetic dodge of ours. Tell ’em that we have
our eyes on the miserable flunkeys, the con-
sonants, also, an ’ll give ’em slop 9 when we’re
finished with the big bugs, and get our new spell-
in’ maohine fixed up,” With that he lifted me out
of the parlour into the middle of a mound of mud,
and if ever I’m seen in honor, neighbor, parlor,
flavor,' savior, labor, or any of that breed, on the
Columbian side of the Atlantic, may the hand be
palsied that no w signs itself—
U'rs truly.
AN OUTRAGED VOWEL.
bays an exchange: “The alligator is said
to feed in a somewhat peculiar way. First he
stretches himself out in a finely spot; then he
opens his cavern of a mouth to its fullest extent,
so that you’d think it was a log of wood split in
two with a wedge; then ha waggles his tongue;
then a mosquito or two reßts on it; then a frog or
bo steps In to prospect; a snake follows to devour
a frog; then a jackass comes after the snake; a
cat comes around fter the bird; and being pur-
sued by a dog the saurian thinks time’s up; the
upper half of the log falls, and —that’s the first
course !’’ This reminds us of a wager we once
made with a negro over in Alabama. The darkey
bet us 50 cents, he could plunge into the water and
kill an alligator with a butcher’s knife. The last
seen of that alligator the shiny heels of a negro
were just passing down it's throat.
Not long ago, Mr. Murray Smith (he ought
to be Adm&al Smith by this time) read a paper in
St. James’ Hall, London, on "The Australian
Dominion.” and the discussion which followed
was rather livelier than those somniferous pow-
wows generally are. Our own Agent-General led
off by the rather Munchausen remark that the
whole of the Australian colonies were bound
together by the sacred bonds of friendship. The
chairman, however, took that trick by asking if it
is true the colonies are all a band of loving sisters
how is it one Sir William Morgan piteously en-
quired, recently, “ Why, oh why, then do we search
each other’s portmanteaus ?” Nobody Knew. Not
even the geuerous Murry Smith could tell, and
then Mr. Wilfred Powell struck the floor and
knocked the whole company of Agents out in one
round by reeling off the following auecdote:—“l
am reminded, jasthere,” said Sir Wilfred, “of a
story which a gentleman once told me when travel-
ling with him by steamer. It appears he had
occasion to travel to the different Australian
ports on his way home from India, and not wishing
to be encumbered with much luggage, he only took
ms portmanteau with bun. in wnich was packea u,
valuable Indian shawl which he intended to pre-
sent to his wife in England. On landing at Ade-
laide, his portmanteau was searched, and he had to
pay duty on the shawl. At Melbourne, he was.told
by the official he would have to pay duty there.
“ But I have paid duty once already, at Adelaide,”
he remonstrated. “Can’t help that, sir,” replied
the official; “Adelaide’s nothing to do with us,
you will have to pay again this is another
colony.” So he handed out again. Having to go
on to Sydney, he thought he would be safe there
but on arriving he was asked whether his port-
manteau contained anything but his personal
wearing apparel. “Yes,” he replied, “I have a
shawl for my wife.” “Is your wife on board, sir.”
“ No, she’s in England.” “Oh 1 then you’ll have to
pay duty on that shawl, sir.” My friend protested
he had paid twice already once in Adelaide
and once in Melbourne. “ Can’t help that
sir,” said the other “we don’t recognise those
places here ; this is a different part of Aus-
tralia altogether.” So he paid again. Going
up the river to Brisbane, he happened to men-
tion the fact of his having to pay so often for
the Bhawl. “Oh! my dear sir,” said a charming
young lady who overheard him, “I can wear the
shawl until we go onshore, and then the* can’t
c arge you for it.” The gentleman was glad to
let her put it on, and so, as he thought, escape duty,
but when he got on shore he was rather disgusted
to find the charming young lady had cleared, and
taken the shawl along with her. Not half a bad
tale, but for one thing. There is no duty on shawls
in N.S. Wales Nevertheless, the story fairly shows
how strongly the colonies are at present bound
together by the sacred bonds of friendship,


W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
""■uiiiiiinnmtiHnniuiiiifii
?9T~rr
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOB
ANT
INSTRUMENT.
OX3GKA.XTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
1/!r Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
IV, MIRY, and Ml UMTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AOENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
KNOINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag’ and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical FixecL
mmm
PUMPS,
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathee, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey's unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
•toilers' and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoee, Land Rollers, Horse
Hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishings, Tarnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Btoaks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron : Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters' Supplies.
Wooipacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine. Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRTSDAIiE AND CO..
887 Georgs Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
less from liver complaint, thereby hindering:
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
~ liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
the
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite is
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, If you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver Is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there Is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAU’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Bet this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
£ he £ e ®?L e Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
olLiLid. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatory,
George Street, Sydney.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
OR!**
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
©ach bottle should b© carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOIiNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
LAND e WHI°SKY C ® Dt " faVOUr 0f
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
REMEDIES THAT STOOD THE TEST FOR
OENTDRIEB.
German Mineral Waters,
4s. 6d. PEA DOZEN.
LITHI A -WATER, for Gout
POTASS-WATER, for Rheumatism
BELTZRR-WATER, for Asthma, Indigestion, &c.
FRIEDRICHSHAIiIiER BITTER - WATER and
CARLBBAD,
most effective in removing habitual constipation,
affections of the liver, diabetis, &c., &c.
0T ORDERED BY LEADING DOCTORS.
Obtainable at principal ohemists throughout the
colonies.
Note the Address:
DALM & OERTEL,
37 BOUJB.KE STREET, REDFERN.
MASON BROTHERS,
aw
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in BTOCK, for BALE
to the TRADES and WHOLE-
-BALES BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
in
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Bobnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edlnlruvgn Pale 4*e.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
0T THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of tho Ago I
DESTINED TO E.CLIPBE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The or y Tobacco combining’ Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
I WT Each PLUG is BTAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SmU’i Toko Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKB,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
Anri can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Bold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body os soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worth! MS
'saltations.
Robert butcher & 00.
(Late William Long),
W WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoelve prompt attention.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
BHORT HORN
WHISKY.
Ti E ? I A? D I 8 . S HORT HORN BOURBON.-The
of 10 arm 3 r < navy, the clubs, and the
gentlemen; will soon be the leading
Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try It the more you like It
S. HOFFNUNO * CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Fosier’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE AT/Bl
The BEST ALE and STOUT In the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE 1
MERCHANTS. 1
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
NouLTinrs
FRUIT
PhTht nositivel - v ' CU «*J by MOULTON'S
™ . Y e mGan cured, not merely relieved, and
roVe . Wha «^.°r.? ay - There Bre no failures and no
BO ItOULTON ’ S PRUIT PILLS a'w cure
A lOUSNE x SS> P rovent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PBPSIA, promote DIGESTION, rellere distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH.
TTTR R?^nn Ll^sß,^ Erulato the BOWELS, and PURIFY
Vnn!L ß^? 0 ?" tr 7l * o . £ heß P est ®nd Best Family Medicine
toown, purely Vesetable (made of the Extract of Fruitl
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
0. E. MOUtTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
Vs
MAR
• OAR S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite braoa
-i 9} stout selected with great care from tue
1-J.u of I® 6 , brewl °BTB of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinn©sa and Co., Dublin, and thareforo
everjrwhor *‘
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
\ SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
tous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at onee removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives rigour €o
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywnere.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROT-HERB,
M.P.S.. Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
Hyde Path;. Rvrfney. V.R.— am imitations illegal.
TAKE MO SUBSTITUTE.


Mjr. DbCourcy Browns (latj Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 1 26 Pitt-atrect, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and DilHculties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
In the Public Department undertaken. Titles •
speciality.— Ad vr.
BLOGGS'S BONANZA:
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
Rough on Corns. Quick relief, complete, per-
-0U o e, J . Cor J? B, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
KS'bMSUS 2S?ft v w o£; p SS
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘“Arnold’?’
and get it; spurious Imitations are sometirc es
offered.
Enjoy Life.— What a truly beautiful world we
live in I We can desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per oent. of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, (Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symptoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its wonderful effect. Sold by all Druggisia
at 3s. 6d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 3d. Try It.
J10R THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore-road,
Paddington,
,, .. _ 14th January, 1884
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain, on account of severe pains in my back : and
I was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea.
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for ray work, and yet in the course of
three or four days 1 was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at llborty
to make what use you please of it.
Vours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
levers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache!
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains’, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to tbo
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT H
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
tierman with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depotlor New South Waks-ELLIOl’T
BROTHERS, Sydney.
A GOULBURN LIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a place of sin called Goulburn, wherefrom yet
shall many a soul burn—
Plunged in Borrima’s dire coal, burn—in the dark-
est nadir hell,
While Auld Clootie plies the bellows (so doth Cap-
tain Canty tell us),
Dwells the boss of all good follows, who runs
Mandelson's Hotel—
Dwells the very cheerful landlord of a veryswel
hotel.
One fierce day in middle Summer, up the street
sad new-comer,
A dejected dusty bummer, dragged a weary
feeble frame,
With a care-worn two-pound suit on (and his feet
had scarco a boot on),
To the door where stood Jack Bruton —that’s the
cheerful landlord’s name;
Leaned and lounged the ily Jack Bruton—that’s
the bully landlord’s name.
Slow and faint the stranger's pgco was, sad to look
upon his face was;
On it many a bitter trace was of a by-gone time
of woe.
Like a meat-axe, gapped and battered, was his pro-
file. and the tattered
Rags upon him had not flattered any bush-con-
trived scare-crow—
Had not over-dressed or flattered any average
scare-crow.
In a voice that was a wail, he to the landlord told
the tail he
Had to tell, and said “ Australy has no vacancy
for me;
Nought but trouble has occurred in all my life,
which is a burden,
And I wish I was interred in some successful
cemotree—
Yes, I wish Bob Craig would cart me to the bloom-
ing cemetroo.
Racing appears to be on the move in Queeneland Winton is one of the latest formed meets, and its next programmeis of a very tempting charaoter-the added money
[?]ing to £600 Roman annual meeting is fixed for June 5 and 6, and ought to "take well," as the added cash up there totals £595. All that's wanted to wipe out Fiem-
[?] and Hand wick now is a steeplechase for alligators.
" In my youth I was avoided,and what any wicked
boy did—
With a seeret, sinful Jjoy did—was at once set
down to Bloggs;
And, when following naughty hobbles, some wild
larrikin would rob his
Neighbour’s orchard, angry bobbles came and
put me In the Logs*-
Half my time I’ve passed sedately m the solemn,
silent Logs.
“It’S my mug I have to blame for all this misery
and shame, foe
Ugliness is not a name for such a llgurehead as
mine::
Yes, whatever Fortune tossed mo that seemed fair,
that faoo has lost me,
And. of late the thought has crossed me oft-to
drink Colonial wine:
To make peace with all the world, and straight-
way drink Colonial wine.
*' Ii have often soon it stated that no man has boon
created
Quite in vain; but I have waited, and I'm going
to wait no more.
liOrmc this world there’s no room in; and when
I;am laid the tomb in,
Not a living man or woman my sad exit will de-
plore—
When the Evening News reports it, not a mortal
will deplore.
have roamed through every nation, seeking out
some avocation
That would suit with the formation of my figure
nnd my face.
In the laud of ficr e Te Kooti, as an Idol I did
duty,
But tny fatal gift of beauty was a cut above the
placo—
Yes, the Maorios thought my features too pro-
nounced to suit the place.
“In the broadcloth of a groper after souls, with
black bell-topper,
And got up in a style most proper, I have tried
to do the trick;
But tho drunk and ribald shearer cf the back-
blocks came not near, or
Always said ‘No (something) fear,’ or ‘Clear
like h , boys, here’s o d Nickl"—
Mostly cantered oil', believing mo the genuine
Old Nick.
“Then I said ‘There’s still tho Ilarmy— there my
visage will not bar me:
I will go at once and arm me to fight Satan’s
earthly crew.”
And I sought out Captain Canty, and a ttory wor-
thy I)ant<s
Told of crimes not few or scanty I had frequently
pulled through—
Told of hi.mau bicod in hogsheads I had spilled
and waded through.
“And ho looked upon me sadly, and said ‘Once
we d welcomed gladly
Y ho ,’ d ca P er od madly through a
brilliant list of crimes,
* >rayer ’ and you have
But no w we’yo had the Mayor—we move along
to suit the times,
And I hardly think your countenance quite hits
the present times.’
“Thus I’ve lost the one last hope I had, and, if I
had a rope, I
Would find out what sort of scope I’ll have in
_ other world's than this.
11 hang out till to-morrow, when I’m hanged
if I don t borrow
What will close a life of sorrow that no other life
will miss—
What will hang a human failure none in all the
world will miss.
“Aye, I’ll shortly know for certain what lies hid
behind the curtain:
And when they have heaped the dirt in on the
cold remains of Bloggs,
These sad words my fate will live in— ‘ Pray his
last address is Heaven
Who through all his days was driven to the devil
and the dogs—
was driven to the everlasting
“And I’ve come to ask if you will, ere I seek this
ending cruel.
Stand a pint—for Farrell's brow will cheer me
ere I do the deed ?
Yes J’„. Then wlth tbe Wollondilly elixir fill up this
billy,
And augment your kindness, will you, Avith a
shakedown and a feed—
With a shakedown in the stable, and a final fare-
well feed?"
And the landlord standing by was moved, and dim
with tears his eye was,
And immediate his reply was, “Yea, poor stranger
most forlorn,
You shall have what you apply for, and shall win
the end you sigh for:
A new clothes-line I will buy for you to swing
with in the morn—
A reliable new clothes-line shall be yours to-
morrow morn.”
So that night the desperate stranger slept securely
in a manger,
Knowing ail Life’s doubt and danger with the
morning would bo o’er;
Then, arising from his pillow, cord in hand, sought
out a willow,
Saying “I fear I must your bill owe till I meet
you on the Shore-
Hope to square it when I meet you on the Shining
Golden bhore.”
Then he “ booked ” one more before he, with a
mien doject and sorry,
Started for the fierce Mulwarree, where the old-
man willows grow.
And Jaok Bruton thought it odd ho never heard
they d found the body,
And he felt,ilike Lord I’om Noddy, that the thing
was rather slow—
Felt, Just like my Lord Tom Noddy, that the
whole concern was slow.
Days went by, and not a word of tho sad suicldo
was heard, of
Whose fate never passing bird of air a whispered
message boro,
When one afternoon a fellow, with a silken new
umbrella,
Wearing gloves of palest yellow, entered Bruton’s
parlour done—
With aristocratic bearing, entered in the parlour
door.
And he called the worthy host in, and planked down
at once the most tin
Ever seen, and bade him toast, in Rcederer, all
things on-earth,
Saying, “ This world a Parndlso is, now I’ve pierced
the veil of Isis,
And found out a purpose wise is at the bottom
of my birth—
Pound out why I’ve been miraculously I ugly
from my birth.
•
“You remember how, despairing:, with a heart
filled up with daring 1
Even of Death itself, uncaring what might wait
in the Beyond,
I sped on with steps growing quicker—having
drained a long last liquor—
Down to where the willows flicker their light
shadows in the pond
Where the ratepayers dip the water from the
green and ghastly pond.
“Don’t suppose that I am vain in saying that there
is no grain in
(Bridget, slide some more champagne ini) all my
frame of cowardice;
But upon this brain of mine broke the old‘gag.’
that if your line broke,
And I didn’t get my spine broke, death by drown-
ing wasn’t nice—
Death by drowning in gr sen water is not popular
or nice.
“So I paused before deciding how to die: when
gaily riding
Past me went a swell, bestriding a most pre-
historic moke,
And two tawny hounds that followed him attacked
me and half-swallowed
My poor form with hunger hollowed, while my
veils the morning woke—
While :: y gory execrations all the sleeping city
woke.
“ How to live was all that ailed me now that danger
had assailed me
And a'l hope had well-nigh failed me, when the
master of the hounds
Beat away the fangs that harried me, and had me
quickly carried
To his home, whereat I tarried until time had
healed my wounds-
Until Time and a crisp Fiver wholly healed my
gaping wounds.
“ Well, things seemed a bit more pleasant, when, as
I was convalescent,
(Bos?, your glass is low at present I) I went out to
take the air,
And sat do.vn upon a shady seat, beside a maiden
lady.
By whoso side a poodle played: he bit my leg in
Belmore-square—
Made a couple of incisions that she paid ten quid
to square.
“ Twice that week going out I rued of, for my legs
were almost chewed off
(Things I soon discerned the good of), and when
with «n eye to Law,
I went oil to see a legal gentleman, his petted
beagle
in my right calf made a regal and most compre-
hensive flaw—
Made a large and very painful quite premeditated
Haw.
“ Then I sat and ruminated, while the lawyer I
awaited,
And I knew at last that Fate had smiled upon me
just to rights;
And 1 saw as in a vision that my life had found its
Mission,
To maintain a proud position upon Damages
from Bites—
That mu face had been designed to rake in Damages
from Biles!
“ Since that time I’ve oft been bitten, but I siand
it like a Briton:
’Tis as true a« that I sit in this here chair upon
this iloor.
That I've bought a new town house, and bankod
at least, a level thousand,
And—well, let me see-l now stand to rake in as
much, or more—
Yes, I vo Actions on that tot up to at least as
much, or more.
“And, my friend, I’ve come to bless you for the
Christian tenderness you
Showed me (and I, too, muM press you take pay-
ment for the line-
Nay, you really can’t refuse It); and, though I’m
not going to uso it,
I shall always think ©f whose it was before you
made It mine—
Y S»uSmto mta? WUbraptur ° Bbould rour
1 mail ' B “ D ““ that «•«
3°?? you thit ? k you ’ 11 chance another
bottle /—right you are I)
See these gapped legs: if they hold out, I can
hardly well be bowled out;
I can coin uncounted gold out of what teas my
evil star— J
1 o a n w / n coloBSal fortune through my erstwhile
evu scar.
“ B ?T-° ff ° n dUty (aln,t that wlne a
I St JB?hLSSE* 4 mr beautJ ' : ,blB lliaotl °“
Th0 B l Se lTcS d ,? ra ?|„ B|. 8 |. 8 n I" ; ‘o* 8 ’ 1 Btm *«>
Though I limp like Newman Noggs’, I must
show nut to rile the dogs—
By-bye, boss; my course is Upward, though Pm
going to the Dogs.


N.S.W. Aborigines’ Protection Board re-
port 6120 aborigines full blood, and 2345 ball-castes,
and recommend the introduction of a bill vesting
in a Minister, or board, the in loco parentis control
dr all aborigines and all property provided for the
aborigines, although in their actual possession ;
empowering the Minister or board to supervise,
confirm, or annul all agreements between abo-
rigines and other persons, or to grant aborigines
certificates enabling them to enter into such
agreements on their own behalf, and to suspend
or revoke such certificates ; imposing penalties on
persons harbouring any aborigine without the
consent of the board ; authorising the Minister or
board to grant aborigines certificates of exemp-
tion from the provisions of the bill. Something in
the proposal worth consideration.
[a card.]
W. H. COOPER,
340 CROWN STREET,
Late with Dr. Langston Parker,
Author of “Modern Treatment of Syphilis,” of
Queen’s Hospital, B.rmingham, England.
jpg'" Patients treated by Parker's method.
GILBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
duality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKEK & CO., Sole Agents,
3W George-street, Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL TEE
Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly/wo£>£/?/4 7EJ
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists io6MAßKeiste>
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anesthetics.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mather:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING- matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
mm ion d co.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
mi
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
Sums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 London
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations.
Me that each box bears the name of “ Wiliox ana
Co., 338 Oxford-street, London."
THE
IGNO
Piano.
m
THE
Migrnon
Is the MOBT SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Migrnon
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
PIAITO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
' THE
Wilmer
PliilTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED 1
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OF TOUCH !
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF!
THE
Wilmer
E=lu^2>TO
fP” Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON.”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea Mercliaats & Importers,
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantations by
Our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will And our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
ttendants.
\
ll
§
170
R.BURGIS
TAILOR. .
m
TRY BTTRGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house lor
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredieut.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills aro invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills aro the only thing I could look to
for relief. One doso will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are tlio and the easiest physio
I have overaßund. It is a pleasure to me to
%peak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offer's.
W. L. PAGE, of W. L. Pago & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1862.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills In number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. Wo constantly keep them
on hand at our homo, and priio them as a
pleasant, safo, aud reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are iovaluablo. n
J. T. Hayes.
Mexla, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowb, writing
from Atlanta. Qa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the uso of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
Inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. Thev have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
bavo vastly improved my general health.’’
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physioal economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer &Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wbnderfol
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
little taint, may bo made healthy and Btroog
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; ?i, six bottles for $6.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
EJ \
V)9
o*
s*s
\H«
€.V>
QhOUf^
Sd
rx
39 & 3*l 6fcOK&
SYDN
NCAJJ.V OPPO3ITC POST OFf IC€
*<fs/
75/
*rrc£
Note the Address:
339 & 341 George.street.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
to
o^9totcW^
mm.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
solelgent
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD BCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
I3T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTEO OEFORE
Copyrighted.
& OUSTACH3 and WEISEEE3.
Boyd's Beard Flheirdld this, and |
t oiU do it on either bald head or
bare face, fmcei heavy Moan,
tarhe in from 3 to l weeks and never .
/ ails, 20,000 young men already
wear lull beards, having used 1 to
•p9j\d}undo^}
13 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets I*. W.
each, 3 for 3c. (id., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
A ddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730,0. P. 0., Sydney, N.B.W*
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUG AR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
BLEND
TRA
Sc/ST
BLEND WHISKY.-This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, *O.
Imported by
Alexander Borthmck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colouas, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
T7rLd.erta.lrex,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholio beverage acta as a brain and
nerve tonlo, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is reoommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In ease of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
elimate. It is or great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonio
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen J 4 pints ...21/-
n „ »i 0 „ 1 „ •. 24/-
HLLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
IV N.R. Pattern* and Prinsw Rant,
HOT WATER BATH S
mi* r
1 • . yr .pi
SYAI.F HOLU^.


Mashers —The best and lighted are made by
Off or d, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of Bicknese,
‘ take eheor, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
4 and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ tors, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
* and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
* dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening tne mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment
543, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
GbntijEmxn,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name ef
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap*
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor bracer,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAtf'
NESS, &c.
PRICE 3s. fid.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, CHMfIST, M
43 ERSKINE STREET.
W U fJO TT L. Gfwl pi) fThpmlo+Ji
“His Heart was True to Poll.”
Up in Queensland there is a young man
who was born with his heart in the right side of
his body. Soon after his advent on this mundane
ball, his doting parents, who were poor, having
discoveied the peculiarity, joined hands and cir-
cled around the cradle, while visions ot wealth
accrued from side-showhexhibitions of their phe-
nomenon floated through the atmosphere. The
child grew and prospered just like a common
youDgstor, and you wouldn't have known that
anything was wrong with it. But a change came
over the scene. There was trouble in the house-
hold for a time; and, as in the ease of the naughty
child who stole the preserves, there was ft woman
at the bottom of it. The young man fell in love
with one of his neighbour’s daughters, and for the
first time in his life he felt that there was some-
thing wrong with his anatomy. The girl recipro-
cated the feeling; but her parents raised such a
row that the young man didn’t know whether he
was a-foot or a-horsoback. His heart, .too, com-
menced to assert itself, and began to move
mysteriously across his body at about the rate
Moses piloted the Children of Israel through
the 1 great desert. Of course this anatomical
transition msiHe him sick, and for a time his
life was despaired of. The attending physician
said that the only cure was to wean him from his
girl, as it was love that had disarranged the normal
conditions of his interior arrangements, and made
him the wreck that he was. So the girl was sent
to Sydney, for the old folks, who forgot how young
and foolish they once were themselves, thought
that absence would cure both the swain and the
swainee. As might bo expected, the young man’s
heart continued on its way across his system, he
sank lower and lower, while the maiden was crazed
with grief. Finally, she got a letter stating that
her lover could not possibly live another week as
his heart was fast approaching perihelion, and ho
would then be a gone gosling. In sheer despera-
tion she threw herself on the tram track, and the
cow-catcher threw her into Hyde Park. She was
not killed, but she looked like a left-handed wheel-
harrow that had been struek by lightning. The
sanguinary cowcatcher had done its cruel work.
One of her eyes was found in Woolloomooloo, and
her left ear was carried away by a vagabond dog.
Through the skilful diagnosing of the night porter
at the hospital, she was nursed back to life; and
when she got able to be around, she found that
her lover had recovered. The first time he saw
her he felt a good deal like Jacob when, on the
morning after his first wedding, he discovered
that he nad been put off with the wrong wife. But
the young man was game. He said: “ I promised to
love and cherish her while I lived, and I’m not the
white-livered Judas to go back on my word. I’ll
marry her like a man.” And he did; for, don’t
you see, the transformation of his anatomy was
complete, and his heart was in the right place.
Some time ago, one of Chiarini’s lions
happened to get loose, and commenced to make a
light repast off one of the other show animals.
They saturated a sponge with chloroform, and
held it to his nose on a long pole. The lion’s con-
duct was very interesting. He gave his meal one
look, just like a man would look who struck a
piece of a brass padlock in the middle of a saus-
age, and then he lay back in the sleep of innocence.
Hello Muster Stooat! The Academy, a
London weekly says:—“ Mr. Furnivall, as director
of the New Shakspere Society, has received an
amusing offer from New South Wales. A gentle-
man there has, after seven years’ search, dis-
covered not only the well-known Historical char-
acter who wrote all Shakspeare’s plays and poems,
hut the very month and spot in which eleven of
the plays were written, and the probable date and
locality in which the rest were composed, the
author’s object in writing them, and the historical
characters and events meant by the dramatic ones;
and he can show that our Royal family is descended
from Perdita. He asks £30,000 for his descoveries.”
We sincerely trust the New Shakspeare Society
will not allow such a paltry trifle as £30,000 to pre-
vent from accepting this moderate offer. But
what a sly old fox Illawar»-a Stooat must be to have
kept this back so long. If it had been the poetio
’Enry, we could have understood the silence as
arising from professional jealousy.
A Melbourne reviewer, speaking of the
late Mr. Buckle, author of the “ History of Civi-
lisation,” says “he sailed over the field of know-
ledge as upon the eagle’s pinion.” Now, that is
news. The life and works of this philosopher are
now being widely discussed in Rome and Berlin,
and the leading writers have been unanimous in
their praise of our countrymen, but not one of
them nas gone so far as this. If we had been told
that he soared like a butterfly through the granite
strata of speculation, or had bicycled along like a
fish through the rough metal bf science, or even
drained the pewter of history like a Redfern
navvy, we should not disagree. But this sail-
ing over a field without telling us what cargo
he had aboard, or how he coaled, is too much.
Buckle was an English gentleman and renowned
chess player; rather feeble in health, had a private
library of 20,000 volumes, and died of fever some-
where in the East—Damascus, we believe. He was
scarcely 40, and his deliberate abandonment of a
portion of his vast undertaking is one of the most
touching passages in any English writer.
George Ingham hadn’t been to Melbourne
before. He started down, however, last week. He
had heard much of the great capital. Some even-
ing newspapers bad reached him, and a copy of
the proceedings of the Presbyterian assembly had
crossed his path,.so he believed he understood the
idiosyncrasies of the town very well. He knew it
was both moral and respectable and determined
that he would prove himself worthy of it in both
respects. So, as soon as the train stopped at the
Spencer-street station, he stepped out on the plat-
form and took his trousers off. This brought a
bobby out of a profound slumber and ho took
George away with him. The Bench thought
George insane, and remanded him for examina-
tion. Now, it is extremely likely that ho is not
insane at all, but is a keen satirist. Looking to his
sources of information about Melbourne, and fol-
lowing the way society is made clean down there,
what could be in better keeping than that George
—who wished to look decent in a pair of new trou-
sers—should take off the old ones in the centre of
the platform ?
Barrister Gaunt wants the sphere of his
Sossible labours to be considerably enlarged.
eckett, the fireman of an engine that came to
grief on the Warrenheip railway line, was de-
graded by his superior officers to the post of
cleaner. Against this he appealed to the new
Commissioners, and Mr. Gaunt presented himself
at the Board in his interest. In whose interest—
Gaunt’s or Beckett’s ?—Both. The commissioners,
however, maintained they were merely an execu-
tive body, and asked Mr. Gaunt to pick up his
black bag and hook it. The commissioners stated
that they didn’t want their offioe to be turned into
a courthouse with all the jangle and clamour,
which means additional expense to the party
wanting justice, with very little additional chance
of getting it. But Mr. Gaunt observed that they
were receiving evidence on oath, and were, in fact
in the legal position of a court of appeal, and as-
serted that he would fetch the lot before the
Supreme Court. If Barrister Gaunt wins, there
will be a fine new territory added to the present
area over which the legal mind so profitably pre-
vails.
They are having a mighty dry time of it
in Wilcannia. Already the town, which has a
copulation of several thousand souls, is scant of
Tfcovisions, and there is no likelihood of rain in
that district short of two or three months. Prices
are already beyond the usually high rate, and will
rise week by week. Potatoes would readily fetch
from £35 to £4O a ton. Bread is Is. 4d. the 4ib loaf,
and from the scarcity of flour is likely to rise to 2s.
Condensed milk, the only kind procurable, is Is 9d.
atin, whilst the retailprice in Sydney or Melbourne
is Bd. The few vegetables that can be go t from the
Chinese are six times as high as in the cities. As
for fruit, it cannot be procured at any price.
Chaff for horse-feed cannot be procured even
at £35 and £4O per ton, as the few holders
refuse to sell at any price. Owing to
the want of grass and herbage, the horses
on all the mail routes have to he stable-fed,
and the supply of chaff, now at the lowest
ebb, cannot be replenished before a rise in the
river, which may not occur for four or five
months. The probabilities aro therefore that the
mails will soon have to be discontinued. Alto-
gether, the prospect is of the gloomiest descrip-
tion, and nothing but the weekly visit of Tue
Bulletin sustains the people and nerves them to
look their troubles in the face.
Patrick Joseph Murphy, a Frenchman of
the old regime, and of an age at which his eye-
teeth are, if ever they will be, cut, found himself
recently in Melbourne. That was bad. But he
found himself also without a wife. That was
worse. To he in Melbourne, and without a wife,
constitute the ne plus ultra of human misery. If
Patrick wei'e not a Frenchman he would have lost
heart. He would have swallowed a gallon of beer,
lain down, and let the policeman carry him on a
shutter to the lock-up. But the proud Gallic
blood surged through the veins of Patrick. It
surged through Patriok, and he got up and looked
about him. What did he see ? He saw Mary Cur-
tain. What did he say ? He said : “ Begorra,
Mary, I like ye. Will ye buckle?” What did
Mary say ? She said : “ Begorra, Patrick, here’s
at ye.” What did ho do? He went to the Rev.
Robert Scott, of Chalmer’s Church, and got mar-
The “Spanish” hood is made of black Spanish lace
and ribbon, and falls in graceful folds round the neck,
where it is gathered together by a ribbon bow. This
hood is so contrived as to avoid crushing the hair
whether dressed high or low.
ried. What did he pay ? He paid the Rev. Rebert
with an order for a guinea, on Nippard, of the
Railway Club Hotel. But the Rev. Robert found
the order was valueless, and gave it to the police.
And Patrick was shoved in. And then it was
found that he already possesses a wife and family
in Sydney. But the proud Gallic blood surged again
through the veins of Patrick,and he now propounds
these conundrums : “ The fee is an essential part
of the rite. The deuce a fee I paid. Therefore
the rite is wrong. Therefore I didn’t marry Mary
legally.” But he is kept there at present to beat
out his proud spirit against the prison bars.
Ah, ha! “ Cry Hmoc, and let slip the dogs
of war.” Also give the police a clue that will lead
them to suspect who the inoarnate fiend we are
about to allude to is; start the Wolverene on
wheels to bombard the district; order out the
whole of our brave army of 3000 officers and 17
men to scour the country with fire and sword, and
thus wipe out the sanguinary blot that now so
foully stains our colony’s fair escutcheon. Read
further on, and shud-dar-r-h as you read. The
MMogil maniac who troubles the readers of
ooze now veils: “I am informed that one of
our residents, Mrs. Edwards, had 40 of her ducks
poisoned last week by some mean, malicious per-
THE OLD WAY.
FRIEDN : "How did you get married the last time, George?”
GEOGRGE: “Oh, same old way—parson, bride, if’-pun’ note.”
son. The unprincipled individual who perpe-
trated this crime deserves three months’ hard
labour. We hope the stern hand of justice will
yet he able to do its work.” Good Lud 1 Can such
revolting crimes be committed in a land so civil-
ised, fair, and yet so young ? With that wonderful
perception which is Alfred's chief characteristic
(next to his appetite), that distinguished journalist
lays us on to the straight tsack at once in a
“ Brevity ” par., which says: “ There’s a wretch at
large in the Paterson district poisoning the settlers
ducks. Perhaps it’s the Sydney stabbing man
broken out in a new placel” That’s it, Alfred. All
you want now is a stack of Police Gazettes, a
night entrance, and a loaded whip-handle to be a
whole detective department in yourself. Beyond
all doubt, it was the Sydney stabber who poisoned
Mrs. Edwards’ ducks with two score of Yankee
Novelty jack-knives.
At the Sydney Hospital there is an ar-
rangement (little Renwick’s own words are our
authority) made by the house surgeon, in accord-
ance with whioh the night porter, if he considered
a case to be of a serious character, awakened the
medical officer and brought him to it at once; if
the case were of a less important character, the
night porter told the doctor so, and the latter
dressed himself properly before going to the
lodge. It is only natural to suppose that the night
porter is a duly qualified medical man, otherwise
the arrangement made between him ana the house
surgeon is certainly a most objectionable one. An
urgent case comes to a hospital. The night porter
diagnoses it, and if it be serious he hurries the
doctor along; if not, he allows him time to dress
properly (one doctor, by the bye* can t dress him-
self in twenty-five minutes). All depends upon
the correctness of the night porter s diagnosis .
Either the medical officer should be called the
night porter’s assistant (and paid accordingly), or
the night porter should be called the medical
officer—which he virtually is, since upon his dictum
it rests whether the case shall be treated as serious
or not. The difference between the time allowed
by the night porter to the house surgeon for a
non-serious case and that to which (had he sup-
posed it serious) he would have limited him for
dressing purposes, may just possibly, upon some
occasion, when the night 'porter's diagnosis has been
inaccurate— for even night porters are not infal-
lible—result in a manslaughter; and then we shall
have little llenwick and his crowd “ Who’d have
thought it!” The “case” should be dressed first;
where this is not done, the dilatory medico should
be “ dressed down.”
Colonel Sargood, the Victorian Softgoods
Minister for War, having got a lot of soldiers, sat
down and began to think in what sort of duds he
would robe them. Shape and texture were essay
disposed of, but colour constituted a grave diffi-
culty. “ I’ll not choose scarlet,” mused he. That
decision is regretable. People have got used to
thinking of soldiers as apparitions in scarlet, and
nurse girls in particular have dreamed and dreamed
of the brilliant hue until their own cheeks blushed
in rivalry. It is likely also owing to the colour of
the martial uniform that our dominions are so
studded with dazzling, meteoric redheads. But
there was reason in the Colonel’s dt cision. “ Scar-
let is too good a mark for the enemy.” That
settles it. Better for Victoria to have its soldiers
a little less attractive and wholesomely alive.
After all the trouble and expense of raising them,
it would be recklessly absurd to let them get
killed. “And I’ll not choose blue,” mused the
Colonel. And there was reason also in that de-
cision. The Colonel likes contrast between the
colour of their uniforms and the colour of their
looks, and believes that if their uniforms were
blue, their looks would, when the noise of battle
sounded, be of such a hue that a whole battalion
would present the appearance of a gigantic blue-
bag. “I’ll choose a light brown,” mused the
Colonel. And again, the reason for this decision is
good .“The enemy won’t see them so easily,” says
the Colonel. This is a polite compliment not alone to
the valour of the heroic militia, but also in a
general, if insiduous way, to the great family of
the colonial Browns. It's a bid for the sympathies
of every Brown in the south. But, after all, it
may he pardonable to ask the Colonel why he did
not choose green. Green is a very nice colour,
indeed. It is true that the objection urged against
blue applies to it, but only to an extremely insig-
nificant extent. The militiaman’s whole features
would be, if he entered the battlefield, susceptible
of the blue tinge, but it is only the corner of his
eye that would carry a little green in it. That s
one point. And then the reason which set aside
scarlet is just another reason in support of green
—or of one of the varieties of it. For instance,
invisible green. Now, just fancy the surprise of
the cruel devastating enemy, swooping down on
the Victorian capital with boxes of vestas and
double-bladed tobacco-knives, and finding the
tripe shops guarded by motionless phalanxes ot
invisible greens I No doubt, if the strategic
colonel will review the matter, be will see a
strategic kernel in this reflection.


WTOH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
* T HOM AND CAMERON’S
lv£at-o.red.
QUALITY unsurpassed.
o*l y
BROTHERS,
-£®nts for N.S.W. and Queensland,
and and SCOTCH WHISKIES
“l 9 general MERCHANDISE,
k
&or§g@ Street, Sydney
n uine Irish Whiskey
'N & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
Is UNSURPASSED.
A and rnJ )on<i for Expert at the Distillery,
& been iJJ'Jpners may, t. rrefore, rely that it
i« y °Uaav* “e hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
6i &arkj see that you get it, look for the
.• A - , *vj etc Inal you gui 11| luuiv lur me
*0 diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer,
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London -workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 Geo-rge-street, Bedding Mamr
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed'
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
PEAPES and SHAW
HAVE JUST RECEIVED THE
largest, choicest, and cheapest
lad
Shipment of
ies* and Gentlemen’s Gloves
ever landed by one firm in the colony of New South Wales.
They .consist of Novelties in Ladies’ Gloves as follows:
qJXJ® KID with VELVET
A*?° Urs as follows:—Dahlia, Roan, Slate,
aoise, mid Brown, Navy, Myrtle.
SAC GLOVE, PATENT
& BT ™
W Ck8 > S , and evening shades.
b utt ®^ Al EE SUEDE GLOVES, 6,8, and 10
p!!i fading shades and fashionable
k c °a>Ur&.
®' XA HiE DRESSED KID GLOVES.
***. Bronze, Terra Cotta, and other
y >*“<»•
aip MENT of our Celebrated “FLORA”
o ttt Price for four button is 8s 9d per pair.
iSy e^ Ce f °r six button is 4s 11 per pair.
shade of colour, and every pair
%^nteea.
Vari ETY of LADIES’ and CHILD-
in every shade of colour.
IBS in LADIES’ SILK MITS, 25 inches
’ ®Very colour.
GENTLEMEN’S GLOVES.
For the Encampment
for Volunteers.
White Dogskin Gloves
White Buckskin Gloves
White Doeskin Gloves.
DENT’S GLADSTONE GLOVES,
Assorted Fashionable Shades of Tans and
Browns, two clasps, price, 3s Gd. per pair.
The above are with either black self-braid
points, made expressly for PEAPES and
SHAW, and are unrivalled for quality,
fit, make, or style.
DENT’S CHEVItETTE GLOVES,
Two clasps, all the new colours.
GENT.’S WHITE, FRENCH GREY, and FANCY
TINTED GLOVES,
For Evening Dress Wear, half-a-crown per
pair.
TWO-BUTTON WHITE and FRENCH GREY
EVENING GLOVES,
WHITE and FRENCH GREY EVENING
GLOVES,
With the new double clasps,
Gent.’s New Driving Gloves, and Warm Winter
Gloves,
E * P ES and SHAW,
STREET.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
ol£f <2z> Son’s
from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
H * w PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
v -A-xe InTcw Opeaa.» %
HOTEL,
°mer of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
V ■cCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
N:; * UP-STAIRS.
s m
&
o 00\
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG<
TOBACCO
ias
consume, in manufacture, nearly three
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
L + into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
r» 00dle c stan d I'IEST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Ueror * Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
It^ 8 *T c °NQI;EK O R and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
''COifQlTwr.f I’* 1 ’* Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
TO.! iUCO WORKS, HYI?E FARE, SYDNEY.
C. B. MODISH,
Gun Maker & Cutter.
m~ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
b£ffrrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will b© faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel® Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie 5- Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, Sto.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Yases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eignres,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solb.o Bazaax
352 George Street.
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
FMGV GOODS DDORDL
GLOVES
HOSIERY
SUNSHADES
LACES
LADIES’ BOOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
FANS
PURSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 George-street.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fjl H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.'
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart; city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J, MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
PIPO^ERS
of
‘ PIANOS,
by ©very maker
of renown,from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ©SCANS IN YARIBTY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON, *
rfl P'AKK STOLSttT -BY W**T=
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.. £300,000
Reserve Fund £133,500
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Georg-e S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King-, M.L.O.
C. Roßeston, Esq., C.M.G.
'Aitmtobs:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary :
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq,
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. I\ Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander,
EBq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 KEORKE STR EE T,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
, Note the Address-
er - 644 GEORGE STREET.
. £
W. H. Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Sell-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34, and lib. tins*
R. WHITTINGIIAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams,
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
■y/y'ILOOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, 45410
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn ehellera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAI/MHT
Wood,
&o. &o. &o.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.,
110 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS, v
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
tar* THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest os' follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 13 months: FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ! FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Ranh
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURB GUARANTEED.
OKAU*
F 2
TREATMENT
k R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
) MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, 'dizrinoss, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence,
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
anv case. With each order reemved for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser wil l receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a euro
Guarantees issued by all oiieausts and druggist
Australia*


Gold. . CT -
(BECHUTEKED.)
%
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
-'S
am Ml JEM, CAFE U WATCHES, St.,
•LATEST FASHIONS.’
nJOM 30s. BAGS.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager,
3D3ZS3?
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
fiCtl
Is OPENING up, every day, a Largeßtock of Choice fndnPMMonablo MEN’S, BOYl^g^^l
KITS, TROFS|BS and yfes, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS HARD and * *.
SUITS, TROUSERS and VESTS, SAU, Eiiuujv, ana t Auru H'A«rwi>v
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY.
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. D „~.
tsr Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock 1
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in S'/ DNE / -gjpjlOtf
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVER
Every article
poth
J.
J. Ryan, 780 George Street, Hayiwa
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Stree^
irk®* *
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERS ALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder. '
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.!
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a deeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODBBAN & CD.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS.
°and Ball-dress
Bouquets
Decorations.
SEARL & SONS,
Banqubiists And Florists,
6 GBORHE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY-,
a GEORGE STREET WEI IT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AX
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
UMBRELLAS
RfcC.aVEßEft
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Havejyour Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield full, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
fcumes. Repairs neatly eie-
•U+A*
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
\
- : 7-? y- -
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F . W ARE,
SUJtGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
gw” Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
JSther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HXQQXftPS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOB AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
Ingham’s
ill £'
if I™
Coughs,
► y
<
NO ■ ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
■ v
IN GH A M
ROCKHAMPTON
m
'sppg\ |
*aSSwU
TJULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
JL> or condition alone in BULL-DOG, ALE
that preserves this brand first in public,
estimation. Common bitter crude beers >are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
game mellow vinous character, the -fullness on
the palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-BOG ALE. Cansjimers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the, common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BITLLPDOG. OATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORKER OB' PITT AND PARK STREETS.
HMfce.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he mas a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WAliLj^
Importer of every descrip l - 0
Literature, Law, Mercan 1
Fancy Statiorfeiy^^
English Papers and Mas» aln ® s P
every Mall. gfp“
ROYAL ARCADE. 486 GEORG®
(LIMITED)*
GENERAL CAR® 1
Forwarding, Shipping,
and Commission fy ell
HEAD OFFICE 5
241 Pitt Street,
gydH'
CARRIERS to THE GOYERN^® 1^
SODTHWALEo.;
BRANCH OFFI®* 8 '
Cl
SOUTHERN DISTRICT, JN# ‘*
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee *
Culcairn
Gowabee
Narandera
gSKffi*’ l
Hay
■ur a
Western District,
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngao
Forbes
CondoblW
Coonambl 0
Bourk«
rJ S.^*'
Northern District, s *' ~
Morpeth *
Gunnedah SS
Narrabn Uran»
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRAtfP® (/'
Southern and South-W®^* 1
KT 8
Dalby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Come®
Emerald j
Northern LiN® :
Townsville Ravens^
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and Sobt&
WM. MCUX.X.QCH & C°"
’ Agencies in all parts
of tlje
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer uf all kinds nf /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorl**'
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitte? s>
