

•non mueki t sms,
palace EMEOErcrLL,
OMX.Y,
I SHE POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
Bl =
I e ®hly Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Pay CA.SH 9 CASH, CASH!
% a Tt
k 41jX - our goods, and give our customers the eull benefit arising therefrom.
iThony
HORDERN AND SONS
emporium, haymarket, only,
!
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
IE WIITTEE GOOD
V
in the Australian Colonies.
Flannels, Linens, Calicoes, Woollens, Herfinos, and all kinds of Dress Goods.
FURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOW WARE, of the best English manufacture.
the very best yalue foe the least possible outlay.
-Hi VJEijCLX VAHUIj JO JLXIJIi JUJDiAOA A v/uuxuuaj AJ 1 JUXA JL.
HORDERN AND SONS,
U}
to
Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


Gempfets Phiiographic Ouif§ts p
COMPRISING EYERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
P'
i.IMPURTEfei / 7,,
jL*
r m
, \7'7liL i ' •
. •; .V «k ’ .VsT**r“* Jl
‘uStnl
(BKi’.S-'
&HR&V:
m> , Ux;7 &
JMIJMjf./
f ■■■■:'■<'U'A}* %
aso
■
s, ’ M^tor
xCAMERAS
A->' r .CARDS'CHEMICALS 7
I \ qe-nt.S nr — — ~--\v - ‘7\i«Ls\ ,
■>l t -■ X- W.JOHNSONfrSONS" J/’Api/p
NIT R.SILVER AND CMLOR GOLD 7"
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & GO.,
THE PEOPLE S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDJSEY.
H. L. StTMMSEiriBLD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
S3ir Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J® C3r. Ha-rtoorowg
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades ;
a LargAConsignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to seiec.t from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWb—In all new shapes.
83F* Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
above line. A large stock of FANG Y GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address— J. G. HAIiBOIiOW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 a 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
C‘ 4ATER’S system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
j prices, is feeing thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our Introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
■W. W.
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel Is centrally situated, feeing close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert SI Manders and co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
«. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
fifleisisleck & Go’s.
MY MONOPOLE.
OB' ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
C. B. HODIKI,
Gun Maker &. Cutler.
er* TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the onlv awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1870-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE EIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Allgoods will be faithfullv
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock ofTable and Pocket Cutlery just re!
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osboknjc ;
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
po/Qrnc nnvwilE & GO"
m Si Z raw M
357 GEORGE STREET,
6* and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, S YI)N
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, E NG
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., EM6LAHB-
IMPORTERS OP 0<)8
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, ana »
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, mid
Vertical Fixed.
BOlliElia.
Vertical and ‘ELoxlz.ontal.
MACHINERY. . lo tm aDd
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planiflg» rB<
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hamm
WOOB-WOKKING MACHINERY- g#
Saw Benches, Circular and Band., Planing and Moulding Machi ataam-P
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand ana si
English and American Agricultural imple” l *'”**
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse „jj e rs, Tbres
hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers ana
Railway Contractors’ Material and pla ”*‘^ishin^ B.
Coach Builders’ Sundries—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and ! u
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. , GalvB° lz
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. . and I
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Was
Machinery.
Builders* Ironmongery. CarP e ° ter9
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements lh
jjieP
yooW'
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on appli®** lol110 115 #
BRISCOE, DRYSDABE
387 S«of§s Street, Sydn*^
WIISHT, HEATON & GO,
(LOOTED),
general GmmiEm,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE: .
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOOTH WALESJ
BRANCH OFFICES,
Southkrn District, N.S/W.:
Goulbum
Ynss
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowaboe
Narander
Hulor
Hay
Wistbrn District, N.8.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blaynoy
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyugan
gorbes
ondobiin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri UraJla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-WESTERN LINE:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Centrai Linb:
Rockhampton Capella
BogantuUgan Comet
Emerald
NOhthbrjn Linb:
Townsville Ravenawoofti Junction
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M-CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
I W Agencies In all parts of the world,
Foster s
GUINNESS'S EXTRA
' -JgsoVt^J
The BEST AL®
SOLD BY ALL
80e,^^! '
c^;4«
Allow Interest «| jj{>/
on fixed deposits J ahoft 'Vji
Branch. Payahl®
I.V
MS?
5S
'i; JKA.JR..


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 62—New Serier.
SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1884.
Price—od.
The Plain Truth.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1884.
Judge Williams, of Victoria, is a Dative of
Australia, and, we believe, the youngest
occupant of a seat upon the Supreme Court
of any of the Australian Colonies. He has
recently paid his first visit to the mother
country, and after returning to the land of
his birth, has, in the course of an interview
with a newspaper reporter, given au outline
of the impressions made upon him during
his sojourn in Great Britain. On the well
established principle that “lookers-on see
most of the game,” the observations of Mr.
Williams respecting the tendency of popu-
lar opinion in England are deserving of
attention and credit. As a native-born
colonial he would naturally be specially
qualified to gauge, without prejudice, the
comparative strengths of the various cur-
rents of opinion among the natives of the old
country.
* * *
The independent spirit genera*ed by a
youth passed amidst the free institutions of
an Australian settlement—the most radical
in political sentiment of all the British pos-
sessions supported by the undiplomatic
candour and accessibility to external im-
pressions which his comparative youthful-
ness permits, and which maturer years or-
dinarily tend to modify and repress, have
qualified him to state with a frankness as
rare as it is valuable his exact impressions.
Judge Williams has not, as an older and
more artful man might have done, adjusted
his remarks to suit conventional require-
ments, but has stated what he believes to be
fact with an uncompromising directness, for
which those who profit by his remarks
could not be too thankful. But the in-
novation, such as the fact of a man
in a high and responsible position, giv-
ing a true exposition of his impressions,
when to do so is to transgress an unwritten
canon that on certain subjects nothing is
permitted except either a favourable report,
a lie, or a suppression of truth, seems to
have shocked some people. Mr. Williams
impressions were that in England “ there
will be a Republic after the reign of the
Prince of Wales. The Queen is not liked. 1
don’t mean as a woman, for as a woman she
is liked ; bnt as a Queen she is not. People
think that she does not do her duty, and is
rather inclined to be niggardly.” The Mel-
bourne Argus— par excellence the Tory
newspaper of Australia —commented upon
these remarks as follows
“ Mr. Justice Williams ought to know perfectly
well that there are numerous subjects upon which
a Judge of the Supreme Court of this colony has
no right to speak like an ordinary gossip. It is
one of the penalties which a man pays for his
tenure of a high judicial office that, whatever may
be his peculiar views, ho must not announce them.
Both in season and out of season, do what he will,
he cannot divest himslf of his judicial character.
Moreover, decency demands that all bis published
utterances should exhibit, at least, the outward
semblance of loyalty. He holds the Queen s com-
mission. He Berves a monarch who is not only
honoured by her own subjects, but by all the
nations of the earth, who is declared by all com-
petent authorities to discharge her regal functions
with increasing diligence, and to be one of the
heavit st-working women ia England. Yet Mr.
Justice Williams, a Judge of the Supreme Court of
Victoria, has not scrupled to give utterance, for
public information, to such scandalous gessip as
that the Queen is rather inclined to be niggardly,
and that peopl® in England think she doesntdo
her duty 1”
* * *
We have no sympathy whatever with the
Idea that it is a virtue to observe “ outward
semblances” of anything tbatdoes not exist.
Shams of all kinds we regard as abominable'
and advocates of shams share the obloquy.
But, as a matter of fact, the accusation
against Justice Williams is absurd. He
is charged with repub'icanism and didoyolty,
not because he has professed himself repub-
lican or disloyal, but because, when asked,
he stated that his observation had led him
to believe that there was a tendency towards
republicanism and disloyalty in Great Bri-
tain. That is to say, presuming that it is
disloyal under a constitutional monarchy to
criticise and find fault with the manner in
which regal functions are discharged by the
Sovereign.
• • •
The criticism by the Araus of Mr. Wil-
liams’s utterances is transparently absurd.
If the principles laid down in it be 1 enable,
then are all Judges—the presumed custodians
of truth and integrity—bound to disguise
and conceal, if not to falsify, their impres-
sions whenever these are unfavourable to
MR. JUSTICE WILLIAMS, OF VICTORIA.
established authorities and conditions, Un-
less the manifestly ridiculous rule be laid
down that Judges are to be debarred from
ever expressing any opinions on matters of
real moment, except on the Bench and in
definite connection with some legal proceed-
ings, it will follow that all Judges
who feel prompted to be the panegyrists
of a monarch or a system, whether
that monarch be serving or betraying the
interests of the people, and whether that
system be working for good or be perverted
to evil purposes, may give copious expression
to their ideas, although possibly prompted by
corrupt, sycophautic, interested, self-seeking
impulses; whereas any Judge who recounts
an impression unpalatable to the Cfovern-
ing Power is to be silenced at once. It must
surely be obvious that there is no ground
for apprehension that the telling of unpala-
table truths or untruths will become incon-
veniently common among high officials. The
natural tendencies are all the other way.
One does not, in this colony at any rate,
require even to be a student of history to
know that Judges are just as accessible to
the influences which ordinarily affect men
as any other persons can be, and that their
desires for promotions and increased salaries,
and bits of ribbon and trumpery titles, and
solid pensions, are just as eager and lively
as those which burn in the bosom of a tide-
waiter or a Jannery John. Unless the
Judges are to be silenced utterly when off
the Bench, it is essential that they be free to
speak honestly. The Argus would have
them speak favourably of all existing in-
stitutions—and. as it were, eat rotten apples
with an affectation of relish in order to pre-
tend that they are sound—or not to speak at
all. This plan would make the Judges in-
struments in a system of hoodwinking the
public and whitewashing things that were
decaying.
* * *
This, we conceive, is an immoral sugges-
tion, and would put high officials to immoral
and degrading use. But, besides being im-
moral, it is silly. Because it is utterly futile,
[f the people of Australia had no source of
information with respect to the ideas of the
people of Great Britain, except by the
medium of the Judges, the Argus, and the
S. M. Herald, it might be advantageous to
gag any of the former who didn’t speak
according to regulation. But as there are
hundreds of other channels of commu-
nication, th 3 plan of the Argus is pre-
posterous. No man of mature years
can pretend to be ignorant that but a
few years back, before the serious illness
and apprehended death of the Prince of
Wales occasioned a sentimental revulsion of
feeling, it was almost universally said that
if the prevailing wish of the nation sue*
ceeded in finding a method of accomplish*
ment, the end of Her Majesty’s reign would
be the signal for a revolution and a Republic*
Similarly, it is impossible for anyone who
has opportunities of conversing with new
arrivals from England—such as pour into
this country by thousands yearly, and come
in contact with anyone who cares to listen
to them—to be unaware that Mr. Justice
Williams’ impressions, as recounted to the
reporter of the Melbourne Herald, coincide
with the general tendency of what one
learns from new arrivals. Moreover, the
moment one turns from the great commer-
cial daily papers, and applies oneself to the
perusal of those organs of political opinion
which exist solely by their success in expres-
sing views which are received with approval
by their readers, one learns at once that, if
these be correct exponents of popular ideas
in England, Mr. Justice Williams has accu-
rately gauged the public mind, and has truth
on his side when he says that the Queen is
not popular and is regarded as niggardly.
* * *
We could fill our paper weekly with para-
graphs culled from London papers alone,
which bear out this statement; and which
go further, and charge the Queen with being
grasping. The Argus begs the question
wholesale when it states that Justice Wil-
liams serves a monarch who is not only
honoured by her own subjects, but by all
the nations of the earth, and who is de-
clared by all competent authorities to dis-
charge her regal functions with increasing
diligence, and to be one of the heaviest
working women in England. Mr. Williams,
on the contrary, correctly oistinguishes
that Her Majesty is respected as a woman,
not beloved as a Queen. Unfortunately,
the domestievirtues are slender foundations
upon which to depend for the reputation of
a monarch. The fact that a woman loved
her husband and her children is not suffi-
cient to enable her to lay claim to the repu-
tation of a good Sovereign, it places her on
an equality with any washerwoman who
exhibits the same affections, but it does no
more. To do so much is, it may be admitted,
to distinguish an individual among Sove-
reigns—who are too stldom mindful of
domestic obligations or sexual decencies. It
is only necessary to remember that there
are in London alone thousands of women
who work incessantly sixteen and eighteen
hours out of the twenty-four at laborious
occupations, in order to expose the mon-
strous absurdity of the statement that the
Queen, who periodically visits the Con dnent>
and who consumes much of her time in
travelling from one palace to another, and
in strolling about the Highland hills, is one
of the heaviest working women in England.
* * *
Exaggerations such as these defeat their own
object. Again, before alleging the testimony
of “all competent authorities” that Her
Majesty discharges her regal functions with
“increasing diligence,” the Argus should
have defined whom it meant by “all com-
petent authorities.” It is certain that if the
personal suite of Her Majesty be meant,
these are only competent in one sense. They
are in a position to know. But they are not
admirable as impartial as well as competent.
It is notorious that the tradesmen of London
who are also competent and also prejudiced
pronounce that the Queen grossly neglects
the social duties of her station. This is, to
our thinking, a miserable accusation, and
the outcome of a despicable feeling. To the
bourgolsie, the gauge of a monarch’s virtues
is the amount of money he or she squanders
in empty ostentation, and, by the influence
of Royal example, leads others to squander
likewise. And tothiscontemptiblesentiment,
we believe, one part of Her Majesty’s unpopu-
larity in England is distinctly attributable.
It will be perceived, therefore, that in this


Tub Kates of tiuBSOKJPfio-.; u> the Bulletin
are—For one year, 34e.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Kates are ss. per Inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on contiouous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Tkaill ; for amounts
under J6l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
G. B. KENT & SONS’ BRUSH WANE.
It having come to our knowledge that certain
inferior goods have been stamped with our names,
G. B KENT and SONS—namely, Sash Toois-and
have been circulated as of G. JJ. Kent and Sons’
manufacture (we make only one quality, THR
BEST), we suggest that persons using our brand
of brushware should procure from responsible
bouses only.
We have this day registered as our trade mark,
under the Trade Marks Statute, 28 Victoria, No 9
the name, ' ’
G. B. KENT and SONS,
and should we discover anyone, after this notice
using our said mark, we will prosecute thorn under
the penal clauses of the said statute, without
further notice.
The registration of the trade mark applies to
all classes of our manufacture, namely : -
Fancy Brushes, as Hair. Hit, Cloth, Tooth, Nail
Shaving, Bath, Irory Goods, &c. ’
Painters’ Brushes, as Sash Tools, Ground Brushes
,r distemper, Stipplers, &c.
Household Brushes, as Brooms, Scrub, Shoe Stove
Furniture, &c. ’
Stable Brushes, as Horse, Spoke, Water, Dandy &c
Messrs. HENRY BROOKS and CO., a 59 George-
streec, will be happy to communicate with anv-
ene on the subject of our Brushware.
Signed and dated in Sydney this 14th May, 1884
„ KENT and SONS,
ll Great Marlborough-street. London.
QUR GREAT BEDSTEAD SALE.
OUR GREAT BEDSTEAD SALE.
OUR GREAT BEDSTEAD SALE.
TWENTY PER CENT. DISCOUNT
or
4s. in the pound returned. Write for our Book
CAMPBELL BROTHERS.
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
428, George-street, Bydney.
(Next the Royal Hotel).
m ms, t co/s
BRIAN BORU
”13 RIAN BORU WHISKY is manufactured from
the finest Irish Grain. When well mature!
byag* l , is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in
enormous quantities to all parts of the world.
Australian consumers will find this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Wh’sky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENT,
THE LAHHERHUIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley,
SOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. d<*
Brandy in case and bulk, » and ♦*♦.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass's Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 35 Flinders-street East.
Adelaide Office; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
IJIHE
Beat Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
tr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
«e. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Ml: Department
market street.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTB’ NEW BAR,.
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you ean obtain for
e<sL_
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
market STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT tj AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Tni MOST WffOLBeOMB Q> ALL BaVBRAQBa.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHIBKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELIBH WHISKY
6s. por bottle.
yerdeilho,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR PALE BRANDY,
•s. ftd. per bottle,
c. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
instance the interests of the monarch
would not be served by denial or supprt
sion of the fact of Her Majesty’s unpopu
larity, but would be distinctly served by th
opportunity afforded for scrutinizing th
Cause. In other respects, this will be equall
trtle, although the examination of reason
tie less extenuatory. The well-to-do and
Socially “superior” classes are not, as
rule, among those who “dislike” the Queen
Among those who find the existing order o
things on the whole fraught with advantag
to themselves, Royalty is the symbol of per
manence, and it is natural to magnify th
merits of the monarch for the time being.
* * *
But among the infinitely more numerou
class, by whose ill-rewarded industry th
fortunate section is enabled to enjoy afilt
ence, the contrary spirit prevails; and tbor
is no doubt that among these the Sovereig
is, at the present time, regarded with ex
treme disfavour, for the same reasons whio
make her acceptable to the wealthy. She i
regarded as the head of the system of privi
lege and inequality to which the labouring
poor now attribute their life-long struggle
and anxieties. A multitude of incident
have concurred to impress the masses wit!
the conviction that the Queen regards them
as created for her benefit, and not she for
theirs, in the sense of being under an obliga
tion to make real and substantial sacrifices
for them. The constant inclination to sad
die the tax-payer with the support of Her
Majesty’s descendants and relations has
occasioned much and severe comment. Her
disposition to hoard, and to “sweat” the
revenue for unnecessary luxuries, such as
royal yachts, travelling expenses, and cosf
of conferring decorations upon people whom
the nation cares nothing abjut, have pro-
duced a feeling bordering upon exaspera-
tion, of which every batch of news-
papers affords convincing evidence. And
at the present time, the publication of the
memoirs of the Princess Alice— the tlower
of the Royal flock has intensified that
feeling, and has even given a shock to the
conception that the Queen is an exemplar of
all that is most beautiful in family affection.
The fact that Alice was compelled by actual
poverty to sew and remake her children’s
dresses, while her Royal mother was the
wealthiest womau in the world, and daily
hoarding additional stores of money, has
created a most unpleasant impression. The
populace have nothing to gain by flattery,
and little to dread if “disloyal;” and there
is small disguise attempted of the fact that
the plebs of Great Britain regard their
monarch as personally selfish, and as leagued
in sympathy with the class which has
hitherto treated the people as a milch-cow,
and which would fain have a much-adver-
tised solemn donation of broken meats pass
current for self-denying and sympathetic
charity, while they resolutely oppose every
movement which would really tend to
equalise opportunities, and make men’s cir-
cumstances approximately proportionate to
their natural abilities and wants.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Professional Blasphemy.
The amazing proposal ma2e by the Rev. Mr,
Willis to the effect that in the text of the prayers
for rain, authorised for use in Anglican churches,
provision shall be made for mention of the parti-
cular locality for which rain is supplicated, and
the almost equally amaz'ng adoption of the pro-
posal by the Bis op of Sydney, appear to have
been considered topics too sacred for com-
ment by our contemporaries. It is true that
the Bishop, while assenting, reduced the fla-
grant quality of the proposed blasphemy by
suggesting a generalisation of the terms of
supplication. But this amendndment was nearly
as bad as the absurdity it seemed designed to tone
down. The Rev. Mr. Willis' suggestion was ap-
parently based upon the idea that the Almighty
is so deficient in sense and discretion, that, if ap-
pealed to by a duly authorised petitioner to send
Tain, He would be apt to provide it where it wasn't
wanted. If Mr. Willis idea had been cariied out
with strict attention to exactitude, it would
have become requisite to frame prayers for
rain so that they would read like schedules
in a land-bill, or pages of a deed of title
to real estate; and the Divinity would be
instructed, to prevent mistakes, that the wished-
for moisture was required on “that piece
or parcel of land, commencing from a marked tree
at the junction of the Namoi and Cabramatta
Rivers, and bounded thence on the,” &c. &o. If it
were admitted that the increased exactness sug-
gested by Mr. Willis was requisite, it would fol-
low that accurate topographical information, had
become a requisite department of preparation for
the Ministry. Moreover, it would be requisite to
allow that a good and sufficient reason existed for
the modification of the existing form of prayer.
That reason would necessarily be that prayers for
rain have hitherto miscarried or resulted in contre-
temps, in consequence of deficient definiteness in
respect to locality. This is surely an admission
which the Bishop and the Synod would be disposed
to controvert. But by accepting Mr. Willis
overture, even in a modified form, the admission
has been made. And even the Bishop's form
involves a presumption that the Almighty is
lacking in common sense—which every pulpit-
thumper is able to provide. To pray with so much
exactitude that “moderate rain and showers ’ be
sent “to those regions of our land which now
Buffer from drought” is equivalent to hinting
that, in the absence of this definiteness, the
Almighty has been in the occasional habit of
pending, in reply to prayer, immoderate rains in
localities which did not require any at all. The
whole incident is instinct with the most presump-
tuous blasphemy, deuy it who may.
+
A Nation of Sovereigns.
The moral energies of mankind are being, to a
great extent, wasted by misdirection. In monar-
chies, sedulous pains are taken to inculcate loyalty
to a sovereign, who may be, as chance directs,
worthy or contemptible, and of whom the budding
youth of the country are trained to maintain and
worship the glory, the grandeur, and ro forth. In
republics another form of misconception prevails
and the individual is taught to worship an abstrac-
tion known as the sovereign people. This training
in either case is devoid of any wholesome reflex
action. No man is the better, as regards his own
qualities, for devotion to a prince; and the prevail-
ing idea that a man is more worthy as he is more
loyal is responsible for the production of a crop of
miserable trucklers after empty distinctions of the
baublo sort, and for the creation of a wretched
crew of decorated triflers, whose sole merit or
talent is an aptitude for self-abasement. In the
case of a worship of the sovereign people, the
moral effort is dissipated into space. No man
knows precisely what is the object or purport of
his worship. We propose a new sovereign—the
sovereign individual. Lotus conceive that every
person who at present is consumed with devotion
to the grandeur of his Country or the dignity of
his Sovereign were equally concerned about the
grandeur of his own soul and the dignity of his
own career, It seems to us that the world would
greatly gain thereby. If each of us were as
earnest that we never should be guilty of an un-
worthy action as most are that nationalprestipe be
preserved-if each were as resolute that no shabby
trick or sharp dealing should mar the dignity of
his own life or career, as most are thatpotentates
should be respectfully treated, what a world this
would be! The striking thing about the concep-
tion is that, whereas not even it. B-uudett Smith,
Esq., can add one jot to the Queen's glory, and Mr.
John Davies, C.M.G., himself, is impotent to en-
hance the prestige of Great Britain, any man is
competent, if he so elect, to completely create and
maintain the sovereign dignity and unblemished
prestige of-himself. And wo conceive that there
has, thus far, existed in this world no nation—not
even Great Britain itself in its fullest splendour—
which has approached the magnificence which
would bG attainod by a nation of such men, every
one a sovereign of himself.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Corretpondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plwne cannot expect to have their com-
munication* noticed.]
“ Memo’': Will see. Regarding the euchre,
it should have been “ some players ‘ order up ’ to
prevent their opponents going alone.” Of course,
it's not necessary to go alone in order to block an
adversary’s lone hand-except when you are play-
ing the “ non-assisting ” game, and your partner
deals. Then—to prevent the third hand from
goiDg alone-you may order partner down and
start on your own hf0k....“ E.J,”: Any really
racy contributions are welcome. As to the non-
delivery of The Bulletin, it is hard to know
what to do. As lying by innuendo is the meanest
ki d ot falrehood, so stealing a man’s newspaper
is about the meanest kind of theft. The postal
authorities are, of course, aware that thousands
of journals are purloined every year bv
their employes, but they make no sign...
‘‘A Reader”: Yes, we received both—the sub-
scription and the poetry. We like the former best
We were thinking of sticking to it. Now, dear
boy, we don’t want to be rough on an admirer and
subscriber; but what stumps us is that you like
Ihe Bullbtin, and, at the same time, exoect us
to publish a column of slush like this:—
“ Now, after this, no doubt you’re pondering
As to where our little mind is wandering
We blush; ’tis sad, yet strange to say
It’s at the pub. just o'er the way;
But if you wait, in half a minute
We'll do a trot and interview it.”
Where, in the name of-but enough. Keep on
sending subscriptions, and give poetry best
“Gylbin” (Bungowannah): The men you
mention are impudent imposters, who in
any other civilised country, would ’ be
serving society -on the roads. When vou
read of men who are prepared, for a lew
st imps, to euro certain diseases, you may at once
put them down as wens on the face of an honour-
able proiession. The men you name ha ito “ cut”
from Melbourne to avoid being “lumbered ”
“Rosewood ’’: The poetry will go in the basket.
(Wyong): Some lines worthy of “Hoiv
Willie s Pr&yer ’-others, not worth a—- You
will write something creditable when your educa-
tion is sufficiently advanced to show vou that it is
customary to say an and not “ a epistle ” “ w
L’Estrange,”: Will be printed when room is’found'
.... Growler : You say the Argus and tf. M
Herald people are disgusted with the Eng-
b®b »r or being about fuil of the hangers-on
of Monarchy. Now, considering that lustra
ban Tories don’t pay a 6d. out of their
* mob of German loafers,
n no ? the En £bBh people turn on the Ahgus
and Herald men, and say:—“lf you’re so fond of
them, confound you, take them and support them
jourselves. We won’t.” You’ve just hit our
views square on the head. For Australians to
object to support mendicants themselves while
railing at Englishmen for not doing so, is about
ft*®' sam .Pl°?.J3*8 oe T or check have heard of
lately.... Artist : In some particulars Australian
art is not abreast of European-in others it is 2
good deal ahead. It excels in drawing—especially
corks “Bojne Water”: We believe vou are
mistaken in saying that the staffs of the Express
and Freeman s Journal are mostly composed of
Orangemen....”Magnum Bonum ”: Would be very
welcome, even if necessary to redraw herl
Robert Smith ; You are quite riirht - the
present Dukedom of Norfolk is a creation of
earlier date than the Stuart times, and its line has
descended, without “any (known) illegitimate in
terlopers,” through one family to the f resent dav'
•^nplS l r& 0U ““ the ' VM ' "‘“ r VeT' S
And so, said the unmarried sister to t
one who had recently wedded a wurrukla man
and so he kicked you in the face, beat you with
copper-stick, smashed the clock, threw the ker
8e the baby, broke the kitchen windo
and your Sunday bonnet on the lire-why
thought be liked you.’' “So he does, Mary An
that 8 just it, was tho quiet reply. “ Sorry,” s
continued, softly, “ that I could only give you dr’
bread and cold tea; but I want the money I’ve go"
tor his pint of rum to*night. Good-bye, dear.”
It is a miracle how that groggy Rum ca
maintain so steady a seat on the fence. We pr
sume its tail is singularly prehensile. One of th
most recent proofs it gave of its skill in the ign:;b
u a fence-riding, was its publication, on on
sheet of an issue, of its belief that Bishop Barry
views as to the status of the Anglican clergy we
calculated not to conciliate the other “bodies
and, upon the other side thereof, of its equal
confident belief that the catholicity of “ our nei
Anglican bishop ” commends itself to all th
churches.
• thinks that juries arean obsolet
institution and ought to be abolished. A nice
thmg this, to want to deprive a lot of men of
honest living. Now, it’s all comfortable. You g
your little sticker-out, your little recommendatioi
meaty, and lots of things on reasonable term
ana thus are enabled to keep the city togethe
why, it there were no juries, you’d hardly mee
anybody but Chinamen and policemen. No; let
go on in the nice easy way we are doing. Beside
we don t want the judges to be always letting of
their relations.
Mrs. Booth has come out in the Sutlej, a
an expense iwe didn’t count up her wine cards
say, of £lOO. Mr. B. went to Melbourne to mee
her, and as they totted up the plunder in the rai
way carriage, both agreed that, without Biu
Kibbonism, life would indeed be a blank; nothin
holy about it but holy-stoning, no vent for th
out-pourings of the wash-tub. We’ve a jolly gooc
m md to get up an Army of our own. Only we’r
rather too bashful to beg 1 from the rich, so we’c
have to steal from the poor to start us in musica
earthquakes and hall-money.
The Sacred Heart Debating Society helc
its anniversary at Callaghan’s the other day, an
all passed off harmoniously.” The hero of th
hour was Mr. T. J. Donovan of the Freeman
whose eloquence, bursting through a barrier 01
turkey and pie, electrified all preset t. Curiously
enough, both T. J., sub-editor, and Mr. Murray
one or the proprietors of the Sixpenny Michael
intend to try tor parliamentary honours next elec
tion. Murray will woo Bathurst (affecting thing—
his native place!), and Donovan Gunneaah We
haven t fixed upon our little spot yet.
Says the Protestant Standard The
grand old cause of civil and religious liberty i
rapidly gaining in numbers and increasing in en
thusiasm, as time wings its wag.” He was a con
summate wag who wrote this. The “grand old
cause, ’ of course, is the cause that consigns the
f °pe to bJazes. And yet the Pope continue*, ai
t] } e JZ erl P?: a student-song says, to “drink the best
ot Khenish wine,’ while the poor old Protestant
standard hammers away, week alter week a
the feearlet Lady and the Man of Sia. There was
a time when the Orangemen were strong in this
colony, and did not allow other people to forget it
Those days are gone. Now the combined terrors
ot tho whole crowd would not frighten a coura-
geous cat. “ Ichabod ” should be inscribed on the
banner of King Billy. This sad, not to say shock-
ing, truth, was strongly forced upon us lately. We
were in Queanbeyau on the glorious twelfth.
This town was once so full of Orangemen that you
had only to pass through it to get the jaundice.
But how has the glory passed away! We expected
that day to hear the Riot Act read, and that four
or five funeral 3 at least would follow the proceed-
There was no riot; there were no funerals-
and there was nearly being no procession. Verv
nearly, but not quite. After about five hour? of
mustering, a noble band of close upon two dozen
Abdiels (see Milton, passim) strode out into the
street and marched to glory—which, in this case,
meant “Tom Buttle’s Corner”-to the tune of
Croppies Lio Down,” and other inspiriting and
peace-provoking airs. Then they marched baok
again, and we watched them with mingled feelines
of gloom and derision. The eortige- this word has
hitherto been appropriated to funerals, but it will
fit the case of this procession exactly was he-
ralded by two youths, who carried a banner
that in size and colouring bore a curious re-
semblance to a Chine e fire-screen. Behind them
marched the band, which, we i ave no hesitation in
saying, was a body of musicians that wouli have
done credit to any dead-house. There was that
about the music—soft and Lydiin in the preludes
and anon bursting into the martial Dorian mood—
that was calculated to lead a battalion of hen-
roosters to immortal fameandthelock-up. Callous
a* we! * r ®» almost fired our breasts to go out and
kill the man who moodily banged the big drum.
But he was an ancient man, and it seemed to us,'
somehow, that he had to carry sorrow enough on
bis shoulders. Quriously, though, it appeared to
us that in some mysterious way he derived a cer-
tain gloomy pleasure in beating that drum, as if,
so to speak, he felt that with every thump he
was avenging himself upon ihe cold and cruel
world. After him came two brigands bearing
strips of hoop-iron feebly disguised with hilts
to resemble swords. The terror these flashing
blades struck to the hearts of the three-year-
old youngsters who lined the foot-bridges wis
a thing to shudder at but m t describe. Then
there came a gallant warrior, who strode proudly
by with a bird’s-eye handkerchief waving at the
end of a copperstick. The main body, a gorgeous
throng with yellow sashes around their brawny
shoulders, brought up the rear. It is no exaggera-
tion to say that the majority of these magnificent
desperadoes towered to an altitude of over four
feet above the level of the road. The splendid
pageant passed like a vision, and disappeared in
the Protestant Hall, where the sashes and banners
were reluctantly given up. We may mention
here that a high official in the order watches night
and day over the regalia with a drawn knife-
board. And yet the Pope lives I


After trying many medicines without
benefit, your Bristol’s Sarsaparilla and Pills
have cured me of three most painful Ulcers with
'which I had suffered for about four years— Thos.
I4YTON, Geelong, Victoria.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Etnilie Melville is “ in it ” once again, and
is seen ia a chariot, drawn by two greys with the
whoopiag-cough, in Collins-street daily. Aus-
tralia is, indeed, a haven for the pros.! In
America there is a tendency by the pit to regard
Emilie as being over 17, and to receive her girlish
blandishments derisively Hit, in Au-tralia they
take it all in. Never mind ! Send along your
cayote in comedy, and your Buffalo Bill lresh out
from Cork. We re not particular The Mait-
land Mail says that they are now suff ring from
an attack of “The Irish Detective,” and praises
the acting of Mr. Dony (sic) Stanfield. We wonder
ho* long it will be before Biggs will get a new
dish of dramatic hash. If- - but wo won t say
anymore. ..Bill Holloway takes a lot of wiping
out. He has been spooning “The Wages of Sin ’
into the Mary boro ughites. We wonder what the
wages of sin amount to? As there are several
(“Sir John Robertson called attention to an article in the Echo in which he was charged with want of generosity.” —Parliamentary Report.)
THE DOUGHTY KNIGHT ( loq .): “SHE CALLED ME UNGENEROUS, SHE DID; AND I T CAN’T STAND IT.” (Weeps.)
bloody murders and mutilations in it,we should say
“ half-t- James ” Cates had a ben. in Auckland
recently, in “ Hand and Glove,” a very bad tr ins-
lation of “ Tricoche et Cacolet,” a mad farce by
Meilhac and Halevy; and Carry Nelson had ore
next night:—** ‘last Lynne,” tears, and —orange-
peel St. Leon was to have shown in Tam worth
last week, but the performance is postponed until
further notice. It being cold, damp weather, Mrs.
Gus. probably wants the tiger for a foot-warmer.
....The Narribri Argus says that Tommy Emp-
sonpays op—why shouldn’t he?—“like a man.”
“ That’s the sort of a showman we like,” cries the
Argus, “for we do not care abiot following a
man to a coach office with a meat-axe to give him
a hint that we should like him to pay what is due
to us.” Hear, hear ! Hanby (who will be our
death) calls Riggs’ “ The Emigrant ” “ a beautiful
domestic drama ” [! !] Hudson’s Surprise Party
is at Charters Towers—Ada Maven, Tommy,'et toutc
la boutique Are you all ready, gentlemen
of th i orchestra? A chord, then! Mr. George
Musgrove has arrived!! The Nellie Stewart lot are
doing—or were—“ Patience ” in Brisbane to good
biz The Colonist, a Maryborough (Q ) paper as
big as the Australasian, has curious ideas anent
theatrical entertainments. It is of the opinion that
“ dramas like the ‘ Lights of London ’ and * Wages
of Sin,’ and put on the stage properly, do more to
mend larrikiuism than State or social efforts.”
“ Charcoal A son goute,” as Allred would remark...
The Mudgee amateurs are going to play “The
Farmer's Daughter” soon. We might suggest
“ Beauty and the Beast ” as an afterpiece, with the
Mudgeb Independent editor in some of the title
role Bland Holt is on hi 3 way back with, it is
said, “The Stranglers of Paris,” and other cheerful
dramas ...Ruth Wallace, one of the Pollard kids,
says she was kidnapped to India. When the juve-
niles were out at sea, they rebelled, and Tom
Pollard stood an excellent chance of getting a
“ woolling.” Charies, however, says Ruth, “told
us that it would be splendid, as we would have
nothing to do but sit about all day, with black men
to fan us, and that we would get plenty of pre-
sents and curios to bring home co our parents. We
thought this would be very nice, and we went
willingly enough afterwards, but we were not well
treated.” Apropos of this, the P.’s have issued a
writ for £5OOO against the Akgus for 'ibel. More
bosh I ...Yes, before we forget, Walter Reynolds
is specially engaged to play the principal part in a
play called “Jdka” at Boston. Who will ever
forget Waiter’s “card” in the papers: “Walter
Reynolds, author-actor. Writing.” Ha, ha!....
All the rumoura about the Langtry and Australia
are known by the web-informed to be “ borack.”
Mrs. L. laughs at the idea of coining out here. And
no wonder. She would lose ever four months, and
the theatres wouldn’t hold the money, because
nothing will induce Australian theatre - goers
to go bevond “5 and 3” And the popularity
of “2 and 1” is not to be shaken. Where are
the people, except R. B. Smith, and that scented
aesthete, John Hourigan, who would go in for
half-guinea stalls, and £5 private boxes ? By the
way, K. S. Smythe has gone home. We wonder
whether, when in London, he will be the guest of
Moncure Conway At first, Ellen Terry’s Ameri-
can salary was £lOO a week: we seeby the Otago
Witness (which calls Ed. Yates “a literary con-
vict! ’’) that it is now £3OO. Talk about the nails in
the horse's shoes! L. Flemming has joined Alli-
son!!—and Bernhardt and Colombier have made it
up; and think of this: Pomeroy (Mr. and Mrs) are
playing at Oregon, under the management of Al.
Hayman! There is a tremendous joke in this—but
“as if you didn’t know!’’ Millis has struck a
patch, it seems The New York Mirror has an
article on the drunkenness of actresses and actors,
and states that in opera bouffe especially, it is no
uncommon thing for two-thirds of the company
to bb “ stiff ” long before the performance is over,
This is rough on managers. Out here they have
to contend with the same thing, and in a more
obstrusive form. The girls, in travelling com-
panies, drink like demons, and as the yokels are
always ready to “ shout,” glazed eyes and explo-
sive hiccups are common. Many’s the time we
have seen a show stuck up on the road through the
“indisposition” of the pianist; and it is not so
long ago since, up North, a lady performer upset a
bottle of porter in the piano, and all the accom-
paniments, that night, had to be played on the fife...
But read this little letter from Walter Reynolds’
own pen to the Mirror:—' “ Dear Sir, Allow me
to correct a statement of your Chicago corre-
spondent in your last issue. He says: ‘Mr. Rey-
nolds dramatizes English and French novels, and
then copyrights his vers on.’ I have written thir-
teen dramas, nine of which have been successfully
produced, and out of the number one only, viz ,
‘ Wa da,’ is a dramatization. The remainder —
well—‘Poor things, but mine own.’ — Walter
Reynolds.” Right on to Brisbane then, which,
d’ailleurs, is “well beknownst” to Walter. What
does this mean, anyhow ? Talking of the opera,
Bobby Byrne considers that “ Nellie Stewart is
most attractive in her tender moods 111” “Glou-
| glou,” he also thinks, “is alone worth the priee of
admission.” This is real Rood, honest, cosiio copy 1
... “ The Buffalo Minstrels ” are at the Albert Hall.
We have seen this noble show. It consists of the
Hugo Brothers, Dora Browne, Hetty Crowcher,
and another lady named Priscilla Verne. It’s a
funny little show, certainly; but, then, we
have seen a funny little funeral—Ned Vokea
(the dancer), who has never made under £3O
a week, is bankrupt. He owes over £3OOO,
and has no assets ! A little while ago an actor at
the London Gaiety “ went up” for thousands, who
was proved never to have drawn less than £2O
from the treasury, weekly, for 25 years. Yet he
announced his retirement, and they got him up a
big ben. Now Royce is playing again, having
mysteriously recovered from his sickness ana
arranged with his creditors—And guess what
Pomeroy's new piece is called—“ Claire and the
Forgemaster.” “ Phoebus, what a name I”. .Those
of the world whose aspirations are not centered
in tripe are anxious to see Clement Scott and Miss
Braddon’s new play. It’s curious that both Miss
B. and Mrs. Henry Wood suffer from a scorbutic
skin... Yes; and think I Dargon is reading in
New Zealand, and gets a yard of “ reprint ” from
I the Wagga Star
aff «r he makes the most of his opportunities,
after all, aren’t half as curtailed-like as the
mwer’end of the trousers he wears. Oily Deering s
ffiband is done in about the proper caper but
ha never begins to spout that we don t ieel m-
oUned to throw a milk-stool or a tom-cat at him;
hccause we don’t like the actor, but because
have seen so many Chadbands in our time, and
-were compelled to read their tracts, that it does us
T/fnd to knock one ol them out occasionally. But
is altogether too dismal for us; and, any-
wav it will be changed before long, so we will
adjourn to the Haymarket Academy.
•* # *
The Haymarket Academy, you know, has
heen leased for a season by Mr. E. A. Hart, and at
,n«ent he and his talented wife, assisted by Miss
Louise Hart and Mr; Kerby, are giving a very
bright and pleasing entertainment. If you haven t
bpento see them, you should go without delay,
S%r word for it, with a saveloy id, you will not
fp<?ret the time or the money spent, it you care at
for light comedy and character acting.
We are going to remind you once more
that, on Saturday afternoon, at the Theatre Royal,
a complimentary leleftt is to be tendered to
Signor Riccardi, the well-known vocalist, who for
more than six months has been unable to appear
in public on account of ill health. Miss Gene-
vieve Ward, of the Theatre Royal troupe; Miss
Jennie Lee, of the “Jo” crowd; John F.
Sheridan of the “Fun on the Bristol” party;
and Hiscocks’ Federal Minstrels have all united in
contributing to the progr.mme, which will be,
beyond question, one of the most entertaining
ever presented at a benefit performance In
Sydney. Play-goers will thus have an oppor-
tunity of seeing the star performers from all the
troupes now here grouped in one entertainment,
besides the pleasure of contributing their mite
toward the temporal welfare of one of Sydney’s
greatest favourites.


Personal
Items
The Forbes people are pensive, on dtt , with
regard to their member, Stokes. They think that
at the election he did protest—we mean promise—
too much. When he rocs up there, he is to be in-
vited to a little lecturoupon “Stokes on Memory."
We are informed that John Henniker
Heaton’sl ong-promised “Lifeof Daniel Denieby”
is nearly ready for the press, and will be published
by Tinsley. We are looking forward, with groat
eagerness, to seeing this work of Mr. Heaton's.
We know, and have a great respect for, the lady
who has written it.
The New York Herald seems surprised
to hear that the Earl of Aylesford has got drunk
again. He hasn’t. It’s the same old placid, re-
spectable, unwavering drunk, that is an institu-
tion amongst the aristocracy. What’s the good of
being a “lord” if you can t get as drunk as one,
without a low paper making impertinent (the last
time) “ remarsh ?’’
The report that Speaker Barton sprained
his ankle in stumbling over one of the new Stand-
ing Rules has been denied. That reminds us that
we once saw him nearly put his elbow out reach-
ing for a plate of Metropolitan soup, at a time
when there were fewer briefs in his blue-bag than
sandwich ruins and biscuit-crumbs. Similarly
'hut we only want short pars, in this column.
It is stated that a substantial testimonial
Is about to be made to Mr. Jefferis, who is, it will
be remembered, the duck who runs the Pitt-strcet
Gospel Mill. Mr. Jefferis gets over a thousand a
year and a house. We suppose, therefore, that
the proposed pecuniary compliment will be in lieu
of an allowance for hair-oil—with which, by the
way, the Salvationists of the reign of Herod were
demons at anointing themselves.
Henry Harrie Cooke says he is certain to
go in for Forbes next election. We want a few
more patriots. We have already Luscombe and
Andy Lynch, though, thank heaven! Cooke, by
the way, has a travelling-desk, which, when he
fearlessly had the courage of his opinions in the
House, was marked “ Henry Harrie Cooke,
M.L.A.” When Coonan proved too much for him
he inked over the magic letters; but, it is ru-
moured, has always a saucer of gold-paint ready.
Dr. Gilchrist, the Collins-street parson who
wouldn’t take a year's holiday on half-pay, and
wanted to allow his substitute the gorgeous sum
of £3 per week, has left with his family to r. side in
Scotland. He has selected, as his home, Kilmar-
nock, where herrings are a groat the gross, and
kail is only a bawbee a cauldron. The worthy
pastor, on leaving, shook the dust off his shoes at
his parishioners, a proceeding which was heartily
cursed by the artists who manipulate the hydrants
Writes Hooke, sarcastically, in the Tam-
worth Independent:— “ Miss Mary Goddard, of
Gunnedah, was recently married to Mr. G. A.
Barry, of Narrabri, and that highly interesting
organ, the Namoi Independent, says: ‘The
bride’s trousseau ( sie ) consisted of a white water-
waved brocade dress, with court train of white
satin, trimmed with Maltese lace and orange blos-
soms, wreath and fall.”’ There’s nothing the
matter with “ trousseau;” can anything have been
the matter with Hooke i
The Duke of Manchester, when inter-
viewed by Alfred’s Melbourne correspondent,
made the startling statement that Lord Rosebery
“is a supporter of the present Gladstone Govern-
ment.” vVe wanted no ghost nor duke either to
tell us this, considering that Lord R. is the G.O.M.’s
Shadow whenever he is, allowed to pervade the
Sresence. By the way, it was stated that during
ae interview, the newspaper-stand at the corner
of Swanston and Bourke streets was bossed by a
stranger. Rumour, doubtless.
This is told of Charley Monks, ballet-
barber to the Theatre Royal. A well-known J.P.
—formerly in the grog line, and celebrated for the
smallness of his hands—came into the shop to be
built up. “ Would you like your hair singed ?”
asked Charley. “Singed, is it,” was the reply;”
“is it a poker ye take me for ?” And he marched
out of the shop in such a state of indignation
that Monks had not the pluck to tell him that he
had not only forgotten to part, but had taken a
very superior umbrella in mistake for his own.
It is not generally known that Joseph has
a strong turn for theatricals. Well, they had
scenes from Shakespeare, the other night, and Joe
was cast for the title rile in a chunk from “ Corio-
lanus.” He was a splendid success, especially
when he hurled this at them—Aot 5. Scene s:
“ If you have writ your animals true, ’tie there,
That, like an eagle in a bucket, I
Fluttered your galoshes in Cabrioly—
Alone I done itr’
Think of that, now!
Mr. George Augustus Sala is positively to
appear— Vannie pruchaine. Tres hienl [apeak
your own language.— Ed. B.) Seeing’s believing,
and when we see George Augustus, we shall be-
lieve a very great deal. His success, out here, as a
lecturer, we regard as extremely problematical.
In America he was a comparative failure, and
people went to look at him just as they would go
and look at, say a bear—or G. R. Maclean. We are
sure, anyhow, our Premier would be a greater at-
traction in any country, than Sala will be in this.
In every way. Especially every.
This is how an upper suckle editor puts it:
Serious Accident to Lord Aylesford: On Wed-
nesday the Earl erf Aylesford slipped and fell on
the platform at Londonbridgc station, breaking
one of his legs in two places. His Lordship was
removed to his residence, 0 Chapel-place, Caven-
dish-square, and is now making favourable .pro-
gress.’’ His Lordship, was on bis way home from
the Derby, boozed up* In an unprovoked assault
on the police he came by his fractured leg. The
“ favourable progress ” his Lordship is making is
towards the lowest depth of brutal larrikinism.
More disenchantment! Signor Foli, the
renowned basso singer, is not the interesting son
of Italy that his name would denote, but only a
child of Erin, like our own Verdi. It came out in
court (these things have a trick of coming out in
eourt), when the Signor brought an action for
assault against a blood-thirsty young man, and
was a terrible blow for those people who think “ no
one sings Italian like an Italian.” A ruthless cross-
examination of the Signor elicited the blushing
admission that his proper name was Foley, and his
ancestral home was in “ Ould Oirelandbut, as no
attempt was made to connect the basso with re-
cent dynamite explosions, a disillusioned jury gave
him a verdict for £350.
W. J. Foster, that joy of the Y.M.C.A.,
that purrer over the goody-goodyisms of the in-
sipid tract, that special protector of the local
interests of the Almighty, is in a great way, if
such a statement may be predicated of so little a
fallow. He says that if a man partially intoxicated
qonducts himself improperly in the strangers’
Sallery of Parliament, he can be committed; but
! a stranger is troublesome in holy synod, synod
can’t deal with him. Ihe wee man doesn’t see that
between the representatives of the people sitting
as legislators, and a meeting of private folk possess-
ing no sort of function that tha State in any way
recognises, there is some little difference, and that
where there is no lawful authority which can be
Insulted there can be no power to commit.
A man named Jack Brady shot a man
named Pearce at Moree, and John Brady, of Mulga
Creek, explains in the Ballarat Courier
“ Please allow me to state that I am not the Jack
Prady referred to, nor do I know anything about
him. As I have a good many friends and acquaint-
ances about Rallarat who may be under the im-
pression that I am tho murderer, you will greatly
oblige by inserting this.” Jaca is too sensitive.
Bome of our old friends and acquaintances there
have had their minds poisoned with the malignant
innuendo that we were guilty of some of the pon-
derous paragraphs of the funere.il Tom Touch-
stone, and we never contradicted the slanderous
report. And yet here is our Jack howling over a
paltry matter of being reported a murderer I
Htnniker Heaton’s ietter to the burghers
of Canterbury (Eng.) deserves to be written in
letters of phosphorescent fungus on a shield of
compressed guano. There is nothing more offen-
sive than the shoddy conversation of a colonial
who has made his pile by feigning allegiance to
the doctrines of Liberalism. When lfenniker
wanted a seat in the N.S.W. Assembly he posed as
an earnest Radical; he is now thick with the u.O. A.
on the ground of his thorough-going Toryism.
And the crown of tho joke is he hasfflt one politi-
cal conviction (or other idea of any kind) to jingle
against another. The poet for his feast says—
“ Let each man bring himself and ho brings the
best dish.”
When Henniker comes, he brings cod's head from
which the brains have been carefully extracted.
We note that a London cabman recently
got lined 30s. for demanding more than his legal
fare from the Earl of Daral9y. It was oath against
oath, and, of course, cabby had to go the wall.
Darnley had given him Is. 6d.; he had stuck out
for tuppence more. In the days of our youth, we
saw a good deal of Darnley, who for meanness
licked creation. If that attribute lias grown on
him, as it almost invariably does with age, the cab-
man was most assuredly “given away,” since a
quarter of a century ago the head of the Blighs
would have risked his soul to cabbage tuppence.
In Kent he used to be called “Guineas,” from tho
circumstance of his having written to a fellow of
the Bth Hussars of whom he had agreed to buy a
uag for a half-eentury, to say that ha wished it to
be most clearly understood that ho had meant
pounds not guineas.
Old Bill Pratt, printer, hopped the twig at
Hobart week before last, aged 85. Born in Devon-
shire. Arrived in V.D.L. in ’2i, and worked for
some years in the employment of the late Dr.
Itoss, Government Printer. In ’4O Pratt entered
into partnership with Jabez Bunting and William
No. I—“AND WHAT COM’D OUT AT THE ADJOURNED INQUEST?”
No 2-“ OH. NOTHING FRESH, EXCEPT THAT THE DOCTOR SWORE THAT THE MAN
WAS STABBED ABOUT AN INCH FROM THE MEDIAL LINE, JUST ABOVE THE
UMBILICUS.”
No. 3.—“AND TO THINK THAT TWO WITNESSES SWORE ON THE FIRST DAY THAT
HE WAS STABBED JUST BELOW THE RAILWAY STATION!”
Waterhouse (it is, of course, unnecessary to state
he was a Wesleyan|to the spinal marrow), and for
several years they carried on the business pur-
chased from Andrew Bent, “the father of the
Tasmanian press.” Subsequently Pratt and his
eldest son carried on alone from ’5l to ’64, He was
the printer of the True Colonist, the Van
Diemen’s Land Chronicle, the Spectator, the
Observer, the Daily Ne\Vs, &c. Prom '64 to ’75
the old boy was a city missionary. At the time of
his death he was, save one, the oldest member of
the Wesleyan body in Tasmania.
David Buchanan has fired his farewell shot
at ex-spiritualistic Walker, having first set that
gentleman in the pillory and then cnucked mud by
the barrow-load at his chameleonism, his turn-
coatability, his faculty of working the oracle in
order to gain the needful, and all and sundry his
other faults of character and tricks of trade. So
well has David done this business that we yearn to
see him attacking another illustrious—or, rather,
notorious—weathercock, whose chameleonism,
turncoatability, and faculty of working tho oracle
in order to win the mopuses is a millionfold more
pronounced than Walker’s; to see him slinging the
contents of his dust-bin at the David of Morpeth;
the David of East Macquarie, who is the same and
yet not the same as the David of Mudgee; to hear
the David of to-day yelling to the David of the
past, as he chucks his boots at him,
The organising secretary of the Victorian
Branch of the Britisa and Foreign Bible Society
has slid down noiselessly, softly, and is now out
of siarht without a feather of his dignity turned.
He has been busy for the last nine months, going
about holding meetings and getting the faithful to
bleed, so that on the shining liquid the secret of
England’s greatness could be carried afar. But it
seems he ate more than he gathered. “The in-
creased expenditure in consequence of the em-
ployment of an organising secretary,” goes on the
official report, “has been £320 9s. 7d., and the in-
crease on the receipts only £94 7s. While your com-
mittee consider this encouraging, they do not think:
the circumstances justify them in burdening your
finances with so important an addition to the out-
lay.” That’s drawing him under with silken
threads—giving him his euthanasia, ns it were, on
his back. It is we that throw the italics on top of
him.
Throughout the riot of ill-conditioned
sounds with which the wind instruments of Mel-
bourne hoped to repel the recidivistes, one man
held himself aloof from the noisy band and nursed
his soul in patience. He looted at the subject
from a loftier platform than his fellows. If the
recidivistes planted their feet on his soil, his pro-
phetic eye beheld a harvest of grain. Yet not for
that would he put his fingers in his mouth and
whistle in discord with the shrill music of the red-
faced patriots. He let them blow and stalked
along. “I,” said he, musing with unruffled fea-
tures, “ should gain much by the advent of these
people. The whistlers will gain something by re-
pelling them. They split heaven with their shrieks
for that which profits them. I lift up my head and
speak no word. I would think it beneath me to
make a row in the land for any mere personal
advantage.” He stalked along. He was Upjohn.
The hangman.
Up Moree way, Presbyterian parson
Davies was recently ordered by the district bench
to pay £'i and costs for shooting an Angora goat.
Plaintiff swore he had begged the holv man not to
pot the Angora, as a sick child depended on her as
the only source of food, and that the holy man
had taken several alfreddavits he would not go
out with rille and ball against the said Angora. On
his side, the holy man swore on King James s calf-
skin that he had never dlscoorsedanent the darned
nanny with plaintiff; moreover, he would eat his
gown if she were an Angora. The skin, however,
which was produced in court, being ample proof
that the slaughtered goatlwas an Angora, the
bench’s decision was adverse to the holy man.
Moral: Holy men shouldn’t essay to make Angora
goats holey. They should regard the mischievous,
erratic beast of insolent tooth as a “trial” in-
tended to test their powers of long-suffering and
command of temper, and should remember above
all that the just man abides by his word, even if it
be to his own loss.
Mr. Shiels wants to be the orator of tho
Victorian Assembly. He has a pleasant voice, a
pleasant and fluent manner, and a genial counte-
nance. He affects flights. Sometime! his wings
give way while he’s a good bit up, and ho falls and
hurts himself. Sometimes he goes so high that
the people underneath injure their spines trying
to descry him. He is fond of learned allusions,
and doesn’t mind going a great way off for an
illustration with a line of poetry in it. When talk-
ing about Federationjjlately, he trailed in a whole
lot of verses about He had struck
a patch that time. Heidoesn’t seem to know as
much history as Professor Pearson, but he doesn’t
want you to think he doesn’t. He’s rather afraid
of Mr. Mirams, but doesn’t want everybody to
know it. He doesn't care much for the Govern-
ment,* but he's too busy longing to be eloquent to
give a matter of that kind much tnought. Taking
him in the lump, he is something over the average.
Ho is not tho first man in the Assembly that ought
to be killed.
A “James Taylor,” in his letter to the
rum, gives Thomas Walker a dressing.. Tom is a
clever youth, and, now he is travelling on the
“ square pitch,” is entitled to the respect of every-
one who l'oels like it. For years, Walker, with the
late Howie Wilson for a chairman, lectured every
Sunday in a pretended trance. He was bolstered
up by the News at first, as, at that time, a number
of the staff were engaged in devastating a spiri-
tualistic boarding-house. By Wilson this thing
was bolstered up in every way. It was funny to
see Walker in a trance. He used to shake himsell
into insensibility, and then start right off; deliver-
ing the whole discourse in a long dreary monotone.
The trick of it was his wonderful memory—he
being' enabled to repeat whole chapters of abtruse
works at a few hours’ notice. Walker was to meet
Taylor for £5O “in fair debate.” What good would
that do him after his “confession ” in Melbourne,
to prove that he can be as abusive as Mr. Taylor.
Mr. Walker publicly admitted he had been an im-
poster; now he is anno> ed that people remind him
of it. Well; let him now say that his trances were
genuine ; and, then, to qnote Falstaff * Go hang
himself in his heir-apparent garters.”
Personal journalism is not a new thing by
a long way. Pope was pretty hot on some fellows
in his “Dunciad,” and got into hot water for work-
ing in a well-known nobleman as Sir Plume, in the
“Rapo of the Lock.” If Sir Jimmy Martins
ruling in the libel law had been current in those
da\s, Sir Plwme might have got a couple of thou-
sand out of Pope, who would certainly have failed
to prove that every item of the hair-cutting inci-
dent, as narrated in the poem, was true, without
malice, and for the public benefit.” But, without
pausing to quote many incidents of personal
literature, we may just refer, en passant, to Dante,
who described his chief political adversary in Hell:
to Dryden, who libelled half the statesmen of the
country in his “ Absolom and Achitophel,” and gave
the Duke of Buckingham in particular, one lor his
nob; to Sheridan, who quizzed the poet, Cumber-
land, as Sir Fretful Plagiary; to phew! it would
occupy a week to merely draw upon memory,
without referring to books at all. One of the
latest examples is Baron Tennyson, who, before he
became barren used to contribute a little to
Punch, when Mark Lemon, the jolly public house
keeper, was editor. Alfred (Tennyson, we mean,
not the distinguished lilUrateur who sparkles in
the Evening News) used to sign himself “The
New Alcibiades,” and once wrote about Bui we r
Lytton as “ the man who wore the stays ” and
“whose little soul was dirt.” We can't imagine
what Sir Jimmy or Sir Jo. would say if we did that.
But then we never do, and we shall never be a
Baron because we neither relish abusing people
nor sticking-up to people, according to circum-
stances, as Tennyson did.
The Rev. Mr. Howden, of Burwood, who
has been cushion-punishing, on comfortable terms,
there for twenty years, has been offered a better
billet at Kew (Vic.), and, prior to his departure,
was entertained at a “ Social Tea ” and given £2OO,
£lO, a plate J tea and coffee set, an address, and a
set of—this is an appropriate gift—cutlery I “ Mr.
Howden,” says the ingenuous Rum, “expressed
his great surprise at the handsome gifts bestowed
upon him. . . .” There is a kind of Howdenish
modesty about this wo admire. But, hand it down,
auntie. It’s on the shelf next to the broken box-
iron
Of Mr. A. G. Taylor’s cry of “ Chair be
damned 1 ” one night when Mr. Cameron was act-
ing-Speaker, the Freeman courteously says:—
“We are quite convinced that Mr. Taylor would
not have blasphemed against the dignity of the
House if he had not seen the embodiment of
blatant bluster in the chair.” In the same article
—“He also called Luscombe a knave, the vermin
of Northumberland, and indulged in other lan-
guage, for the use of which he would have been
expelled from any decent pot-house in the city.’
We think we here detect the pen—
Although we but assume it—
Of that long legal swell, who won’t
Go in again for T .
“I was,” said he, in quavering tones, at the elec-
tion, “ born and bred amongst you, and love each
man in this electorate like a brother.” That got
him in; then what did he do ? Why, directly he is
elected he nervously clasps on bis railway-pass
and leaves for Sydney. Then he buys a white hat,
and knows nobody who doesn’t belong to the
Union Club. Some time after his return, during
which period he had distinguished himself by a mag-
niilcent display of silence, the Mayor of Janyangte-
rogery (where he had polled so well) came towards
him with beaming face and outstretched hand in
King-street, and the hon. member who had wept
tears of gratitude upon his neck at the election,
merely looked his Worship full in the hand and
said—“l have nothing for you.” That has sealed
the hon. gentleman’s doom at T ; and the
trouble is that the Monster Clothing Company
don’t return a member; otherwise. . . .
Lord St. Leonards seems to have been
allowed to slip through pretty easily, after all.
Mr. Crawford, who prosecuted for the Valentine
Bakerish assault by the noble Lord upon the house-
maid, was a pretty determined customer, it seems.
The dodge of the defendant’s attorney was to rout
out all the antecedents of the parties to the prose-
cution, ard the defence was not that Lord St.
Leonards was a decent man, but that the house-
maid who would permit him to take liberties with
her had not been so hard-hearted in the case of
a man she loved. The investigators also discovered
that Mrs. Crawford was not the wedded wife of
Mr. Crawford, and in cross-examination of that
gentleman rubbed as much vitriol as they could
on the raw they had found. Thus, the delightful
precedent was established that, if a man who has
means to employ a lawyer attempts to violate a
servant under your roof, in your very drawing-
room, you had best not interl ere with him if you
have any sort of skeleton in your family cup-
board; for, if you hand him over to the police and
appear against him, his attorneys will have routed
out all that can be learned about you, and, even if
they can discover nothing, will probably take shots
at you in the witness-box, on the chance of dis-
covering something discreditable. Courts of law
will soon be a terror to well-doers. The Civil
Courts are that already. And now it seems the
Criminal Courts are getting on. Lora St. Leonards,
ty the way, commenced life with an income of
£4O per annum, but his title secured for him a wife
with £100,003. The woman who swapped herself
and fortune for the title found that the bargain
was not a good one, after all. In February last
year, she procured a judicial separation. The
noble Lord seems to have been “a trifle wild.”
It is alleged that “ barmaids ran away at his ap-
proach.”
These ladies of East St. Kilda (V.) are at it
again. They have gone away now and dc«ne some
more thiDgs that force the Rev. Laurence Reu-
teul to get on the fence and declare his readiness
to have it out with the biggest man in the com-
munity. The Professor is not a big man himself.
When his back is turned and his heels are close
together he bears considerable likeness to an
office ruler. But there’s fight in every inch of
him. Try to corner him, and he’ll kick, scratch,
and bite. He will also roar and quote lines out of
Tennyson. It is therefore a matter of colonial,
if not of Australasian, interest to twig him when
he gets on the fence to proclaim war. This time
the ladies of East St. Kilda raised £2lO for church
purposes. One of the hobbies of the Professor,
and there can be a good deal said for it from inside
the fold, is to devote a part of such collections to
a fund for helping the poorer churches and the
poorer clergy in other parts of the colony. Now
the committee of the East St. Kilda church,
thinking the Rev. Laurence wasn’t looking, de-
termined to keep the collection raised for their
own tabernacle. But the Professor had his eye on
them. He came to the presbytery and wa> ted to
know. They showed him a resolution they had
passed affirming that all over £<l2 should be given
to his hobby. The Professor didn’t see exactly
just then where he was had, though he “humbly
thought the Rev. James Ballantyne was not ” all
up and dowD. When he got out, however, he
learned that the collection amounted to only £240,
and that, therefore, that resolution was a mockery,
a delusion, and a snare. “There’s no balance,”
cried the little man, and he wrote to the papers,
and put himself In attitude to thump it to the
bitter end. Men in the north of Queensland
wanting new views of life ought to get down to
Melbourne when the Professor’s pecker is up.
We have all our little weaknesses, and
those of us who have had our characters refined
and elevated by contact with members of a colo-
nial Legislature, know that nothing contributes
more to the agreeableness of living than an exer-
cise of forbearance towards the little frailties that
corae before us. Amelia M‘Lellan’s little weak-
ness was oysters. Day after day she would go into
Kirk’s shop in Melbourne, and pretend she was
only walking about looking at things. This ar-
gued Amelia's delicacy. We have known people
who msde no secretof their weakness, butswashed
about, flaunting it in everyone’s eyes, and brazen-
ing out the blushes of the modest. Amelia was
delicate. She walked about until there wasn’t
anybody minding, and then she collared a bottle of
oysters and fled. Kirk’s people used to wonder.
If the bottles stayed behind, they could see their
way. They’d know the oysteis bolted. But it
was very mysterious what they could want with
the bottles. Kirk’s people used to sit on the
counter comparing notes about this, but at last
gave it up, and handed the riddle over to one
I Andrew Anderson. Andrew was baffled for a time,
l but finding his reputation at stake, he tied an
VERSES VALEDICTORY.
(Inscribed to the Rev. Mr.Howden, on hearing of
his surprise.)
These parting gifts to parsons fat
'1 hey always do allot ’em,
And you’d have shown “surprise” indeed,
If you just hadn’t got ’em!
You never knew—and, if you had.
The thing you would have bated !
That furiously the well-worn hat
Was being circulated.
You never knew that smug young men
Around the schools were stumping,
And that “ the oldest resident ”
A list was daily “humping!”
Good parson H., we’re game to swear
These things you never knew —
But, there!—we’ll go to dinner, and
Oh, you—can go -to Kew!


Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Ajrents.
It has be?n years since the world first
heard of Wolfe’s Schnapps, and to-day its
virtues are as fresh and its fame as unolouded as
when it first flashed into public notice.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,’’
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 CastJesr
reagh-street, Sydney, ®ST Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, (ESP” Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
oyster bottle, suggestively exposed, to his nose by
a fine thread, and reclined in the shade in hopes of
a speedy resurrection. He had it. And it came so
speedy that his nose was in Amelia’s pocket, and
he had followed her half-way down the street be-
fore he could lay hands on her. Now, we think
Amelia indulged her little weakness in a way that
had many good points about it. Even when the
police gathered round, she said she would be satis-
fied with three Of sters and would share the bottle
with the company. But the police had no for-
bearance, and she went up for fourteen days. You
see, the police and Bench down there haven’t kept
half as much oompany with members of Parlia-
ment as we have. Therefore, they’re deficient in
forbearance.
The testimonial made up for Dr. Bromby
was contributed to by not only Victorians, but by
many admirers in vaiious parts of Australia, and
even by some as far away as Great Britain. For
the old doctor is well liked. He has passed his 75th
year, and his white head and highly pitched voice
will soon go away. A reference to the super-super-
lative twaddle which went on in the Town Hall,
Melbourne, when about a month ago a large com-
pany met to felicitate him was at that time
avoided, as contributions were still expected to
come in. But now that the matter is closed, it is
right to tear up some of the fustian that was then
flaunted as the fairest of fabrics. Bishop Moor-
house got on his legs. The Bishop has a way of
being emphatic, which in a less exalted person
would be called bounce. He saws the air like a
man beating carpets, and though his voice is really
a good one he often throws it out with a yaup.
This was his strathspey in front of Dr. Bromby:
“Itwas Doctor Bromby’s speciality that nothing
could hinder him in the pursuit of truth. ... It
was the one thing he lived for. . . What gave
the doctor his characteristics was that he had got
truth. The doctor was one of the bravest of men
because he had got truth. Brave old doctor, bold
and laving doctor, you hold the truth.” Now it is
a prop r thing to be ungrudging in one’s felicita-
tions on such an occasion. But when it is borne in
mind that the word “ Truth ” here was made stand
for the doctrines of the Church of England, one
sees that the Bishop’s effusive generosity of ex-
Eression was merely a squirt of clerical assurance,
a the circumstances the audience bad to bear with
it. It was not because the doctor had this thing,
whether it is truth or not, but, because he was a
man, that he was so well liked. But the Bishop
was Simply lifting his gown to get his own back
rubbed. For if the doctor was so mighty owing to
having got truth, surely the Bishop went “ one
higher.” And he got rubbed. “Really,” said the
doctor, “the Bishop is pourtraying himself.”
There’s a whole lot of littleness about this way of
getting at the public. It is not honest.
The Princess Alice, who had a £30,000 dot,
and £6OOO a year from the writhing English artizan,
writes to her mother-pfde her book—and wants
money to pay for her drawing-room curtains. Yet
she lived in Darmstadt, where, when you’ve had
three beers, bought fourteen cigars, made your
girl a present of a new bodice, you have enough
change out of “ half-a-Jamea ” to pay your board
for a month. Of course, it’s the old story 1 Prince
Louis used to “ play up ” with the sugar, and what
he had overwent to buy saur-kraut for the fiat-
footed German dames he so much affected. The
Princess's published letters are all bosh. This is
what she really did say“ Darmstadt, 4 a.m. Dear
Mother, I write this, with a pile of the children’s
undarned socks before me, and no sound breaks
the stillness of the early dawn, save that of the
voices of Louis and his companions, who are
‘ heading them ’ in the next room. Many thanks,
darling Mother, for the silk stockings. With new
heels, an d, in some cases, a neat darn where the big
toe comes, they will last me throughout the
summer. I gave Louis those left-off jerseys of
Brown’s, which he so kindly forwarded through
you, bu t he did not receive them in that spirit which
might have been expected on presenting him with
trie useful (and what should have been welcome)
gift. Indeed, mother, dear, he put his foot through
the only remaining chwal-glass; and, as I write
this, I can see, dimly fioating on the moat, the
paiceJ, made up, doubtless, by the faithful hands
of Brown. I hope you will not think me un-
sisterly, but I cannot refrain from stating that
Louise has vouchsafed no reply to my request that
she would return me the three sets of baby-cloth-
iog which I lent her in case of emergency. Con-
sidering that the Marchioness can have no poss hie
use for the layettes & cette heure, it seems but
let us not be hard, dear Mother, on the unsuccess-
ful . . . Louis has just come in. and there I—
my emerald bracelet—no matter. Your broken-
hearted daughter, Alice, P.” Once more we ex-
plode a social delusion; once again we sorrowfully
erumple-up a literary phantom. We were born to
do this kind of thing. Perhaps that is the reason
why we are so poor!
David has been successful, for a wonder.
The squelching, on his part, of Walker, is com-
plete. That young party—who dates from “ Wail-
wun ” (sic), Enmore, has perpetrated a reply to Mr.
Buchanan’s last letter, to which the editor of the
Rum has appended (sensibly enough) the following
note “ This letter closes the correspondence. So
mnch space would not have been given to it, ex-
cept for the hope that Mr. Walker would either
give a satisfactory explanation of his trance lec-
tures, or expose his inability to give such an ex-
planation. Which he has done, it is quite needless
to say.” The English of this note is a little pecu-
liar, sans doute; but that is not our affair. With
so many samples of various articles of confiserle
and merchandise demanding prompt editing, it is
no wonder that difficulties lie in the way of rush-
ing up anything epigrammatic very often in that
quarter. The letter, however, which has called
forth this dignified editorial “ ultipomatum ” is
one of the most ludicrous effusions it has ever
been our lot to notice. As Mr. Walker makes no
excuse of haste or otherwise for this precious
composition, it is presumed that he was in his
sober senses when he wrote it; and, this being
the case, it is but fair to regard this lucubration
as a fair sample ot Mr. Walker’s literary powers.
Alluding to Mr. Buchanan’s letter, Walker says :
‘I was enjoying the refreshing breezes of Manly
Beach, when the final decrees of the monarch
of abuse were ‘telegraphed’ to me from your
—[a little satire here]—valuable columns.”
Walker, in his confession, in order to excuse him-
self from having for several years “had” the
public on the “ trance ” racket, said that he was
“an unthinking fanatic” at that time; but, finally,
admitted that the, whole thing was a carefully
conceived and ingeniousj hoax. He shifts now,
when brought to bay as a charlatan, and says he
was “ under the opinion [1!!] that he was spiritually
aided to deliver lectures.” He further—being ap-
parently under the impression that it is a “scatber”
' for David—writes in the following strain of shallow
impudence“ Dear David. Thanks for your first
misrepresentation. It is as follows: ‘Mr. Walker
confesses himself an unthinking fanatic?’ . . .
I confessed to ‘ having been ’ a fanatic, and I
further said that fanatics do not think, but I did
not say that I ‘am ’ a fanatic. There is not much
difference between ‘was’ and ‘am,’is there, dear
David ?” Despite this terrible vein of irony, we
can’t say we think there is; especially when “ fana-
tic ” is so very often another name for something
else. However, as it is only out in the wash-house,
and little Johnny will run for it, perhaps you will
wait a—ah, here it isl Good boy; Go next door
to the plumber’s, and borrow a halfpenny. Thrum,
thrum!—
TO “ WALKER.”
To what a “ lame and impotent conclusion ”
(scome, Dull Boy, thy bickering with Dave I
Thou staEdest out, at ev’ry point, th’ infusion
Of cunning charlatan and platform knave!
’Twas clever. Walker -we make this concession—
it took in Alf.and sympathetic Hogue:
They’d converts now be. but for thy “ confession,”
In which thou dubbed thyself a ready roguol
And, when dragged into light, and taunted now,
When lashed by David’s fierce and furious howl,
Thou shifting stripling, it is seen that thou
Hast not the courage of thine own avow'l.
Quong Tart is beginning to make us
aweary. We thought—we are on good terms with
Lewis Scott, who is an alderman in our borough—
that we moved in good society, bnt here we have
Quong talking about going on a visit to the
Mayor of Ballarat, and telling the Telegraphic
ass who had too much nerve to permit his
taking of a cup of Tart’s tea—about how he hob-
nobbed with Berry. This makes us pensive—not
to say envious. Mr. Tart’s philanthropy is genu-
ine, of course, and is charming. But what we
want to ask is this:—ls he really serious in trying
to stop his countrymen in this colony from smok-
ing opium, when from the highest to the lowest in
China, this little amusement is regarded as a
national institution ? We have been in China. We
spent some time in exploring Canton (which is
about as big as London), and everybody there
seemed to smoke opium and to be industrious.
Even beggars, there, were industrious, and they
all smoked opium. We smoked opium there, too,
and we were remarkably industrious in cultivat-
ing sleep. We had a tongue on us in those days,
like a rasp with the distemper, and no one could
see the whites of our eyes for ye'low ochre. We
like smoking opium very much ; but we don’t
do it now, because we can’t afford it. The ques-
tion now arises, since the Heaven-born Celestial
(by the way, if the ordinary Chinkie, who reli-
giously “ has ” y@u in every lettuce and cauli-
flower transaction is “Heaven-born,” what must
Quong be, who neither has you for greens, eschews
opium, and is anxious after the spiritual and moral
welfare of his fellow countrymen ?)—since the
Heaven-born Celestial, we say, must have some
brain-tickler—that is acknowledged—what would
be the best substitute for opium? The na-
tural substitute would be, of course, rum, and
the difference in the effect upon the “almond-
eyed ” would be, that instead of, as now, at sunset
fading into space, the Chinaman would get up in
the morning fighting the air. and go to bed at
night spitting at the stars. We think, therefore,
the Chinaman, here, had better be left alone. We
don’t deny that we speak from interested motives.
For we know that the momont the Government
stops the opium and lays on the rum, the price
will be raised at once on our cabbageo. We
are anxious for th 9 moral welfare, and all that, of
the guileless Celestial; but, hang it! when it comes
to having the price of your vegetables “ rose on
yer,” then the fountain of benevolence dries up.
Truly, the Chinaman here might be got to join the
Gospel Army, and live on tea and tracts; but, even
then, we hardly see how we, as consumers, would
substantially benefit. It is notorious, with traders
of all sorts, that the less they drink the more they
ask We will take, in illustration of this, one re-
markable case which is embodied in the celebrated
“report” of the committee of the wrick Lane
branch of the United Grand Junction Ebenezer
Temperance Association. Here is the case as re-
ported by “Brother” Tadger:—“Betsy Martin,
widow, one child, and one eye. Goes out charing
and washing, by tho far: never had more than one
eye, but knows her mother drank bottled stout,
MRS. ANNIE BESANT.
and shouldn’t wonder If that caused it. (Immense
cheering.) Thinks it not impossible that if she had
always abstained from spirits, she might have had
two eyes by this time. (Tremendous applause.)
Used, at every place she went to, to have eighteen
pence a day, a pint of porter, and a glass of spirits;
but since she became a member of the Brick Lane
Branch, has always demanded three and sixpence
instead. (The announcement of this most interest-
ing fact was received with deafening enthusiasm )'•
No, Quong, old boy. You mean well, doubtless,
but let s worry along as we are for a bit. The
virtuous can never, so it seems, afford to sell
cheap. Buy a pup off the vicar of your parish,
and see.
ILLUSTRATED PERSONAL.
“BILLY: Am in suspense, and Need Help.—
N EDDY .”
The principal witness for Lord Euston, in
[ his divorce case, has returned to New Zealand,
i where he is, in his natural state, an accountant.
Tho trouble with him is the bowl-out about his
rust marriage, and the now consequent coolness of
the Dunedin girls, who feel that it would naturally
be sinful to encourage him again to wed. The
ef i 8 ’ however, seems to feel pretty good on it,
and calls—haw—for his absinthe gomme before each
meal. He is now investing in a nice little property.
lou see, he did his best! w ith respect to the Earl,
he is a splendid-looking fellow, something£in the
style of Lord Harris, only with a better physique.
In Adelaide, though only a Judge’s Associate, he
used to mix with the be3t; but he was so singularly
unobtrusive in his demeanour, and so quiet in his
habits, that it’s a question whether one in a hun-
dred there knew anything about his previous his-
tory. His income was stated to be-all told—under
JwOO a-year; but, if that were so, he must, con-
sidering the set in which he mixed, have adminis-
tered his affairs with remarkable shrewdness. He
rarely attended the Judge, except when he presided
at the Criminal Court, on which occasions Colonel
Fitzroy's duties were comprised in the routine
formularies of reading the information and asking
the prisoners how they pleaded. He wore a wig
and gown on those occasions, and looked, if not
learned, decidedly picturesque. His great friend
was Hart, the big miller —and we might add—big
miller-ionaire. Hart was—as indeed is Lorcl
Euston—over six feet high. On the occasion of
Lord Harris’s team visiting Adelaide, Fitzroy
drove them about in Hart’s drag, and, it is
rumoured, was chiefly instrumental in checking,
by well-timed remonstrances, a disposition on the
part of Lord H.’s contingent to snub Sir William
Jervois. Lady Harris and Mrs. Hornby were at
the bottom of this, as they considered they had
been slighted on their arrival, and drove the
Misses Jervois—who aro very homely young ladies
—to distraction by the continual display of inac-
cessible bonnets. As it was, Lord Harris and the
ladies had, on the first day of the match, nearly to
be dragged from Hart’s dray to the Governor’s
box in the grand-stand; and, then, the meeting
was characterised by much frigidity on the part of
the visitors. The Vice-regal party had come out in
all their linery which was not of a very trorcreous
character—but on this occasion the lady visitors (it
was a plot!) affected—in their attire—the most
puritanical simplicity. Lady Jervois. who was
in all the glories of a bonnet trimmed
with poppies of the summer before last,
was considerably fluttered, and, by the time the
live minutes’ interview was ended, the guber-
natorial young ladies with difficulty restrained
from tears. They were soon after escorted to
their carriage by the Aide-de-Camp, young Jer-
vois, a gentleman who was laying the foundation
for tho erection of a pair of whiskers, and whose
height would have over-topped that of the viva-
cious Giraffe. It was alleged that his father
amused himself in his leisure moments framing
conjctures as to whore his gallant offspring had
mislaid his brain. Of course, the upshot of the
Euston biz. is annoying for his lordship; but he
can console himself with the reflection that he is
not by many hundreds the only man who has
wedded a Cooke. Why, we know a magnate here
who, years after he had been made a J.P., married
his cook because he considered her to be a
scholard.” And to this day, when he writes an
order to his grocer, it invariably runs as follows:
‘‘To pun rayzuns, 1 dry harpool, blue, bar sope,
Ikortey, tin earins, corttrekel, bot. wosser suss.”
Who wouldn't make a sacrifice for education!
* * *
Barry, episcopus, loquitur (after his inter-
view with Trickett): Veni, vidi, vice versa Mr.
J. J. Westwood, in view of his resuming his mis-
sionary travels, wants money. Well, we can’t
give him any “ loot”—we’re too fond of it—but, if
he'll call round, we don’t mind riggii g him up d la
John the Baptist. He could then call himself
L liomme au Camel-hair. We are afraid, though,
J. J. wouldn’t trouble the locusts and wild honey
very much.... Mr. Allan M'Kinnon dropped Into it
P'ptty heavily over his liaison with Miss Emily
Withers. It so?ms that they went to church
together on a Sacrament Sunday, and subsequently
the population of Gundagai was increased by the
addition of “a line boy.” Allan did not come out
of it at all well. He had no witnesses, and all he
seemed anxious for the court to know was that
Emily was of a giddy temperament, and in the
habit of distributing favours. Besides I on the
whole, we are disposed to think Gundagai—so
many cases haviDg occurred in that neighbour-
hood—as a place of residence unfit for moral
journalists. They will have either to increase the
roll of parsons there, or—hem!—reduce the
number of Sacrament Sundays ...Groom, of the
Toowoomba Chronicle, has got a new editor
named Craes. vice Elwell, who has joined the Bris-
bane Telegraph. It must be a relief to Mr. E.
to get from under the shadow of those whiskers.
Were only those majestic side-levers off. Groom
would be less overpowering, and might, on a
pinch, edit a dog-flght (say) for a friend. But he’s
got no friends now who get up dog-fights I
Perhaps he wishes he had. Qui saitl
* Gladys ” writes in the Melbourne Bulletin :
Amy Primrose received an anonymous letter the
other day. Such a nice letter, too. And would
you believe it. dear; she is quite angry with the
writer because no address is given, and a regular
correspondence can’t be kept up.” She dates from
(something) Grange, Toorak, but has omitted the
word hotel—Had it not been for Alf.’s thought-
fulness in providing us with the singularly inter-
esting information that the “Rev.” Joe Cook,
when axed for his autograph moniker, invariably
writes in addition to his signature the high-tonod
sentiKent, Duty done is the soul's fireside,” it
probably would never have Hashed across our
mentil sensorium what an everlasting frost Joe’s
soul must b 0... Mr. Stewart, M.L.C., has come out
of his seclusion re the Federal business. Some-
times he buries himself; but he generally buries
other people ...The Duke of Manchester says he
is too poor to take up land in Australia. Yet we
see it advertised at 10s. deposit, and Is. fld. a week
the splendid lot; free train, free lunch, with
liberty to shake the auctioneer’s e1b0w.... “ Charles
Heade disliked to have his picture exhibited.”
w ell, we can t all be Alexander Stuarts!.... It was
during the water famine at Winton, out West,
that Brown Steel stood on the v. rardah of his
hostelry, tossing split peas from ono hand to an-
other and occasionally into his mouth. Tho
Aramac coach drove up with a solitary and dusty
passenger, a bag-man, who asked Steel if he could
have a room and a bath. “ Well,” replied Steel,
there s no difficulty about the room; but, as for
the other, how’ll you have it—beer or water? It’s
all th® same price out here.”.... Major Smith, it
seems, has been raised a grade. He was always a
nut;’’now he’s a Colonel... .Thenews that Major
Smith has “retired from active service ” will, it is
rumoured, give the Germans fresh courage to in-
vade the Victrrian coast line. Thank God! we’re
not timid. AVe’ve the Wolverene to protect us.
We are steady in our reliance on the strategy of
Symonds— we had nearly written Simmons—and in
the nerve of Nathan I ‘‘Who’s afraid ?”
• • •
People are surprised when they learn that
the Prince of Wales charged the nation for the
services of the ratcatcher employed when Marl-
borough House was last done up. We are not a
bit surprised. We possess a little curiosity, how-
ever, on the subject of what H.R.H. got for the
rats.... Lady Florence Dixie, the heroine of the
Feman outrage which is generally regarded as
being On a par with Henniker Heaton’s secret
despatches exploit, has taken charge of the Social
department of London Vanity Fair.
Mrs. Annie Hesant.
Thebe is probably no woman now living who has
experienced the amount of contumely which has
been Hung at the head of Mrs. Besant, in conse-
quence of the part she took in publishing, in a
cheap iorra, certaii facts in physiology which ap-
peared to her, in view of her belief of the potential
truth of Malthus’ terrible theory of the tendency
of population to increase faster than the means of
subsistence, to be calculated, if generally known,
to prevent an otherwise inevitable growth of
human misery. Mrs. Besant has been so written
down as a sort of obscene bag and dis-
grace to her sex, that we bad unconsciously
formed an ideal mind-picture of her ap-
pearance, which corresponded with the
tenour of the references perpetually made to
her. Chancing to come into possession of
a photograph of her features, taaen in her earlier
womanhood, the reality was so utterly at variance
with cur impressions as to constitute a sort of
ravelation. We now present our readers with an
engraviog copied from that photograph of tho
editress of the famous passage from Dr. Knowl-
ton's physiological treatise-tte passage to which,
when republished in separate pamphlet form, the
title was given of “ The Fruits of Philosophy.”
Wo believe that philosophy to bo false. But if
Malthus’ theory be true fwhich we doubt), then
Mrs. Besant’s idea that she was sacrificing herself
for the benefit of the human race was as accurate
in tho accomplishment as it was divine in the in-
tention.
Judge Cope made the County Court (Mel-
bourne) the scene of a Caucasian degradation the
other day. And not alone of a Caucasian degrada-
tion but a Mongolian elevation. Hang On went to
Footscray and assaulted a door belonging to James
Toohey. James, in that department of justice,
got the better of Hang On. Thereupon Hang On
brought James before the Court. As far as swear-
ing went, James and Hang let out in styles equally
solemn, equally vehement, and supported by
equal corroboration. Hang said James owed 14s.
for tea, and that he raised the row at the door to
collect this debt. James said Hang offered tea for
sale, and raised the row at the door to make him
buy. The Judgo looked at Hang and looked at
James, then meditated for a little while and asked:
“Are you roally a Chinaman, Hang On ?” And
when answered affirmatively, he asked again.*' And
are you really a Footscray man, James Toohey ? ”
Being answered affirmatively by him also, he said:
Well, then, 1 give plaintiff a verdict for the
amount.” But should not His Honor have re-
membered James was a Caucasian ?
The Riverine Star remarks, “ Where, in-
deed, should we bo to-day without those pre-emi-
nent strains which were handed down to posterity
by the immortal Handel and other men of high
gifts, who have showered an imperishable blessing
on the world ?" and then, without pausing for a
reply, goes on to remark that ‘‘it has been stated
that, next to Holy Writ, the writings of Shake-
speare will live in the admiration of men for count-
less generations: true; but it is certain that the
musical productions that emanated from the
author of ‘Mozart’s Mass’ will enjoy equally as
long an existence, and enlist the admiration of our
descendants as enthusiastically as they do to-day.”
And then-here is the Star’s little joke—sends
round the hat for the Wagga Band 1 This appeal
for a “ sub.” must have come upon the readers of
that ‘‘enthuse” about Handel, Shakespeare, and
the musical glasses, pretty much as upon the ear
©f the visitor to the Abbey—who was thinking on
ages past and gone, the glorious deeds of yore—
came thus, in low, unearthly tones, a voice dis-
guised in gin, “This here’s the ~ap of General
Monk I Sir, please put summut in 1”
Sarah Gallagher stands before the Bench
in the City Court, Melbourne, charged with insult-
ing behaviour. Bench to Constable Whisker: “Is
there anything else known about this woman?”
Constable Whisker to Bench: “ Yes, yer wurshup.
The prisoner was convicted eighteen months ago
for larceny of a pewter jug. „ After doing her six
weeks, she came before the Court for drunk and
incapable. We gev her a week theD. Next, in
January last, we had her up for disorderly con-
duct. We gev her ten days then. In March, we
had her here again for drunk and incapable, and
ge ' her six days. In April, we gev her a week for
insulting behaviour.” Bench to Constable Whis-
ker: “Anything more, constable?” Constable
Whisker to Bench: “She’s up for insulting be-
haviour this time, yer wurshup.” Prisoner to
Bench: “ Please, sir, there’s some mistake. I was
never in my life .” Bench to Prisoner: “Now,
now, not a word. It is very evident to the Court
.” Prisoner, looking wildly around: “Is there
no one here to show that s a mistake ?” Sergeant
Eyebrow to Bench : “Please, your worship, the
constable has read the wrong record. This is tho
first time the prisoner has been hcie.” It is true
that there was no Constable Whisker, no Sergeant
Eyebrow, and no Sarah Gallagher in that Court,
recently; but anybody who inclines to think this a
reckless travesty, should read the proceedings
recently, in connection with the case against
Margaret Murphy.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks' Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
1.1MT115 GLOVER,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 12th,
in his great production of the
“ CREOLE.”
New Zealand Tour Postponed pro tem.
All oommunicati'ms en route.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Wilpiamson, Garner and Musgrovk
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
THE GENEVIEVE WARD SEASON,
GRAND SH A HESPERIAN REVIVAL.
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD
and
MR. W. H. VERNON
in Shakespeare’s Grandest Tragedy,
MACBETH
MACBETH
Staged with a completeness of scenic effect and an
attention to details never before attempted on
the Sydney stage.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Managerfor Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majekoni.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
MISS JENNIE LEE
and
MR. J. P. BURNETT
in the enormously successful Drama,
JO
JENNIE LEE.
JO
Bucket....Mß. J. P. BURNETT.
Complete cast of characters by the Ma jeroni power-
ful Dramatio Company.
SATURDAY, JULY 19, THE GRASSHOPPER.
Important Notice.—This season being posi-
tively a farewell one, it will bo impossible to give
more than a limited number of representations of
each piece. Box plan at Huenerbcin’s, George-
street.
LlDDY—Business Manager for M’ss Jennia Lee.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Mr. Reeve has the pleasure of announcing, by
arrangement with Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Muogrove, the
STH WEEK STH WEEK STH WEEK
of the most talented IRISH COMEDIAN that has
ever visited these shorts,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
whose unapproachable and wonderful imper-
sonation of
THE WIDOW O'BRIEN,
in the greatest of all successes,
FUN ON THE BRISTOL,
has caused a perfect furore.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION OF THE
NEW PROGRAMME.
EVERV ITEM ENCORED AND RE-DEMANDED.
THE IMMENSE PROGRAMME EVERY
EVENING.
Box Plan at N'cholson's; purchase tickets during
the day at Theatre and Loder's St. John's New
Brunswick Hotel.
Manager for “Fun on the Bristol” Company, H.
J. Whittington; Representative of Mr. John F.
Sheridan, W. Hughes. Business Manager for Mr.
Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music-
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Evening Fashionable and Popular resort,
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, every Evening, at 8.
The most successful, amusing and refined Enter-
tainment in the Citv.
OPERA! OPERA! OPERA!
Unqualified Success of the Burlesque Italian
Opera, out-WagneriDg Wagner,
LONE GRIN.
Chat acters by the full strength of the Company.
Admission—Fauteuils, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
NEW MASONIC HALL
Castlereagh-st., corner of Goulburn-st.
The Prettiest Gem of a Hall in Australia.
fl-HAND OPENING NIGHT. MONDAY, JULY 21,
Professor and Mrs. BALWIV, Clairvoyants,
Thought-readers, and f*sych unetrasts (who created
such a sensation in Australia in 1878), with a New
Entertaintment.
PROFESSOR BALDWIN’S entire Performance
is New, Original, and Startling, including Bald-
win’s London Sensation,
FINDING A SMALL PIN
hidden anywhere by the Committee; also
READING THE NUMBERS ON A BANK NOTE,
Telling Names of Dead Relatives, Locating a Pain
in any part of the Body merely thought of by the
Committee, Reading any Page or Line in a Closed
Book, Telling the Time by any Watch.
Full particulars in future advertisements.
GEORGE LINGARD, Manager.
gUNDAY AFTERNOON
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joicpli Bunks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Sue* ss still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
\ every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Baliads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
„ KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40. 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terrumate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
fxnte from the establishment of Nioholssij aud Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
£<OTTIER’S PEOPLE’S CONCERTS.
PROTESTANT HALL, Castlereagh-st., EVERY
SATURDAY and MONDAY EVENING. R.
COTTIER, Manager. Refined Minstrelsy first part,
Olio and Farce. Two hours’ genuine lun. Wit
without vulgarity. Our brilliant successes for 25
weeks incontestably proves that a good entertain-
ment is the best advertisement. 25 Star Artists
Admission, 61.: reserved chairs, Is. Open 7, con-
clude at 10. PROTESTANT HALL ONLY. Nulli
secundus.
n A
N C I
N
G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, mo&t elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Ilathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
OARD OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
CLASSES at
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts in Pitt-strcet
Technical Institute in Sussex street
The Public School ia Castlereagh-street, and
No. 64 Royal Arcade, Pitt-etreet.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
Mr. R. W. EMERSON MACIVOR, F.C.S., F.1.C.,
Instructor.
Agriculture—Mr. R. W. Emerson Maclvor,
Wednesday, 7.30. p.m.
Botany—Mr. T. Whitelegge, Wednesday, 7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MECHANICS.
Mr. W. H. WARREN, A.M.I C.E., Instructor.
Applied Mechanics (including Mechanical Drawing)
—Mr. W. H. Warren, Monday, Tuesday, Wed-
nesday, Thursday, and Friday, 7 30 D.m.
Plumbing—Mr. Duncan Mackenzie, Monday and
Wednesday, 7 30 p.m.
Naval Architecture—Mr. John Hyland, Monday
and Wednesday, 7 30 p m.
Metal Plate Working—
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE.
Mr. J. F. HENNESSY (Assistant City Architect),
Instructor.
Architecture—Mr. J. Hennessy, Monday, Wednes-
day, and Friday, 7.30 p m.
Carpeutry and Joinery—Mr. John Gardiner, Mon-
day and Wednesday,- p.m.
Bricklaying—Mr. J. Bustard, Monday and Wednes-
day, 7.30 p.m.
Masonry—Mr. J. Howie, Tuesday and Thursday,
7 30 p.m.
Cabinetmaking—Mr. C. M. Smithson, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Carriage Building—Mr. J. J. North, Monday and
Thursday, 7 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ART.
Mr. LUCIBN H ENRY, Instructor.
Freehand Drawing, Geometry, Perspective, and
Modelling Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday, 7.30 p.m.
A special Class for Teachers will be formed on
Wednesday, at 7.30 p.m , and Saturday, at 10.30
a.m., if sufficient intending students apply.
Wood Carving Mr. A. Murray, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7 30p m.
House Painting and Decoration—Mr. P. W. John-
sod, Tuesday and Friday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY.
Mr. W. A. DIXON, F.C.S.. F 1.C.. Instructor.
Practical Chemistry—Mr. W. A. Dixon, Monday
and Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Theoretical Chemistry—Mr. W. A. Dixon, Thurs-
day, 7.50 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCIAL ECONOMY.
Mr. A. ADAMS, Instructor.
Commercial Class—Mr. A. Adams, Tuesday, Wed-
nesday, and Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Phonography—Mr. H. Graham, Friday, 7 p.m.
Actuarial Science—Mr. D. Carment, Wednesday,
7 30 p.m.
German—Mr. A. Erythropel, Monday and Thurs-
day, 8 pm.
French—Mr. It. Curtis, Monday and Thursday, 5
p.m. to 8 p.m
Latin —Mr. M. C. Howe, LL.D., Tuesday and
Thursday, 7 p m.
Constitutional History—Mr. W. P. Cullen, M.A.,
Tuesday.
DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
Mrs. STORY.
Domestic Economy—Monday, 2.30 p.m , and 7.30
p.m.
Cookery—Friday 2.30 p.m., and 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY, MINERALOGY,
AND MINING.
Mr. S. HERBERT COX, F.G.S., F.C S., Instructor.
Geology—Mr. S. H. Cox, Friday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS.
Mr. J. KINLOCH, M.A., Instructor.
Mathematics—Mr. J. Kinloch, Geometry and Al-
gebra, Monday and Wednesday; Trigonometry,
Conic Sections, and Mechanic®, Thursday, 7.10
p.m.
Navigation—Captain Everill, Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, 7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC.
Mr P. FITZ-STUBB3, Instructor.
Music—Mr. P. Fitz-Stubbs, Tuesday and Friday,
8 p.m.
Class Singing—Mr. C. Chizlett, Monday, Friday,
and Saturday :—Elementary Class commencing
Friday, 4th July, 7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ELOCUTION.
Mr. JOHN CONNERY, Instructor.
Elocution Mr. John Connery, Tuesday and
Friday.
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY.
Mr. F WRIGHT, M.P.S., Instructor.
Materia Medica and Pharmacy—Mr. F. Wright,
Monday and Wednesday, 8 p.m.
Anatomy and Physiology—Dr. Anderson Stuart
(Lecturer), Monday, 4 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS.
Dr. E. H. RENNIE, Instructor.
Physics— Dr. E. H. Rennie, Monday and Friday,
8 p.m.
Electricity (Practical)—Mr. T. E. Hewett, Wednes-
day, 8 pm.
Telegraphy—Mr. T. E. Hewett, Tuesday, 6 p.m.
FEES at the rate of 6d. per lesson for Senior
students, and 3d. per lesson for Junior students.
The following REDUCTIONS are made to students
attending several classes, and more than one
night weekly:—
Fees for One Class per quarl er.
The following PRIVATE CLASSES are held in
the : College Rooms by permission of the Board:— i
Drawing and Painting (Ladies)-Mrs PHILLIPS-
and Miss HIGGINHOTHAM. Monday and
Thursday, 2.30 p.m., £1 Is ; Tuesday and Fri-
day, 9.30 a m., £2 2s. per quarter.
D/awing and Painting-Mr. A. TISCHBAUER,
Monday, 9.30 ft,m.; Saturday, 10 a.m., £3 3s, per
, quarter.
Drawing- and Painting-Mr. A. D. RILEY, Wed-
nesday, 10 a.in., £3 3.; Saturday, 3 p.m ,£3 35.;
the two classes, £4 4i. per quarter.
Drawing and Painting—(Mr. L. HENRY, Tuesday
and Friday, 330 p.m.; £4 4s per quarter.
Perspective (Ladies)-Miss JESSIE A. GREEN,
Wednesday, £1 Is. per quarter.
Cheraistry-Mr. W. A. DIXON, F.C.S., F.PC., daily,
as per arrangement.
Theory of Music (Ladies)—Miss BID DELL, Wed-
nesdays, 15s. per quarter.
Elocution and Voice Building (Ladies) Miss
L\ DIA HASTINGS, Friday, 4 p.m , 13s. 61. per
quarter.
Law—Mr. R M. SLY, LL.D., Friday, 8 p.m., £1 Is.
per quarter.
University M.triculation Class-Mr. G. E. RICH,
B.A , Monday and Friday, 8 p.m., £llos. per
quarter.
FREE POPULAR LECTURES
_ on
TECHNICAL, SCIENCE, and ART SUBJECTS are
delivered in the Technical College Hali, at the
bydney Mechanics' School of Arts,
on
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY. THURSDAY, and
FRIDAY, at 8 p.m.
The will endeavour to form classes in
other subjects on the application of twelve intend-
ing students, and on payment of the fees.
Certificates of efficiency will be g-ranted at the
annual examination in December.
Further information may be obtained from Mr.
D. T. WILEY, Secretary of the Sydney Technical
College, at tne Sydney Mechanics' School of Arte,
Pitt-street.
EDWARD DOWLING,
Secretary to Board of Technical Education.
Board of Technical Education Offices,
130 Flnllip-street.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, luth July, 1884.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs to the Public
School Buildings and Teacher's Residence,
at Five Dock.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Repairs, Five
Dock Public School, ’ must be lodged with the
Acting Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock a.m„ on Wed-
nesday, 30th July, 1834.
The Minister does not bind himself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICK E TT.
Medicated Vapour Baths
340 Crown ST Sydney
- OPPOSITE PESEPVO/f?-
FOR BAdTeCS,CONSTITUTIONAL
SKIN & BLOOD DISEASES Etc.
RELIABLE TESTIMONY,
To Mr. Cooper, 340, Crown-street.—After many
years’ intense suffering: and failure of various
treatments, I am happy to certify that under your
care for 10 weeks I am perfectly cured, aDd I
strongly recommend anyone afflicted with skin
disease to avail thcms3lves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge, Commercial Hotel,
King-street.
To Mr, Cooper.—l wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. East way (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—For years I have been suffering
with pains all over my body, and for two years my
hands were broken out and sore. I could not
sleep; I consulted our best doctors, but got no
relief, until I was persuaded to try you. lam now
quite well, and I have not had ache or pain since.
Thomas Smith, 75, Albion-street, Redfera.
Witness: Rev. Thos, Curtis.
Space will not permit me publishing further, or
I could fill a newspaper with voluntary testimony
from people living among us.
LAND SALE.
Grantham.
Tilt Fttplt’s £5 AUs,
Payable ss. per Month.
RIVERSTONE
TOWN BLOCKS,
200 FEET DEEP,
commencing 250 yards from Railway line, directly
at rear of Station.
Illustrated pamphlets can be obtained free
on aoplication to the auctioneers,
BOYD & KING,
00 PITT STREET.
Offices open till 8 p.m. every Monday evening.
BET WITH TRIED MEN.- “ ACHILLES ”
Or AND CONSULTATION.
(4tii year.)
MEL BOURN « CUP, JBBi
25 OOJ Shares, 10j. each.—£l2 MO
First £5OOO
St con d 2000
Third KOO
Starters 1000
Non-Starters 1000
35 Cash Prizes. £lOO each 2500
Address: Walter Montgomery, Chancery Lane,
Melbourne.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIP®
Offices: 43 KINO STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers f>r MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamer* for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsvillo every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg. and Port Maokay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONA
BARKABOOL
BUEWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King: Street, Sydney.
SWANN’S PILL
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
They clear the complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
derantred state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs.
8
SWANN’S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples.
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &o.
SWANN’S suitable for both sexes :
SWANN S gentle, yet thorough in their
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
action.
Sugar-coated,
and
Easy to Take.
BUY NO OTHER.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLB
PILLB
PILLS
Price Is., 25., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M P.S., Professot of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
-p-nJki® la to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
Pills, and hnd that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. 1 hey are free from mercury,
and are composed entirely of vegetable
dients. I consider them a most valuable aperient.
‘Fred. Wright,
“Sydney, June 19th, 1884 ” “ DrUg Ana)yBt ‘
SINGER & CO.
W. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
Vtr THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHIBKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for crt *t the Distillery
Dublin, and consumers may, the refore, rely that m
has not beep in the hands of “W hiskey Doctors ”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothersp
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland
WONDERFUL DISCOVERY IN SO AIL
BORAX SOAP. BOtIAX SOAP.
For use iu Cold or Hot Water.
Cheaper than Common Household Soap,
Lasts Three Times as Long.
FOR KITCHEN AND SCULLERY USE.
FOR LINEN, WOODWORK, AND TOILET,
And Every Purpose about the House.
Will Wash in Brackish or Hard Water,
It Heals, and Cleanses, and Purifies.
HALF A BAR WILL DO YODR WASHING.
Sold by every Grocer.
Wholesale by
LEWIS AND WHITTY.
Sole Manueactitbehs,
76 Ciarence-strcet,


A
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the CMmax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Auto phone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while It weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most diiffoult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
IST NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the ORIENTAL (>Ol.ll COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POST FREE,
AND AT OCR RISK:
Gent’s Oriental G old Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. tid., Bs. 6d , 10s., and 12s. 6d
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites, 35., 45., Ss. per set
Very latest American patent-spriDg Soiltairo
Suites. 10s. per set
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. fld. and 10a. each
Gent's handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d„ 65., 65., 7s. 6d.,
88 , and 10s. each
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
each
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
and 13s. 6d. (ach
Gent’s very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
30s , 355.. 378.6 d., and 30s. each
( lioiee Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 355.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d , 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ Choice Necklets, from
125.6 d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies' very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chatalaines, 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20*. to 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 30s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells
No. 4.
Sane e as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert
No. 7.
Kotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance ..£5 5 0
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with eaoh wateh.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. ..
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10
We import our watches direct Brom the manu
facturei'B, and give our customers the advantage
of ail the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesa'e middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
f;ive as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
n most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £4O.
£2 4 6
£2 10 0
£3 17 3
£3 3 6
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£4 10 0
£5 5
£3 0 6
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observk.— If the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the tritie
expended on postage. You can keep any cm®
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. RewfltaneeH to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royad—“Macbeth ” p. 8
Opera House—“Jo ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—“ Fun on the Bristol ”.... ib.
Academy op Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
“ Macbeth ” was put on at the Theatre
Royal last Saturday night, with Mr. Vernon in the
title role, and Genevieve Ward as Lady Macbeth.
We went on the opening night, for we knew that
you would want our verdict on the performance
so that you could be on band before the end of the
week. Was it worth going to see ? Yes; it was.
And, if you mis 3 it, you will lose the opportunity
of witnessing the best mounted play, so far as
scenery goes, ever produced in Australia. And
now, perhaps you are curious to know who painted
the scenery. Well, Mr. John Hennings painted the
most of it—all, in fact, except scene 4 in acti, scene
2 in act iii., and scene 2 in act iv. These were painted
by Mr. George Gordon. We have been particular
to thus specify, for many of tho scenes are really
splendid specimens of scenic art, and, as viewed
from the dress-circle, are worth the admission
price alone. After seeing a few mountings like
“The Silver King,” “Eastward Ho!” and “Mac-
beth,” the Sydney public will no longer be satis-
fied with the circus-poster style of tar-brush
scenery that has so long obtained, not only In these
colonies, but in the more pretentious countries of
the old and new worlds north of the line. There
was a time when the public were satisfied with
almost anything in the way of mounting, so long
as tho acti g was at all good. In those days the
managers could palm off abrigbt-labelled peach-can
for a nobleman’s castle, and the pioture of a tom-
cat for a horde of Russian wolves; but.those days,
like the days of our insolvency, are gone for ever;
a new schedule has been made out, and the patrons
of the stage arelgetting cant, per cent, on their in-
vestment. Bat perhaps we ought to tell you some-
thing about the play.
• • •
In the first place you will wan tto know who
wrote it. You have heard, perhaps, that one Wil-
liam Shakspeare, of Stratford on Avon, was the
author. And again somebody has “ rumoured” you
to the effect that Lord Bacon wrote it, but was so
ashamed of his work tint he allowed Shakspeare
to farther the responsibility and revel in all the
glory he could get out of it. We can tell you who
wrote “ Macbeth.” It was not Shakspeare; neither
was it my noble Lord. So far as we have been
able to learn, he was a man who “saved his Bacon.”
Who was it, then ? We don’t like to give this away
at the rate of £8 per week, and if you’ve got any
gratitude iu your system you’Jl send along your
contributions to provide us an adequate recom-
pense. Please send them by express or parcels
post. (N.B.—We are not fond of eggs, especially
if they have previously been set under a dead hen
for four or five weeks ) But, who wrote the play ?
Well, it was Junius. We have this reliably. It
was imparted to us by a lineal descendant of the
great writer, and we got him drunk in payment
ior the information. Next you will want to know
who in the devil Junius was. That’s the way with
humanity. Give it a taste of anything toothsome,
and nothing short of a hogshead of the same stuff
will satisfy its longing. This is- what makes hogs
of men, and for that reason we’re not going to en-
courage the pernicious disposition by feeding it.
No. we will not tell you who Junius was. As
they say over in America—“ We don’t have to.”
* * *
The biggest fault we have to find with the
piece is that it is too long. The managemt
will do well to see the author about this. On
Saturday night those who lived in the subuiba
had to do a good deal smarter cabbing than
we did, if they caught the 11.30 train. Five
minutes would have made all the difference
in the world, and we would advise Macbeth
to give us just that much less of his conscience-
inspired drivel, which, by the way, is made a
great deal too much of. It is hard to imagine
tuch a character so brave and yet so cowardly—so
bloodthirsty and ambitious, and yet so silly and
weak. The author probably knew what he was
about when he painted it so, but he was the only
one who did, perhaps. He certainly couldn’t have
understood the 19th century public. There are too
many witches and apparitions, and cauldrons and
superstitions, and things. And then the author has
made use of a lot of old, hackneyed sayings that
our grandmother taught us when we were a boy.
For instance, he makes Macbeth say
“ I dare do all that may become a man;
Who dares do more, i 3 none.”
And, again:—
“ Load on Macduff!
And damned be he who first cries ‘Hold! Enough 1’ ”
Now, we'll leave it to a fair-minded publio if if
isn’t, a gross imposition to fire such old stuff as
at them iu this day and age of the world. [Will
the senior member for Mudgee kindly give this
mutter his attention when he gets through with
that Di® ?—Ed. B.]
* * *
After Maebeth has stoleu into the sleeping
room of Duncan and his guards, and severed
their windpipes with his dagger, which, by tho
way, was of very modern manufacture, he returns
to tbe court and loafs about, soliloquising on
what he has done. He doesn’t attempt to con-
ceal the dagger, nor to wash the blood from
his hands and clothes; and, if it hadn’t been
for his wife, detection at the hands of Mac-
duff were just as sure as snakes. Lady Macbeth is
the better man of the two, and you can see at
once that if she don’t wear the trousers in that
household she ought to. She tries in vain to brace
her old snooser or a husband up, and finally says
“Give me the dagger 1” (Seems to us we’ve
heard that before, somewhere, too). Then she
goes in amongst the corpses, leaves the dagger
with tnem, and comes out with her bloody hands
covered with gore. By the way, that word bloody
occurs entirely too oiten in the play, and it might
be well for Bishop Barry to see it, and expurgate it
before you consent to leave a game of sixpenny
nap or a prize-fight to attend it. It might be de-
moralising, you know. Macbeth kills a lot of
people before he gets through, and then growls
around about his conscience until we get out of
patience with him. And he believes in witches,
nnd sees ghosts and all manner of things, and
tilks out Joud to them, like a blamed fool, in the
presence of company. How he escapes being
caught is one of the deep mysteries of the play.
* * *
Lady Macbeth, too, is a rather eccentric
Serson. In fact, the Macboth family all appear to
ave been tarred with the same stick. She walks
in her sleep, and talks when nobody has hold of
her big toe. The worst part of it is that she tells
secrets that are enough to damn her husband; but
perhaps that was the way women used to have of
damning their spouses. They don't do it that way
now. They say it right out, and are wide awake
about it, too. We have seen Lady Macbeth essayed
by a number of the greatest actresses of the past
quarter of a century, and we are going to place
Genevieve Ward right amongst the foremost of
them. Her acting throughout was powerful and
true to Nature ; but her strongest claim to praise
was iu Ihe sleep-walking scene. We don’t know
where Genevieve got her conception of this scene,
it is different from any we have seen before, but
it looked just as natural as a bump on a log. We
like to see originality when it is bold and the effort
well sus ained, and yet there is always danger to
an artist in essaying any new rendition of an old
and time-honoured role. Mr. Vernon, for instance,
who, on the whole, makes a very fair Macbeth and
looks every inch a nobleman, makes a mistake, in
our opinion, in dragging out his “conscience”
scone to so great a length. It is all very well to
illu?trote the truth that “conscience makes
cowards of us all,” but it doesn’t follow that the
conscionce-smitten murderer must necessarily be
a fool, as well as a coward. We have seen that
part of tho role gone through with much more
rapidity and with very much stronger effect, and
we are partial to strong effects. We take Robin-
son’s when wo can get it, and when we can't we
change diinks and call for Hcnneesy’s three-s'ar,
which is warranted to kill at 70 yards if you take
enough ot it.
J. B. Steele played Macduff. If he were
playing it for us, wo should load him with brim-
stone and touch a match to him, just to put a little
more lire in him. Macduff is a splendid character,
and ought to be played with a>l the vim and
vigour that can be thrown into the lines of the
author. W. H. Leake (you remember him. He
played Crips the locksmith in the “Silver King”)
was cast for Banquo, and Mr. E. C. Calvert took
the part of Hecate very acceptably. The witches,
too, and their weird chauuts, were about at natural
as anything supernatural can be, and the choruses
were excellently rendered. “Macbeth” will be
repeated until further notice.
* * * *
Of course, you will want to know how the
“Fun on the Bristol” Company is progressing at
the Gaiety. We went there again the other even-
ing, and found achange of programme that caught
the audience by the err and made it scream with
delight. Sheridan is as funny as an old-man kan-
garoo with its tail in a trap, and anybody who can
keep from laughing at him hasn't a soul above
saveloys and sour tripe. We don't know where
the little comedian got all the wit he has thrown
into the lines of his characters. If we did, we
should go and dig up some of it and rub it on the
heads of a lot of professionals we know who
haven’t sense enough to tackle a free lunch when
they’re hungry. Some people are bigger fools
than Thompson’s colt that jumped into the river
to get out of the rain. Sheridan isn’t that sort of
a man, however; and if you hand him a joke and
a rolling-pin at the same time, he doesn’t swallow
the rolling-pin and try to club you over the head
with the joke. He knows how to take a joke; but
if you saw him try to uncork a rolling-pin, you'd
know that he never had much experience at the
bar. We like to see an artist like Sheridan suc-
ceed, for he gives the public the worth of its
money, and that’s more than we can say for a lot
of people who make their money on the mimio
stage.
• • a
We are always vexing somebody. We like
to vex people occasionally, just to impart variety
to existence. And then we like to smoothe them
down afterwards, if they don’t get too cantanker-
ous over it. Our last victims are Willie Frear
and E C. Dunbar. Willie got his hair off because
we said he was a sweet little fellow, that we would
like to throw down a coal-hole; p.nd Dunbar got
mad because we called his musette an antiquated
ice-cream trumpet. Gentle reader, you have no
idea how sensitive is the skin, or the t oul, or some-
thing, of great musicians. And they love their
instruments with something of the same feeling
thit animates a critter towards its cub. We once
called Wilhelmjs violin a Hungarian Horror-Fac-
tory, and the poor fellow worried himself ill
over the decline of musical criticism, and refused
to appear on the following night. Dunbar didn't
take our levity quite so hard as that, of course, for
he’s got more sense; but still he felt grieved that
we should have spoken so lightly of his favourite
Italian instrument. The truth is, we like the
musette, and we like the way Dunbar plays it.
Besides it is a novelty in the colonies, and novel-
ties are always acceptable when they are well
handled. But if we had slid this two weeks ago
Dunbar would hare been tormenting Sheridan tor
an increase in salary, and Sheridan would have sent
Billie Hughesdownto crawl into our shoe and make
our heel sore. Billie, you know, isn’t much bi/ger
than a hazel-nut, but the corners on him are
sharper than the business end of a tack. We
didn t intend to put Willie Frear’s temper out
of joint. We were only speaking of him a? he
looks on the stage. Off the stage you wouldn’t
know him from a Goulburn leg of mutton with
blue grist'e3 all through it. After he has read
this, we hope to hear that his good temper is so far
restored that he can laugh as he swallows a dose
of aloe-pills.
* * *
And this reminds us of the time we got
broke, two thousand miles from home, and our
credit wasn’t big enough to cast a shadow in the
light of a 70-candle-power he id-light. So we had
to go to work. It w«s the first work we had ever
done, but we stuck to the job from the foundation
up to the top of the fourth storey, and carried 21
bricks every time. We are only telling you this
now because there are a lot of people who will
iub their waistband and chuckle as the thought
fl ishes across them that we ought to be there still.
But we weren't ashamed of the billet. We
knew that our doting mother would have gone
into a trance of delight if she could.only have seen
us. She always said she wanted to see her children
climbing up in the world: and then, to cheer us on,
would often come to our recollection the hope-
inspiring lines of a bigger poet than we are, who
wrote—
“ Heaven is not reached at a single bound;
But wo build the ladder by which we rise
From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies,
And we mount to its summit round by round”
with a hodful of bricks. Now that we have eased
our conscience a bit, we’ll spin you oil another par.
about th« show, if you’ll just keep your seat and
don’t clamour for pudding before the first course
has been removed.
* * *
The more we see of Mr. Meade’s acting the
better we like it. When we first saw him, we
thought he couldn't act a little bit, but last week
he presented us with a gold-headed cane, and now
we think he is one of the best actors in Australia.
Wo remember another actor who once came to our
office and offered us a gold-headed cane—almost
forced it upon us, in fact—that we never liked
afterwards. There was a something about the wav
he offered it that we didn’t admire. After the
doctor had [patched him up at the hospital, and
said the bullet could be extracted without endan
gering his life, we breathed easier—easier than he
did bv a long chalk; and, from that day to this, a
gold-headed cane hasn’t been offered to us that
wasn't sent by express.
* v *
Harry De Lorme is singing in excellent
voice, and Harry Sullivan provokes any amount
of laughter by hfs comicalities. May Livingstone,
too, is so full of grotesque absurdity that every
time she opens her mouth the audience tickles
itself under the chin and laughs immoderately.
The other ladies of the company, Miss Hynes aDd
Mis 3 Sarony, are principally remarkable for their
prettiness and the elegant stage dresses they wear.
We’re not going to describe them just now, for
we haven't time; and, anyway, we don’t know
how. We’ve never been able to solve the mys-
teries] of women’s apparel, and don’t know a
redingote from a billy-goat nor a polonaise from a
fried oyster. Our big sister sent us out one time
to buy a crinoline, and what do you think we
brought home ? Nothing more nor less than a
hemispherical rat-trap with a wooden bottom. We
know that the bottom was of wood, for the edge
of it struck our head as it went past, and nearly
took an ear off. Since that time we've refrained
from meddling with women’s fixings, and have re-
solved to live in the untrammelled bliss of a
bachelor-existence, and to die, when our time
comes, with our boots on. The “Bristol” Com-
pany are not going away for a week or two yet,
but you must go early if you want a seat.
* * * *
Have we been to the Minstrels again ?
Well, now, that’s what we have. We went, the
other night, and took an Orphan Asylum with ua.
It isn't often that we let a week pass without
doiDg some little kindness in the world, and, hav-
ing found all our old acquaintances in comfortable
circumstances, we concluded to give our pet
Orphan Asylum a chance. Did you over charter
an Orphan Asylum to go any where ? If you did,
you know two or three things that we don’t need
to tell you just now; but, whatever you do, don’t
you charter one to go to Hiscocks’ Minstrels. It
doesn't pay, and we’ll tell you why. There were
just sixteen in the party—ilfteen girls and a boy,
and they were all of a size. Hiscocks met us at
the door, and, as we drew near, we heard him
quote to Smythe thsoe famous lines from “ Hold
the Fort”:
" See the mighty host advancing,
Satan leading ou.”
We didn't exactly like this, but when he clutched
us by the hand and asked us if any of them had
got away, and whether they came three at a time,
and how the missus was, and several things like
that—remarking sot to voce to Smytho that they
looked immensely like their father, and that there
couldn’t be a great deal of dill'erence between
their ages-we wore ready to fight. We indig-
nantly explained that wo had no fam ly, nor any
missus, and that we could thrash any man in New
South Wales who said that anybody’s kids looked
like us. Then the colonel said that if they weren t
members of our own family we’d have to pay full
rates for them, and this ran us in for £5 4s. Of
course we bore this like the Christian martyr that
we have the reputation of being, and the usher
kindly gave us the front row of orchestra chairs
because the crowd was so short of stature. We
had provided each little girl orphan with a lolly-
stick long enough to keep her chewing ail even-
ing, ard tho boy with a tin whistle that we
promised to let him blow in the ears of tho cat
when he got back to the Asylum. All went well
until the curtain went up, and Sam Keenan
rolled his eyes around on us. For a moment he
looked reproachful like, then he began to smile,
and last of all he opened his mouth. That settled
the business. That orphan boy’s mother had been
scared by an alligator one time, and the yell he let
out of him when he saw Sam’s head open paralysed
the audience, dumb-founded the players, and
brought the performance to a sudden halt. The
little girls began to cry and scream in unison, and
the first thisg we knew we were in the midst of
more noise and confusion than was good for our
head. We got up to sneak out, but these con-
founded brats clung to our coat-tails and trouser-
legs and called us papa so piteously that we wi hed
the asylum had been struck by lightning the night
before. As we stumbled out amidst our broed, the
audience groaned as though it bad been eating
cucumbers on top of ice-cream, and Horace Bent
began singing: “For Johnnie is a Mormon—o!”
We’re a man of few words, and we love peace, but
there is a limit to human ondurance, aad we’ve
seen the limit. Now we are going in for blood.
* * *
And this reminds us of the Salvation
orator we once heard discoursing over in America.
He was a big raw-boned fellow, with fists like tea-
kettles, and a voice like a bullock when you twist
its tail. He was holding forth on a vacant lot one
Sunday afternoon, and the crowd that gathered
around was made up principally of the stevedore
and larrikin elements. A few converted soldiers
of both sexes stood about him, to help in the sing-
ing and shout “amen ” when the right time came
around. Ho was not an educated mao. The best
years of his life had been spent in the mines of
Colorado, and so he attempted to teach only the
simpler lessons in Christianity. He dwelt long and
earnestly on the meekness of Jesus, and held Him
up as an example for his hearers to follow. Pre-
sently a cud of tobacco struck him on the lapel of
the coat, but he quietly brushed it away with the
remark: “Never get angry, Corist was gentle-
ness itself, and you must learn to be like Him.
No matter what insults the wicked and vain of
this world may heap upon you, remember your
Divine Master and be patient.” About this time,
a s(re?.m of tobacco-juice was squirted over tho
orator's shirt-front ; but. aside from a little
heightened colour on his cheeks, you couldn’t »ee
any difference in his manner or appearance. As
he wiped his ruine 1 linen with his handkerchief, he
continued : “They put a crown of thorns upon
the head of Jesus and nailed Him to the cross, but
in His dying agony He exclaimed: “ Forgive t hem,
Father! They know not what they do.” Just at
this juncture a diseased egg struck the evangolist
on the upper lip. This was too much for any
Kooky Mountain Christian that the Lord ever
owned. After spurtiDg and spitting for a few
seconds, he began shedding his ulster, with the an-
nouncement: “Brothers and sisters, this ‘meek
and lowly’ business is dore with. Show me the
son-of-a-gun who throwed that egg, and I’ll whip
h —lout of him in less than a minute.” But we
are digressing, or lying, or something, and had
better get back to the show.
#* # *
The “Jo” season at the Opera House has
been well patronised, and Jennie Lee, as the little
crossing-sweeper, has again covered herself with
rags and glory. We don’t understand how a
woman can play a part like Jo, act and look so
much like a young male ragamuilin; but then the
women do so many things that we don’t under-
stand that we have given over trying to figure
them out. We don’t understand, for instance,
how our landlady manages to remove the hole for
our latch-key almost every night, and put it back
again in its usual place before we get up in the
morning. We have speculated over this, and we
haven’t been able to eat. a mouthful of breakfast
until we had taken several cocktails to relieve the
Eain. So we’re not going to wonder how Jennie
ee manages to look and act so much like a
boy. We’re simply going to tell you that she
is an astonishing deception in this respect, and
one well worth seeing. When we see the poor,
ragged little devil on the stage, and watch him
going through his ordeal of misery, we forget all
about the fact that we lost an arm at Bull’s Run, a
leg at Shilo, an ear at Spatsylvania, and a hand at
poker. But what we would like to know is where
Miss Lee gets that costume: and whether she
keeps it along with the rest of her wardrobe; and
if she has to nail it down to the Hoor at night to
keep it from crawling away. Every time we see
1 her scratching her left shin with her right-foot
these thoughts come into our head, but we don’t
think they are the only things that costume might
put into our head if somebody were to shake it
over us. It looks that way hard enough, at any
rate, but that only adds strength to the picture; so
we have resisted the ever-present inclination,
when seeing her act, to send little Jo a new outfit
of winter apparel.
• • •
We like Stirling White’s Snagsby. He is
about as good a specimen of the hen-pecked hus-
band as we ever saw, when in the presence of Mrs.
Snagsby (Miss Bessie Vivian.) But we have one
fault to find with him, which is that, when he gets
out amongst men, and away from his wife, he
doesn’t bluster and blow around enough. We
never knew a hen-pecked husband in our life who
wasn't the bravest man on earth—to hear him tell
it-whenhegot away from home; and when you
hear a man.talking that way a good deal, you may
be morally certain that if he isn’t hen-pecked it’s
because his wife is dead, and he hasn’t managed to
score up another. We once beard a big, burly man
telling how he had quelled an Infuriated mob by
the mere magnetism of his eye, and had rescued a
man from being lynched. J ust as he was winding
up «n eloquent description of the affair, a little bit
of a womau stole up behind him, caught him by
the ear, and marched him out of the bar-room as
though there were a dozen bayonets behind him.
Of course we don’t need to tell you that that little
woman was that big man’s wife- But Si-.agsby
isn’t that way at all. He is a nervous, timid little
.man, with a heart bigger than his pocket-book,
and a constant dread of all sorts of danger.
• • *
Mr, Carden plays Tulkiughorn with more
than his accustomed ability. We never can make
out what ails these actors. In one piece they’ll
plays like amateurs, and in the next like stars. We
might conclude that our liver had something to do
with this, if we had one; but we haven t. We gave
it away when we entered upon our career as dra-
matic critic-and, besides, the play-going public
think as we do. It don’t seem possible that indi-
gestion can be a periodical epidemic—does it? But
Carden has been playing “like a whitehead”
lately, and we feel like patting him on the back—
meataphorically, of course. Wo like the way
Carden fal’s dead when Hortt nse (Solange Navaro)
thootshimin the head; but if SolaDge is anything
liiio as bad-tempered as she looks, we wouldn’t
play Carden’s part for all the money on earth. Wo
should bo afraid that in one of her moments of
frenzy she might charge the revolver with real
cartridges, and blow the top of our head off in dead
earnest. Ah, yes! and what Das become of that
aide-de-camp? But, no matter. We’re not ready
to tell you that one yet, and it’s good enough to
keep in pickle.
* * *
Edwin Lester is always entertaining, but
we have seen him in roles better calculated to
bring out his abilities as an actor. As Guppy, how-
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows,” see pa»e 5.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“The style of the first publio speeoh of
Prince Albert Victor of Wales has created a
favourable impression.’’ Quite so. Jingoism
may always be baoked to assist a royal pup over
any sort of a style. It’s only when speech is em-
ployed to denounce the snobbery and caddish pre-
tensions of the blue-blood caste that Jingoism
heaves its half bricks and rotten eggs at the
orator. Why, if Albert Victor of Wales were to
propound the theory that " earth was made for
princes, women for lust, the people for the
palace,” the “Cupids” and the Henuiker
Heatons would roam around ejaculating right
asinine “ ’ear ’ear s.” They would even conceive
that a kick from a royal boot created a favourable
impression. „
“One of the Fair Sex” writes Sir,
Allow me a short space in your valuable journal
to make a few remarks on the subject of the deceit
of the young men in this city.” We have passed
this on to the youngest man on our staff, and dis-
claim all ’responsibility in regard to his views.
Being old and bald, and never having practised
deceit ourselves, we thought a young man’s
opinions would be more unbiassed. He says there
are 150,000 deceivers in Sydney. Which is it ?
We think Joe has got hold of the wrong
guide-book somebOAV. He told a friend, they say,
that when he takes Creswell home, he shall avail
himself of the opportunity of exploiting Wales
and other foreign countries. In Prussia, he intends,
if possible, to interview the Shah, and will cer-
tainly not lose the opportunity in Rome of ascend-
ing either Pyramus or Tbisbe/ from either of
Avhich mountains, he is informed, there is to be
obtained a lifelike diorama of the Tiger. Once
his foot is on the borders of the Netherlakes he
will make straight for Gath, and Avill be sure (pro-
viding travelling be not too dear) to closely watch
(weather permitting) hoAV they tell it not in the
streets of Askelon ; and he will close up by a
jaunt to Switzerland, where he hopes to achieve a
safe ascent to the summit Of Monte Video.
At a recent review in Hyde Park,
the Duke of Cambridge managed to get his troops
“ boxed;” and as the services of that gallant Field-
Marshal and tactician, the Prince of Wales, were
not available, and all the other Field-Marshals were
sneezing their old noses off in bed, the Duke, call
ing Captain Philip Smith, said; “My bath-chair’s
waiting over there, so you get ’em out. The best
thing the infantry can do is to climb over the rail-
ings, so as to give the cavalry a show. If the mob
want to know anything, just tell ’em it’s a neAV
manoeuvre fresh from Germany.” Then he was
wheeled aAvay, just as a deputation cime from the
Grenadier Guards to say that though they thirsted
or gore and to fall for their country, the impression
which generally prevailed in the army was that it
was closely verging on duff-time.
The Jingo spirit is abroad in Melbourne,
and an ominous smell of gunpowder seems to per-
vade the atmosphere of the “Cabbage Garden.”
Listen to the warlike utterances of the D.T. anent
the Recidiviste question:—“We say deliberately
that England—and, if England will not, then Aus-
tralia herself—ought to go to war rather that per-
mit the consummation of so fiendish a scheme.”
In one of Bulwer Lytton’s novels, very
likely “The Disowned,” some earnest advice on
the perennially interesting subject of matrimony
is tendered. Edmund Prince, a native of the soar-
ing South, found out that part of the novel, and
consumed the midnight oil to an accompaniment
of crackers and trotters in posting the advice all
over the dead walls of his intellect. The most
notable of the placards thus displayed reported
that “no man ever did anything until after he
was married.” Edmund got inside, sat down at
the foot of this, came to understand its glorious
significance, and cantered off to execute the duty
it implied. He did it. And he is a living witness
of the infallibility of genius. He did something
in the first we.sk. H« knocked her ear off. Then
he went away up for a month. He sits out in the
back of the gaol yard now, with a hammer In his
hand, and boulders of blue .metal around him, and
he mutters off and on. What he mutters is : “No
man evor did anything until after he was married.
True, trne 1”
* * *
“Matrimony.—Young lady wishes to cor-
respond with young gentleman, view to above.
Daphe, G.P.0.” Well, now, Daphe (which is pro-
bably “ Alfred ” for Daphne), pause ere it be too
late. Stick to the little lolly-shop, and repress
your ambition to be monarch of all you survey in
a three-roomer. You’ll get plenty of answers,
young woman, and most of the candidates for
matrimony will appear before you, gorgeous in
shiny black and artistically-japanned bluchers.
They will know no guile, and take you to the pit
at the theatre to an extent beyond your dreams.
At last you will fix on a young plasterer. You
marry him, and, just the time you are looking for
the strength of his affection, you feel the weight
of his boot. You will have to be up at five to get
his breakfast, give him half the dinner-money for
rum, and then behold him, white-flecked and
savage, cursing himself along in the grey dawn to
his work. Later, you will find he takes a “ gal ”to
Paddy's Market “of a Saturday night,” and you
will revenge yourself by establishing a “chap.”
Recriminations will ensue, and you will pa*s half
your life with your head in the fender, and the
other half in the casual ward at the Infirmary. No,
Daphe, don't get married 1 We have done Bo
countless times, and we can assure you that to any
one who can’t lunch off an Australian chair the
joy of a three-roomer is delusive.
• • •
Wiloannia Council are planting the streets
with trees. At the planting of the first tree, we
read in the local Wrapper: “Three o’clock was
the appointed time, and shortly after that hour
the Mayor (Mr. W. Brown) addressed those at the
spot in a few words appropriate.” At this stage
we fell asleep, and thought we were a News
reporter attending an execution; and, half waking
up, we drowsily re-wrote the paragraph: “Three
o’clock was the appointed time, and shortly after
thathour the Mayor (Mr. W. Brown) was conducted
from the condemned cell, and as the wretched man
took his stand near the newly-erected gallows, he
appeared to be deeply interested in the words of
his spiritual advisers, and, having looked at the
tree, murmured ‘ Now just chuck a rope over that
branch, and any ratepayer that wants to die needn’t
go into the town water-hole.’ Death must have
been instantaneous.”
• • •
Tt’s extended to here. The other day the
Rum people received a sample of borax soap, and,
when it was passed round in the reporter’s room,
everybody wanted to edit it. They thought it was
scented cheese. On being informed, however, as
to the true nature of the article, the art critic was
ordered to write an essay on it. Here is a particle
of it:—“The manufacturers say that it possesses
no injurious caustic qualities, that it is a sedative
to the skin We have not verified the
statements by an elaborate scries of experiments.”
Of course not! This is a free country. There is
no compulsion, you know. It doesn’t matter
about yourselves, so long as you keep your back
yard clean.
THE COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEVSON.
“Dr. Morton (sic) Manning wants Mr*
Stuart to define his position in regard to the dis-
charge of persons who are still insane.”
One more Victorian
Full of his brag,
Como here to glory in
Food from this rav.
Names now all wrong again;
“ I’ll,” says Mackay,
“Send it along again
With my array*.”
When bulls in the lingerin’
Hum you espy.
Know Melbourne’s a finger in
That alien pie.
Sick-room Bulletins.
“Sinking Rapidly.”
“Recovery Doubtful.”
“No Cause for Alarm.”
“Now Resting Comfortably.
“Continues to Have a Good Ap-
petite.”
“Will be Confined to the House
for Some Time.”
“ Sat Up for :be First Time this
Morning and took some Nour-
ishment.”
“A Consultation is Now being
Held on the Case.”
Dear girl, we cannot “ give you Bpace
To make a few remarks ”
About perfidious grocers’ boys,
And dudious bank clerks.
We’ve heard of giddy married men,
Of youths who play at pool;
And, for'a change, with faithless vows
To women play the fool.
When young men of this oity lie,
They don’t call it deoeit;
It’s “ mashing.” But, cannot papa
Just mash him with his feet ?
PAUL PRY’S PREMISES.
“Melbourne, Wednesday.—Tlie members
of the City Council, on their visit of inspection to
Little Bourke-street, found that the worst and
most dilapidated tenements belong to Mr. George
Coppin, member of the Back Slums and Social
Purity Society, and a member of the Central Board
of Health. Notice has been given to Mr. Coppin
to demolish these tenements.”— Neavs.
You’re right, for once, ye aldermen,
This vile trade to be stoppin’ it -
This trade in hovels; tho’ ’tis sad
To see poor George a Coppin’ it!
We’ve e’er loved George; though never thought
Him to be an “Uriah;”
Although in pitch political
He was a “splendid liar.”
But, never mind, although to let,
These rook’ries ain’t do rigueur—
Don't London’s Bishop do tho same ?
That’s how he “ cops the sugar I”
A nine days’ wonder; that is all;
Just food for idle chatter—
For George, of course, will say that he
“Knew nothing of the matter.”
Bah! what’s the odds ? In Sydney—this,
By Jove, our ire arouses!—
The men who hump the plates, collect
The rents of giddy houses.
ONE COMFORT!
“Thomas M‘Cormack, one of the unem-
ployed, was sentenced by Mr. Clarke, S.M., to 14
days’ hard labour for stealing a loaf of bread.” —
News.
In sooth, a miserable charge 1
You should, you fool, have recollected
The game’s to go for something large— t
But stay, though 1 You’re not “ well connected.’
A loaf of bread I—and in these days! 1—
Was this dark crime, now, well dissected ?
No matter, better fourteen days,
Poor Tom, than to be “ well connected.”
Far better fourteen days, we say,
Than be the poor wife’s money halving
With some “ mate ” in a cafe gay,
While she is in her garret starving.
Perhaps this dose you got, you see
(And that O’Malley you know is strict),
Because you couldn’t urge the plea
You were so much “liked in the district!”
You’re not—at this don’t curse your lot—
A hero, and you can’t expect it!
But thank your lucky stars you’re not
A young man that is “ well connected."
WHY, CERTAINLY!
If all our fiery arguments should prove of no
avail
To make the British Lion condescend to wag his
tail,
Let us shoulder arms, and gallantly prepare to do
or die —
Put our simple trust in Providence, and keep our
powder dry.
Hand down the suit of armour that is hanging on
the Avail—
Just fasten up-our helmet, and we’ll like a soldier
fall;
And mention to our mother, if we never see her
more,
That we’ve read the Daily Telegraph and want
to wade in gore.
TO “MUDGEE.”
Mudgee, Mudgee, pray determine
To adopt this good advice—
When you’re holding forth on “ vermin,”
“ Creeping things," and “ cowardioe,”
In your fierce vituperation
You should draw the line somewhere,
And, on no consideration,
Mudgee, ever “d—nthe Chair I”
You may speak of “ antiquated
Ignoramus,” if you choose,
Or use other terms inflated,
If they represent your views;
You may even hiss out “ viper
Oh 1 but, prithee, have a care—
They will make you pay the piper
If again you “ d—n the Chair I”
So, then, Mudgee, for the future,
Do observe this golden rule;
Call a member—if it suit yer—
E'en a “ tom-tit,” or a “ fool ”:
You may still escape a “naming”—
But, for goodness sake 1 forbear,
In the warmth of your declaiming,
From remarking “D—nthe Chair 1”
* * *
“J am not ashamed of the Gospel.”—Rev.
J. G. Mackie, Beechwortb.
Hello, J.G.: we’ve two minutes
So let’s strike that emphasis;
There is something truly in its
Presence here that is amiss.
“Jam not ashamed,” you thunder;
Now, why should you ? There's the rub!
Who, the mischief, is, we wonder,
Barring old man Beelzebub ?
No one. But, up-end the statement,
Pump the Gospel on the Cloth,
And, if it, without abatement,
Will re-dribble J.G.’s froth
“ I am not ashamed of those that
Preach my charity to men,”
We shall jump—and Heaven knows that
There’ll be cause for jumping then.


An anonymous bard —we believe it is
Alfred—sends us a poem of 240 stanzas, labelled
‘‘The Ocean Waif.” Having-had to entertain a
bailiff during the last few days, we have only had
time to skim this immortal production. We, how-
ever, quote one stanza, which particularly struck
us:—
i* A gallant ship had plowed (sic) the deep, well
frought (sic) with a living f rleght (sic),
And mothers tossed their cooing babes, and the
ship sailed on in state [! ]
But a mighty storm soon raged, and the waves
lashed stern (sic) and loud,
The sails bulged out, then rent in twain, and flew
off like a fleecy cloud.”
The poet can have his MS. on application. But
we advise him to conceal the fact from the big dog
on the landing that he is a heaven-born bard. That
dog will eat anything but an Evening News
reporter.
o/7
effr"7-
"mulct W Poar o7d
Mr ]S)a '.
• Jfjul r “ ro /yeF*
-/<1"' n l L and i /ja -
< *
fe#vs
7<AKt'SS o/- c /^u rune * m * , cloeS/Ac
Tjf/ciOn it A: ts/st '
J Acaufechs Jarman-
J■ r hope r/z-Cif hone/ Auchand
<y you /\j <<>/? tsn eer us/'
r 'eseu'e y>/-4v'<p>-. /eo/ca> he Set’
do*,,. opes~out n oTu ?haTX&j£ Asets
<'oe o //<2o<t n cdPh ?pz eau> 7e&/
—l_ j e>iy
f -*F E wA.cn '>Ffy, e>~ Zr/x 5 V-<t
Barmaids or Barmen.
We learn that the people residing around
Mudgee and CudgegoDg—we quote—“ have beei
much terrified of late by the frequent appearance
of a monster said to resemble, in size and shape, a
huge gorilla. Some men camped in tents near the
Rhobardah gold mine were nearly frightened out
of their wits one night by the entrance of the
monster into one of their canvas tenements.”
Next morning when they had recovered from their
fright, they began to search for traces of the
monster. Soon they came upon a rum-bottle
(empty), then upon a scored copy of the Mudgee
Independent, and bye and by chanced upon a show
ticket, which bore this inscription : “ Admit
editor and lady.”
* * *
Little girl sitting on steps of Suuday-
school, waitingjifor it to “go in.” Enter parson,
on his way to the Gospel emporium next door.
Parson: “ Good morning, little girl. (Aside). What
a neat, tidy little fairy!” L.G.; “Good morning,
good clergyman.” Parson: “And what is your
father, my dear ?” L.G.: “ Please, sir, he’s-(slowly
to the'jstones)— a receiverer of stolen property, sir.”
Parson: “God bless my soul! Is he that? And
what's your mother, dear child ?” L.G.: “ Please,
sir, mother keeps a boardin’-house, and sells sailors
to the captains.” Parson: “You don’t say so I
Have you a'brother?” L.G.: “Yes, sir; two. Bill,
he’s a pedestrian, he is; but we don’t speak to
him. And Bunny’s prentioed to aburguler.” Par-
son: “Dear, dear! And what are you. my poor
little waif?” L.G.: “ Mel— (proudly)— Ob! I am a
milk-jug and Her add shaker, I am.” Parson:
“ Terrible, terrible. Then ( with a groan) it would
be useless to ask if this depraved family have any
leaning towards religion.'* L.G. (quickly): We all
have, sir. We are all good Protestants. We don’t
know what we should do if we weren’t good Pro-
testants.”
• a •
The GrUNNEDAH ADVERTISER COmeS Out,
now, on card-board. We expect to see it soon
issued on a pine-shaving. The Tamworth oorres-
pondent of this paper is a genius. He is also,
probably, a boot-closer. Mark his style:—“ I never
look at a circus poster without thinking of an ex-
cellent story Harry Levicn tells about Mrs. M‘Fad-
dyn and her son Tim. Nothing would keep this
youngster from the circus, day or night, so Mrs.
M‘F Oh, I beg pardon, 4 this is not for the Ob-
server.’ It’s a good yarn, though, and Harry
tells it in grand style.” This reminds us of the
prim man's story at Bob Sawyer’s supper about a
celebrated public character, whose name he
couldn’t remember, saying something which he
had unfortunately forgotten.
* * *
We can’t be expected, with boots at their pre-
sent price, to go up every fortnight to Queanbeyan
and kill old Gale. But we shall have to, in the end.
Here, now, is a young lady who writes a dirge in
the Q. Age -read this title carefully; it will ease,
if not entirely, cure you, and remember at the
same time this dictum, which, perchance, you may
not have heard: “ The worthless is never counter-
feited!” Mark:—
“ To thb Memory of So-and-So,
Who departed this life Ist April, 1884.”
However, the fair authoress means well, and that
is a lot in her favour I The mistake she has made,
however, is in tackliog a poem as she would tackle
—we don’t mean with her knifG and fork—a pud-
ding. She has what she thinks are the ingredients,
tosses them into her poetic pot, places it on the
Parnassian Are— et puis, vioU. Her touch, though,
is occasionally tender, even though her meaning
may, at times, be vague. Witness:—
“ Thy father’s heart may mourn thy death, and
fade;
Old Time may make it, as Old Time has made."
The following two lines also would certainly, to
the dense, require an explanation of some sort on
a cool afternoon :
“ And thou, dear friend, thy name I’ll not forget
Till being’s tide and life’s last sun are set.”
The metaphor about Being’s tide being “ set ” has
certainly all the charm of novelty. We do not
wish, however, to discourage this young poetess.
Let her persevere, twang the lyre, and write tons
of pieces. She must not forget that for six pounds
weight of poetry the butcher will give a pound of
steak. Pour red herrings for an epic—as long, say,
as “ Thalaba’’—may likewise be obtained of any
pushing grocer. “ Martial ” pieces are preferred in
this latter regard, however, as it is only proper the
“old soldiers” should have their martial cloaks
around them. Ob, and one thing more. When
next you write dirges, don’t send ’em to old John,
and certainly not to us. Forwards the songs of
sorrow to the Shiioud. The corpse is more likely
to get them then; and they may—who knows—
help to pass an idle quarter of an hour.
* m •
The current issue of the Tam worth
Hookey-Tookey is a gorgeous number, bristling
with quotations from these columns, and illu-
mined, here and there, by scintillations of that
wit for which Hooke has been long renowned,
even from Tamworth unto Murrurundi. The Ob-
server is really quite a pleasant paper. " Mr.
Garvin ” (sic), it says, 44 doolines to report upon the
Barrier Ranges,” and it announces with a flourish
the advent of Mr. Levien—who, by-the-way, cer-
tainly seems to have kipp’d and tail-grey’d himself
Into the affections of the electors ; for, whenever
he appears in Tamworth, he could, did he choose,
smother himself in hatchis—we mean hashes, —and
swim in rum. Everybody, dirty or clean, shakes
Harry by the hand; and he is such a favourite In
the Court-house that there is never even a mur-
mur from the custodian when he sweeps up the
H’s after Harry’s departure. We learn from the
Observer that the Freemasons' Lodge there has
44 gone bung,” and that “Mr. Barney Burke, the
local basso, has left Tamworth, and the Liedertafel
is next door to ‘bung.’ Oh! ’tis sadly sadiful to
see a whole—Whoa, Emma !” It will be seen from
this that there is a pleasant levity about Hooke
which would cause him to bo a splendid success in
another sphere. You see, the “Co.” could be
under the green baize, and Hookey could play the
Pan’s pipes and keep au eye-like Mr. Codlin— on
the prospective half-pence.
• •
There is great merriment in Kempsey. A
farmer named Mainey, who was insolvent some
years since, has issued in the Macueay Deask the
following notice “The undersigned is happy to
inform all persons who proved their claims against
him, aggregating £670 12s. 6d., as well as those nine
gentlemen who would not allow their names to
appear in his schedule, that he is now in a position
to pay the amount in full, with interest at the rate
of 2s. in the £.” Since the above notice appeared
people have come miles in spring-carts to ga*e
upon this person, and bets are openly made as to
how long it will be before he is in the asylum.
The hotels, at the mention of his name, resound
with hilarity ; and when in town he is cut off at


street corners by the urchins of the township as
though he were a funeral. The best lark is that
most of the people he owes money to, in his
schedule, don’t like to accept it; as the people who
have got nothing to get cry incessantly : “ Ob j
don’t take his money, pore feller. He can’t know
what he’s a doin’ of.” The last maniao of this
description we knew was 'Phil M’Carroll, the
butoher-bard. He paid all his creditors in full
after an interval of five years, and—he died.
* * #
Master Willie Cooking (aged Vi years), a
resident of Melbourne city, was naughty the other
day—so naughty, in fact, that his mother gave him
a beating. Bhe didn’t belt him with flat-irons or
break the rolling-pin across the bridge of his nose,
or anything like that; still, mild as the castigation
may have been, it was altogether too much for the
high-spirited Willie-so he took an early oppor-
tunity of mentioning the matter to his father, and
enquiring what was the best thing to be done
under the painful circumstauces. Cocking, smior,
mindful of Solomon’s instructions respecting the
training up of a child in the way he shouldn’t go,
advised Willie to take out a summons against his
mother, and have her bound over to keep the
peace. Perceiving the force of this suggestion,
young twelve-year-old took the old man’s tip, and
proceeded against his bewildered mother at the
District Court. We grieve to state, though, that
the Bonch dismissed the case, thus leaving little
Willie at the mercy of his ferocious parent, who
will still be able to administer a maternal cuff over
the ear without running any risk oi penal servi-
tude for “ assault with intent.” We’re sorry for
Willie, and a precious sight more sorry for his
mother.—
Some Parramatta boys east the first stone,
and several after it, last Sunday at constable
Board. If they’d laid Board up they’d have had
to plank down. Funny, Isn’t It? “No?” Weill
fancy! And yet this was the sort of thrilling wit
that was wont for many a long year to set “ Whole-
some Fun’s” table in a roar I But where, now,
alas! is Darley’s Delight? Not even the cir-
cumambient wit of Dear-boy Hicks, the superla.
tive satire of J. G. O’Connor, or the flashing Are of
Fitzgerald could keep it alive! Punch was wob-
bling along all right, somehow, until they ap-
pointed Darley a Commissioner to the Victorian
Exhibition. When the Gazette appeared an-
nouncing the appointment—
OUR BOYS.
Things are altered, ’tis apparent,
Since the days when we were young—
Then a look from either parent
Made us hold our little tongue;
At our mother’s frown we trembled
And were filled with sore dismay
(Ah! how little we resembled
Little Willie of to-day I).
Jf our youthful indiscretions
(In the days for ever fled)
Brought an extra dose of lessons
And a smack across the head,
In a manner somewhat furtive
Would we quickly slink away—
W e were not so self-assertive
As tho Willie of to-day.
Things are altered, we’re repeating;
Now a boy of tender years,
If he gets a healthful beating,
Ora box upon the ears,
Asks the Court to serve a summons
On his parent, so they say,
(They are perfect little rum ’uns,
Are the Willies of to-day I).
“ Give me, quick, my little shroud,”
So sadly poor Punch said—
“ How can I linger, now, when my
Constituent is fled ?
“ He loved me well; he was my prop
For many and many a day;
All other props affected me
In a more painful way 1 ”
And then he died. It was in the
Beginning of the winter;
The cortege was just Darley’s trap,
And D.’s poor weeping printer.
BRIEF MENTION.
The only thing M'Quade couldn’t sprain:
His brain.
“Exhibition ” isafairname for theHanlan
sculliog “ contests.”
We must succeed. The Maitland Mail
has given us a par. all to ourselves!
The Shroud advertises “The Humourist.”
We wonder where they “ dug him out.”
They are going to write a biography of
Prince Leopold. It should be a work in several
pieces.
A Jindera publican poisoned himself, the
other day, with arsenic. He must have been
pretty flush of money I
The Gundagai Bailey has evidently at
length gauged his popularity correctly. He pub-
lishes a par. on “ The Law of Burial.”
A correspondent enquires: “ What con-
stitutes an ‘influential citizen?”’ We have re-
ferred the matter to Mr. R. B. Smith.
The Evun News boys felt great interest in
a musical entertainment given at the Town Hall
last Tuesday. It was the concert of—Duff.
Directly we read in the Lyre : “ Magpie
Lost,” we rushef round to Nithsdale street to see
if anything had happened to Mr. Luscombe.
A Swiss gentleman, we read, stung by re-
morse, vowed he would not open his mouth in
speech for ten years. Now, if the missis
Alfred remarks—satirically, we suppose—
that a jumping match between two pedestrians
“ caused a great amount of interest and specula-
tion.”
Mamie Dickens, in the Youth’s Com-
panion, states that her father had a passion for
looking-glasses. Our Premier, we understand, has
the same weakness.
Since the Government announced its in-
tention to buy up ground for a park in Petersham,
the cocks have been crowing all night and the
property-holders all day,
“ What are your political opinions?” said a
touting chief of Department to a young house-
holder in the Lands. “ Four pounds a week, and
from Friday to Monday off,” was the reply.
Mr. Jacob objects to the “ disgusting flirt-
ing ” that goes on at charitable bazaars. Before
a 00° begins to flirt with Jacob, ho will have to
po ter up that fort h,qd at the back of big head.
From Alfred : “ Matrimony. Young
Man wishes to correspond with young lady. Ad-
dress J. A., Glebe Post-office.” Silly boy to spend
two shillings when you can meet her any night in
the Arcade.
The Rom tells us that a mining-speculator
shut himself up and blew his brains out. That
journal, however, exercises a wise discretion in
nnt alluding to the newspaper that was found in
his pocket.
Mr. Bear, the new fire - superintendent,
asks the boys not to tight at fires. Visionary! He
doesn't appear to know that it’s the cask of whisky
that is broached, which is the cause of this pun-
cheon. [I—Ed.B.I
It’s a sad thing, the poisoning of that
young girl in Melbourne. A barmaid again, too.
Why can’t someone poison a parson for a change ?
But to do that you would have to distil the hen-
bane from a rival parson’s doctrines.
When Chris, gives a dinner-party, he al-
ways disguises his coachman in white eotton
gloves, and lays him on to wait. Fish was on, when
this gorgeous retainer comes round to his master
and says, “ You’re wanted, sir, to take sherry-wine
with the third lady on the horf side.” If Chris-
topher denies this, we will let on about how ho was
expelled from the marble o ub for trading com-
montys with the juvenile members for alley-tors.
WHAT IS ART?
MR. COOMBES, C.M.G., SHOWS HORACE BENT HIS IDEA HOW THIS THING SHOULD
BE DONE.
The Gundagai Advertiser has formally
notified its intention to crush us. Spare us this
time, and we won’t never do if no more, whatever
it was. We really forget what it was. If we said
ho was anything at all, it was only a slip.
There was, now—and this is no guiver—
A Brigadier-General MTver,
Who, although pretty cute,
Couldn’t rake in the loot—
His “ pitch '* didn’t cop him a stiver.
Professor Reinsch has discovered that coins
are the feeding grounds of a species of bacteria
and vegetable fungus—which may be the mearis
of progagating disease in the handler. There is
one advantage, therefore, in being on the country
press.
A well-known “cricket” was told off
unexpectedly to review Mr. H. G. Russell’s book,
•‘The Result of Rain.” The reviewer put the
fl.isk behind the almanac, and, g.ancing hastily st
the volume, labelled his par. “ The Result of
Rum.”
“Where’s the Rev. Mr. B. ?” enquired a
friend of an acquaintance, on returning to the
colony. “In heaven,” replied the rev. and holy
pastor whom he addressed. “Dear, dear—chut,
cliutl And you such great friends, too. No matter!
Bear up. Vou won’t see him again, of course; but
you might tumble across eo-nemo you’ll get on
j retty comfortably with in-tlie other place,”
“What! too late?” cried the distracted
brother, as he entered the Villa Nevada. “All
over,” was the reply. “Shocking,” sobbed the
Prince. Then, turning to Captain he said:
Ob, while I remember it, I lent Leo one of my
guns, and ...
The enthralling intelligence comes to us
by telegram that “the territory of Bogos has
been ceded by the Egyptian Government to King
John of Abyssinia. Wo believe this to be a Bogos
story. We may also state now that we are just
about to change our address.
The other night a gentleman tore madly
iwn Macquarie-street, screeching wildly. He
w sin evening dress, and wore diamond jewellery.
‘Why you’re mad,” cried a policeman, stopping
him. “It isn’t madness,” replied the other with a
groan; “ it’s R. B. Smith’s sherry.”
The Melbourne Bulletin boys got a box
of note-paper sent to them, the other day, from
Mullen. Then, attracted by the prettiness of the
paper, they each sat down to write a letter. All
began as follows: “A long experience of your
generous friendship emboldens,” etc.
The Wagga Wagga Advertise* recently
published an article entitled: “How to Select a
Life Assurance Office.” We knew all about that
lung ago; but what wo have been puzzling our
brains to And out for the past twenty years or
so is how to beat a life assurance company with-
out having to die to accomplish it. Tell us that,
will you ?
Ernest Favenc, who is away to blazes up
North, is disgusted with his new M‘Arthur River.
He arrived at it one night, it seems, and settled
down to camp. Next morning there was no ap-
pearance of the newly-discovered stream. His
black boy had drunk it all up during the night.
Teacher to pupils (St Francis’): “And who
is the greatest parliamentary orator of the present
day—the greatest in the world¥’ Chorus: “Dan
O’Connor.” Her aliusioD, of course, was to the
“ G.0.M.” But let us not begrudge the giving of
the first place to the second greatest orator.
Whoopi
“It’s all very well,’’ growled a Domain
Duke, as he shivered up to i riday's D.T. with bis
hands in his pockets and a bead of dew at the end
of his Tyrian nose, “it’s all very well to print
Dibbs’ estimate—better times—five million loan-
money cheap—but where the devil is a man to get
money to buy it ? ”
There is no tact about Alfred. He says, in
one breath, as it were:—“Nymagee Items: The
M'Lean’s comic opera company opened with great
success,” and “Mrs. M’Phee’s boarding house was
broken into on Saturday night, and notes of the
value of £lO were Helen from the cash-box.” This
i wants dove-tailing.
A well-known politician and a friend were
talking “small-pox ’’—the W.K.P. bearing marks
of a wrestle with the disease. “I'm not a bit
nervous,” remarked the well-known politician.
So I should have thought,” said the friend. “ The
only thing you need be afraid of is an earthquake. 4
They are cool now.
The News, by way of cheering up the
“musical” bride and bridegroom, remarks: “Herr
Vogrieh and Miss Alice Rees were married on
Separation Day. Ominous.” We think, after thi°,
it’s about time the Socety editor came back from
tb .?, B l l , eariu@r ’ and lot the other man go out again
with the wood-cart.
The other day, Thady O’Kane, of the
Northern Miner, fined one of his boys a shilling
for using bad language to a subscriber. The boy
cried very much, and considered that he was
hardly treated when the complainant was only his
uncle. This appeared to impress Thadeus—but he
stuck to the shilling.
The denominational cemeteries one sees in
one’s travels around, carefully fenced off from
one another, how eminently suggestive they are
of the fact that railing is the alpha and omega of
the mutual relations of the members of the several
sects—railing between them during life, railing
between them after death. ,
Mr. William Foster recently died in London
worth £1,180,000; and what do you think the poor
of “Horrible London” got out of the plunder?
Not a farthingl We think William must have a
bit of difficulty in struggling through the wicket.
In his latter days he ought to have got a camel and
a needle, and have practised.
Alfred says that when Elliott, the man
who assaulted the warder, was being driven home
in a cab after the inquiry, the mob yelled “ down
with the murderer;” but “Elliott took the matter
quite quietly.” The reason he did not devastate
the populace probably was because he was hand-
cuffed between two warders.
“Thunder, you look bad!” cried Jones to
Brown, as he met the latter being carried home on
a shutter; “ what’s up ?” The battered Brown
supported himself on his elbow with difficulty,
and spitting out a few teeth, said, “ I’ve only been
to a foot-race, and had the misfortune to back the
winner I On with the palanquin I”
The Express emphatically states that there
is no foundation for the rumour that Prince Albert
Victor will be created Duke of Dublin. Of course
that settles it. We like something we can rely on.
Could the editor of the Express also inform us if
there is any truth in the rumour that the Nun of
Kenmare affects striped stockings ?
A reoent number of the Auckland Ob-
server contains, under the new proprietary,
smart writing. We know our bantlings again
when we see them! What a reputation for sly
humour the new editor must be getting. But
that may be obtained by tying a dipper on to a
dog’s tail—by the man who can’t get it any other
way.
The Gundagai Elworthy is “going it!”
He’s got an artiole on “ The Body of Charles I.”
He also states that in some places the sewing-
machine of the present time has not displaced the
distaff use! in the days of “Good Queen Bess.”
We wonder what J. B. E. was in her reign, by the
way. Not a turnspit, of course. Perhaps a turn-
cock.
We have struck a patch in hunting for
brief news notes. Before us ii two-thirds of a
column from the Tumut Times, from which we
rattle off the news of that revolutionary district.
Oh, give us Tumut for life. A horse has bolted;
Adclong suffers from goats; another horse has
bolted ; and the lock-up is repaired. Happy
Tumut!
“ We shall neither idly threaten nor ser-
vilely crawl, but keep on our prescribed course,”
says the Cooktown Independent. And we were
shivering lest the Australian press, in view of
General M’lver’s propheoy of a general European
war at an early date, might not be counted on to
make its weight felt in the diplomatic circles of
Paris, Berlin, and Petersburg.
From the News:—“A mau named Frede-
rick Ayling sustained serious injuries by falling
off the curb (sic) at the corner of Pitt and George
streets on Saturday evening.”
We know you cannot learn to write—
That’s dawned on us full well;
But, at a night-school, boys, you might,
At least, now, learn to spell.
“I hear,” said little Luscombe, mildly, to
an hon. member, “ that Mr. Barton is suffering
from stone in the bladder.” “ That can be cured,”
remarked the gentleman addressed; “but, Mr.
Luscombe, I’ll tell you a disease that can’t.”
“What?” enquired the colliers’ “tom-tit.”
“You’re complaint,” said the member—“stone in
the head.” “ Ring the bell, sergeant!”
The other day some roystering blade of a
barber “bashed” his girl,’and if Harry Levien
hadn’t come into the W. P. Court he would have
been sadly Sa wtelled—we mean slaughtered. Harry
not only defended him, but paid his fine, and took
his 40-bobs’ worth out of the police and the bench.
There would be a fine legal future before Harry—
if he had only a few more H’s behind him.
The Prospect affair is a curious business.
It now transpires that the row between Mr. Adams
and Miss Moloney began because Adams ordereu
her to bed at abOHt sin the afternoon. We re-
member well committing a malicious assault on a
female upon precisely the same grounds. We
kicked her savagely in the eye. The female’s ago
was 45. She was, at the time, 40 years older than
we were.
Some people are silly enough to blame the
wife of one of the Victorian Imperial officers for
sending her cook to represent her at a party. Non-
sense ! Some people are impertinent in their invi-
tations. Why, if Henniker, say, had the cheek to
ask us to a soiree dansante, if we couldn’t subsidise
Frank Warden, we should certainly send a black-
fellow—taking care to have him weU greased for
the c6tiUon.
When the Governor of Queensland heard
that he was to have a local Guard of Honour at
the Opening of Parliament, he tried to persuade
the commander-in-chief of the army that it was
the new fashion, now, for privates to reverse the
rifles at all state ceremonies. The matter was,
however, compromised by the men being paraded,
and each one emptying half-a-pint of cold tea
down his musket.
Seven weeks, on the whole, was enough
for old Lord St. Leonards. The girl, of course,
“ played light ” in the box. We don’t approve of
the peerage being sentenced at all. They ought
just to be kicked when they are giddy. Lord St. L.
has lost his dignity through being sent to New-
gate; but perhaps kicking would have elevated
him in his self-esteem. Who knows? Chris drives
a mail-phaeton and the world’s going mad.
More of Bobby Byrne’s poetry :
“ ‘ Listen to the mocking bird,’
Isn’t it a shocking bird ?
Singing on the tree.
Where the bird, then, should have sung,
Would have sung, or could have sung,
Sorely puzzles me.”
TO THE EDITOR OE “ FIGARO.”
Ob. Bobby! stop this final “wet;”
You’re too rough on the waiter!
Please stop this Cayman’s row, and get
Anotlter alligator'
“Do you belong to the Evening Alfred ?”
enquired a gentleman of something underneath a
hat in the vestibule of the Theatre Royal. They
were by this time in the street. “Yes,” replied
the phonetical phantom, dividing in one hungry
glare the public-house and the cook-shop. “ Wni
you do me a turn?” “With pleasure,” said the
scribe, rubbing his lips. “Then,” rejoined the
stranger, “ my wife sends you her compliments,
and requests that you will do your little hiccup a
bit further off in the dress-circle. She desires me
to state that if she had known that she would have
had bo distinguished a neighbour, she would have
r lbbed her pocket handkerchief with an onion.
You see Fracgipanni and—.” But he was gone.


Hohdehn .brothers,
174,176, 209, and 211, Pitt-street.
II ATS. H \.TS. HATS.
We have opened up now at 174, Pitt-st.,
Men's and Boys' Hats, to suit everyone.
Get,t!emen's Black Paris Hats, 12s. 6d.,
ood, and first elass shape
Gentlemen’s Tweed Hats, for night
wear, 2s. 6d.
Gentlemen’s Soft Felt Hats, the most
comfortable hat made, does not
crease the forehead Is. ltd. t0125.6d.
Boys’ School Hats and Best Hats, all
prices
Sailor Hats, with name in gold on band.
Thesv goods are some of the best in the
market,
An inspection invited.
174, PIT I-STREET, opposite our
Drapery Shop.
176 PITT-STREET.
CARPETS. CARPETS. CARPETS.
We would remind the public that weare
the GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS
for
CARPET-, &c ,
which should be a guarantee that we can
supply you better than other shops.
Best Brussel?, 5-frame, handsome modern
designs and art'stic colouring, made
and laid down anywhere at a very
shott notice.
Best Taptstry Carpets from all the
famous makers; a nice lot of bedroom
patterns, just opening
Kiddermiuster and Felt Carpets
Srair Carpets,in Brussels, Tapestry, and
Dutch
Oilcloths, any size, 50 patterns, well
seasoned and just in. Come and see
them when you anticipate renewing
your floor coverings.
BEDSTEADS.
Although we show very few in front
of shop, still we have a large, cheap, and
well-asiorted stock in our large Bed-
stead Show-room up-stairs. Any price 1
and any size, from the stump bedstead at
12s. Cd. to the Brass Post and Extended
Footrail at £9 95., delivered anywhere
without extra charge.
COME TO-DAY.
These at 176, Pitt-streef, opposite
211, Pitt-street.
TERMS, CASH. TERMS, CASH
LACES. LACES.
LACES.
Our first Spring Shipment of Laces
has arrived, and wo have decided to do
the biggest trade in these goods in
Pi dney this season If you will inspect
our southern window you will see some
Of these goods.
The window i 3 full of Laces, nothing
else. You can then form some idea of
the variety of our stock in tb’s depart-
ment. See them to-day, and buy the
pick of them.
211 PITT-STREET, Sydney.
2U PITT-STREET, Sydney.
MILLTNERY TRIMMED BONNET
and HATS,
fio-n Paris.
See them in our window TO-DAY.
Lice is to be worn much in hat trim-
miig this season, and by inspecting our
winunws you will see some of the
choicest milinery trimmed with the
new thick Edelweiss, &c.
C imo down to-day and see these
Goods.
MANTLES. Mantles. MANTLES.
See them in our windows. A grand
display of these goods in our northern
window.
These goods are chosen by our London
buyer as the best adapted for use and
ornament in the colonies.
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING.
This department is being developed by
us at a rapid rate. Ladies showing
their appreciation of our efforts to sup-
ply the right thing at a very reasonable
rate, we would ask you to give this de-
partment a share ot your patronage, as
wo feel assured you will be pleased with
the tasty, stylish, serviceable goods
found in it.
Th r se goods are kept in the Inner
Show-room, at 211 Pitt-street.
We would remind our new customers
who have recently arrived in the city
that our method of business is to try
with how little profit will pay us—
1. Buying the goods for cash from.
the manufacturers at home.
2. Marking them at the lowest pos-
sible percentage on cost.
3. Working our establishment eco-
nomically, and supplying goods
for cash only.
Thus—l. Givisg you the middleman’s
profit; 2, doing a large trade with a.
small percentage; 3, conducting busi-
ness personally, and ensuring punctu-
ality in all matters; 4, saving the ex-
pense of a large staff of clerks, ex-
penses 'ln book - keeping, and also
guaranteeing that the people who have
the money do net pay for those who
have not.
EVERYTHING FOR LADIES’ WEAR
Everything for Gentlemen’s wear
all the year round.
Everything for Girls’ wear all the year
round.
Everything for Boys’ wear all the year
round.
Everything for Infants’ wear all the
year round.
Everything for fitting up Cottage,
Hotel, Villa, or Mansion, or a Ship.
UPHOLSTERING CARRIED ON on a
LARGE SCALE
Estimates given for Re-covering Suites
of Furniture, and Upholstering
Steamers.
Call in Soon and Early.
We are always ready and willing to
serve you expeditiously, politely,
and well.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
209, 211 Pitt-street,
174,176 (opposite above),
near King-street.
:
i
3
3
3
3
3
MATRIMONIAL— Parents and those newly
married u ay obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
replf, to C, C. W„ Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
Department of Publie Works,
Sydney, 15th July, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing: Public Works and supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at ©very Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Go 7eminent does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, Bth July, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of
a Wiyiden Building, for Public School pur-
p.jbee, at Homebusb.
Plans and Specification,) may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the offioo of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing for tho Homebusb Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary. Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on »' ednesday, 30th July, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKRTT.
Office of the Board of Health,
Sydney, 9lh July, 1884.
IN consequence of the reported outbreak
of the disease known as Small-pox in
the adjacent Colony of Victoria, and the
prospect of the said disease being introduced
into this colony, either overland or by sea-
a contingency which, in the opinion of the
Board of Health, is extremely probable by
reason of the unvaccinated condition of a
large portion of the population—the Board,
in virtue of the powers vested in them by
the “Infectious Diseases Supervision Act of
1881,” direct the publication, for general in-
formation, of the 2nd and 3rd olauses of the
said Act, which point out its requirements,
and the penalties for the non-observance
thereof, which, in the public interest, will
be strictly enforced.
CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M. 8.,
President of the Board.
Case of Small-pox to be reported immediately to
the authorities under penalty of not less than
ten nor more than fifty pounds.
“2. On the appearance of any case of Small-pox
or eruptive fever which may reasonably be sup-
posed to be Small-pox in any house or premises in
New South Wales the householder or occupier of
the said house or premises and also the medic 1
practitioner attending the case shall immediately
report in writing such ease to the proper authori-
ties in manner following that is to say if the case
occur with n the City of Sydney then the report
of the case shall be delivered to the officer in
charge at the nearest police station cr lock-up or
to the officer in charge at the Central Police Station
or to the Health Officer of the Port of Sydney or
to any member of the Government Medical Staff
or the Secretary of the Board of Health and if the
case occur beyond the City of Sydney then the
report shall be delivered to the nearest Magistrate
Officer of Police Clerk of Petty Sessions or to the
Government Mrdical Officer of tho district within
wnich the case has occurred If any person re-
quired by this section to report any such case shall
fail tomakesueh immediate report as hereinbefore
required every such person shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than ten nor more than fifty
pounds which shall be recoverable in a summary
way before a Police or Stipendiary Magistrate
uoon information laid by the Board of Health or
by any officer appointed by such Board for that
purpose.”
Distress &c. on default of payment of penalty.
“3. Payment of any penalty together with costs
(if ordered) awarded under this Act may be en-
forced by distress ard sale of the offenie.’s or
defaulter’B goods and chattels and in default of
sufficient distress by imprisonment with or without
hard labour of such offender or defaulter for any
term not exceeding six calendar months unles3 the
amount of the penalty and costs (if any) be sooner
paid.”
QUEENSLAND EXHIBITION, 1881.
mHE Illuminated Advertising and Lime Light
-®- Company have purchased the Sole Right of
Shows at the forthcoming Exhibition, August
20th, 21st, and 22nd. For terms and spaoe, apply
by letter, 206 Queen-street, Brisbane.
T. M. TYRRELL,
Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &e., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 pm.
£■ P. TOLLEM A.CHE, Licensee and General Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
f MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond uuder supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKEIt, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-streef, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide:
cooper "esiaieT ~iam
TITLE—FREEHOLD.
J&T This well-known properly has been LOCKED TJP FROM SALE for many years, but in
V° <bo Wishes ot the People the owner has had a large portion of tho Estate SUB-
DIVIDED in a raovt lioeral manner by Messrs. REUBS and HALLORaN, Llcensod Surveyors, into
BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
which will be submitted to PUBL’C COMPETITION, as FREEHOLDS,
On Thursday, 29th July,
when the public will have the long-desired opportunity to secure these Um-ivalled Sites.
BAIT, ROOD, ui PORVES
Have pleasure in announcing that they have received instructions from WM. COOPER, Esq., to
sell by public auction,
On TUESDAY, 29th JULY NEXT,
AT 11 A.M. PROMPT, at their
New Sale Rooms, 88 Pitt Street,
A LARGE PORTION OF THAT WELL-KNOWN PROPERTY, THE
COOPER ESTATE, WATERLOO.
The part of the Estate now in the market is that fronting MITCHELL HOAD, opposite and
adjoining the MACDONALDTOWN and ALEXANDRIA PARK, within the CITY BOUNDARY
close to the GOVERNMENT WORKSHO PS, and accessible from ary part of the city
BY ’BUS AND TRAM.
wt^£ e A r 5 DI Xi, 810 ? bas been carried out on a meat liberal scale. Tho streets nre nil «« rrvT
iVtvjS’ Portions being shown by Fiogor Posts Each site has a back entrance from a2O-EFPT
LANE, and is pegged out and numbered, so that with the ail of a Plan of the
lrora the Aucttioeere) intendm* buyers can easily ldeSiiry each o* otment' (obtainable
THE TITLE IS FREEHOLD;
AND
THE TERMS EXCEPTIONALLY EASY,
Viz.:—
1° P er . cen< " deposit, 10 percent, by P.N. at three months, without interest, the balance by tlve
.wtto
PLAN 3 OBTAINABLE FROM THE AUCTIONEERS.
TO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS, INVESTORS, BUILDERS, CLERKS ARTISANS
AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC,
The Sale of the Cooper Estate, Waterloo,
affords an opportunity for the Safe Investment of Capital, with the certainty of profit, the equal c f
which may not come into the market for years. ’ equal ct
CAPITALISTS and INVESTORS will hr re find u Safe Outlet for their e
ehase of accessible FREEHOLD LAND with a daily increasing value. * n tho pur '
withbTthe next 3C a 'B Crtdlt) ’ Laud that 111 cat,
.S,!'KSVS™ sp "“‘ ild 81J,L,,1!i0 B 'ND, well dra.ued and laid out, acces-
CLERKS will here find an Investment for their Savings better than any Savings’ BaDk
ARTISANS and WORKING MEN will here obtain Ruilding Sit s convpninni
Government and other large Works, handy to town by ’Bus and Tram. convenient to the
While
The General Public will have a splendid opportunity to obtain good AooesGhi« t -no
a Large Prospective Value, cn Easy Terms (payments extending over oyeari) b Lnd wlth
SOLICITORS TO THE ESTATE ;
Messrs. ICETON & EAITHFULL, Pitt-st.
.
BATT, ROOD, & PURI/ES, Auctioneers.


Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and musoular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Llliott
Bros., Prosser, Hotfnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
Books on Mining, by Mr. DeCouroy
Browne, Beresford Chambers, 52 Castlereagh-
street—The “ Misers’ Handy Book,’* 2nd Edition,
relates wholly to Miners’ right claims—ls. 6d.; by
post, 2s. The “Mining Leaseholders’ Guide, re-
lating wholly to Mining Leases, Mineral Lioense
Holdings, and Mineral Conditional Purchases—
-2s 6d.; by post 3s. The “Manual of Minerals,
commonly found in Australia : how to dis-
tinguish, test, assay, and value them—ls. od.; by
post 2s. J. J. Moore and Co., 554 George-street,
Sydney.*
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective ourative properties
‘©f all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.’
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
* without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. 8
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAB THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
pr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WeakNervousMen
4
as
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, prematura decay
and failure t® perform life’s
duties properly are eaused by-
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting-
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS,
stomach drugging nor
. instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new nnd direct methods and absolute thor.
onghness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 52 Castlaroagh St., Sydney
TR ADR
MASIK.
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
o£ the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding-, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
falling remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
Xvos&rif/u* < i/j/UA yanoH jiw
\ •o.S' xaMDJXO ltd V6tl '/£l >
IN?WHSII3VI?3 VllVl
SH±ya\ axivw^jLpN
art
K
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
mUE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
■ Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Remale Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the grea* value of Dr.
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents; ELLIOIT BROTHERS*,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to home this index pasted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
extorting events in general.}
RACING.
Thargominda J.C Ju Liv is’
VRC SDrinir Novenlber 1, 4. 6,8.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring). ...November _l9, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27, 28.
COURSING.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Sackville Reach July 24.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River •■•••••■ • Jw 2 *'
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R... . August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake.. August 27.
ATHLETICS
T. A. Noud v. T. Ellem, 150 yards, at
Grafton August 20.
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap (£300)...... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Spring Meeting.... Bept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
Wanderers’ B.C. Race Meeting July 17.
Balmain and Burwood B.C. Moot ..Julyl.).
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
N. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Gus. Hill, a noted American club swinger,
manipulates a club weighing 1151 b.
Messenger has received an order from the
North Shore Rowing Club, Auckland (N.Z ), for a
string-test gig.
The sending of a team of New Zealand
footballers to England is talked of in Maoriland.
The spec, ought to pay.
The Wide Bay News says that Frank
Whittaker won the 100-yards’ bicycle race. This
is sprinting with a vengeance.
John L. Sullivan says he has made £20,000
and is going to close the present tour by knocking
out Mitchell, Thompson, and Pendergast, all in one
week.
The 250 yards spin between M. Hyam and
D. M’Lean, came off on the Numba raoecourse,
and resulted in a win for Hyam. The stakes were
£5O a-side.
At Botany, on Saturday last, T. M. Malone
defeated Hilliard in a 150-yards’ spin, for a stated
£lOO aside. Malone conceded three j ards, and won
by a couple of yards In 15)48eo.
At the Stantborpe (Q.) Athletic Club sports,
W. Clifford, an eighteen-vear-old, won the mile
walk from scratch in 7min. 25seo. O’Keefe made
an easy win of the mile handicap.
It is expected that a dozen or so Victorian
bicyclists will come over for the Bydney BC.
sports on 2nd August. The list will include the
cracks, H. and F. Stokes and Shackleford.
There was a good muster of quoitists
on Moore Park last Saturday, a handicap game
with six competitors producing some gool play.
“ Old Jolly ” appears to be as lively as ever with
the “irons.”
Several Sydney papers continue to insert
a match between Matterson and Edwards in their
list of aquatic “ fixtures.” So far as we can glean,
no match has been, or is likely to be, made between
the twd scullers.
At the first meeting of the Eiverina Cours-
ing Club, held at Hay, G. Hughes’ Flirt carried off
the Eli Eluah Cup; J. Calloway’s Terminus won
the Consultation Stakes; and the Show Stake fell
to C. A. M Donald’s Bob.
The plunder in oonneotion with the recent
six days’ walk in New York was divided on May 6.
In round numbers, Fitzgerald received £1891;
Rowell, £734 ; Panchot, £400; Noremac, £237 ;
Hertz, £169; Vint, £135 ; Elson, £lOO.
A regatta will be held at the St. Croix
River, Calais, U.S., on July 24. For the professional
sculls it is expected the starters will be Ross,
Courtney, Hosmer, Hamm, Conley, Turner, Lee,
Riley, Ten Eyck, Plaisted, and Paterson.
Clifford, the sculler, went home last week
for a spell. How he has pleased his friends has not
transpired, but should b© have given Kerr a satis-
factory show in private of what he can do, we
shall no doubt soon hear of his flying at big game.
There are several crack amateur runners
in the Queensland football team H. Pritchard
beat George Bonnor in a 159 yards spin, and r.
Pratten has since beaten Fritchsrd. Tom Bond is
the champion miler, and Prlng Roberts can claim
to be their best hurdle-racer.
There has been trouble amongst the
Donald Dinnie athletic company. Donald has
broken up the show, and Victor and others are
trying to recover their screws through the court.
We should just now like to have Monsieur’s pri-
vate opinion of the stalwart Scot.
The Narandera billiard tournament has
conic to a conclusion at last. Finister came off
with fir t honours and the pewter, and " Skeleton
was a close runner-up. Moriarty proved alto-
jpethor too good for tho local and it was not
before vast sums had been offered him that he
consented to stand cut.
The Moseley Harriers and Blackheath Har-
riers, who number amongst their members most
of the crack amateur runners of the day, reoenty
met in friendly rivalry at Birmingham, when W.
G. George, of the Moseleys, carried off no fewer
than four events, viz , the half-mile, mile, four
miles, and mile and a half steeplechase.
The Grafton sports on Friday last at-
tracted a big attendance. D Stuart won the
Maiden Plate; Buckland, of Lismore, who ran
under an assumed name, won the Grand Handi-
cap • J. Peacock proved best man in the Hurdle
Race ; Thomas Ellem won the 150 yards Champion
Race, and J. Hutchings carried off the Consolation
Handicap.
The Northumberland Amateur Turf Club
were lucky, both as regards weather and attend-
ance for their races on Saturday last. Bezique
won the Hunter’s Hurdle Race, Garnet the Ladies’
Mile Rocket the Shorts Handicap, Arrow carried
ntf the Handicap Hack Race, Minnamurrah made
an easy win of the N.A.T.C. Handicap; and the
Hack Race fell to Negrohead.
In England, J. Roberts, junr., recently
started a billiard match with W. J. Peall.in whicn
he allowed the compiler of the biggest break on
record 1989, no less than 2000 out of 10,000. At
latest ’the giver of points had reached 5000 first,
and looked all over a winner. Peall made breaks
of 288 (93 spots) and 457 (145 spots), and Roberts
rap together 288 (93 spots) and an unfinished break
of 460.
Mr. George Donnelly had a bit of bad luck
at Liverpool on Saturday last, as the stable
thought they had a good show for the George s
River Handicap with old Rosinante. and put their
“stuff ” on, but the boy ruined their prospects by
B-oinir inside a post shortly alter the start. The lad
rendered himself liable to a £lO fine for continu-
ing in the race, but the stewards took a merciful
view of the case, ns it was palpable the boy com-
pletely lost his head.
Richard K. Fox offered to back John
Hughes to run for six days against the winner of
the recent six days trouble at New York for £lo’o.
He put up £lOO with the edito" of the Spirit of
the Times. And, by the way, the Spirit will not
notice even a glove contest, Jet alone a bout with
the knuckles, en the score of the alleged brutality
of the sport. We suppose Rowell underwent more
punishment during the recent six days go-as-you-
please than Mace has put up with through his
whole career.
The much-postponed Liverpool Jockey
Club races came off on Saturday last. Uhlan
started for the Hurdle Race at 6 to 4 on him, but
be did not take to his work kindly, and Right
Bower won by something like half a mile; Stella
carried off the Public Auction Stakes ; Dizzy
made an easy win of tho George’s River Handicap
from Boscawen; 'the Novel Race resulted in a dead
heat between Revenge and Nepicallina; and
Emilius defeated Boscawen rather easily for the
Flying Handicap.
“Our Boys” in Enland appear to be
gettiDg on n« better with English umpires, despite
the new rules, than did their predecessors. Aus-
tralian cricketers on English soil have always
suffered from the one-sidedness of English pro-
fessional umpires. The nomination of Price for
the position in the match against the Gentlemen,
after his undeniable unfairness in the Marylebone
match, was simply an insult to our men, and they
did the correct thing in refusing to play until
another umpire was appointed.
One of the events at the Gymkhana meet-
ing, at Malta, on th© 24th of May, was a “saddle
and smoke race.” The regulations to be fulfilled
by the competitors were : To stand by their
ponies’ heads with saddles over their arms. At
the word “go,” to saddle and ride off, lighting a
cigar before so doing. At the first bridge, to dis-
mount on tho usual side, and remount on the off
side. The same to be done at the second bridge.
Winner to come in with cigar alight and girth
secure. This sort of thing is old in Australia. We
have some moke races at nearly all the country
meets.
That distinguished Australian, hailing
from Ratcllffe Highway, Frederick Hanst id, Esq.,
better known as Young Dutchy, has at last
brought his name prominently before the Ameri-
AT THE AMURRIKAN BALL.
(Time, after midnight. Masks removed.)
MR. Z. HAYMAN (in the cent, per cent, line): “SHO[?]TTH YOU, ITH IT, MITH THMITH.
WOT’S YOUR CHARACTER? ESTHER, HEY?”
MISS SMITH: “NO, MR. HAYMAN, I’M NOT AS ESTHER; PRAY WHAT IS YOUR
CHARACTER?"
MR. Z. H.: “ME! OH I’M A GENTLEMAN OF THE LAST CENTURY.”
MISS S. (unkindly): “ WHOSE LAST CENTURY, MR. HAYMAN; AND, BY THE WAY, DID
YOU THINK I WAS ESTHER BECAUSE YOU ARE HAMAN?”
(He catches the “hang” of her last remark, and reflects which of the Smith family he can sell up.)
ran public. Dutchy was backed by a C. F. Beck
to fight an unknown for £2O, and the money was
duly planked. The authorities prevented the
match, and Dutchy received back the £2O, for
which he gave a receipt. Dutcby’s memory, how-
ever, played him false, and he informed his backer
he only received £lO, which sum he handed over.
Beck has now had the enterprising pugilist ar-
rested for embezzlement.
The Intercolonial football match, Queens-
land t). New South Wales, drew a big crowd to the
Association Ground, on Saturday last. The re-
spective teams were composed and disposed as
follows New South Wales—S. Dean, back ;
Wood, Chapman, H. M. Baylis, half-back; H.
Fligg, S Chapman, E. Cameron, quarter-back; C.
Tange, F. Baylis, Osborne, O’Donnell, Shaw, Sweet-
land, Pearson, and Walters, forwards. Queens-
land—Roberts, back; H. Pritchard, A. Feez, G.
Pratten, half - back : J. Anderson, T. Pratten,
quarter-back; Hickson, Robinson, Ransom, Bond,
Armstrong, Wood, Baynes, Snell, and Eddison,
forwards. The locals fairly ran over the Banana
men, and won by 17 points to 4.
Aquatic men who remember the exciting
races between oificials of the financial department
of the Government service, when gentlemen who
rowed under the respective sobriquets of
“Jungle,” “Cockles,” “Mussels,” “Biceps,” and
others were in the heyday of their youth and Her-
culean strength, will not be sorry to hear that the
Department has again determined to startle the
aquatic world with its performances. On Friday
last the first race of the season eventuated, the
contestants being Messrs. Cousins and Gray, who
rowed over the Woolloorqooloo Champion Course
for a valuable trophy. Mr. Cousins dashed away
with a fine turn of sneed, evidently with tho object
of “ bursting ” Mr. Gray, tut the latter was not to
be cozened In this fashion, and, although fouled
by a Bydney Rowing Club man, he rowed a ding-
dong race all through, and just managed to beat
Mr. Cousins on the post by a few feet.
Last season a Sydney weekly came out
with articles on open-boat sailing, written by a
contributor who went outside the usual “ every-
thing passed off satisfactorily ” style, and put
things “straight” when abuses needed it. But
tiis state of affairs did not suit the owner of
a boat so he drafted out a petition, asking
the editor of the journal in question to discontinue
inserting the “straight” contributions, to which
he obtained some thirty signatures, chiefly of
members of the 8.A.8.C. We had occasion once
or twice to chide, in our gentle fashion, the same
wrathy boat-owner and club to which he belongs,
and suppose we ought to feel thankful we have
not been annihilated ere this. But we still live,
and so does the straight-going contributor to the
Sydney weekly, with whom we rub noses, and
hope next season to see more of his “straight
articles, written in the best interests of theglorious
sport of open-boat sailing.
Loffler, the German dentist and horse
doctor, who recently performed satisfactorily on
Barcaldine, has had a slight misunderstanding
with the American plunger, Walton. It appears
Walton’s mare Girofle went “off her feed, be-
came vicious, and took to “ cribbing.” Loffler was
called in, found that the trouble was with the
mare's teeth, and returned her completely cured.
A dispute about the bill for services rendered,
ensued, ugly epithets were exchanged, and Walton
finally landed the horse doctor on the smeller.
Loffler returned with a riding whip* and although
Walton made good play with nis flats, at the end of
ten minutes’ fight, he got rather the worst of the
battle Walton swears prosecution for assault and
battery, while Loffler proposes to take a unique
revenge by stationing nis pony close to the rails
during the next race Girofle runs. He says the
mare will be certain to stop and caress the pony,
and so be thrown out of the contest: and he swears
Walton will have to kill him on his pony before
Gerofie has any show of winniag a raoe in Eng-
land.
A meagre attendance put in an appear-
ance on the first day of the Clarence River Jockey
Club races. Arista won the Mare’s Produce Stakes
from end to end from Aga, Acme third; Moonshee
beat Raleigh for the Maiden Plate, Agricola third;
Sir Edward won the City Handicap after a great
struggle with Prism, Hilltop third; Hilltop de-
feated Prince Leopold by a couple of lengths, for
the Grand Stand Handicap, Bir Edward third; and
His Worship fairly ran away with the Fifth
C.R J.C. Derby from Argandab, the only other
starter. The attendance was more satisfactory on
the second day, and the weather was perfect.
Prince Leopold made an easy win of the Hurdle
race from Chesterfield, Falcon third. Agricola
started at 6 to 4 on him for tho Sires’ Produce
Stakes, and won by three lengths from Arista,
Acme third. For the C.R J.C. Handicap Hilltop
led into the straight, and won easily from Prism,
Raleigh third; Serf had an oasy affair in the Novel
Selling Race; and Princess of Lome finished the
meet by winni- g the Flying Handicap from Prism,
Sir Edward third.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Geelong (Vio.) footballers played their
first match last Thursday on the Adelaide Oral,
against the South Parks teats. The Geelpnae
scored 7 goals, 12 behinds against 2 goals 6 bohinds.
Fully 5000 persons attended Hanlan s show at
Lake Weeroona (Vic.) last Wednesday week....
Hailstorm, who won the Steeplechase at the last
Moonee-valley (Vic.) meeting, injured himself so
severely at a hunt on Saturday week that he had
to be destroy ad... At Gunnedah the local foot-
ballers defeated the Narrabri ditto by six points to
nil. Mud and disputes the most prominent items
of the game.... At Wattle Flat, lately, in a 50-yards
spin for a “ tenner,” Ray and Vincent ran a dead-
heat three times in succession.
• ■ •
This month will see the last of Matt. Daw-
son in the training business Roysterer, who
won the City and Suburban last year for Lord
Rosebery, and was'subsequently exported to the
Cape, scored an easy win in the Fernwood Stakes
at the South African Jockey Club meeting on
April 19 Cleary, the dual knocker out of Sher-
rill, was matched to meet Charley Mitchell on May
24, at Madison Square GardeD, N.Y.. James Watson
arrived safely in India with Falkirk and Tabletop.
Lord William Beresford’s Arab, Reformer, who
wa? on his way to England to run in the Arab race
at Newmarket, died in the Red Sea.


£5OO will be paid for any case that Hop
Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not. See.
Flies and boos, beetles, insect j, roiuht *, mts
bed-bugs, rats. rnioe, gophers. jack-rabbi r?, Ci .ai t-.j
§ut by “Rough on Rats.” Moaos, M-isi ot 10,.
ydney, General Agents.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. lF*r~ Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &o. No commission charged for
buying. VW Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock,*
HENRY GEORGE S SOCIAL
PROBLEMS.
Mr. Dividend dwells in Potts’ Point, and
when his window is thrown open of a balmy
summer morning, when the coffee steams on the
table and the fresh sea air invites to toast and
family worship, he feels with his thumb and finger
nis well-shaven chin, smiles with approval that bis
youngest daughter with no ear is punctual and
distant at the morning’s music lesson, and thinks
that if the directors of the Land Shylook Invest-
ment Society had only declared a 23J4j per cent,
div. instead of a 33, this would be the best of all
possible worlds. His little morning bit of toast
and eggs is over, and he has retired to his study, as
he calls it—his office, as we should say. His eldest
darling, Arabella, has all the accomplishments,
from inability to cook a steak up to mangling a
sonata; and she comes in, rosy as the morn, with a
parcel of elegantly-bound books—yesterday’s pur-
chase—to show papa. That worthy gentleman
encourages her in literature, knowing his own
neglected education, and how he has sometimes
lost money over it. “And, oh, papa,” she says,
laying aside a 10s. 6d. volume on “ Cats—Their
Habits, and How to Treat Them,” “ the bookseller
iu mistake wrapped up this curious little paper-
oovered shilling book, on ‘ Social Problems.’ I
asked Governess Down-in-the-World, after I had
Bhown her the other books, what it meant, and she
only looked into it and cried. I’m sure I don’t
know what she wants to cry about. She has
£3O a year, and no one to keep but her
mother. I believe she’s always fretting about,
that mortgage that ruined her father.” “She is
discontented, my dear,” replies Mr. Div., sternly;
" £3O a year, and board and lodgiDg is ample.
People can be got for less. ‘ln whatsoever station
ye may be, be ye therewith content,’ says Scrip-
ture. Show me the book. “ Oh, ah, ‘ Social Pro-
blems’—Henry George—yes, I’ve read about him—a
fellow that wants to turn people out of house and
home. He wants to take away everybody’s land
and give it to everybody else, my dear. It can’t
be done. He calls it a ‘ social problem.’ There is
no social problem. Everything is going on all
right. Go away now, darling, and read your other
books.” “I think you said, Mr. Pressure," he re-
sumed, turning to nis manager, “that that devia-
tion of the line into the city will increase the
value of Screwem Terrace ? How many families
are there?” “Thirteen.” “Good; raise the rent
after a week’s notice.” “They are mostly me-
chanics and tradesmen employed about Mr.
Sweatem’s Factory, and I don’t think they can pay
more; and there are no houses to let within half a
mile,” said Mr. P. “ They’ll find tho money some-
where if it’s so convenient,” returned Mr. Div.;
“besides, if they don’t, somebody else will. I
didn’t get my land for nothing.” . . . Since Mr.
George’s book is 6eliing by thousands in Aus-
tralia, it is fair to assume that there are
sooial problems, that reform is needed, and
that tho great public interest taken in the so-
lution of these problems, is proof that it is no
passing craze over a bookish speculation. vVe are
aware that the first requisite for a radical reform
In a free community is to have wide-spread discus-
sion and a common public opinion as to what
reform is requir ed. Being human, we, of course,
split up into parties as to the how. We have ad-
vanced the first stage, however; for we have
decided thatQ land laws as hitherto promulgated
hero are bad and must be altered. That public
opinion has been turned to it is sufficiently indi-
cated by the fact that the rise and fall of Minis-
tries, however much determined by personal
considerations, has almost invariably the formal
pretext of there having been proposed a land
policy more or less satisfactory to the people.
According to Mr. George, a satisfactory solution
ef the land problem is the preliminary to a solu-
tion of nearly ail the others classed as social. The
present land system produces undue inequalities.
Undue in the physical aad mental
condition of men, is the causa of misery. The
world produces enough for a'l of us; but while
humbly crediting Heaven witn our own stupid
devices in its distribution, we fold our arms; the
many have husks, and the indolent few a surfeit
of the grain. Mr. George indignantly lashes those
drowsy-headed well-fed saints, who, knowing the
squalor, filth, and crime, that come from the over-
crowding of tenements, and from which their fat
rents are drawn, piously give their cheque to the
mission funds, and to charities, and, when appealed
to for some attention to a proposal to stop the
evil at its source, say,“ Ah, yes-that’s all very well
but you know there’ll always be rich and poor.
‘The poor ye have always with you,’ says the
Scripture. Good day.” It is impossible, in the
space of a short article, to quote passage after
passage showing how Mr. George, in this and pre-
vious books and speeches, has siiown the rise and
extent of tne modern piracy, which fixes as pri-
vate property for the use of descendants, and
legalises the contraband traffic in the property of
others, that which goes under the name of fee sim-
ple and free trade in land. The surface of the globe
is our only foothold; and the only freehold is 6x3
Its conditions, he almost argues, are characteristi-
cally enough to suit the phrase, that it shall be
beneath the surface, and not private property dur-
ing life. With absolute ownership ot land there is
nothing to prevent Anthony Hordern’s syndicate
running their line around from the west to meet
one of Tyson’s in the east, and for Money Miller
and Sir Samuel Wilson, and the other millionaires
to complete the circuit, to control our external
trade, get some Henry Parkes Investment Com-
pany to control our city properties, starve us out,
and then, generously providing us with rafts
and paddles, aud a bag or two of flour,
run a fence round the continent and stick,
up threatening notices warning off trespassers.
That there are other checks to such a fanciful
Climax is, of course, evident enough; but that it
is equally evident that, on a small scale, this
actual hemming-in is in progress, nobody who
knows what the growth of great cities means can
deny for a moment. While a great territory is
being opened up, and new comers have only to
move a little and a little further out, and good
land is available, we may not feel the evil. There
may even be comparative plenty. But the candle
is burning at both ends with ever-increasing
rapidity. The number of people wanting ground
to stand on increases rapidly-the supply is daily
decreasing; and, to extend the simile of tho candle,
as if this ruinous policy were not fast enouarh, the
rats are gnawing away at the middle of the candle
—the speculators successfully tempt the previous
settlers to quit their holdings. The first settlers
live well for a while on the bribe; then the pawn-
brokers take villa residences, and our fathers, in-
stead of leaving us our portion of the God given
estate, bring us into a world where the emblem of
power is three gilt balls, and our title-deeds are
pawn-tickets. Mr. George’s contention bears on
the face of it the stamp of truth. All taen are
born equal in respect or a right to live and enjoy
the fruits of their own labour. A child born on
the beach and shipped aboard the raft wo have
Imagined above, has not even the rights of
a fish. And for a fair and equal start in
life, and the acquirements of wealth, the child
born of poor parents in a great city is in no re-
spects worse off, except in losing an early chance
of being drowned. Briefly, Mr. George contends
that, inasmuch as the land increases in value by
the labour of all who use it, that Increase should
be distributed amongst all. The title to land
should be leasehold, with just such length of
tenure as shall tend to its being put to the most
productive use, instead of the us* that best suits
the speculative notions of those fortunate fellows
who are born to a harvest they have never sown.
The objections on the face of this resumption of
the land are mostly howis about confiscation and
the rights of property. He proposes merely to
take tne increase in rent for redistribution; and
that not by going around and shaking out the
landholders’ rent-bag for a scramble lu the street,
bat by having it applied to the extinction of un-
necessary taxation, and the removal of public
debts, and the consequent cheapening to mankind
of the means of subsistence. It is hard to state aD
objection he has not fairly met; and whether the
reform he seeks will be carried out exactly along
She lines he expects, or would, if completed,
lo all that he hopes, we shall not live
to see. One thing, however, we would point
Out. He is a man of immense force, wide know-
ledge, and skilled in the art of getting his views
discussed all over the world. Ho appeals not only
to the selfishness, but tries to stimulate the unself-
ishness of the world ; and whatever comes of his
attempt, the generation which has recognised his
manly crusade as a leading feature of the age, will
at least have the unique honour of having dis-
cussed a social problem from a philosophic stand-
point, in a practical way, and in strong contrast to
that used by the economico-political nostrum-
mongers of the old school of reformers. Perhaps
we shall not bo so proud to have it remembered
that, at this very hour,-whilst these fundamental
questions are being discussed bjr the bvstthirkers
of the time, of a hundred men in our Parliament
not one appears to be conscious that in the settle-
ment of our own land question the views of
Henry George or Spencer, or any of the great
thinkers of the time, can have tbe slightest bear-
ing on the future of the little card house they are
building from tho toy boxes of Sir Jack or Sir Gill.
No wonder Spencer refused to sit for Leicester,
and said that “ public opinion is formed outside
of Parliament.”
Here is a suggestion for the unemployed.
“ TheGermaD Reichstag have passed a Bill making
It compulsory for all workmen to insure against
accident.” The unemployed of Sydney should
agitate for the passage of a similar Bill by the
Parliament of New South Wales. They are all
workmen, or pretend to be; and after they become
insured, all they’ll have to do is to walk under a
soaffolding, and let some careless Irishman drop a
brick down on their heads. Depend upon it, if
suoh a measure wore passed hero, evei’y new build-
ing In Sydney would be surrounded by a file of
“ workmen” anxiously awaiting the falling of the
fortunate brick which should put them in for a
handsome weekly stipend. Don’t know but we
may try it ourselves; or, at any rate, we’ll go
“ halves” with the workmen, and drop the brick.
“Special attention,” said the Rum pro-
speotus, “ will be given to sporting matters.” This
promise has been more than carried out; for in
Wednesday’s Rum we see, under that heading,
that “ about 13 o’clock on Monday a man was taken
to the Sydney Hospital from Erskine-streot, where
he was found suffering from fits; he had a succes-
sion of them during the night, and up till a late
hour last night remained in an unconscious state.
His name is supposed to be James M‘Kay . .
We’re not, personally, great on sporting, our ex-
perience of the manly chase being confined chiefly
to hunting a flea with a broom-handle; but we
feel that this par. might have been penned-as
Horace Bent would say—“ by any Nimrod.” If we
could write “sporting ” like this, we would sell off
the time-payment barrow-load, give all to the first
pedestrian we met, and live henceforth cleanly
and on race-course sandwiches
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
"WAS YOU A SUFFERER BY THAT THERE HORIENTAL BANK SMASH?”
“WELL, NOT PUSSONALLY; BUT SEYRAL OF ME WEALTHY FRIENDS WAS.”
Here is a study in black and whiteA man
in Howard county, Arkansas, is the owner of a
considerable farm. His daughter, in her teens,
while at work in the field alone, was horribly
assaulted by a ruffian. The authorities refused to
arrest the villain: the friends of the girl pursued
and killed him. Thereupon the ruffian's acquaint-
ances gathered to the number of four hundred;
killed the first man they met, and while he was
being buried they fired into the company and killed
four more. They then arrested the most promi-
nent citizens they could And who were in sympathy
with the girl, and got three of them condemned to
the gallows and thirty to the penitentiary for terms
of from five to eighteen years. The men who could
not get the ravisher arrested and therefore killed
him have been punished. Hut how about that
other party of four hundred who killed the five—
has anything been done to them ? Nothing. The
firl was coloured: her avengers were coloured,
'he ruifi.au was white: his avengers are white.
The Episcopal Register remarks, with
reference to the fortune which Holloway suc-
ceeded in amassing: “To this, no doubt, many
thousands contributed who deny the elfioacy of
true religion for the healing of the soul.” This
little observation was meant as a sneer at human
gullibility; yet how very, very far from getting
at the best illustration of man’s credulousness was
the Register when It selected the wide-spread
belief in the material virtues of medicines, which
sometimes do good and never do harm, as an illus-
tration thereof, and ignored that one which was
so much nearer to its hand—the enormous confi-
dence of ignorant millions in a creed which is the
prolific mother of superstition. Holloway gives
his simple votaries something for their monoy; the
far simpler votaries of Priestcraft get nothing in
return for their offerings. There are degrees in
fulling as in gullibility; and, though Holloway
new something of the method to get at mankind,
he was a mere babe in comparison with the manipu-
lators of those ecclesiastical systems which for
centuries past have got at poor victimised hu-
manity.
In 1601 tho Wealeyans had 825 chapels or
places of worship; the Independents had 914; the
Baptist had 853. According to a parliamentary re-
turn that was issued last year, the live divisions of
Baptists had 3348 certified places of worship : the
Independents 3608; and the nine divisions of
Methodists had 13,305. The gross total, therefore,
of the places of worship of these three great bodies
in 1833 was over 18,000. The total of churches and
chapels in which marriages were solemnised ac-
cording to the rites of the Established Church was
14,500, or only a thousand more than the Methodists
alone. In line, the whole of the non-established
bodies, now including Jews, Catholics, Quakers,
and the rest, number 31,300 of these buildings
against the 14,500 of the Established Church, or
very nearly half as many again. When (says ttw
author of " The Radioal Programme” in the Fort-
nigiitly) we have made whatever adjustments
mav be reasonable for the greater accommodation
in one group of buildings, not omitting, however,
the set-off in the fuller attendance in the other
group, welmay well ask after all, what in the name
of common sense is to be made of the talk about a
national church in the face of figures like these ?
The Manxmen in Melbourne have formed
themselves into an association. To the general
community this will be joyous news. For, of
course, as is the habit of associations, there will
be papers read and lectures delivered by eloquent
members ef this Manx one, telling us all about
where the deuce they came from, now the deuce
they lived when they were there, and why the
deuce they don’t bring the whole little island out
and put it in theMallee. When it was notified that
Sir Henry Loch was coming out, the daily papers
displayed great anxiety for some original matter
on the Isle of Man, but, after sounding in many
quarters, they had to dress out and send to the
Public Library a couple of bald-headed boys to cut
a couple of columns from the shelves. Had this
Manx Association been up and doing at that
period, see the gain to the general community 1 At
their meeting the other day, however, they inti-
mated that the Association owes its inception to
the Tact that Sir Henry is coming to Australia
Now, when the other queries have been answered
for the satisfaction of the general community,
perhaps the Association would take an early op-
portunity to answer this one. namely: Why the
devil (hey make It so evident to everybody
that Manx also produces “ Jeameses ?”
“God have mercy upon them.” This
beautiful sentiment, dear friends, was expressed
by Major Barker during his interview with the
Daily Telegraph reporter. And to whom did
these simple words of blessing refer ? Did they
refer to the elect—to captains, lieutenants, lasses,
or hysterical hangorr-on of the Harmy? Oh! no,
dear lriends, not to them, but to men from whom
the Major has suffered sore persecution—the Mel-
bourne City Ben b, and poor ignorant polioemen.
What touching, Christian charity is here displayed,
dear friends. Although these police had, la tnetr
blindness, moved on the “soldiers” of the Lord;
although this very Bench had but recently fined
the Major a “fiver,” yet he was not unmindful of
the fact that they were brothers. So, when the
D.T. reporter asked of the Apostle Barker—“ What
about the men iu blue?” there came this ever
memorable reply—“As to both them and the
Bench, they do not understand us. God have
mercy upon them 1 ” Here, dear friends, is surely a
lesson for us all; if ever we s lould suffer persecu-
tion, like the Salvation Major, let us strive to bear
it with equal resignation, saying, in the words of
our text, “God have mercy upon them.” A col-
lection for the Harmy Defence Fund will now be
taken up.
A French curd (who has been able to pick
up a good many shrewd ideas anent womankind)
thinks that it would be difficult to revive the
Passion Play In ParH. (1.) It would be impossible
to flout modem prejudices to the extent of
getting young men to personate the Marys and
the daughters of Jerusalem. (3.) The private
lives of French theatrical ladies aro too public for
any of them to perform a sacred character In a
holy place without arousing a cry of indignation
among all the truly devout. “Imagine,” he
writes, “a fcurccuse like Sara Bernhardt, or even
Rachel (who contlned herself to classical tragedy,
and disdained such saletAs as La Dame aux Cam -
lias) rising to sublime heights of pathos in the
Mater Doloroso! It would be intolerable. In the
part of Mary Magdalen we might afford not to be
so particular. As for femmes du monde, having
copied their sinful sisters for thirty years, they
have outrun their models. On the whole, I have
more respect for the farceuse, who is what she is
from necessity, than for one who from choice
serves as a model to the artists of La Vie Parisi-
enne, and reads Oil Bias every morning. Tho
only women I can think of who could act with
firopriety in a Holy Week Mystery are nuns; and
f they are brought forward on a church stage, the
demon of vanity would take hold of them, and
oonvent discipline would be at an end.”
Victorian lunatic asylums appear to be
conducted on more broad and liberal principles
than mo*t institutions of the kind. In Victoria,
the liberty of the lunatic subject is pretty con-
siderable, especially If he has any “sugai’”; and a few
facts that have come out in evidence before the
Commission now “ sitting ” (with the laudable in-
tention of laying some eggs of improvement) aro
almost startling in their broadness. Mr. Taylor, a
gentleman who was formerly on the Press, and,
therefore, ought to be well up in lunacy matters,
explained to the Commission that patients fre-
quently have a holiday granted them for the pur-
pose of handing over their little bits of property
to kind friends, who shove ’em back in the
Asylum as soon as the transfer deed is signed. As
they return “home,” under the impression that
they’ve oomc int j a lot more money and have just
been seeing about it, this seems a nioe arrange
ment for all parties. One patient, indeed, had a
splendid time of it when he was allowed “ out ” lor
a short spell. He had the liberty granted him of
getting married to a nice cosy widow, who, alter
taking over her volatile husband’s worldly goods,
and finding that the poor man was wearying of
wedded joys, had the consideration to pack him off
again to his padded cell, where he might lead a
bachelor life once more. As our old friend, Shakes-
peare didn’t exactly observe, “It’s a bad, sad,
mad world, my masters, isn’t it ?”
Thus the Pecksniflian Alf.:—“Under suoh
circumstances (the numerous cases of indecent
assaults) it becomes a sacred duty of the Press to
do its utmost to support the efforts of legal
authorities in putting down such atrocious crimes
by striking terror into those who commit them,
and into those whose ungoverned evil passions
may prompt them to commit them. There can bo
no better way of doing this than by bringing to
the notice of this dangerous class the condign pun-
ishment that awaits the commission of their
crimes; and nothing is more calculated to have
that highly wholesome and deterrent influence
than the knowledge that severe corporal punish-
ment awaits outrages against public morality and
decency.” And so on ad nauseam. The use of the
lash may be excused as a temporary measure be-
cause of the notorious ineliiciency of our prison
system; but it is not the sacred duty of the Press
to advocate it. No one but a sacre'd tomfool
would talk about the virtues of the brutalising cat
—a means of punishment which wouldn’t be
neede 1 did penal “ hard labour ’ ’ mean hard labour.
Beoause society can’t run a prison so as to make
its discipline exercise a ‘‘highly wholesome and
deterrent influence ” over the criminal, it flies in a
spasm of brutality io the lash, and asses bray
that it becomes a sacred duty of the Press, &c.
Sto. Wo presume another sacred duty of the Press
u to publish “ Revolting Disclosures,” “ Unnatura 1
Outrages,” and so forth. Eh, Alf.?
The way in which certain newspapers con-
trive to mix up godliness with nastiness beats
well, Sunday-school picnics even. However, the
cake, for this particular class of work, must cer-
tainly be awarded to the Melbourne D.T. over a
recent doleotable leader on the Liberator. The
Liberator, you must know, is an obscure little
“free-thought” publication that no one would
ever have heard of if the D.T. hadn’t-in the
character of Christianity’s champion—felt com-
pelled to discharge a holy duty in holding it up to
public notice. The Liberator, as an unchan
thing, had to be denounced, and the D.T. was the
proper paper to undertake the job; it did so but
with a blunt outspokenness that only truly Chris-
tian readers could appreciate. After mentioning,
in the first place, that “it is impossible of course,
to defile our columns with examples ” of this
shocking Liberator literature, the D.T. ex-
plained, in a general way, how “ the particular
method it (Libesatori adopts, is to choke the
faith of mankind with mere nightsoil.” Evidently
enamoured of this pretty simile, the D.T. went on
to point out that “just as no one ought to be al-
lowed to empty nightsoil at pleasure into the pub-
lic streets, no one ought to be allowed to pour
blasphemous obscenity at will into the public
ear. It may be argued that no one need buy or
read the Liberator. But, it might as well be
contended, as an excuse for defiling the streets,
that no ono need go near the nightsoil when it was
emptied there” Pah! And this appeared in a
paper that wouldn’t allow its columns to be •“ de-
filed.” Give us the “ obscenity.”
An epidemic of suiciderages in Melbourne.
And just as there are one hundred and one reasons
why a man drinks—good, sound, substantial rea-
sons, mark you—so there would seem to bo as
many for turning off the tap of existence pre-
maturely. Ono donkey shot himself, “ all along of
a girl;” another soft-head paddled out into tho
dark ocean towards which we are all drifting down
the stream of life, simply because he was tired of
tho journey; and a th rd snipped the thread, for
the reason that he couldn't make make another
man’s business pay. Several other small-brained
Individuals up country have slipped olf, for the
reason chiefly that thoy couldn’t carry thoir drink
wholesomely. These last were, of course, help-
less, and their departure is not to be regretted—
certainly not, on Malthusian principles. If they
had lived, you see, they might have been instru-
mental in adding to the population. Heredity is a
stern and arbitrary fact, and the logic ef sulcido
is, therefore, that It Is a gain to humanity. It also
argues in favour of the suicide himself, so far as
to exhibit the circumstance that he had a little
decent public spirit left in him. He had obviously
come to the conclusion that the best possible use
to which a fool can be placed is his removal from
this world: and hence he should be remembered
with a eertalu gratitude as one who, of his own
act, withdrew the nuisance of his presence. Sui-
cide, properly considered, is a healthy weakness.
We know a lot of people who would be much
better patriots if they were overcome by its influ-
ence. Oh, yes; and we’d give a trifle towards
burying ’em decently, not to speak of laudatory
rotices in our world-read journal. But it is not
every fool who has sense and decency enough left
in him to see the matter with ©ur eyes—this is the
worst of it. We can only be thankful for small
mercies, and be the more tender in our recollection
of those who have, and who nobly rid us of their
society. Logically regarded, suicide is a noble in-
stitution. It is expedient and judicious. There is
gain all round in it. The chief actor secures a
change of venue, and, if Mr. Cooper be credited (he
wrote “The Purgatory of Suicides,” you know), a
change, also, of scene and climate; while he rids
those he leaves behind from the bother of his pre-
sence and his troubles. There is nothing like
writing off a bad debt, and this is just what the
suicides are doing wholesale in Victoria.
A girl recently abducted a young boy, in
London, and subsequently “Detective Johnson, of
the N Division, when at Liverpool-street Station,
saw the prisoner and a lad come out of a waiting-
room. He fancied the description tallied with
that of the advertised missing woman and child,
so he addressed the prisoner, and asked, 4 Your
name is Kate Atkins, is it not?’ upon which tho
prisoner replied, ‘No.’ Johnson then addressed
the boy, and remarked ‘Surely your name is
Freddy Earnshaw ?’ and the lad replied in the
affirmative.” That was an intelligent “D. f ” any-
how. He presumably knew a “ gawk frem an
Earnshaw.” This is straining after a joke, indeed.
“A hawk from an heronshaw ”—a gawk from—
now, is this wholesome fun? “Sydney Punch,”
said Mr. Darley, “is a lournal, which, while it
indulges in ‘wholesome fun, never outsteps that
border which encroaches on personalities.’ ” Fine
thing, this, when “ F.M.” used to get a cartoon all
to his own whiskers (why not whiskers as well as
cheek?) three weeks out of the month, and was
depicted in everything from Jupiter to Diogenes.
Well, Punch is dead. And, now that it is dead, we
can tell you a little laugh about it. When “dear
boy ” Hbks began to grow nervous at acquiring
wealth, in connection with this masterly publica-
tion, too quickly, he put it up for auction, and it
was bought by Edward Greville (late M.P. for
Braidwood—the Contractors’ Champion), and a
bank manager named Bordoe, who is since de-
ceased -having expired, so wo understand, after
reading it’s final issue, in great agony. Following
the example of the London Punch, Berdoe—Grc-
ville, sly dog, elected to bo bought out at an early
period organised a systemof weekly re-unions of
the staff, which consisted of a noble army of
literary incapables. This brilliant band drank as
much of Berdoe's beer as they could get, read
aloud verses of an atrocious character, and enjoyed
themselves generally. Berdoe kept a boarding-
house at that time, and two poets nnd a meta-
physician lived there, and took the value of their
copy out in relcvis of a gloomy character. Berdoe
bought the paper for £.350, and sold it for £35 and
the stamp of his genius; then J. G. O’Connor took
it in hand, until he had exhausted his stock of
little blister-blocks, and then he gave it best. This
is significant. People know the reputation J.G.
has for holding on to anything until the last
moment. Therefore, in the exercise of a wise dis-
cretion, nobody bought it. However, when
Darley comes home, perhaps he may raise up the
idol. If so, we will edit it for him, if he choose.
He ean have as much “ Wholesome Fun” in it as
he likes—provided he doesn’t mind paying for it.


JPIURNITURB SHOW ROOM 3.
H
BRADLE7 WkWTON. and LAMB,
Jl Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
. FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
s nd
CENTRE and SIDE
ffn. tTt4A LES ; T BOOKCASES, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUTTES7 in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
Wfor Choice China, &c.
\ VERY ELEC,ANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
IVT on strong HAND-
j STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking- rooms, &c.
BEDRGOM SIMTEB complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-Bound bedro.om suites—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing tablo and
ch air»- The lot for £B. BRADLE Y
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft, with silvered
p| ate-g |a ss door; WASHSTAND, with marble top-
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swiDg glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12r. 0d •
Chest of Drawers, from 40s ; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s ; Cedar Sideboards,
Irom £3104.; Clothes Horses, from JOs. 6d.: Writing
NEWTON,'‘a'idLAMB?’ JiHADLEY
\« i
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
EIJMA.NTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
BHeiv©B , &lso in Oflk tind Wftlnut, Rt 8.11 upipps
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. P
.CCASIONAL.TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
PHIFFONNIER”WHATNOTS, effective designs'.
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
EABJ OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM “OCCASIONAL CHAIRsT-
- A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ices,, from 13s 6d.
O
Cm AI R B EDSTEADS, forr-ing CHAIK,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy aud inex-
pensiy®.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
>r 9- IJ LING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
early English Sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABttE, with patent
screw and two leaves: LARGE PIER GLASS.
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS!
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAI L
Patented.
This chair adjusts itssflf to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price
and LAMB (only).
30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L AMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
of buyers.
IjIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
! TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
alnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL’
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.'
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDBTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass •
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con*
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2&g. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs'
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete.
• Assortment ; beat make, lew est prices.
B
SOCIAL
Our toes are still tender. Not because
West’s Rooms were crowded on Friday, for there
was only “a nice number” th re. Everyone said
so; in fact, this and “it’s ratuer warm to-night,”
were the champ'on bits of conversation at the
Balmain ball. . hese remarks are rather good
ones, and quite within the brain capacity of most
dancers, but with repetition their novelty wears
otf Occasionally, someone launches out with a
bold opinion that the floor is hard, or pink dresses
prevail; but only original and daring intellects
venture so far as that. But, to return; we can’t
imagine why our toes are tender, it is not because
the population of Balmain cannot dance, for they
are expert, and all those who performed in the
vigorous stylo tendered fashionable a few years
ago B by the Prlrcos, probably came, not from
Bilmain, but somewhere else. Some Queensland
footballers were said to be present; but we will
not blame them for all tho free kicks we got—at
least, not till they get back there again. Yet our
toes are undoubtedly tho fashionable colour,
crushed strawberry; and so, alter carefully think-
ing it over, tho only possible explanation seems
to be that we have wilfully and persistently
got in the way. Ladies were rather scarce, and
very few wore fancy dresses. But they wore
a fair amount. Of gentlemen, there were a
brown Bicyclist, a Stockman, a Courtier, Uncle
S un. &c.; beyond those, they relied on their naturi 1
laseinations rather than apparel. Balmain itscli
was well represented. T.»o sisters lrom Darling-
street, in ruby aud pink, were favourites; on a
little blonde, also thence, a blue satin dress with
white zone, covered with white dotted net, had a
peculiarly nice effect. From the same road came
a tall, fair girl, in cream silk-striped grenadine.
Another happy blonde wore a dress of blue silk
trimmed with terracotta lace, which was charm-
iugly made and worn. Two sisters of the exquisite
planisto recently married, from Lincoln Villa,
were present; Miss Florric, in a pretty fancy dress,
and Miss Etti? in white and flowers. A Balmain
lady typified the Suburban Independent, in a
dress completely printed over with the contents
of that awe-inspiring journal-which circulates
all over the world, and m Balmain. Its title was
round her waist and brow iu gold letters. Tho
dress was plainly made; indeed, like tho paper, it
seemed to want a little “improving.” In blue
satin, came a small and clever actress of tho ama-
teur dramatic club, all sparkle aud spirits; and a
younger sisier was a demure little Dutoh girl in
drab. Another local was the Duchess ot Devon-
shire, a small duchess, but very piquant. From
Globe Road caraoa young lady in blue, with a train
ju6t long enough to walk on, aud, as some of her
admiiers walked on It to its u ter destruction, the
young lady slipped homo, change), and reap
peared in a pretty pink satin that was ravishing,
considering how quickly it was put on. This is an
instance how a girl can rise and grtpple with a
great crisis. A mauve silk and tinselled grenadine
suited a demure young lady, withGreoian features
and a weakness for the supper room.
But there's a lass, for us to pass
Would be a sio beyond all pardon,
Adored of beaux- a little rose,
The fairest in Love’s flower garden;
With cap of lace o'er piquant race,
Against her charms no heart could harden.
A little flirt, in cherry skirt,
Was darling, dainty, Dolly Varden.
Dolly was from Forest Lodge, and ought to have
had a chip straw hat, like Dolly. But
that would have hidden an artful fringe, of which
every single hair seemed to curl out as a separato
and distinct challenge to faint-hearted bachelors.
A brilliant drets was all of cardinal satin, well
made, with fine white lace rows in front. From
near Bt. Benedict s, came two handsome brunette
sisters; the elder in a lovely,'dress of ruby and
pink, ;the younger in the character of the grand-
child heroine so familiar to boyish minds And
We would not even if we could—
Forget that rare Red Riding Hood:
The twinkling of those tiny shoes
Would make a man his balance lose;
A natty “ pair of bluish grey ”
Tako all his peace of mind away;
A little cloak of scarlet red
Be very apt to turn his head;
The contour of her vest of yellow
Completely upset any fellow;
So that’s why oven if we would—
We Ciu't forget Red Riding Hoed
From C. stlereagh-street a small blonde came, all
In white satin and snowdrop wreath, who called
herself “Olivette,” The character didn’t look
like “Olivette” to us, but perhaps that was
because we hadn't studied it-in the looki g--i»ss
—as much as she had It was pretty enough to
Study a {rood deal. A tall young lady, in white
satin, danced splendidly, and another of the city
wore a graceful dress of ruby and cream. A
Greek lady came from Leichhardt. From Glebe,
two sisters fascinated -one in blue, and one in
white voiling, with streamers of black and yellow,
the Rowing Club s c hours. And it is curious that
the best compliment paid to the Club was, not by
Btlmuin gins, but by two young ladies Irom Surry
Hills, who displayed the colours beautifully com-
bi ed in black dresses with golden yellow trim-
mings. Yet one more compliment the Balmain
rowers received from a fair lady was very grace-
ful. The lady came from North Shore as
Aphrodite; and as Venus-in that particular
one of her several characters—was goddess of the
■ea, it is reasonable to conclude that the North
Shore yeung lady felt a particular solicitude for
the youDg men who venture on the deep. The cos-
tume was exceedingly pretty, of whit*? satin, short
Skirt trimmed with shells, and a gauzy veil coming
from the bead right down, through which long,
narrow trailings of silvery seaweed gleamed. Tho
hair, of course, was worn loose, mermaid fashion,
and tho idea was a new and nice one. Many other
evening costumes were pretty. A string band,
under Mr. L. I)e Groen, rendered good music, and
Mr. Thoma« Cripps’ catering was quite satisfac-
tory. Mr. Alf. Perry, this year, was secretary, and
all know that ho did well. A special steamer
waited at the wharf, and iandod Balmain lolks on
their native shore about 5 o’clock, slightly tired,
but vastly pleased with their third annual ball.
• • *
A delightful ball was given on Bth July by
Mr, and Mrs John M Phillamy, of Mount Tamar,
in the Victoria Hall, Bathurst, when a large com-
pany danced till the small hours. Some pretty
toilettes wore worn, and the&honour of belle lay
balanced between Miss A. Greville, who was hand-
some in white, and Miss Scarr, who looked very
winning in black and old gold, and had no Scar-
city of admirers. Miss Kate Lee Icokod well in
white and blue, and her sister in black. Miss Mac-
hattie received considerable attention in light
blue; and in the same colour Miss Ida Lee was
quite happi-lee successful, a doctor’s wife word
blact and old gold feathers, and the wile of a
loctl editor In white satin was notable. Another
little lady from Ohinewai in white danced veil,
and so did a lady in silver-spangled toilet from
Moreannia. In pink, Miss E. Greville was effec-
tively charming, and Mrs. Jago Smith’s toilet was
chiefly of that colour. Well-timed music was kept
up by Messrs. Draper and Naylor on cornet and
piano; and on the whole the ball was regarded as
quite a pleasing one.
* *
Splendid' weather, and the prospect of a
somewhat even match, drew a good gathering to
the battle of the footballers on Saturday. It so
p.oved that the Queenslan iers did not score p.g
expected, but they played capitally, nevertheless,
and the spectators enjoyed as lively a two hours as
could be, watchiug the greens and brswns surging
to and fro. Game started at three, and ended
close on five, before the evening became too cold
for the stand people. That they did not prome-
nade much showed their interest in the game, tu
sports or cricket, there are always intervals that
can be used for a stroll; but as the e.\oitement of
verges on the brink of manslaughter an
the time, of course no one would miss a kick for
anything. So the iauies sat Hp there, in their
pretty toilettes, and enjoyed the game, but never
gave us any treat as we hoped they might. There
was a brief parade at half-time, and the band o»
the lawn helped to make the afternoon pleasant,
nouna the ground, the attendance was large, and
no brilliant work of the Northern visitors passed
w.tbout its share of praise. Our 17 points to 4 was
some satisfaction for the Maori drubbing.
• t »
Having been successful with their first
senes of four assemblies at Nithsdale, the Bache-
lors inaugurated a second series of four last Kriday,
ana had a large and pleasurable gathering. As
beiore, no visitors’ tickets are issued, and the list
?L men i? erB immediately filled. It is found, to put
the matter plaiuly, that when visitors are admitted
tne ploisure of their presence hardly compensates
ror the space they occupy. To ensure comfort for
those who join, it is therefore essential to limit the
number on tho dancing floor. On Friday the room
was comfortably full, ard bright with the brilliant
dresses of good partners; and as Messrs. Needs, as
usual, provided the music, it was easy skimming
through the modorate programme of some twenty
dances. Refreshments wero well catered for by
J. 1-. Cnpps, and the assembly broke up about one
o clock. Members intend to close the season about
the end of October witli an afternoon private pic-
nic, but of that more anon.
• • •
A complimentary goiroe was given by the
lad es of Mrs. Martin’s Academy, on Thursday
last, to Mr. H. Whayman, and the affair was so
heartily worked up that the room was full. Great
trouble bad boen taken to suitably decorate it
with flags, leafage and flowers; and tho word
\Veic-«me ’ was boi lly displayed in the most
sensible pi icq at the door of the supper room.
When we got accustomed to the lustre of the
scene, we looked around for Mr. Whayman, and
tound him in his usual place-beside a rather nice
girl decked with white nun’s veiling and red cur-
rants. Dancing commenced punctually at 8
o clock, and Mr. Kitching was active in matching
the couples for the dances, of which a list of 20
and some extras occupied till early morning. The
ladies provided a tasty and varied supper, before
which, however, Mr. K'tchiug announced that a
presentation would be made to Mr. H. whayman.
that gentleman was accordingly persuaded to tear
Myself temporarily away from the young lady
with the red currants, and having been posed in a
neat and becoming posture at one end of the hall,
the lady bon. see., Miss Gent, fixed her gazo firmly
on his toes, made a little speeeb, and handed to the
presentee the handsome case got for the occasion.
Miss Gent, who wore a pretty pink satin, and cheeks
to match, spoke in a voice that was clearly audible
to everyone who was near enough, and concluded
by wishing the gentleman a happy life and-a wife.
As Mr. Whayman raised his eyes from l he point of
tho lady s shoes, where they had modestly resied.
thoughtfully round, hone rose among
the buds and full-blown flowers who sat around.
But the eyes fell on the red currants, und then
hope fed, too. Mr. Whayman s reply chiefly con-
sisted of the statements that he could not find
wprds to express bis feelings, and that he always
tried to make everyone happy. Like all famous
men, he was occisionally misunderstood, but he
was glad to get the dressing-case. Dancing then
went on, apd the gay gowns were kept in a con-
stant whirl. The handsomest were a pair of
lavender and 4cru satins, both alike and elaborate,
A pensive young lady who danced well wore
cardinal and pink, with knotted cords at the back:
and any dancing man knows what an advantage a
tew bits of cord, or a couple of buttons are on the
smooth waist of a well-rounded young Jady.
Buttons, it is true, are apt to catch in your glove
and pins are sometimes the only drawback to a
charming girl; but cords are free from any obleo-
tion, and afford a splendid hold. For dancing, the
palm might go to the smallest partner present, a
very young lady in a crushed strawberry, and not
much bigger or less sweet than one.
There is no feeling so destructive of fondly
cherished sentiments as that which desolates the
heart of an innocent young man the first time he
touches a crinolette-inadvertently; for it is not
credible that any male being would be rash enough
to purposely approach one of these mysterious
things while it is in active use. That touch sweeps
away in one moment the cherished belief of years.
The ordinary young man in his shy state has ideas
of female beauty which, though indefinite, are
strongly rooted: and one of them is, that in lovely
woman softness is a prevailing element Though
it would bo difficult to trace with any certainty the
origin of this belief, there is no doubt that the
young man derives it chiefly from dim recollec-
tions of his own infantile existence, and from
Bt / a J , hlDts he has Picked up by reading the Song
of Solomon. Other sources, too, such as poets’
ravings, pictures on match boxes, and an occa-
sional glimpse of actualness in a low-tide bodice,
have fed the belief that woman is not the marble
statue that she purports to be in the art galleries;
but yet, in his pristine innocence, it has never
occurred to him that she is not solid. It is when,
for the first time, he incidentally contacts with a
working crinolette, that the young man feels as if
pleasure and joy had gone from his life, and beauty
becomes a hollow mockery. Before this desolation
comes, if he were told that the appreciable ful-
ness which charms his eye, as he gazes at
Agonim en profile, has been bestowed upon her
not by Nature, but otherwise, he would say—Go
to. If you told the ardent youth that what lures
him into saying enthusiastically that Miss Jones
has a fine figure, is a mechanical attach-
ment of steel springs with a starched muslin dome,
he would be indignant for two days. It is better
ho 3hould be inuocent. Agonisa is right not to
destroy his sweet faith by information as to what
actually constitutes her charms. Even in the in-
terests of morality, it is better he should be in a
position to speak of Miss Jones only as she appears
on the surface; and if more experienced men
support the theory that deeper down thiDgs are
not what they seem—why should his youthful
innocence be corrupted by this worldly wisdom ?
Even if cynics hint that the plumpness he admires
would, if investigated, prove to be only a con-
struction of that useful, but inanimate, substance,
cotton wadding, or some indescribable thing that
is protected hy a patent as well as disguised under
a double box pleat—let him be; don’t throw Lile’s
unrealities in the bright path of his hopeful
lancy; there are mysteries in life not meant to be
probed. The young men and women of to-day
are something like the young men and women
were thousands of years ago. They have a re-
gard for each other that you can’t destroy. As.
although the first touch of the criuolette will
give the young man’s faith a rud? shock, yet it
will survive. Woman may never more be to him
as once in his early dreams she was; hut as she is
—incomplete, increased, or diminished at any
given part-he will love what he can get of her.
She builds up, hut it is all done with the amiable
motive of rendering herself more charming.
Even if she is mistaken in her zeal, her motive
should command respect. And steiog that she
might carry on her good intentions to an almost
unli nited extent, without man in his blindness
being able to discover between what is actual and
what is apparent, we ought to be thankful she
u in>ich of herself to remain unaltered as
she does. \ou may take away her crinolette, and
her patent portions, and, in fact, whatever is not
absolutely and necessarily original in woman, and
still man in his faith and his fondness will cling to
what is left.
♦ * *
Fol lo wing the Masons, the OddfellowTef
Adolong had their little diversion. About forty
couples tripped it, and Hodgson catered for their
capacious appetites. If the fellows were “odd,”
the ceiie was among the “ Evans,'’ and white India
muslm and satiu denoted her first ball. A tall lady
from the east-end, and a maid from the north, also
f^dfor the kolden apple, closely attended by a
local I atience in Da Mestre’s colours. Programmes
did not rigidly adhere to orthography, but the
girls all agreed that a mazerka ” without a“he ”
yould be no good at all. Carriages were ordered
for 8 a.m., but as they didn t appear, most of the
company went hpme in their boots.
Social at TattersallV, last Friday, was the
quietest yet. When neither music nor partneis
.Particularly good, the attempt at “thank
you, when the lady is escorted to her seat again,
is apt to be very forced. When socials are organ-
ised solely for dancing, it is fair to expect just a
little knowledge of that, in those who attend.
* if 1 ?i“ ave nODe * and don’t know it. Among the
. wor ? uoted that of a tall lady in ruby and
white lace; the cardinal and pink of a petite from
Woollahra, who always looks happy; the wide-
Pieeted sateen skirt with lace flouncing and top
■ .P lacl£ broche worn by a Fouveaux - street
visitor; a full-flounced white from Petersham;
and a plain light skirt and tunic relieved with
ruby sash which garbed one of the best of dancers
* * *
Mrs. J. B. Kotton entertained some sixty
Fuests at her residence, Glencoe, near OraDge, on
Wednesday evening week. The occasion will be
remembered by all present as being one of the
most enjoyable ever spent n that great terpsi-
chorean city. The popular hostess, in a handsome
dress of black velvet trimmed with old gold satin,
provided for the enjoyment of all, and the happy
faces of the guests proved that her efforts were
successful. Miss Kite, with her sister Miss Maude,
in handsome eosturaes of cardinal and white, and
Miss Laura in black grenadine relieved with old
gold satin, ably seconded the efforts of their
mother. The wife of a local medico in black
velvet and cream lace, with the spouse of a worthy
Indian veteran in navy silk, were admired. A few
months’ bride, in cream skirt and black satin body,
was distracting. The daughter of the C.P.B,
in white and cardinal, with her companion, a petite
damsel in black silk, bodice vandyked with cardinal,
divinely. Endsleigh contributed the belle
in a rich toilette of black velvet and lace. Col-
wood sent two sister brunettes—one in black and
gold, and the other in checked brown silk. Two
sisters from Summer street, with the two daughters
of a leading merchant, in cream, wereadmired. The
daughter of a local editor, in pink nun’s-veiling
and broche, and another rosebud in pink grena-
dine, were eagerly sought. A brunette in pink
and black, from Sale-street, had quite a host of
suitors. A favourite in old gold sateen, with a
sister in black veiling and velvet, and another in
black muslin, exercised their usual charms to
ad vantage. A stately fair one from Molong danced
beautifully; and a little one in pale pink, with the
youngest daugh’er of the host in claret velvet,
were lull of mirth and fun. A programme of
about twenty dances was negotiated, and three
o clock brought to an end one of the most pleasant
evenings spent in the City of tho West.
• • •
Of course, the oponing of the Art Sooiety
Show, on Saturday, attracted a large gathering in
the Town Hall, for entry was by < omplimentary
ticket. When an entertainment is free, and
fashionable, Croesus and his wife come in state
from their mansion to patrenise it; but, when
payment is ia question, their entbusiasm for
art is not so conspicuous. We have the word of
Mr. Combes for it that, though the Society has
flourished, it has been by virtue of the enthusiasm
of its own members rather than by any generous
support from the weal' hy orders in Sydney. There
are 380 pictures arranged round the walls and on
two centre creens The art union, comprising 33
prizes, was drawn, the chief prizes valueso guineas,
falling to Mr. C. J. Bown, value 20 guineas
to Mr. Tioale, and value 15 guineas to Mr.
Paine. Messrs. Combes and Trickett made short
speeches, and a convenient catalogue is issued.
Many members were present, and all round were
faces of those known in art circles The display
of art was pretty well confined to the pictures,
for, although many ladies were there, the toilets
were not remarkable for artistic beauty. Perhaps
the most novel dress was one made of drab oor-
duroy velvet an unusual material—with a round
straw bonnet to match. A mauve moire was a
perfect beacon of conspicuousness ; it was bard
to look at so much colour and lemain un-mauved.
Pleasing looked a terra-cotta veiling, trimmed
with brocade in the different shades of ooleus red,
with one of the seal mantlets now becoming
fashionable, and yellow lyrebird feathers in a
brown hat. Neat above ail was the Mary Ander-
son costume, in black cashmere, worn by a charm-
ing lady; from below the basque came a puffing
of brilliant oerise silk, and a breast bow and collar
and cuff piping of cerise made the toilet fresh and
tasteful looking—the dainty bonnet being of rioss
bands of black and cerise in harmony. Very
stylish was the dress of a petite lady, all
toxopholite green in velvet and silk ; green fcit
hat to correspond. The tasteful toilet ot a young
girl was dove cashmere, with a dozen tucks rounu
the wide skirt bottom; tiny princess bonnet of the
same hue, with ruby velvet badge. The crowd
was far too great for comfort in viewing the pic-
tures on Saturday, but it was really more a social
assemblage than a gathering of critics on that
afternoon. Louis Frank comes to the front with
colonial landscapes of fascinating beauty: he must
be a cheerful man, for they are nearly all as bright
and vivid as painter’s brush could make them—
sunny, summery, and pretty scenes. The flowers
are vi rider, the greens more brilliant, the air more
radiant than any other artist’s. Dreadfully gloomy
by contrast is “Dead of Thirst”—where A. Col-
liugridge shows, in the red merciless glare of a
setting sun, the long line of telegraph posts stretch
ing across the Australian desert, and with haggard
head pillowed in his saddle to get some scanty
shade, the dying man lies, still grasping the wire
he has broken to bring him help, while the crows
feast on the horses near by, probably even before
they are dead. Christopher Cpveny sends a number
of eccentric sketches of Dickens’s characters,
and about a dozen illustrating the story of the
Pied Piper of Hamlin ; they .re grotesquely
humorous, probably clever, but why did he
choose such peculiar subjects? The most pro-
minent painting is G. J. Broinowski’s “Valley of
the Grose.” home persons might like it. (Jeo.
Coliingridgo indulges his fancy in a curious pic-
ture of “The Hawkesbury of the Future,” where,
on the banks of that fine river, are flowered par-
terres, pleasure grounds, and palatial mansions—
all, as yet, but images ia the painter’s brain. A
decade or two may prove them not all idle dreams.
More grand scenery comes from the brush of J.
C. Hoy to ; his iorte is grandeur—mighty moun-
tains, gorges, deep blue distance, and peaks of
snow, and in New Zeal ,nd he finds them all. J.
R. Ashton's “The Monitor at Work” is a graphic
picture of hydraulic gold-mining in Australia. P.
Fletcher Wajtaon also gives numbers of attractive
local scenes. A pair of Illawarra scenes by John
Smedley are gems. Lovers of feminine beauty
will find a lovely modern girl in C. H. Hunt’s
“ Last Rose of Summer.” There is a portrait of
Sir Alfred Stephen, whioh is quite enough to keep
him away from the place ; and a picture of
“Maggie,’’ by W. Willans, which would give us a
distaste for the whole sex if we really thought
girls ever got that mahogany colour. AmoDg
many excellent pictures, three beautiful ones are
Sromiuont. 327 is a boy’s portrait by Catherine
evine, 324 is a miniature of a brown-haired
mother's pet, in dark green coat, with lace and
flowers at the throat, by Mrs. M. Stoddard ; and
57 is a portrait from life, by the same talented
lady. They alone are worth going to see, and
should not be missed.
It seems that the little god who rules the
camp, the court, the grove, occasionally shoots
a shaft into the Ministers’ Cabinet. His last victim
is the Hon. H. E. Cohen, Minister for Justice, who
was married on Tuesday last, at the Uieat Syna-
gogue, to Miss Sophie Frank. Several circum-
stances combined, in spite of the wretched weather,
to attract an interested crowd to the building.
The social and political status of the bridegroom
would necessitate the presence of many of tno
elite of society; he is also vice-president of the
Synagogue, a position of marked honour; and,
moreover, the bride, who has not long been in
the colony, is a young lady of fascinating
neauty and great accomplishments, ihc cere-
mony was performed at 2 o’clock, with a full
choral service, rendered by the choir on account
of the bridegroom being an office-bearer of the
sanctuary. The beautiful bride looked her best
in a rich robe of white broch6, elaborately made,
and trimmed with ostrich feathers; and followed
by a train of charming bridesmaids. Mr. Cohen’s
colleagues of the Ministry were present, and he
(For continuation of Social, toe next page.)


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
No one can be sick if the stomach, blood,
liver and kidneys are well. Hop Bitters keeps
them well. Notice.
Our ignorance has been culpable, if not
worse, and ive admit it. That we, recording every
event of importance, and commenting thereon,
should have allowed this to pass by is, even to us,
passing strange. Everyone else is full of it, the
social barometer has been visibly disturbed there-
by, and the Savings Bank returns for the current
quarter will be affected by its peculiar character
and incidence. However, confession comes next
before repentance, and although our space will
not allow us to indulge, as we would wish, in
deserved words of panegyric and recommenda-
tion. we will go so far as to say that the Great Sale at
Anthony Hordern and Son’s Palace Emporium
should not be forgotten by anyone.*
HORDERN’S
ON THE
ZE3ric3r±ield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
ISP These Patterns are designed from Australian Perns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residing: in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it o&'t, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
S
i
a
'ESSmmSm
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving’ ol our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
"~\ lace curtains | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL, (lace curtains'!
* l — 1 ■ -J
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
received the congratulations of a great number
of friends on conclusion of tho [happy jjeeremony.
Breakfast was sumptuously provided by Bau-
mann, the caterer, at the residence of Mr. 8.
Hoffnung, from whose fami y circle, we under-
stand, the fortunate politician has taken his bride.
A number of distinguished guests were present,
and some brilliant speeches .were made to honour
the occasion.
** * *
Tingha Oddfellows celebrated their anni-
versary on the 4th instant by sports, and a ball in
the evening in the public hall. Midnight supper
at the Caledonian Hotel The Victorian Press
Club has been formed in Melbourne; G. A. Wal-
stab, president. About 40 members joined on the
opening night, and the qualification for joining is
that the person shall earn his living wholly or
partly by literary work. Hon. sec., W, Briggs....
At Dubbo, the Rev. Canon Wilson lately delivered
the inaugural address of a literary and musical
union which has been formed, both sexes being
admitted to membership —Inconsequence of St.
Matthias’ hall being engaged on Monday next for
the Malvern C.C. performance, the Woollahra
Rink will be postp med 11 later on; Thursday, we
believe A few days ago, a very interesting
wedding took place at Onebygamba, when many
ships in the Newcastle harbour were decked with
bunting in honour of the marriage of Captain
Christie, of the Beecroft, to the eldest daughter of
Mr. Alderman Christie, of Newcastle. The bride
wore a pretty heliotrope silk, and her five maids
cream veiling. Pastor of the Mariner’s Church
joined them; and a large ball was held at night in
the City Hail. Mrs. Christie, who was greatly
liked in the district, will go with her husband to
’Frisco Wednesday last week, Parramatta
branch of the Highland Society gave their first
concert in the Town Hall there. "Advance Aus-
tralia,” with 20 voices, was the first piece, and a
number of Scotch selections followed. Mr.
Edwards was twice recalled, and his “Scotland
Yet” was very fine; so was the duet “The Sailor
Sighs,” by Miss Cowley and Mr. A. H. Gee. The
M’Raes danced, and General Maclver finished with
a short address On Friday, 18th inst., the Britan-
nia C.C. will hold it’s third annual ball in the
Town Hall, Parramatta. Plain and fancy
On Ist August, a grand Masonic Ball takes
place at Penrith, in connection with the
Queen’s Lodge, 982 E. C. Temperance Hall
Licensed Victuallers’ annual ball at Melbourne was
held in the Town Hall, on the 9th July, and largely
attended. Mrs. Wallis, of the East Melbourne
Hotel, was about the handsomest-attired lady.
The names of the various breweries were used
for rendezvous. A good deal of curiosity was ex-
cited by two large oil paintings on the platform,
representing Messrs. Booth and Glover, the teetotal
lecturers. They had been painted “on spec.” by
two enterprising artists, who had not been able to
effect a sale - Blue Ribbon sympathisers could not
be worked up to payiDg point. So they were
brought to the ball. But the bonifaces didn’t
seem to care abeut purchasing their two friends.
Last Thursday, Hospital ball at Albury in the
new theatre, plain and fancy, was very good, and
the Hospital nets nearly £ICO. Next evening was
a children’s ball, and the juveniles rejoiced in the
broken pastry The Social Soiree of the Fidelity
Lodge, E.C., in the York-street Masonic Hail, next
Tuesday, is expected to be a capital affair, and the
company good, as tickets havo only been circu-
lated among friends of the members. Good music
is engaged for dancers, and singing and other
attractions will prevent the dancing being either
monotonous or fatiguing —F. T. Sargood, Min-
ister for War, gave a large banquet in Parliament
House, Melb., last Friday. Civilians, and naval, and
military heroes alike inti epidly attacked dead fowls
and obtained glorious victories over impassive
oysters. Htaven help the rash foreigner that
comes near Melbourne now On 30th June, the
annual ball of the Warrnambool Bicycle Club was
held, and was brilliant. The sensation of the room
was Miss Doherty’s “ Bicycle Dress,” a fancy con-
ceit of the most original character, specially de-
signed in honour of the club. Anotber fancy per-
sonage was “ Helen of Troy;” but, as she was
rather a substantial girl, her admirers suggested
calling her “ Helen of Avoirdupois.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Thistle Club’s Annual Ball (New
Masonic Hall) July 18.
Petersham Social July 18.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....July 18.
Banquet to Mr. W. H. Pigott (Ashfield) July 18.
Britannia C.C. Ball (Town Hall, Parra-
matta) July 18.
Social of Fidelity Lodge, E.C. (Old Masonic
Hall) ...July 22.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) July 25.
Newtown Socials’ Ball August 1.
Masonic Ball (Penrith) August 1.
Sydney Bicycle Club Annual Sports August 2.
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball (West’s
Rooms) August 4.
Victoria House Ball (Nit-bsdale) August 15.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) August 27.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) September 3.
A desperate lot of lunehers were enter-
tained by Tommy Atkinson, the other day. For
obvious reasons-though the thing wa9 private—it
gets a local in tho Rum. "The humourists,” says
the chronicler, “got off their best jokes.” Amongst
these wits, we notice, were Angus Mackay (Vic ),
Jim Allison, and Watkin Wynne. It must have
been a matter of satisfaction to the other guests
that the humourists “ got off their best jokes 1”
An angry writer down South protests that
with enough water, manure, and heat, Victoria
might think herself “the greatest and grandest
country on the face of tho earth.” He’s wrong.
She’d still want whisky. A country without
whisky can’t think worth a cent: while, if it have
whisky, it can think up to the figure quoted,
though th« water, n anure, and heat be very in-
sufficient. Exempli gratia— why, tho country he's
writing about.
In London, the other day, a convict named
Bolton confessed to the murder of one William
Day. The report concludes as follows :—" The
prisoner was then fully committed to take his trial
at the next session of the Central Criminal Court,
As ho was driven off in a cab, in the custody of the
warders, prisoner was heartily cheered by a crowd
of roughs, evidently his friends.” What strange
things tne mob does at times. We remember them
cheering M’Rlhone when he shook hands with
.John Davies!
•■'Very cold and hungry,” said a shivering
out&tsf to a Salvation officer, from the pores of
whose visage essence of bread and butter oozed
out in sunshine; “very cold and hungry; sling
.us a ‘deeoer’ for a tightener at the cookshop.”
*' The Lord will provide, brother,” replied the Sal-
vation man. “ Did He provide for you ?” enq uired
(the beggar. “He did, brother, hallelujah,” was
the reply. Then, after a moment’s pause, the
hungry man said, “ Well, put us on to the lay. I
can’t sink much lower than I am.”
INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sirs, —I have, duiing the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your Bavarian
Hop Bitters. *• he result has been uniformily
favourable. In dyspeptic cases of long standing
they will prove invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS CHEETHAM, L. etL. Mid., R.C.P. Edin
“Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
.Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Rail Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
■decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
Sag and floral decorations. 60f Hunter-street,
Sidney.*
A healthy body is indispensable to a vigor
ous niiud. A bilious and dyspeptic man, whose
blood drags sluggishly in his veins, can neither
think clearly nor act wisely. Aver’s Pills will
stir up the liver, excite tne stomach and bowels to
Activity, open the pores of the system, renovate
the blood, and restore a healthy tenement for the
4&ind,
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle.— Just exactly what I expected 1
Everything for the past few days has been as fiat
and colourless as possible after the gaities of last
week, if I except the private view ot the pictures
at the Town Hall on Saturday last, and the foot-
ball match—and, oh! dear me, wh t im I thinking
of ? Why, there was a concert given in the Peter-
sham Town Hall last Tuesday night by—mark you
—Mr. Hugh Duff I ! Wa3 it a success? Well,
judge for yourself. Miss Deikin sang “ Alas
those Chimes” to a talking accompiniment by a
young gentleman (?) who prof esse: to be some-
thing of a musician, but who, apparently, can ap-
preciate no mus eso well as his own. Not so with
everybody, however, for an encore was emphati-
cally demanded, to which the lady graciously re-
sponded by giving “ For ever and for ever.” Our
old favourite, Mr. Andrew Fairfax, sang “Vailny”
splendidly—in fact, quite in his old style; and Mr.
Duff played two solos, which certainly seemed to
please the Petersham folk. Edith, who sat next
to me, was ill-natured enough to declare that she
could hear no left-hand work, but she was in one
of her exacting moods, so don’t believe a word of
it, dear. Anyhow, the concert was well attended,
and was given in aid of Enmore Church Organ
Fund.
There was a splendid show of pictures at the
Town Hall on Saturday, and we took the precau-
tion to go early, in order to have a good look
round before the room got too crowded. It is
astonishing what a lot one' learns at these places.
For instance, I always thought that water found
its own level, but a little picture of the sea showed
me what an erroneous idea this is. I should say it
was quite half an inch higher on one side than tho
other on the canvas, so I suppose it would mean a
difference of a few miles in reality. I won t tell
you the name of the artist, for it might get to his
ears, and make him conceited to know it had been
reserved for him to teach us such things. Before
we had gone half through the room the crowd was
so dense that it was altogether too difficult to
move along, so we had to content ourselves by
gazing, for a change, on the living pictures. I was
disappointed in the show of costumes, for 1 had
hoped to see something really artistic on such an
occasion. I hardly remember ever having seen
such a dearth of handsome dresses at any gather-
ing in Sydney. There was a plain lake cashmere,
made with tucked skirt and short basque, with
which was worn a ruby velvet jockey bonnet—
but what of that! It would have been quite com-
monplace but for the wearer’s graceful figure and
pretty face. A rich brown silk, trimmed heavily
with brown chenille fringe was certainly very
nice; and ohl yes, there was also a wonderfully
striking costume of stee’-irey plush, the rich and
effective material being devoid of any trimmiug
whatever. As soon as Mr. Combes commenced
speaking, his admirers gathered around him, and
as they were many, it gave us a chance of finishing
our inspection of the pictures. They were really
for the most part very fine, indeed. I heard some-
one, who is a good judge, say that it was the best
collection they have had yet. So you may imagine
that to artists (like me, my dear) it was a rare
treat, and one which was fully appreciated.
Later on in the afternoon, we went to the foot-
ball match, which was being played between the
Queensland and N.S. Wales teams lam proud to
tell you that our boys beat the Queenslanders
easily. I must own, however, that tho latter looked
on the whole handsomer and finer men than ours,
although they compare so unfavourably with them
as sportsmen. Jennie Lee was there in a dark
brown cashmere and satin costume, brown straw
bonnet and tan gloves and carried a brown fur cape.
Her sister in black, trimmed with black and white
striped silk. The gayest dress was a peacock-blue
satin, with jacket of the same shade in plush, and
small hat composed entirely of peacocks’ feathers.
Two rich-looking ruby cashmeres, made in ti e
Mary Anderson style, were worn by sisters from
Elizabeth-street. Two grey stuff costumes were
made alike, but trimmed with different colours—
the one with crimson ribbon velvet, and the other
with purple. The hats were large and grey,
trimmed with plumes in accordance with the drees
trimming. A delicate mushroom satin was worn
by a Jewess, whose hat was adorned with the pa’est
pink feathers; gloves also pink. It is dreadfully
dangerous to allow carriages and cabs to draw up
so near to the entrance gates. I saw people walk-
ing actually under the horses’ very heads in order
to make their way to the tram. I don’t see why
such a state of things should be allowed to ex.st,
end I shall just ask Papa to exert his influence and
see that it doesn’t occur again next Saturday.
The Theatre Royal was crowded on Saturday
night, to see “ Macbeth.” You can’t imagine how
splendidly Locke’s music was done. We were quite
surprited and delighted, I didn’t notice for son e
time that the choru'-singers had been trained by
Mr. Hallewell; had I observed that statement on
the programme at the beginning qf the evening, I
should have felt less astonishment. When you
hear the same music sung by very mediocre
musical societies, you feel somehow as if you dvn’t
care to hear it again; but sung as it was on Satur-
day night, it is indeed a different thing. And then
the surroundings help it out so much. Such wierd-
looking witches I never saw, and I felt almost
frightened of them at times. Miss Genevieve Ward
as Lady Macbeth was, to use Ned’s expression,
immense. Her usually rather harsh vole j became
positively sweet on occasion. But, talking of
voices, I never would have believed that Vernon
could put into his such a pathetic wail of sadness;
and he looked so handsome, too, as Macbeth-but
that’s easier for him. Being Saturday night, there
was a splendid show of dresies. Signora Majaroni
looked so lovely in white with bugled lace sleeves.
A tall dark lady, with a handsome figure, wore
a crimson satin, cut low and trimmed with cream
Spanish lace and cloth of gOJd roses. That love-
liest of all night colours, pale green, was worn by
a pretty young blonde, with short curly golden
hair. The material was tulle, and the skirt was
looped up with small pinx rose-buds, an 1 a large
bunch of the same was worn on the shoulder. A
beautiful creamy white satin petticoat, hand-
somely trimmed with pearl friDge, had a bodice of
striped blue and white plush, which was as pretty
as it was peculiar. The wearer’s head fairly glim-
mered with pearl ornaments, aDd I think she was
the belle of tne circle on Saturday night. Another
striped plush was of two shades of brown, a boo.ee
of which was worn in combination with a dusky
brown satin skirt, which was somewhat brightened
by trimmings of gold lace—on the whole, though'
it was rather sombre. I notice that pins and
buckles, set with brilliants, for hair ornamentr,
still hold their own, and the difficulty of fastenirg
them on short hair has been overcome in this wise.
You have a rosette of ribbon made in any colour
you wish, in the centre of which the brooch or
buckle is fastened. To this attach invisible elastic,
which holds the ornament firmly on thv, head. It
looks very pretty, too, when the rosette is made
flat enough, which is the only difficulty about it.
They have been having gay times in Brisbane, I
hear, since the Government House Ball I forgot
to tell you before about the dresses at the latter
affair, but you know it’s impossible to remember
everything always at the right time. I believe
nearly all the married ladies were attired in black,
satin being the favourite material. Lady Mus-
grave wore cream satin draped with scarfs of satin
shading into a deep brown, and diamond orna-
ments. Lady Palmer, as usual, wore a tasteful
black costume, but the material has escaped my
memory; and the Hon. Mrs. W. Graham was also
in black satin and Spanish lace. Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson was to give a ball last Monday, and all the
Brisbane girls spent their spare time praying that
the Nelson men would arrive in time for it. I
haven't heard yet whether their prayers were
answered or not, but hope, for the girls’ sakes, they
were.
I went to see Grandpa one day last week, and
found the dear old soul sitting by the fish-pond,
busily intent on striking matches. Knowing his
usual antipathy to waste of any kind, I wondered
what possessed him to be so extravagant. Seeing
my astonishment, he hastened to explain that he
had dropped his match box into the water, and, in
order to save ail that had escaped being soaked, he
was compelled to strike them to know the differ-
ence - hence his occupation. How I laughed! And
how angry he got with me, until he discovered how
iunny the whole thing was. But when old pooplo
are just dropping into their dotage, it is the easiest
thing’ in the world to pleas© them; so, in considera-
tion of having so good a joke at his expense, I
went through a self-imposed penance of reading
the morning papers to him before I left, which
had the effect of soothing him into a peaceful
slumber. But, enough.
Ever your loving
MAD.
The fashion in which times change, and
names which were once appropriate hang on to
institutions which so alter their character as to
make their name a burlesque, is exemplified by
the rejection of Mr. Carrell Wil'iams, secretary of
tho Liberation of the Church from State Patronage
and Control, when proposed for membership of
the London Reform Club. The Tory Figaro is
quite pleased with the Club, both for that and for
its previous feat of blackballing the brother of Mr.
Chamberlain beciuse he is a Radical. It is a bit
interesting to notice that the Figaro considers
the emancipation of the Church from State patron-
age and control to be equivalent to abolishing it
altogether. Not a very high compliment to the
Church, surely. Anyway, the Reform Club was
clearly chrystalised early in the half-century, and
considers everything reformed that ever needed
reform. Its old-style Liberals are resting on their
seventh day and saying “ it is good ” to everything
which exists.
Dr. R. Von Lendenfelt lectured on Sunday
at Leigh House on the persistence of nature. For
centuries Sunday had been devoted to theology;
it was almost time they started to study some-
thing useful and practical on that day. Nothing
exists without substance, though the substance
m'ght be very etherealised, such as air, gas. Ab-
solute substance is a combination of matter and
energy. Matter is all comprised i • 64 primary
elements; energy is known in the three forms of
heat, light, and sound, all of which are simply the
result of molecules in motion. Theologians
preached the evanescence of matter and eternity
of the soul. He contended exactly the opposite;
matter is the thing eternal, the soul is not. The
theory of the soul’s immortality had been invented
for praotioal purposes, and so had that of eternal
punishment, to help the upper classes to terrorise
and thus govern the lower into obedience. This
theory, embodied in the Christian creed, was more
brutal than any doctrine in any “heathen”
religion. And the progress of the world was
shown by his being able to stand up and say so
without being burned for it by the same kind of
people as those who invented the theory.
Atheism has received a knock-down blow
—the bubble of infidelity is burst, and its hollow-
ness exposed. The good work was accomplished
by a Melbourne man, in a letter to the D.T. Listen
to his words of wisdom: " With regard to myself,
it is beyond my power even to imagine a man,
possessed of all the faculties of a human being,
denying the existence of God. Such is the diffi-
culty I experience here that I abs lutely refuse to
believe that the world, in the infinite varieties of
its birth, has ever brought forth, or can bring
forth, a genuine atheist. What essence of Pod-
snappery! “J absolutely refuse to believe;” evi-
dently that disposes, once and for all, of the whole
question. The name of this dogmatic luminary is
concealed under the nom de plume of “Ciana.”
And this reminds us that Henry Morgan, who died
the other day, for murdering a little girl, also be-
lieved iD the existence of God, and expressed him-
self as hopeful of joining Him above after com-
pleting his earthly business with Upjohn. Now,
you’d like to know wherein lies the point of this
reminiscence. Just this—Morgan was a sinner, too.
When the most noble and honorable Order
of the Garter was first instituted, its founder
meant business. The knights he chose to compose
tho brotherhood were warrior-statesmen fit to
support the Throne as then constituted. They
were each one of them bona fide pillars of the
State. Besides Edward and his son, the Black
Prince, there were Henry of Lancaster, the Earl ol'
Warwick, the Captal de Buch.the Earl of Stafford,
the Earl of Salisbury, the Earl of Mortimer, the
Earl of Kent, Lords Burghersh, Beauchamp, Mohun
of Dunster, Grey of Rotherfleld, and Sirs John
Lisle, Hugh Courtenay, Richard Fitz-Simon, Miles
Stapleton, Thomas Wale, Hugh Wrottesle.r, Nele
Loryng, John Chandos, James Audeley, Otho
Holand, Henry Earn, Sanchet d’Abrichecourt, and
Walter Paveley—each knight sage in council and
stout at arms. To-day, of the fifty-two knights on
the Order’s roll, twenty-eight are princelings or
foreign sovereigns; while among the other twenty-
four are the names of such faineant nine impoops
as the Dukes of Wellington, Cleveland, Bedford,
Somerset, Beaufort, Sutherland, Richmond, Rut-
land, Devonshire,and Grafton; and Earls Leicester,
Fitzwilliam, and Cowley—in a word, of the great
pillars of the throne, whether soldiers, sailors, or
statesmen, there is scarce a representative, unless
Salisbury, or Granville, or Argyll, Grey. Spencer,
or Ripon (the best names in the list) can be said to
represent the greatness of England. Did the
Crown know any thing concern’ng its real pros-
perity, it would make the Garter what it was
intended to be, a brotherhood of the realm’s proved
best. So, its antique form might set off attrac-
tively a still vital principle; as it is, its survival
under disgraceful conditions is not merely an
absurdity but an absolute danger to the Mon-
archy. Honi soil qui mal y pensc.


People in New South Wales are probably
under the impression that with the execution of
Cordini all question as to his guilt or innocence
came to an end, and that the various official repre-
sentations which appeared in the Sydney papers,
and were endorsed by leading articles, satisfied the
public mind. It is * singular fact that one had
only to refer to the daily papers of Melbourne to
discover that considerable doubt and disquietude
prevailed there in reference to the justice of Cor-
dini s fate. The dailies here adopted a course some-
what similar to that of the tyrant who “made a
wilderness and called it peace.
It’s a queer commentary upon the freedom of
public discussion by the medium of the prtssin
Sydney, even now that there is more than one
daily, that a discussion relative to tho justice of
the execution of Cordini has been carried on in
Rainfall Map.
We are able lo present in this issue a reduced copy of the very useful and aignificant map compiled by Mr. H.C. Russell, B.A., F.R.A.S., Governmen Astronomer for New
South Wales. The map tells its own story, and needs scarcely any explanation It Will be understood at once that the [?] of the black spot in each locality is propor-
tionate to the amount of rain which fell there during the year, it will be seen how much more highly favoured in that respect are the coast districte than the intertor
portions of the colony. The original map-from which ours is copied and which is more than four times the size—is published by the Government Printer, and can be
purchased, attached to Mr. Russell's remarks in pamphlet form for one shilling
the columns of the Melbourne Age. partly by cor-
respondence. which had been refused insertion
both by the Evening News and the Daily Tele-
graph. We have the letter before us, and as it is
a calm and logical epistle, it is difficult to conceive
any honest reason why the writer should have had
to seek in Victoria fior tee medium of publicity
which was denied to him here.
The Adelong Literary Institute was opened
lately. At the public meeting which came off to
celebrate the event, Montague Marks (as we gather
from the local Times) made a pithy speech, in the
course of which he neatly quoted the observation
of Lady Wortley Montague, that no entertainment
is so cheap as a read out of a borrowed book which
you don’t intend to return to the lender. It was
devilish neat of Montague Marks to drag in his
■rlstooratio relation. Lady Mary W. Montague, in
that way. Noblesse oblige, you know. Therelation-
ishJp was pretty close, too. Lady Mary having l many
a time popped the family jewels with Ikey Marks
of Hounsditch-third in ascent, we believe, from
Adelong’s own Montague.
The author of “ Indian Lyrics ” thus word-
paints the Chaplain:—
“ Placed in this land with no soul-mastering aim,
Feeding a flock that little heeds his care,
The Chaplain’s life drags on in weariness and want
of purpose.
So, smaller duties claim him,’schools are planned,
Or tombs repaired, or when such labours pall,
In grassy courts he smites the flying ball;
Or goeth here and there with careful haDd
Collecting Various moneys. Like a wall
About him frowns the darkness of the land.”
'he last three lines will fit all Parsondom.
Invi dia,” inaletterto the Austra
dated the “Feast of the Vener-
able Bede,’ givesslops to that High rag for having
rihfuf for k°t itself as to publish letters from
rP? a, d men of Belial, who, in mockery of holy
Ffi«Jf 8 ’« h f ad th ate l e P ls tles “ The Vigil of the
least-of the Sainted Laundrymaid,” and the
Octave of the Invention of the Boiled Peas.”
We deeply sympathise with “ Absit Invidia,” The
editor who, pretending churchmanship, would
make a mock at the Anglican Calender, let him be
anathema maranatha, and, astride of an undying
worm, may he live in secula seculorum to suppli-
cate in vain the blessed mediation of SS. Valentine,
Blasius, Lucy, Perpetua, and O Sapientia.
The value of perfumes to countries adapted
Production may be gathered from the
estimate of their growth and value per
acre, as given ln the Journal or Horticulture;
An acre of jasmine plants, 80,000 in number, will
produce 5000 pounds of flowers, valued at £250; an
acre of rose trees, 10,000 in number, will yield 2000
pounds of flowers, worth £75; 300 orange trees
growing on an acre will yield, at ten years of age,
3000 pounds of flowers, worth £5O; an acre of
violets, producing 1600 pounds of flowers, is worth
£160; an acre of cassia trees, of about 300, will, at
three years of age, yield about 900 pounds of
flowers, worth £9O; an acre of geranium plants
will yield something over 2000 ounces distilled
attar, worth £800; an acre of lavender, givingover
3500 pounds of flowers for distillation, will yield a
value of £3OO.
“ Alfred Sydney ” says, “the great diffi-
culty in all controversy is the difficulty of getting
even disputants to see accurately, not merely the
merits of the case, on which there must be differ-
ence of opinion, but the facts of the case, on whieh
one 1 - 6 P on ?-”, H °w true, moat reverend
one, such facts, for instance, as those about the
the Descent into Hell. There ought to
be no differences of opinion about them, and yet
wh/f 6 of e v.l er ta ? difficulty ain’t eased a
by the stubbornest fact in connection with
ft® Vlz .v the fact of the “most,”
the right, the very, and the “ rather ” rever-
n? nln f that their view of the facts
to wioii °° r y correct one. Alfred pretends
oa D MmLo g j lca i\, yet ln P ia arguments he invariably
™™^ e ?h 1 /T,. the P re f ni ? e 8 the Question he seeks to
t^ic° 'wr&ngl er° n 9 an clerical error of the ecclesias-
“Major” Barker and “ Captain ” Shepherd
*2 e cp Sued a “fiver” each for organising a
Mofh^iEi° nic celebrate the latter’s release from
w 1 o? in 2?^ 0l ‘ tbat iBn ’t what we’re laugh-
ing at just now; far from it. No; the cause of our
merriment is a sympatnetic article appearing in
tfi® Melbourne D.T. Listen to a little bit of it-
Major Barker, in truth, made a mistake when he
p a , m .O t° Victoria. He thought he was among an
intelligent democratic people, who would judge a
man by his work, not by the coat he wore He
™ wrong. He should have been orthodox He
should have got a committee together, and solicited
the patronage of the ‘ respectable ’ denomina-
tions. Oh, dear! oh, dear! do pat our back,
please! To think of this gentle satire from the
own particular organ of the Presbyterian elders—
men who wouldn't look at a fellow-creature unless
he was ’ orthodox ” and “ respectable ” (according
to Scotch notions), and in the habit of sporting a
black coat on the Sawbawth. Oh-o-o! Order an
undertaker, and let us die smiling.
Joseph Symes and the Rev. D. Berry hav
been drawing good houses to the Melbourne Hal
of Seience, with their serio-comic duologue en-
titled “Did Christ Rise ? ” J. 8. made some capftai
points, and decidedly carried off the honours of
the wrangling performance. A fair poser for
the Rev. Berry was—“ What became of the dead
people who rose out of their graves immediatelv
after the crucifix on ? ” and, as a matter of fact,
the worthy gentleman steered clear of those
ghostly revivals in his reply. Mr. Symes might
have gone a bit further and enquired " which dead
rose? —they couldn’t all have disarranged their
tomb-stones, that’s certain. And then, if only a
limned few took up their graves and walked, were
the selections made Indescriminately or according
to a fixed rule? For instance, did all the “ poor
dear, first husbands ” have a holiday for the purl
pose of discovering what manner ot man Marv
Jane has selected for her “ second,” and vice versa.
verylarge Ye8 ’ thdt was a large question of Symes’


Giticura
: C S>
i
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMOUS, Humiliating: Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
j<tieum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Soald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching:, Soaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Gopper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with mss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuiicdba and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Py:emia,Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child's.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Wood Pari
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Imnurities and Poisonou*
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutfcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Priokly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcnra Remedies, are absolutely pure, ana
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflerc
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Bale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 35 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
V
• lit
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
ft
m
:,v
W
mm sssa
i
35.1.:
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
ambricait o3^a-^u3^rs,
BY THB RENOWNED MAKERS,
Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
3®- ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STUCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALE",
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
( HAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & FTUTCE,
197 PITT STREET
BICYCLES! TRICYCLES! BICYCLES!
The Sparkbrook National Tricycle,
with patent differential gearing, undoubtedly the easiest hill-climber in the
market.
The Sparkbrook Bicycle,
BALL BEARINGS, PRICE FROM 10 GUINEAS.
THOMAS, & CO.’S EXCELSIOR 13-GUINEA BICYCLE,
as ridden by Mr. A. Edward from Sydney to Melbourne.
Agent: C. W. BENNETT, 68 King-st., Sydney.
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS
229 CLARENCE STREET.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION
Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, BYDN p
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License. Is now
prepared to carry on the business of a HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamer#
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Nisrht porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
limited),>
REDFERN WORKS, SYDINEY. _
fST' UNEQUALLED SAFETY. »EXTHEME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
IP -•"
mrjm
Vs //. '/////////////A v/////
m
m
.
11
Ii
er
'////////'///////////////
1//////77/. '
sm
jX.MPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNES3 OF MOTION. t3T° FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Digrams, Ac., to be obtained ct
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators,


Cleanse the Vitiated
Blood whenever you find its impurities bursting
through the skin in Disfiguring Blotches, Torturing
Humors, Boil?, and Sores; cleanse it when you are
Feverish, Bowels Constipated, Urine High-colored
and Scanty, because it is in an inflamed and fermen"
tive state. Cleanse it when Languor, Debility,
Sleeplessness, and a Tired, Worn-out Feeling per-
vades the system. Cleanse it when you lack your
accustomed vigour. Keep the Blood pure, and
health will abide with you. To accomplish this
great work none of the ordinary sarsaparilla blood
purifiers can possibly equal the Cuticura Resol-
vent, the great Blood Purifier, Diuretic, and
Aperient.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olivo Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at fid.
per package. Send 3d. Uamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
About two years ago my wife had a very
troublesome cough, of so serious a character that
we all became very anxious; indeed, it seemed
that we had but little to hope for, as the Lungs
were affected. We tried various medicines, but
very little if any benefit seemed to be derived
from any of them; so that it appeared the disease
had complete mastery, and nothing but death
would bring relief. I was then advised to give Dr.
D. Jayne’s Expectorant a trial, and doing so, to
our surprise found benefit from its use. Persisting
with it, she gradual y commenced improving, until
the principal symptoms disappeared entirely, and
she has enjoyed reasonably good health everaineo.
—John Musyrave, Ilubhardsvillc, Kentucky. To be
had of all Druggists aud Storekeepers; and whole-
sale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Test of Actual Trial. This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6d. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trilling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &c., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-sized bottles 3s. 6d. Sold
by all druggists.
/
_IABI
y* %
it
y/;
alltk
w.
Vl
&
z>
'jiLlii
*? -aK^pas
iryguo^cmfr
i:. HILT S CO.’S Hew Wins mi Siirii Starts mi Cellars,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
A (rents for—
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY. BUXTON & CO.,
Browers, Purton-on-Trent:
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee;
Messrs. A. C. MEUKOW & CO.,
Cognac ;
E. & J. DURKE &
“Eight Sparanng Trent A.e :
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
_ A Bordeaux, Clarets;
The Due do Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France
The Charente V ineyard ProiJrietors, Charente
London Agents:
Messrs. Aethtjh Allt & Co.,
Wormwood Cfcaiubcis, Worm wood-street, E.C.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the last twenty-five years, no less
than two millions of people have taken up their
residence, for good, insido the limits of the Lon-
don postal circle, and nothing short of an earth-
quake could make them shift their quarters. In a
word, these two millions have settled in the
various cemeteries within the quarter of a cen-
tury, and John Bull is beginning to think that
quite enough bone-dust has been put down lor
manuring purposes, and that unless cremation
drops into fashion the Great Metropolis will soon
commence to smell like a charnel-house. Talk
about a City of the Dead I
Mr. R. T.-total Booth has been relating
some of his military experiences to the Mel-
bourne people, and from them we draw the in-
ference that Mr. B. was s warrior c.f somewhat
unique pattern. It appears that “ his mother gave
him a Bible when he left his home with the Hlth
New York Volunters to engage in the Union
struggle, and he has ever carried it in his heart.”
Well, that’s comprehensible enough, of course,
because other great soldiers have made a point of
seeping their bibles warm by a similar device. We
have, if we remember rightly, frequently shed
tears over pretty little stories of heroes who
averted death-wounds by the same stroke of
politic piety—receiving bullets in their Bibles in-
stead of their bussums. But Mr. Booth puzzles us
a bit with his next statement, viz.—“ He had cast
blankets, overcoats, and other things aside in the
heat of strife, but he had never parted with his
Bible.” Now, just think of a man rushing to meet
the foe in a blanket and overcoat I No wonder he
speaks of the “ heat of strife.”
Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
eflects deriveahle from the u*c of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife Buffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
contldently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “ It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected cm-
in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
Arm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogelor Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Prico in N.S.W., HaJf-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
VIc Vic[?]
Wo sing the fate of one who seemed
Exempt from Care’s alloy;
AVhoso happy visage ever beamed
With signs of frantic joy.
Life was, to him, without a thorn,
A heavenly abode;
And, shortly after lie was born,
’Twas noticed that he crowed I
At ten months old, the whooping-cough
Attacked him, but ho said
“ Mamma, I hope it takes mo off—
It’s jolly to be dead.
Just shove my marbles in the tomb,
And all my pretty toys—
Oh! won’t it be a Kingdom Come
For all the other boys!”
He tided over that, and soon
Gave cause for more alarm
By swallowing a wooden spoon
As long as a yard-arm,
Then said, “ Mamma, I’ve got it down,
Oh! won’t I laugh and shout
To see tho look or Doctor Brown
Whon he can’t fish it out!”
He got the scarlet fever, next,
And measles with it, too,
And while his ma stood, quite perplexed,
Unknowing what to do,
He said, “ Mamma, don't look so beat
Don’t make mistakesl-it fills
Me with delight each time I cat
Those luscious aloe pills!”
At four, ho fell and broke his leg,
Yet. never minded that—
Just said. “ Mamma, bo calm, I beg,
I’ll tell you what I'm at:
I did it purposely (t feel
With rapture lit to dance)
That I might get a chance to steal
The doctor’s biggest lance!”
This youth was well-nigh drowned at five;
But, when a man plunged in
And brought him forth, just half-alive,
His face assumed a griu.
He said, ‘ I knew quite well the ice
Would break "—and here he roared -
“ But thought it must be very nice
To feel one’s self restored!"
At school, though ’mid the noisiest crow,
He yelled and danced and skipped,
He kept his eye on what to do
in order to bo whipped;
And said, “Mere football seems to me
As sober rs a church
Compared with the delirious glee
I feel bene th tho birch!”
Waxends no terrors had for him,
And, locking in the dark,
He said, was fit for Seraphim,
’Twas such a massive lark !
It drove the stern old teacher wild.
And almost sent him daft
At twenty strokes this pupil smiled,
At forty-five, he laughed I
His father was a clergyman,
And purposed that his heir
Should have no other calling than
His own; so, when, wi h care
Ho trained him up, and bade him seek
The Word, the happy rogue
Would lie upon his back and shriek
To read the Decalogue!
They had to got his collar loosed
And roll him on the grass
The very moment he perused
The speech of Baalam's Ass;
The Revelations made him yell,
Tho fun was so unique;
And when ho struck Dives in hell,
He real y couldn’t speak!
IT is father saw with keenest pain
The tears of joy he shed
When he was made aware how Cain
Banged Abel on tho head.
One day ho heard a roar, and said,
“That boy must have ‘Tom Jones;'”
But, no—ne’d just that moment road
Tho “Valley of Dry Bones!”
He soon discerned his son, alas!
Could never fill the plate,
Nor *eriouBly preach Levites, as
His Levity was great;
So said, “ I Icv’-it-t'-ye, my boy,
To choose what you will be;”
The child cried out, and wept for Joy,
“ Make me a C.M.G.I”
He soon arrived at man’s estate,
And wedded ner he loved,
Then, at his careless carcase, Fate
Wired in, with fists ungloved.
His wife abused him, night and day;
Her mother boro a hand—
It. only made him laugh, and say
That married life was grand 1
In course of time his wife eloped
And took his cash. Instead
Of being bidiy telescoped,
He stood upon his head
With joy; and when the false one died
Alone on some lar shore,
With gleo ho sang and danced and cried,
And shouted out for more!
And when her ma for wages sued
Him, this light-hearted man
Declared there d been no joho so good,
Not since the world began.
With gaiety his face grew red;
He swore that British law
Should bind a widower to wed
Right off, his late wife’s ma!
He signed his name for many a friend
To many paper slips,
They always pinched him in the end;
But, never from his lips
C-ime sound of angor or complaint—
Fate's every bitter shaft
Found him as bold as Prince Geraint,
And, pinched or not, he laughed!
Insurance agents blocked his door,
Book agents, too, assailed;
But, though they drained his worldly store,
His Tapiey l e.irt’prevailed
O'er all—an oci an of content,
An ever-finoding Nile,
That made his life, wtu-re’er he went,
One comprehensive smile!
Whero is he now ? Alas! alas!
Robed in Woe’s inky suit.
He earns his poor subsistence as
An undertaker’s mute!
“ What changed his life to this dark hue ?”
You ask me. I’ll explain:
.—He read the “ Morning Herald ” through
And couldn't smite again!
The New Chum’s Bride
My dear little Daisy is crossing the sea,
With hope her fond bosom is beating,
For she comes, ay, at last, to be marrii d to me,
And madly 1 yearn for our meeting.
Long years has sho waited in England, my sweet,
While her “ boy ” has been patiently making
A home and position to lay at her feet,
Auu the dawn of our joy is now breaking.
Kind fortune has helped mo £*) feather a nest
(’Twas a labour of love to prepare it);
And now all my toil is a thousand times blest,
For my bird’s coming over to share it.
Her letters have told how her innocent heart
Was far, far away, o’er the ocean
(Oh! oft, as I read them, the tear drops will start,
For it’s seldom one finds such devotio-n);
Or, how dashing suitors beseeching her hand,
Hove made on her heart no impression -
How she kept her gazo fixe l on a fair southern
land.
And, at all times, behaved with discretion.
While T, ov’ry mail, ha ve repealed my vow-
lint now all our writing is ended
In a month—or five weeks at the latest—from now
Our lives will, forever, be blended.
For dear little Daisy is crossing the sea,
With hope her fond bosom is beating;
Oh I she cometh at last to bo married to me,
And madly I yearn for our meeting.
(A MONTH LATER.)
Alas, for my hopes! how delusive and vain—
T can't wed the girl 1 was wrapt in;
Her troth couldn’t stand those six weeks on the
main—
Shi ’s gone fairly mad on the captain.
His often-changed garments, and dandified air
Of “ blowing ” on sea-faring topics,
Proved really too much for her feelings —well,
thore!
She swore to be his, in the Tropics.
So when, in n state of delirious joy
(Excuse all these tears I am shedding),
I boarded the boat, sho exclaimed, “ Dear old boy!
Do come and make one at the wedding.”
A “Bulletin” Melody.
[Suitable for a sweet Tenor Voice and a Banjo.]
Lips like cherries, dimpled cheeks,
Eyes of brightest lustre;
Sweetest music when she speaks—
Curls in golden cluster;
Bashful gaze and modest ways,
Filling me with fond amaze—
(Banjo)
That’s my Mary I
Stately train, and bridal veil,
Kneeling at the altar—
Dimpled cheeks all pearly pale,
Mtrriage vows to falter;
Airs and graces, smiling faces.
Tears—as usual in these cases—
(Banjo)
That’s my Mary I
Pouting lips and crimsoned cheeks,
Eyes with anger dashing;
Voice discordant when she speaks—
Cu ps and saucers smashing:
Wild distress, and shrieks, unless
She can have another dress—
(Much banjo)
That's my Mary I
Marble slab, with ivy round
And about it creeping,
Marks the little plot of ground
Where is calmly sleeping
One, who, to this world of pain,
Thank God I can’t return again—
(Banjo)
That’s my Mary!
A Lyric of Limbo.
[.Which is not a Lyric, but— m’ona mondhioul /]
Respectfully dedicated, without permission, to
the clergy.
I am a person of most serious mind,
To solomn subjects solemnly inclined;
F.xcecding gravity in me has wrought
A harmless turn to theologic thought;
Though curious, reverent, and, to be brief,
Not blind in intellect, but in belief—
A temper which has kept my soul from scathe;
For, still, at the foundations of my Faith,
Though Science with her little hammer knocks,
My Faith remains austerely orthodox.
In days when sects are shaken as a reed
I hold fast by a simple Christian creed—
I love my neighbour, and devoutly hope
All will be damned who do not damn the Pope.
Unaided, while a youth, I found this out,
That it is better far to die than doubt:
Doubt breeds suspicion (and suspicion, sorrow),
Darkens to-day, and yet has no to-morrow;
Discounts the fairest gift, distrusts the giver,
Degrades the soul-and, worse, destroys the liver.
Seeing all this, I said to Doubt good-bye,
To walk with Faith forever; so that I
Believe in many things: God, Gold, and Guelph
And, on some rare occasions, in myself.
Yet, though in doctrine steadfast as a stock,
A pillar of the Church, a root, a rock—
Receiving on bent knees, with sacred awe,
The verdicts of ecclesiastic law—
On subjects that outside these canons lie
Some little notions of my own have I;
And, thinking you have, peradventure, none,
I keep a number and 1 give you one.
When Gabriel orders up the dead, and plays
His trump—forgive this somewhat tiippant phrase,
Relic of days, I say it to my shame,
When I played euchre, an ungodly game—
Strange things will happen: Some their breasts
will thump—
Some gnash their teeth at playing of that trump,
And some good souls object to ir, maybe,
As savouring of Popish trumpery;
Others will march to judgment to its notes,
Praying their friends may be among the goats;
And those who robbed the living poor will lie
In wait to rob the dead poor passing by,
Of what small stock of virtues they possess
And claims, through misery, to happiness—
In fact, ’twill bea marvel nowise small
If they are left with any soul at all.
Others, who used to pray in cushioned pews,
Will pray no more, salvation not to lose,
But only ask, when damned, to be damned well
In a select suburban part of Hell.
For these I care not; I myself will be
A cherub, on a throne of porphyry
(Sarcastic here; 'tis meet it should be so—
All head above that had no head below!),
With piles of crowns upon my brow austere
To make up for my lack of them down here.
My wings snail have some fifteen colours, too,
And shimmer in the everlasting blue,
Through which full meekly I shall dip and dive
To madden those whose wings have only five.
And, if it strikes me, I shall, now and then,
Go down once more among the world of men,
And let those know who at religion carp
How Bishop Barker gets on with the harp;
And, sometimes, in a mood of holy glee,
Call in on Cyril Haviland, may be,
(That indefatigable Rapparee '.)
With information from beyond the sky
That all who live are pretty sure to die;
And messages from friends, long lost to view,
That they are nicely, thanks, and how are you ?
And one from Mrs. Squatter Brown, who took
Dead lately—she, you know, that was a cook,
And afterwards a great dame did become,
And saw in “ Hitaly ” the “ Pup o’ Rum ”
To say, in language somewhat out of joint,
(She could not spell) to friends in Darling Point,
She had seen God, nigh close enough to touch,
And was not disappointed with Him—much!


THE
M
HGNO
Piano.
N
%
THE
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
BSigrion
FIiLITO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
X=>I^.XTO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
Wilmer
X=X-&_XTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF!
THE
PI^.ITO
BF” Illustrated catalogues of the “ MIGNON,”
WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
e had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
wmn
FRUIT
COMPLAINT positively cured be MOCLTON’"
rKUIJ. I'ILLS. We moan wured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what wo say. There are no failures and dc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
np-n oJbxOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
: ' °IA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
cearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
itlE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
i&ey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Solrt Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
tonic nervine
TMRrtTfl’nravn
\ SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
mat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
i oof,hache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss 01
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
ana soothing effects it at once removes all craving
Alcohol. By its richness in phosnhorous and
1 vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
f UNIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
me whole system. Price, 4a. 6d., or 255. a case.
m>/^!X wnorr - Sole Proprietors. MARSHALL
ir,™ M P-8., Manufacturing and consull-
ct l‘ ,m 'Bts, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
WK—%fj imitations illegal.
TAKE no SUBSTITUTE.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May IC, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, liheu-
tnatism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. '-?/
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable*
ELLIOTT BEOS., S. HOFFNT7NG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR, OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallio admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g'jssy and per-
manent brown or black, whicVi colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer In perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
9
MR. F. WARE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
Jither Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
DEAFNESS l—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the SeDior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford,
Auekland, New Zealand.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Oiflce.
&QLL 9lt
BLEND
[TRADE}
ARXj
JiX
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.— This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, oom-
uiuinjf fulness of body, with piquancy and dellcaoy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Bole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
|3OB GEORGE STREET.
Mr
yf'.t t
VELEBPtft®:
o *ftStotdjW^
m
um
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD £
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
80HN APPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
fT MANUFACTITKKR OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to mj.tch,
NURSERY PAYERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &d.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
881 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTER?’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, V*
nishes. Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
11
■A
Bmsßwm
min
'Hill
fir*
*J
I NVALUA
,.05' sor ;, c , R .‘
Lo s
jon
Se?
pd l
ire
N
stle
Ss
Ce
|ai_^>tsi‘EcuLLy'^mbi( l (.-
. ADAPTED FOR THE -41]
Australian Colonies^
m
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN POE PRESENTATION PLATE.
17
—rp
|’fe*
'1
-A
o
<*>
cfl
a;
pj
'<r
5
3
OP
52
\
CL
4
tTi
&
&
r
p
5Ci
O
>«
2
$
o
$
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Tixe ISeliaTble 23ta.g , g:les!
-Si
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY'
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Easiern Backboard Waggons.
m~ best MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 2 4i Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
;Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
jgf Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithin*
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOBETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
FACT AND FANCY
FOCUSSED
Untolled happiness: Crossing Prymont
Bridge under the new regime .. . More gold got
durinjr tb© last six months at Charters Towers than
In any similar period Off for the Golden Shoah:
Adam Howitt, aged 80, who arrived in the colony
in 1826 as foreman of the Australian Agricultural
Association; Bar coo “ L’ripey;” Beverly Suttor,
of Hargraves, a very old local identity.... Old Tom
Boyd, the explorer, has at last received a cheque
for JES 2, the first instalment of the gratuity pro-
mised him by the Governments of N7S. Wales and
Victoria. At least, we presume he’s got it, since
it was handed te the O’Mara, M.P. for Tumut, who
Sassed it along to Boniface M’Kay, of the Beehive
totel, Tumut, to deliver to Tom, whioh strikes us
as having been a doosid queer roundabout way of
paying over the coin.... Melbourne University
The charming evening toilette with train, as shown above, is composed of pink satin and agreeing
damask, trimmed with satin ribbon, pink chenille bugles, embroidered lace and sprigs of apple blos-
som. One side of the skirt, edged round with a box pleat flounce, is hidden by three puffings of satin.
Theother side is trimmed with a plain damask width, taken up lightly with ribbon and a flower sprig.
A damask puffing trims the upper part of the satin corsage, cut out very deep and trimmed with
bugles and lace. The second figure shows the Mary Anderson skirt, made with fine cream-coloured
wool, the polonaise of flowered silk, the ground being cream, and the design of pale blue and pink.
Satin loops of two colours bide the buttons closing the corsage, and small rosettes finish the sleeve?.
The neck opening cut out like a triangle behind, and very wide and deep in front, is trimmed with
wide handsome lace.
CouneiJ, despite a petition from the Senate protest-
ing against the commission of such a mistake, has
elected Bishop Moorhouse to the Chancellorship.
The institution which should exalt reason and
encourage youth to follow the logic of the brain
has deliberately selected as its bead an ecclesiastic
whose trade it is to lift up a prelatic voice against
the mischievousness and the blasphemy ot men
not thinking according to orthodox standards ...
A man was arrested in Melbourne with four five
noun 1 notes in his possession. They were rolled in
a pieoe of the Melbourne W bkkly Times. Prosecu-
tor didn’t know the notes, but would swear they
were his owing to the wrapper. Seemed to think
be was the only man in Australia who took in the
Weekly Times A waggish juryman at an in-
ouest suggested that the most suitable ver-
dict would be: "Sidled off from putting on
teo much ‘side.’” It was a case of sul-cide....
Health journals insist upon reposing on the right
side only, and claim that it is injudicious to lie on
both sides; but we don’t know where they will
lind a healthier set of fellows than lawyers.... A
narty named Pringle, who lately took a flying trip
found the world, leoturing in Scotland, describes
the climate of Victoria as horrible, that of New
South Wales as unbearable, and the country
generally as ugly as a country cao bo. Gruel for
us kangarooitei... .The majority of Maori women
are sterile, and one with a lamily numbering tour
would be a phenomenon. The Christian civilisers
—rum and tobaoco-have done the trick. An-
other causo is that, since the whites took
Dossession, immoralitv amongst young Maori
women is the rule, not the exception....
In a watch, the main wheel makes 4 revolutions in
‘U hours 1450 in a year; the second or centre, 24
revolutions in 24 hours, or 7760 in a year; the third
wheel, 192 in 24 hours, or 09,080 in a year; the
fourth wheel—which carries the second hand-
-1440 in 24 hours, or 525,600 in a year; the fifth or
aoane-wheel, 12,964 iu 24 hours, or 4,728,400 revolu-
Sons in a year; while the beats or vibrations made
in 24 hours are 388,800, or 141,812,900 in a year.... A
young parson, being about to start for a now
parish, explained his non-arrival by wiring, “ Pres-
bytery lacked a quorum to ordain.” This reached
the deacons in this shape, “ Presbytery tacked a
worm on to Adam.” After consideration, the
deacons concluded he had tacked an Eve on to
himself, and provided married quarters The
late N.Z. Parliament voted themselves £43,000 for
their less than a fortnight’s session, fleeing that
payment of mem -era obtains in Maoriland, we
don’t see where the display of greed (bewailed by
the Otago Daily Times, and endorsed by our own
Conservative Granny) comes iu The Tasma-
nian Reform Bill proposes to reduce the qualifica-
tions of Upper House electors, freehold to £2O,
leasehold to £100; to extend Lower House fran-
chise to all ratepayers and any person earning £BO
per annum; to give widows and spinsters a vote;
and to allow the “Lords” to amend money bills,
provided they don’t increase the amount voted, but
to dissolve them if they reject a money bill twice
passed by an absolute majority of the “Com-
mons.” The three ways ot Belling a sacrament:
The baker sells the bread, the wine merchant sells
the wine, and the priest sells the ceremony. Cus-
tomer “ sold ” all round by the alum in the Dread,
the logwood in the wine, and the simony in the
hierophant ...” All we deeire,” «aid the Protestant
deputationists to Triokett, “is that religious in-
struction shall be regularly, continuously, and
intellectually taught.” Intellectually taught? As
well might we ask that astrology should be scien-
ti-ioally taught. It hasn’t yet dawned on the
clerical mind that the intellect can’t, grasp the
unknowable.
* * *
Her Majesty invariably sleeps on a bed
made after a certain pattern, and one is always
sent in advance for her use when she is going to a
strange place Talmage says it has taken a
million years for him to be “ evolved ” from an
ape. We can’t see where any evolution has come
in According to Thurm, a traveller who ha* re-
cently “ done ” British Guiana, the Macusi version
of “I beg your pardon ” is “ Me hit you again.”...
The great German germ doctor is Koch sure that
the cholera now in France is Asiatic, and that it
will spread over Europe. ...There are seven bibles
extant—the Try Pitikes of the Buddhists, dating
from the seventh century b c.; the Five Kings of
the Chinese, eleventh century b.c. ; the three
Vedas of the Hindoos, eleventh century, b.c.; the
Zendavesta of the Persians, twelfth century b.c.;
the Koran of the Mahommedans, seventh century
ad.; the Eddas of the Scandinavians, eleventh
century a.d. : and the Christian Bible. Curiously
enough, the Buddhist and Persian Bibles, published
centuries before Christ, contain almost every
moral inspiration to be found in the Christian
one. The Persian one especially, whose author
was Zoroaster, is remarkable in this respect.
. The number of volumes in the British
Museum is over thirteen hundred thousand.
There are about one hundred and sixty miles ol
shelves, and about twenty more miles to be flllei.
About one ton of literature is sent daily to that
institution The Count de Chambord had £80,337
personalty in England....J. J. Aliport, manager
Slidland Railway, has been knighted. He cheapened
third class fares Parnell has promises to the
extent of £lO,OOO for the new Irish Migration Com-
pany. Migration is not emigration....An ‘ Amur-
rukun ” dad, who destines four of his “ kids for
sailors, has christened them Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter, on the ground that they
will be the four seasons of the family The
army retirement warrant gives officers who pur-
chased their captains’ commissions, in addition to
their pensions, a sum about equal to the interest of
their purchase money. “Purchase’’ subalterns,
however, do not get the same consideration,
although they have nearly £400,000 invested in the
Line l attaiions alone. War office ways are past
Hading out. ...Under the heading of " Parliamen-
tary Points,” a Kansas journal says—“ Four of the
greatest thieves that ever plundered their fellow-
men were carefully lynched just out of town on
Sunday last.” The better the day the better the
deed. There are some parts of the world where
that wouldn’t be reckoned such an inexcusable
blunder after all .. Sobliemann says he has dis-
covered a pre-historic palace on the site of tne
upper acropolis of Tiryus. From what one knows
of Herr Schliemann, one can believe that any of
his wonderful finds is pretty safe to have as foun-
dation a crop o' lies. Jebb has pretty well pricked
the bladder of Schliemann’s archceological preten-
sions. The Herr Doctor is all there with
the spade; but when he comes to draw .con-
clusions from his discoveries, he invariably
proves himself a credulous dilettante. ... • Tri-
cycles are utilized in London for the distribu-
tion of papers to newsboys at different points.
From four hundred to five hundred papers are
carried At the beginning of ’B4 there were-8
armoured and 123 unarmoured British ships in com-
mission. The grand total of armoured an? un-
armoured “hips in the Navy is 283; ships building
and completing amount to 11,490 tons tor armoured
and 4609 for unarmoured vessels. Total tonnage to
be built in 1884-5: Armoured ships, i 0,600 tons; un-
armoured, 5555 tons. Of the ironclads, the Anson
is to have 1569 tons butlt; the Conqueror, 4200 tons,
to be completed; the Collingwond to be advanced
421 tons, and the Rodney 1367. The ironclad
Benbow, now building at the Thames Iron-
works, is to have 2114 tons built into her....
London lawyers are lamenting the decrease in
their business. Commercial cases are settled in
greater numbers every year by arbitration,
because of the enormous expense of law. And
even when the expense is incurred, there is no
guarantee of justioe At the recent Marl-
borough House juvenile ball, “Wales seeing a
little girl not dancing, said to her, Have you not
got a partner?” ‘‘Oh, yes, was the quick
answer, “I have one, but he has gone out of
the room to be ill.”. ..“Year after year,” says a
London paper, “University honorary degrees
have been hawked among persons in an unsur-
passed spirit of toadyism and flunkey i5m.”.... \
Says Captain Crawley Billiard professionals
all begin to play as mere children. Roberts, Cook,
Mitchell, Taylor, and the brothers Bennett were
all familiar with the game before they could read. ’
It takes a good ten years’ incessant practice to
master the spot-stroke; and even then some pro-
fessionals never succeed in making more than \
twenty winning hazards. Given the necessary
taste and assiduity, a man might in ten years
master three languages and fit himself for any ;
post in any of the learned professions. Is it
likely, therefore, that amateurs will, under these
circumstances, ever be able to rival the profes-
sional players?” Certain Portuguese residents
of Fayal (Azores) anxious to avoid the conscription,
prevailed upon the skipper of the American
whaler “ Bertha ” to take them on a six-months’
cruise, or (according to his yarn) they agreed to
ship with him for the rest of the voyage, promising
to sign the articles at first port they came to where
there was a Yankee consul. At A lbany (W. A.) they
lei t the ship and refused to return; being promptly
run in, they were sent back in irons by Stipendiary
Loftie, notwithstanding the able defence made
for them by Parson-Barrister Laurence. The
Fremantle Herald is very indignant, and siys
these Portuguese were “ as fairly pressed as slaves
of old.” “ Unfairly ” we presume the F. H. means...
Egyptian troops fortifying Wadv Haifa and
Korosko.... Ferry says!the Lang Sou business wes
a regular ambush on the part of the Chinese, from
whom he asks ten million sterling by way of in-
demnity. He has also got Portugal to loan France
Macao as a pou Bto for levering that coin out of
the Brother of the Moon. Rear-Admiral J. K. E.
Baird succeeds ditto A. M. Lyons on the Pacific
station. The Swiftsure is the flag-ship (Captain
Aitobison)....Concerning Canada; T ‘ln connection
with the Dominion Government lands, some start-
ling revelations have recently come to light, where
members of the Canadian Parliament have secured
vast tracts of valuable lands in the North-west at
nominal figures, and then turned the property
over, realising large fortunes out of the trans-
action.” Thank heaven, we live in N.B. Wales !
According to the Times of India some
weavers, who, as a last resource, appealed to the
Government for redress of a grievance, addressed
“To Almighty God, care of His Excellency the
Governor of Madras.” That is unique. In our
yoirng days we were over in the Rocky Moun-
tain?, and, according to current reports, God badi
never been west of the Missouri river. We be-
lieve the report, too, for each man had to catry
his life, like his billy, in his hand. Now, it ap-
pears, if the weavers are right, that Ho has emi-
grated to Madras.
John Boyd, publican of Newcastle, charged
the other day before the local licensing bench
with Sunday trading, pleaded guilty, but urged, in
extenuation, that the liquor was served by a girl
who mistook the informer, from his moustache
and peculiar appearanoe, to be an actor. But, if
he had been an actor ? What then ? There is no
benefit of poor player under the Act, as in old
days there was “of clergy.” Even Grattan Biggs
or Sheridan must be content to be debarred from
the Sabbath nip, an he knoweth not the right crib.
If Fosbery and Co. would only pay more atten-
tion to what’s going on outside public-houses on
Sundays, and trouble less about what’s going on
inside, more good would be done in the way of
maintaining the sanctity of the Loard’s Day than
can possibly be hoped to be effected by laying
traps to catch a fairly respectable citizen red-
handed In the heinous act of serving a nobbier to a
sober customer.
This elegant morning gown is made of fine cambric, and
trimmed with button-holed frills and bands of tucks.
Through the bands is run ribbon which terminates in
bows, and a nice variety can be made by changing
the colour of the ribbon to suit the fancy.
WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others ; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington.
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks sinoe I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please pf tins.
Fours,
JOHN KELLY.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.


’’"RE COUNTRY MILK.
, 11 milk supplied by the
Pes hFoocf & Ice Co., Limited,
®ay be relied upon aa being
ALWAYS pure,
from the country districts, as
iTOni city contaminations.
Butter.
at their own depet
Wtiern ® tg best Gutter-makers 111 the
Deli'
!pS,°Wy noS, I ?*® daily, Sundays excepted,
® cTt^ g^,h J er 7 i "
oHr , -.-™ is made. Butter by
Clty * daily; suburbs, three times
Woo,/
& Ice Co., Limited,
STREET.
LU\S
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Kaye your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to mateh cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe
eutad
3T
Bull-dog ale.-it is not the cteameM
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the Palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO Agents. Newcastle Agents . WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
PEAPES and SHAW
jk| ft* respectfully invite inspection of their
"Ew SEASON’S GOODS.
as follows
Qnd Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
i& L and t ailor-mad a ulsters,
ttdch 04ffuineas
L o iiJ dren ’ a Ulsters, from ss. 6d. to 30s.
“■CUT ? a ‘ slla P e< i Ulsters, New Cloths
J ACKETS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
?®.^TLbmSA w have now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment __
’nspectirm § READY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
n of the various classes of goods enumerated below.
OVERCOATS, CUT
Ol’cift'- 455. Ita -LIAN CLOTH, 5
. LONG,
355., 305.,
’CH'f,'. 45".
IS " 10 ' Xysters, lined wool, 30s
iSM|?lBßS&afriSShft.
fo l C UT, FIT, STYLE, and
not be for Good Honest Value
-
. oos., 425., 505., 635. the SUIT.
T,, 558, r °°b n, 5
*ss}>«
Vest, 50s.
6rg West of England Broadcloth),
good Black Doeskin, 255., 30s,
Kite],',; to lBB (jH We l shrunk and well made,
5 IIJ TENNIS JACKETS, 25
Celtic ®SSING GOWNS, in Fel
’ Ir °m 80s. to »l ne > s °otch Knicker, Quilts
bo 84s.
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING. ,
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING.
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silt
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. 6d ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d ,
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, KmckerS
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
9s. 6d„ 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12s. (id.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
and SHAW,
Ge °HGe street,
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
' y Wol££ Sz, Soaa’s
T He
hadfr
' iroin all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
H * w PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
■A-rce Opexs..
**CGLEERY’S HOTEL,
°rner of KING and CASTLEUEAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
Mi rrn . '
Bar tjp-stairs.
oqo\
t he only genuine tintag
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three
\ r|l fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
. i into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
>° aie s st and FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
ltl f S -~' c °NQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
of ■ PllK,a Ci*rars, and aU Tobacconists’ Sundries.
Tobaocq woiiKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paiinff’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENEB
will be found to contain a superior assort;
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chmaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Rolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solb.o Bazaar
352 (Seorge Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it haa no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
& Warranted first quality
v Chargesstri cWy moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
E
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hofei,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniticient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTn-dLertsukrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirhy was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curias for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
-pEEMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
the agreeable qualities
Manu-
B and possessing all
of PURE TOBACCO. x ,
Brand Registered to prevent imitation,
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
>
J
'
j mu
M.
,!, i
Try BURG IS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house lor
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKBET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for seAWmeasuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £3OO,OCX)
Reserve Fund ....£133,600
Directors j
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Heniy Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Oaird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. RoMeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors;
Jas. Seroggte, Esq. | .Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson,
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wades :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
- - »
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES,
Repairs by London workmen.
|gr c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W.
H. .Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, comprise
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor- 1
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings*,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tin a*
easks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 601 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, In
J4> 34, and lib. tins*
It. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK —Gold Modal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mancrle ani
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shellera
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WALNUT
WOOD,
«e. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITB & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFien otport
Copyrighted.
3 pkti.
MESSAGES aai WEISEEES.
Jloyd’s Heard Elixir did this,and
will do it on cither bald head or
tare fare, force* M”'V Affine-
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks andnevtr
fails, ai.uou young men already
ureur full heards, having used l to
fro infvrj/, euttilj applied* certain in W i ‘ r •
_ .. ... * •/.•/Jilt* r/ltnV. /? fO
eacft’3 /or Se" ‘kt.“'po»t paid,’end under
rraak ItaSgto*. 6rt* -W.
ccFona - AfTgg
53 £
Copyrighted*
Packets I*. &*•
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
Ja mrr PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,.
AMES rMKL I oJ(i customers and the'
tl^^^hasa^ar^o^MSortment^of
«n„ reason-
able in price. Inspection i
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received hr
•very Mail.
BQTAL AROADB, GEORGB ST., 1M SIDNBI


-A-±g‘lbLajn.istSLn. G-old
(BEGHSTEItED.)
'•
/;
»A
to o *
m
r r>.
a v^'
dn»A’
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
FBI Mill mil CAPE ECU WATCHES, fa,
LATEST FASHIONS.’
"W'j&JTGTZ. BS,
Special Novelties, &e.
2FS3©>£ 30s.
Country Orders punetually attended^
WHiIT IS
ASK YOUR DOCTOR
JK, 3U
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B —BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Galiery
in the colonies.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR
OF
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLO
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING
S
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HATMAKMT
E3F" Come Early anti Secure Good Fashionable Clothint
J. J. RYAN, 780 George Street, Hay
And 466 GEOROE STREET. Onnosite Emit Mar _
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. PEY & SOWS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best alo or porter. Lancet.
the new tobacco.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
Thp ETON RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a deeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TOOIBAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
and C 67,
66 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,'
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
auctioneers,
buck, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
Hi and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all Finds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY'S STLVEKSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Giibey’t? Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can he recommended as being of the highest
duality, and superior to any imported.
TITCURie & CO., Sole Agents,
Wfi Ooorge-street, Sydney.
BEST ENGLISH LEVEKS.
T
HE LIVERPOOL Sr LONDON
Watch. Company
have EEMOYED to those roost
extensive premises at Corner of
Royal Arcade,
296 Pitt-st. Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES
Reduced to £3lflu
Sent to all parts of the colony Free of Charge.
Each watch warranted for five years, and Kept
in repair free of charge.
C. SIUMAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note the above Address.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring: Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A It T H E N W A It E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORINand CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MfILV SONS’
KdinbuignPale die.
0 o.
Robert butcher
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
foil n try Ordera receive pro mot atfe 'Ption,
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
It is of tbe utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinke rs of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SONTTnD CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HIGGIN’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G> CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARLES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
' tuOßNii
t>ORN>
yjOEM
111 >. XS*
win?
l'"
BLAKE'S
steam ■
H. P. 6BE6OBV* e ,,
.7 f.T> ST " ,
» TI)NE V"
ARE SOLE AGENTS EO
and have In StOPK a ° d
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED yjCE pL
TANK OR LIGHT /
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIE & °
TANNERY PUMP S
SUGAR-HOUSE P^
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING /
T ? {^
aNP
SEND FOR PRIC ES a
'
CATALOGUES EOE W
PAINTS-
oiIs.
w 4
,i V .
Office:
STORE 8
"W.Tt
ftl*
jcajj
LATE HOWLANDS & LEWIS,
m
0 fi f
Manufacturer of ail kSnds of iEraied Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. B a^
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/a Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liq ucU
