

IQ&4.
□ 'WIITTEE
ISS4:
Ak
Providers I TT'n.ivrersaJ. Providers
Have recently received
SEVERAL SPECIAL SHSPMEHTS of
W INTER <35-0
AT.T, DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
%
SS-fcr
HORDERN AND SONS
E EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
rAsmoNsi wiutek i
Of
every, description in LADIES’ MANTLES and WINTER CLOTHING, including every New Shape and the
Newest Materials —The “ Dolman,” Tke “ Eour-in-Hand,” The ‘‘Newmarket.”
"■EADY-NVADE GLOTHIKC- —The largest and most variously-assorted stock in the colonies.
**l f Overcoats! Overcoats 2 Overcoats I —New Shapes, New Styles, New Patterns,
§ ® “ I —Eor Ladies, for Children, for Gentlemen. Our Boots are celebrated throughout the colony.
,a *Bk©ts
'" 2 Blankets I —Twenty Thousand Pairs of the unequalled quality, and at the ■wonderfully low prices for
8 fsy which The Palace Emporium, Haymarket, is so celebrated.
I Foraitiare i-
-Household Eurniture of every description, imported direct from the Best English
Manufacturers, at very lolv prices.
HORDERN AND SONS.
'tv
-lace Emporium, Haymarket, Only
PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
/"'T
|§p£€_ - -
ii-.._•.-- -* ,J*r~s.-i£-- '
FOB
AKY
i
—— by the renowned makers,
W Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES,
W. H. PM LING & GO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
g
iBUS, BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Pfinoipal Agenc[fr *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG
j. 0 GosttinK and Company (Limitedl—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement , r „ .
Malslmii, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
•i hreshintr Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
rrossmv Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow M-Lachlan and Comoany, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &0., &c.
Thos’. Giover and Company, London-Patent Dry Gas Meter.".
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorredd Slate Company (Limited)— Slates.
The OirrKsilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, ot Pi tras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos Hmi and Co. —English Hams, Bacon, &e., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, See.
De Wen-o l and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Thos Perry l and Son, Biiston—Fire-resistinsr Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brun’ton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Drrbos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis. Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
J * Vi CTO mA.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., TTuslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
»y INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
nP Accommodation for Families and Commercial G entlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
rnnat Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Handers and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
TITS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
?
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
BETJCZI
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
197 PITT ST., (Opposite Compagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
hu fas, M Ops, d lew Isis.
the New Address—NEUß KING STREET.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
IS, MID, ui UVI S®w
397 GEORGE STREET,
50 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENG!' 41 ' 11
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag^ icu
Implements.
£NGIN£S
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
turn:
m
I m
r s
i?• m&Mn. 'Will
S-pocia\ Steam, CervtritUKav,
“Force ®ltv<3l XAirfc.
BOUi£RS.
V crtical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY. _ aß( j Scr effl
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. qg;Rr g.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines,
•Toiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-P
Single,
Kakes.
English and American Agricultural Implements. d
Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse K° fi f 9
, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelleys, >
jji
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. varn^
COACU IIniLHEHR’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnish* 118 ’ jtl
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. - zed , Con
Largo Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Halva
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. . p a m
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils. Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing an<
Machinery.
Rulldera’ Ironmongery.
Locks. Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carp 1
entst 9
fool 8.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
t
BRISCOE, DRYSDAEE AND
387 f3e«r&e Street, Sydney.
f)0-
(LOIITED),
GENERAL
*
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAT) OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Vasa
Downing
Binalong ,
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabeo
Marauder
Hulong
Carrathooi
Hay
Western District, M.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
NevertJre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymage©
Cobar
Coonamble
Rourke
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Waigett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lin*:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Bogantunpran
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswooci Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
§W Agencies in all parts of the world.
Foster’s Bugl®
l/K 1 '
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
rimfil
■'.ulD
m
mwm
JL^ace
The BEST ALE and STOtf T
SOLD BT ALL g’OJggS.
Virgoe, Son, &
AGENTS'
mr THE
IN VI;
3 NEW SOUTH
ESTMENT COMPA «
Capital,
jsioo- 000 ' ft&cm
Allow Interest as follows : T h S
on lixed deposits for 12 m ° n ,Tr>ori o , d !
and UPWARDS for shorter .
CENT, on sums from £1 to £° q^c^’
Branch, Payable on Derminu- , ■
I. V. wapeH^
%
%
J
a
o
A
1
§
■os
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.''^ 1
of Stout selected wit o eK' D 0
best of the brewings of
Arthur Guinness and Co.. oro od J
cannot bo excelled. To be v
OATTBUUL & CO.. Sole Agenw


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2. —No. 55 —New Series
SATURDAY, MAY 31, 1884.
Price—6d.
A Dangerous Instrument.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, MAY 31, 1884.
The report published by the London Times,
respecting the “scene” in the House of
Commons, in which Mr. He alt, M.P., and
the; new; Speaker were principals, serves to
emphasise the belief that the cloture rules
are destined to become very formidable in-
struments against the liberty of debate, and
the equal rights of members of Parliament.
The Speaker, being the nominee of the
majority for the time being, is necessarily in
sympathy with the prevailing section in the
House, and, being assured of the effective
support of that section, has been practically
invested with despotic power to silence
members of a minority, and to permit
license of speech of a majority.
• * *
Mr. Speaker Peel is an English gentleman
of a good type, and it is unlikely that a more
fair or conscientious man will ever fill the
post. Yet, nothing could have been more de-
terminedly or flagrantly one-sided than his
interference in the case in point. Mr. Healy
had been speaking with force and signifi-
cance. He had charged the Government
with connivance at the escape of the mur-
derers of Philip Maguire, the man whose
skull had been smashed in by a party
of Orangemen. He had referred to other
instances of what he characterised as
injustice. What these were specifically,
or what was his precise remarks concerning
them, we have no opportunity for judging,
as the Times suppresses this—the most sig-
nificant portion of his speech. From the
context and from other sources, however,
we are enabled to gather that he was com-
menting in language equally of force and
pathos upon the death in prison of a young
man. The matter was one affecting the de-
partment of the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
Mr. Trevelyan, and, observing that official
at this juncture break into smiles, Mr. Healy
very naturally commented on the indecency,
saying that “ the right hon. gentleman might
laugh, it well became his callousness.”
* * *
Mr. Trevelyan instantly exclaimed, “It
is an absolute falsehood to say that I
laughed,” and amidst cheprs and cries of
order, produced by this speech, the Speaker
rose, and proceeded to censure—Mr. Tre-
velyan? No; Mr. Healy, for violence of
language, and threatened to suspend the
latter member. In the irregular discussion
which ensued, the Attorney-General took
up the cudgels for Mr. Trevelyan, and man-
aged so awkwardly as to hit his friend an
ugly rap. Mr. Trevelyan had denied smil-
ing. He had explained that he was attend-
ing to Mr. Healy’s address, and had ar-
gued that it was absurd to believe that
he could have been in a smiling mood.
The Attorney-General, on the other hand,
explained that Mr. Trevelyan had not been
attending to Mr. Healy, but had been en-
gaged in a private conversation with him-
self, and had smiled at matters connected
with that conversation. Thus, the Attorney-
■ General proved that when Mr. Trevelyan
denied he smiled, he had been guilty of
what he charged Mr. Healy with —an ab-
solute falsehood; and that he had again
stated what was not true when he affirmed
that he had been attending to Mr. Healy.
J lt was, therefore, made clear that Mr.
Healy’s allusion to the Chief Secretary had
natural and justifiable, and that the
'Chief Secretary's interjection had been im-
'Proper and incapable of justification. Yet
’the Speaker, unaffected by these demon-
strated facts, adhered to what appears to
Lave been his preconceived purpose; and
; after lecturing Mr. Healy, and threatening
him with the application of the cloture,
obstinately refused to rule respecting the
language employed by the Chief Secretary.
# * *
The evidence thus afforded of overwhelm-
ing bias affecting a gentleman of refinement
and culture, projects a dismal shadow over
the future prospects of Parliamentary
Government seasoned with cloture. The
new Franchise Bill of Mr. Gladstone is
certain to become law at an eaily period,
no matter what obstructions arc placed
in its way. Its effect will be to con-
fer the right of voting upon additional
bodies of plebeians in country places. Al-
though, until the relation of the rural
labourer to the squirearchy and allied orders
was brought to the effective test of a mea-
MR. M. K. VALE, M.L.A, OF VICTORIA.
sure to confer votes upon the former, it has
been the custom of Conservative writers
and speakers to represent the bond between
these classes as one of affection, the pro-
posal to enact this measure has frightened
the propertied classes and their mouthpieces
into veracity. They now admit that to ex-
tend the franchise to the rural plebeian will
be to strengthen the Radical party in a for-
midable degree. They have dropped the
cant and humbug of pretending that Hodge
is a good Conservative and asks nothing
better than to see existing conditions per-
petuated, Although the shrieking and tremu-
lant confessions now extracted by the terrors
of Toryism are possibly exaggerated, it is
almost sure that they are, in the essential,
correct. Hodge is yet a somewhat dull
fellow, considerably behind his city brother
in comprehension of political principles and
sequences, and still a good deal under the
influence of the squire and the parson. But
there has for many years been carried on
an active propogandism from the cities to
the country, and Radical theories have
found a ready soil in the sensoriums of a
class so hardly dealt with as the agricul-
tural labourers.
• • •
Thus, there seems every justification for
the Conservative conviction that the new
Franchise Bill will open the floodgates of
Radical progress afresh; and if not by itself
adequate to bring about a transfer of the
balance of political power from the oligar-
chy, which has held it in England since the
influence of the Crown was overcome, will
at least so facilitate further advances as to
bring that transfer of influence within
an appreciable distance. The Court J our-
nal, which may be supposed to reflect opi-
nions held in the most Conservative circles,
declares that the masses are socialistic and
republican. If we accept this dictum as true
—and that it is at least true in part, we have
ample evidence in the tone of the news-
papers chiefly patronised by the vulgar—a
time is not very remote when the majority
in the House of Commons will be consti-
tuted, not of a large body of Whigs who are
but Tories wearing a traditional mask, and
of Liberals who are but representatives of
the wealthy bourgoisie, with a slight infu-
sion of so-called Radicals, like Mr. Chamber-
lain, drawing thirty or forty thousand
pounds a year from the labour of factory
hands; but of downright demagogues, men
from the factory, from the Trades UDion,
from the public house, from the stump—men
compared with whom Mr. Beadlatoh will
b© a cultured gentleman and an intellectual
prince. Men charged to the throat with the
class resentments, and the indiscriminating
lust for vengeance and reparation, which
burn in the hearts of hitherto distressed and
repressed classes.
* * *
In such case, these men will choose theif
own Speaker. And it is not likely that they
will be content to choose a Peel—a man
educated in moderation and self controL
They will go straight to their ultimate ends
by all means available. And among these
means none will be more obvious than a
relentless partizan as Speaker, wielding un-
mercifully the rules of cloture which have
been—with such fatal lack of foresight—*
made ready to his hand. If Mr. Perl cannot
restrain his partiality, what is to be expected
of Speaker Brab laugh, or Speaker Dastton,
or Speaker Couthon, or Speaker Marat?
For men answering to each of these types
will surely appear and thrust their way to
the front in the time which is coming, and
which, terrible as it will be, must come, and
rage and destroy, before true reform suc-
ceeds to purgation, reaction, and exhaus-
tion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
His Honor’d Will.
The manner in which the Law, which should bd
an object of admiration and confidence to every
honest and straightforward man, is converted into
a system universally regarded with a mingling of
reprobation and contempt, was again exemplified
in one of our Courts, the other day. The occasion
was the will case of one Whitworth, deceased.
Whitworth wrote his own will; he drew it up
“ clearly and boldly,” and he carried it to a store
kept by parties named Stake and Nicholson,
in order to have his signature attested by
these persons. Only Staff was at home. Whit-
worth signed, and Staff witnessed. Next day
Whitworth returned, and in Staff and Nichol-
son's presence produced the will, stated to Nichol-
son what it was, acknowledged his signature, and
got Nicholson to sign as witness. Whitworth
had explained to Staff that he did not wish his
(Whitworth’s) brother to know of the will. Its
provision disposed of the testator’s property, to
the exclusion of that brother. The testator being
dead, that brother now comes forward to have the
will set aside as irregular, because the two wit-
nesses did not sign at the one time. The Primary
Judge— Manning— gave a decision which occupies
a column of the Herald. A very careful
Judge, is Manning. “Stiff in opinions, al-
ways in the wrong.” The misfortune of this
Judge is that he is constantly at great pains to
furnish reasons why he should have decided ex-
actly opposite to what he does decide. His expo-
sitions are satires upon the judgment which
contradicts them. Thus he explained—accurately
that the question—whether a signature by one
attesting witness upon an acknowledgement
before him, followed by the attestation of another
witness,lat'a different time in his and the testator’s
preeence, after a re-acknowledgment of the will
by the testator in presence of both, is sufficient ?
—depends upon a very refined explanation of
those words of the Wills Act: “ Shall be signed
at the foot or end thereof by the testator
and such signature shall be acknow-
ledged by the testator in the presence of two
or more witnesses present at the same time*
and such witnesses shall attest and shall subscribe
the will in the presence of the testator.” Judge
Manning remarked that upon the construction of
these words judges and text-writers had differed.
That being so, it was clear that a tolerably wide
discretion rested with himself. He availed him-
self of it to decide against the validity of the will
—that is to say, against the only record of the
deceased’s wishes, except his recorded desire that
his brother should not know of the will. That
brother now takes the property under the only
will that seems valid, the will of the Primary
Judge.
Dynamite.
The other day, certain frothy mouthers in the
Domain spluttered out rancorous eructations about
dynamite, and their readiness to employ that dea


Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill.
Now ready : Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
post, Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations ; 200 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Alex. M'Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham*
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
&c- No commission charged for buying. Agents
for the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-
bred Stook.*
p
ÜBL I C
notice
me, m. & c n
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for Bevera
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, Is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, in great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “ as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers, Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BOBU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley?
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East?
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Great ell-street!
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum iasde
and taken at bed-time.
tr PURE RU M*
Extra Strong,
6a. PER IMPERIAL QUARK.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Siigli Mlt DtjiirM,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
edL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
la now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
la sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNE L I S H WHISKY
6a. per bottle.
VERD E I L
Lovely White Wine, la. ftsi.Rqr bottle*.
PORT MACQUARIE. Rp®
la. 6d. per bottle.
mukrumbidc.ee, PORT,.
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRAND YT-
6s. 64. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS’
JHarket Street, Sydney.
structive material. They also proclaimed that
dynamite is destined to be the greatest civilising
tgency of modern times. There is a degree of
truth in the latter assertion. Dynamite is a civil
Uing agent which belongs to the same category as
Kuupp cannon, Gatling guns, and breech-load-
iog rifles. That is to say, they may prepare the
world for advances in civilisation, by murder, re-
tail and wholesale. The gospel of dynamite is too
awful for Domain howlers to profane. Dyna-
mite is the weapon of the coward or the deeper,
ate. There is no need to urge Society to pro-
tect itself against the frantic strokes of the
desperate. Real desperation can only exist where
real tyranny presses upon a nation, a class, or upon
individuals. Tyranny, in fact, creates desperation,
which has no existence without it. It may be the
tyranny of a despot, of an oligarchy, or of a vicious
social organisation. And tyranny, as a matter of
course, takes elaborate and (naturally) tyrannical
precautions against crimes of the despairing. But
dynamite is so handy a weapon that the cowardly
and wicked turn to it, as readily as do the desperate.
It is a novel agency, and appropriate provision
against its abuse has not yet been generally agreed
upon. It is possible to conceive a situation in
which one man, or many, might regard their lives
as rendered unendurable by the wilful and ob-
durate iniquity of another man, or class of men,
and might resolve to stake his life against theirs.
Under such circumstances, the bravest, not the
most cowardly, might develop into an assas-
sin. But Society should so regulate matters,
that no coward could resort to dynamite. There
is no severity of punishment, short of the
torture, which would be excessive against the
employment of dynamite and similar substances
against life. The United States occupy in this
respect a false position. If every step towards an
assassination exposed a man to certain death in
case of detection, the merely malignant and cow-
ardly would stop handling the things. It is not right
that skulking ruffians should be able to prepare in
security materials, and mature plans, for murders
or massacres. The world requires from extremists
a guarantee of good faith, and no guarantee short
of their own lives would be sufficient to fill the
demand. If a man or a class stake their lives
against the lives of another man or class, tho fact
affords evidence that the crisis is equal to the
method adopted to remove it. Every dynamitard
discovered in any country committing or preparing
for destruction of human life should die the death,
whether his project was aimed against inhabitants
of the country where he was conducting his pre-
parations or against inhabitants of a State at the
other end of the world. The dagger of despair
has, ere now, done humanity real service, but the
poignard of cowardly malice has no elevating
record. *
A Matter of Courss
We do not suppose that anyone is sanguine
enough to expect that aught will come of Mr.
Treasurer Dibbs’ exposure of the patriotism of
Mr. David Buchanan. Not many people will be
even surprised at the character of the revelations
To expect that the Assembly will press the affair
to a practical issue, is to expect too much. That
Mr. Buchanan has a brother is the only news to
us. That, having such a relative, he should be
comfortably ensconsed in a Civil Service billet is
acceptable as a matter of course. Mr. David
Buchanan is not an exceptional member in this
respect; and it cannot really appear to the ma-
jority of his brother legislators an offence to be
expiated by real punishment, that lie should have
if Mr. Dibbs’ version be accepted—made bis
Bupport of the Ministerial policy contingent, in
some degree, upon the advancement of his brother.
The episode is a mere fizzle. We have no ex
pectation of its leading the way either to peremp-
tory dealings with Mr. Buchanan, or to the whole-
sale purgation of Parliament and ot the Civi]
Service, which is really indicated as requisite by
this partial lifting of the veil. It is significant that
Mr. Dibbs himself had not realised the importance
of his disclosures, and had not communicated the
attempt to corrupt him to the Assembly with the
deliberation which the occasion required. He
simply blurted out the accusation' pccause he had
lost his temper and it was the ugliest thing he
could think of. Mr. Buchanan stands no lower In
public estimation than he did before. He couldn’t.
And Mr. Dibbs stands no higher. A\i ebullition
of temper is not to be identified with a scorn of
corrupt overtures, and a calm resolution to expose
and combat such practices.
A Sly Satirist.
In its customary article respecting the Queen’s
Birthday, the S.M. Herald drifted into rather
reprehensible satire. Waggery in that journal is
so extraordinary that we suspect the writer didn’t
mean to be caustic. He remarked that the past
year of Her Majesty’s reign “ has been marked by
a disappearance of the disturbing elements
in Ireland to such a degrete that agragrian
outrage is now almost unknown, and Irish
intelligence has little or no interest for colo-
nial readers ” I This is sarcasm number one :
That colonial readers take no interest in any
Irish affairs except outrages. That the condition
of the Irish people is a matter of total indifference
to colonists, except at such times as they have been
harassed and maddened past human endurance,
into ferocious outrage ! Satire the second is
levelled at Her Majesty in person.” The year:
“ has been prominent as one in which the Queen
has given further evidence of her woimfhly
nature ... by the publication of another vo-
lume.” Who, outside the Herald office required
evidence of the Queen’s nature being womanly ?
What sort of nature did the writer believe the
Queen to have—if not the nature of a woman? The
nature of a frog ? But the sublime height of sar-
casm was attained at the next effort: “If Satur-
uay had been fine and pleasant, large numbers of
people would have spent the day in the open air,
intent on pleasure; their loyalty to the throne
being exhibited in their determination to observe
the day as a holiday.” So, then, the loyalty of the
people of Sydney is measurable by their readiness
to enjoy a holiday, and may be reckoned up by
observation of the degree of determination with
which they frolic on the Queen’s Birthday. But
they do not observe the holiday or frolic much
when the weather is bad. So that the New South
Wales loyalty is only fine-weather loyalty. This
is the S.M. Herald argument. We wonder if it
was so intended ?
A “Star" Apostle.
We noticed in a recent issue of one of the Sydney
dailies that, preparatory to his departure, Mr.
BttdTii, of Gospel Mission notoriety, was pre-
sented with over £3OO. Now, Mr. Booth
was about three weeks exhibiting in Sydney,
and all the time there was a sort of
grumble circulating that the “ collections ” at
his entertainments did not sulJice to pay ex-
penses. No accounts having been published, we
are ignorant how the finances were engineered.
But that is a matter of small concern. The fact
that Mr. Booth received, after three weeks’ ex-
hibition, some £3OO, contains a pretty significant
moral. £lOO per week is equal* to the higher
rates whicli the most popu'ar and talented
star actors or vocalists receive in the colonies.
Mr. Booth may be quite disinterested, and
moved only by strong and pure enthusiasm.
But there are plenty of drunkards who would
be ready to reform and to exhibit themselves
as awful-examples-ciwi-apostles, of intemperance
and of religion, for £ 00 per week. It is just a little
singular that Mr. Booth’s pecuniary expectations
should have been kept so “squat” until the last
moment, while so great a parade was made of his
"mission.” There’s no question but that much
of the significance which attached to Mr. Booth's
visit was due to a widely-disseminated, and sedu-
lously-fostered impression that he was a repentant
sinner, who had, with rare self-sacrifice, devoted
his life to the reformation of fellow-creatures still
wallowing in the vice of which he was once a
distinguished hog. But, devotion and self-
sacrifice at £lOO per week, are staggering sorts of
virtues, and there is a reasonable disposition to
view with some suspicion the mission of an
individual who is modestly bashful only about one
matter-rthe rate at which his pilgrimage pays !
Political
Points
One Wesley, of Pennant Hills, means to
offer himself next election for Central Cumber-
land. He must be a very weak stamp of fellow if
he’s not an improvement on either of the present
representatives of that fruity constituency.
“Cupid” Smith’s Bill to repeal the expan-
sive clauses of the Electoral Act, read a second
time last week. The darling 1 of the Macleay is
afraid lest the respectability of the Assembly
should suffer by dilution. Well, it’s weak enough
as it is, goodness knows!
A century’s been staked by brewer Toohey
That Parramatta won't again choose Youey:
The man of malt contemns the man of meat,
And wagers coin he’s sure to lose his seat;
And yet, unless we’re very much mistaken,
Toohey will lose, and Youey save his bacon.
Rough on Victoria. Tho London Figaro
says that the best guarantee of Loch’s capacity to
govern Victoria, is that he bossed the Isle of Man
for twenty years-—which is as though a fellow
were to say to a friend, “ O, yes, Charles ought to
suit you admirably as butler; he was 20 years boots
at a village pub.”
A writer in tho London press, who has
evidently a keen idea of the benehts that the rum-
and-baccy missionary tribe bestow upon the poor
heathen, says ho wishes he could “build up a
Chinese wall round the whole of New Guinea, to
save the eight or nine million Papuan inhabitants
from the inroads of civilization, which meant to
all native races, nothing but gin and disease.” A
moiety of the British press seems to be getting
hold of the right end of the stick at last.
Sir John Robertson doesn’t believe in open
courts. He’s morally certain that half an hour
in one as Minister would cook him. Like the man
who never washed, and who consequently dreaded,
contact with cold water, he shudders at the bare
idea of having to manipulate the little games of
Lands administration in an above-board fashion
with blooming reporters present. We think there
can be no stronger proof of the necessity of open
land courts than Sir John’s objection to them.
Mayor Richardson, of Plattsburg, stated
at a recent public meeting that W. B. Christie, who
lately contested Northumberland, didn’t pay
his last electioneering expenses. The Newcastle
Fletcher reported the statement, and now writs
tor big amounts of damagej are spoken about by
W. B. C. At election times it is not only much
more effective but far safer to indirectly suggest
rather than directly state that the opposite side
has been guilty of breaches of the decalogue.
Clifford Lloyd, Secretary for the Interior,
in Egypt, granted two months leave of absence on
account of ill-health—otherwise, Clifford Lloyd is
decently shunted, because his overbearing temper
n ,s become intolerable to the other officials, native
and English. Nubar Pasha wouldn’t stand him.
It is evidently better to be an Egyptian than an
Irishman. Clifford Lloyd was never granted two
month's leave of absence while he was rough-
riding an Irish district as a Resident Magistrate.
Sutter says that he knows of a “Lands”
case in which Minister Farneil reversed a decision
three times, and the fourth time both parties ap-
pealed to him, and he” ultimately decided that as
the land was in dispute, it belonged to neither
party, and declared it to be the property of the
Crown. Farneil says the statement is a blooming
story; so Suttor means to move for the papers in
the case. We shouldn't be in the least surprised if
Farneil discovered he’d been deciding with varia-
tions after lunch.
“ Why,” smirks Slattery, the attorney,
“should the decision of any Board be final and
conclusive? Why should e’er a horny-handed
selector be deprived of his glorious privilege of
appeal to the Privy Council? Why, oh, why, should
the pundits of ‘the perfection of reason’ be shorn
of their privileges and debarred from their ‘ perks ’
by ever so little an instalment of legislative
common sense?” And even as he speaks, Bur-
ro wa’s simperthetic representative drops a tear at
the bare tnought of the unspeakable desolation of
uu attorneyless community.
Says that bounceable Jingo, the rampant
Service, in a despatch to Murray-Smith, “Should
our representations be disregarded, the Govern-
ment of Victoria will instantly proceed to enact
legislation of a severe and effectual character. If
I instruct you, as I now do, to make this known to
Her Majesty’s Government, it is not in any wise as
a threat, but simply—” &c.&c. But why not drop
bluster, dear Jamie, and enact the effectual legis-
lation? That, surely, would be not merely the
more sensible plan, but the course most directly
calculated to fetoh Jules Ferry. Brag, you know,
wasa t such a good dog as Holdfast.
(the administration of the land laws has
Hot always been facilitated in the past by the class
of subordinate officials appointed. In one district
alone four Land Agents were successively ap-
pointed. No. 1 introduced to the local upper ten
a lady as his wife, who was only on brevet rank.
No. 2 was sent up for three years for embezzle-
ment. No. 3 was killed by a fall from his horse
between the date of his appointment and the time
for entering upon his duties. He is probably
honest, as he is dead. No. 4 was lately arrested,
chai’ged with the same offence as No. 2.
The star of &r George Grey is once more in
the ascendant in New Zealand. When Major
Atkinson, the Premier of the Colony, lately
stumped the country, the electors of Christchuroh
and Dunedin treated him with almost ferocious
hostility, and all but refused to give him a hearing.
When Sir George Grey, however, appeared among
them, he was welcomed with acclamation, and re-
ceived unanimous votes of confidence as the true
leader of the Liberal section of the people of the
colony. As an orator, the G.O.M. of New Zealand
is without a rival on this side the equator, and
even in England very few public speakers enjoy
the same power of evoking the applause and en-
thusiasm of the multitude.
The worst of Dailey is that he will spread
the butter too thick. He is for ever endeavouring
to add fresh perfume to the violet. When, for
example, he felt it needful to justify the Nominee
Chamber against certain censures passed upon it
in another place, the oocky little chap couldn’t
confine himself to justiflcat on; no, he must needs
assert that the Upper House enjoys at the present
moment as large a share of the confidence and
admiration of every intelligent citizen in the
country as any legislative body ever possessed,
and that the Busbys and Billy Byrnes and Sugar
Knoxes and Brodribbs constitute the decus ct
tutamen of the State. About such a gush of
esprit there is a leetle too much Bede.
“Mr. M'Quade said he would like to have
the holiday for Windsor,” and so Mr. Stuart had it
proclaimed for Windsor. This holiday proclaim-
ing is a farce, as at present worked. What has the
member of a district got to do with the question
of proclaiming a holiday for that district ? His
representative duties do not extend properly to
such matters, unless he be specially delegated pro
re nata to request the proclamation of a local
holiday. The Premier seems to think that a holi-
day must be proclaimed for any district, if only
the local M.P. strolls into his office and says:
“ Stuart, old man. I want a holiday for Berribo-
bubbalong.” T. R. Smith has a private “ spec.”
on up the Nepean way, and so he demands a pro-
claimed .holiday for the Nepean district, and the
meek Alec blandly oomplies as a matter of course.
This insane practice must be stopped.
Strange to say, two Parnellite members,
Messrs, bullivan and Lynch, were staying in the
Victorian Hotel, over the cloak-room of the station
where the London police say they discovered the
dynamite and clock-work arrangements, and had
there not been a hitch in the working of the
machinery, new elections for Westmeath and
Ennis would probably have become necessary.
To the ordinary understanding, this circumstance
would seem to point to the fact that, so iar as
complicity with the dynamiters is concerned, the
Parnell party is as innocent as unborn twins. We
should not be at all surpri ed however, to find the
wide-awake old woman in Hunter Street gravely
asserting that it was a put up job, and that the
Home Rulers took lodgings at tne Victoria Hotel,
for the purpose of making a case for themselves
if the secret was blabbed and the thing turned out
a failure. Charity covereth a multitude of sins,
but just at the present date a 30s. overcoat is a
heap better.
The Giraffe (with whom it is invariably
neck or nothing) frequently puts a case with
extreme cogenuy. Here is an instance, in con-
nection with the Dalley-O’Connor recriminations.
He pointed out to the Assembly that what had
been said in the Assembly was said by an ir-
responsible unit, by a gentleman who occupied no
seat in the Ministry, and was not responsible to
the House for his individual expression of opin-
ion. But in the Upper Chamber the remarks
which had been made had been made by the
Attorney-General in the present Government, by
the representative of the Government, and by the
mouthpiece of the Government ; in other words,
every word said by Mr. Dailey must be considered
as having been said by the Government, and
his insinuations against the Speaker’s imparti-
ality and judgment were attacks which must
recoil upon the Ministry themselves, because they
were made by a Minister in the Upper House.
That defines the exact difference witn perfect
accuracy.
“ A great deal has been said,” remarked
Minister Parnell the other evening in the Legis-
lative Assembly, “about Ministers being corrupt,
but l maintain that never had a Minister in any of
the public departments of this colony shown him-
self to be corrupt.” Inasmuch as agreement on
points of terminology is essential to the right
conduct of an argument, we can't debate thi«
question of Ministerial incorruption with optimist
Parnell, since between thefmeaning that we attach
to the term “ corrupt ’ and that which he attaches
to it, is a difference deep and wide. We are not
pessimists, yet firmly believe and (were it not for
a libel law specially contrived to cover iniquity)
could readily prove that several New South Wales
Ministers have most patently shown themselves
corrupt in the discharge of their public duties—
that is, if the term “ corrupt” may be held to apply
to a Minister’s filling the Civil service with his
relations, to a Minister’s having an interest in
Government contracts, or to a Minister’s having
an interest in Government-paid “ compensations, ”■
• •
The conduct of the “Lords ” in permitting
a "count out” to come off when their Chamber
went to a division on the second reading of the.
City Corporation Act Amendment Bill, was (not to,
put too fine a point on it) infamous, if thev«b»
they meant to choke the measure—The Minister
of Public instruction must be firm in his refusal
to authorise the imparting of roligious instruction
in the Superior and High public schools The
Maryborough (Q ), Municipal Council set a bad ex-
ample the other day, to representative assemblies.
It adjourned “in oossequence of one of the aider-
men being incapacitated from understanding the
business.” If other councils were to follow suit
no business of any kind would ever be done. What
the sober Maryborough should have done, would
have been to make the incapacitated one adjourn
to the pump or the lock-up.
• • •
German Reichstag has read the Anti-
Socialistic Bill a second time: Mrs. Partington and
the Atlantic over again Trouble brewing in
Mexico; or, rather, Mexicans beginning to wake
to the fact that the rule of Gonzales has been one
of fiscal oppression, personal corruption (he has
bagged a million sterling since his election to the
Presidency, in ’80), and as good as traitorous in-
trigue with Yankee railway jobbers. A revolution
hourly expected. As a regular army hardly any
longer exists, it is impossible to prognosticate the
future. Trevino probably has the best show, if
he only dare to put it to the touch It is said
that Derby, in private conversation condemns the
French recidiviste scheme as infamous, and asserts
that the deportation of French criminals to the
Pacific must be stopped. We don’t believe it.
Derby isn’t big enough fool to commit himself in
that way.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Denominational
DROPS
The Freethinkers have outbid the Y. M. C.
Association for the use of the Opera House on
Sundays. Two individuals have, however, offered
£5O each to enable the Young Men to prevail. Here
we have an instance of plutocracy throwing its
weight into the scale to revers'.! the result of
individual convictions.
Graham Barry, the turn-coat from liberal-
ism has withdrawn the permission he officially
granted for the holding of Secularist Conventicles
in the Melbourne Hall of Science. His alleged
reason is because money for admission w as taken
in a plate at th * door. This doesn’t seem a good
reason. In our childhood, wns regularly attended a
Food for the Worm.
MR. DIBBS (to Buchanan): “The worm would turn; and I have turned to-night!”
Free Kirk of Scotland where money was always
taken in a plate at the doors. It wasn't called a
charge for admission, certainly, but that’s what it
came to all the same, ’i here was no compulsion,
only you must. A picket of grim and watchful
elders mounted guard over the plate, and observed
exactly what you put in it. We never heard of
anyone courageous enough to pass it without de-
positing a bawbee at the least. But. any way, the
idea that any body of citizens have to obtain per-
mission from the civil power to meet and discuss
their religious views or to bold what they regard
as a service, is a monstrous blotch on free institu-
tions.
Dr. Barry, Bishop of Sydney, in his recent
address, remarked that there was too vreat a dispo-
sition on the part of people to regard the colonies
as places wherein to make money, and to be
quitted as soon as that end was accomplished. He
deprecated this The Bishop's remarks were
levelled at laymen. He missed a chance of show-
ing he was in earnest. He could have pointed the
moral by direct application to Colouial Bishops—a
dais of men who are notorious for scuttling back
to England every chance, and when they are
pretty full of the colonies, staying “at Home” al-
together. Had the Bishop denounced this custom
right out, and made a downright declaration re-
specting his own intentions in that regard, it would
have better become him, than meaningless rnaun-
derings about commercial adventurers and busi-
ness men, who are really under no strong moral
obligation to fix their domicile where they make
their money. But Dr. Barry seems, at least, con-
sistent This sort of talk is quite in keeping with
his presence on Booth’s platform, the other day, to
express bis sympathy with the movement and set
an example of not totally abstaining.
Granny’s Noumea correspondent tells us
that Sisters of Mercy say Mass in the prisons of
New Caledonia! If the fellow’s other information
be only as accurate as the above item (as indeed
we are inclined to believe it is) he must be, a most
unique meteor in the ranks of journalism.
Granny’s special cable announces that
Canon W. Boyd Carpenter has been appointed
Bishop of Bipou. Well, who cares? Australian
readers would have waited the ordinary course of
post for that item of information, without a mur-
mur. If Canon Carpenter (never before heard of)
or Canon anybody has refused a fat bishopric, the
fact would have been odd enough to render it
worth cabling. These fellows who accept bishoprics
always remind us of Julia, in Byron’s “ Don Juan.”
Thun mumble “Nolo episcopari— I’m unwilling to
take the fat billet,” and in the same instant they
take it. She “ whispering ‘ I'll ne'er consent,’ con-
sented.” Ugh! Frauds!
“There was a time, 1 confess.” says the
Congregational Jefferis, “ when in my zeal for
religious liberty 1 advocated the exclusion of
religious teaching from the curriculum of the
State, and I was prepared as a Christian tnan to
take all the consequences; but I think I have grown
a little wieer as 1 have grown older.” What has
really happened in the course of the Jefferis de-
velopment is this: he has discovered that the ex-
clusion of religious teaching from the curriculum
of the State means the relegation, at no distant
period, of the parson, with his honey-tnunder of
truism and dogma, to a pack seat. When Jefferis
advocated it, lie merely meant an indirect dig at
Anglicanism and Roman Catholicism. He now
finds that the secular mind lumps priest, parson,
pastor, and minister, into one mendicant mass, and
that, if his office is to be conserved, it must be by
co-operating with blackrobedom to force the
State to devote so many hours a week of the al-
lotted school time to training the young genera-
tion to be believers in the Unknowable, and the
hierarchy that plays tricks in Its name.
The good little boy, who couldn’t tell a
lie, came home late from school, the other day,
with his ears full of mud and a face that looked
like a bad copy of the b ittle of Waterloo. Mamma
fainted right away, of course, and then Pa de-
manded to know what broke all the chips off his
son and heir. “ I was running along, and fell down
on a heap of blue metal, sir,” replied the youthful
Reuter. “ And which of you got the worst of it ?”
shouted a younger brother, who was evidently
‘•more than 7.” ‘‘Why, Ginger Johnson did,”
roared Reuter; “I blacked both bis eyes, and
burst hi • nose, and slit all his shirt f rags ” And
then, suddenly noticing that he had given himself
away, the good little boy unbuttoned, leaned over
his Pa’s knees, and wept bitterly.
The gorgeous scribes who write on new
fashions in bonnets and bustles have pretty nearly
exhausted the English language, as far as its
capacity for description goes. There is nothing
left for anybody else. This is the ineffable style in
which they write now. We quote from a fashion
paper:—” The cardinal or orange is repeated in the
waistcoat, and hinted at in tbo cuffs and collar.
That seen in the skirt is, of course, introduced
episodically, though it suggests continuity. There
lies the art of it—an art that only experience can
fully teach.” We should think so. Thunder! We
may next expect to find them writinsr in the grand
Gibbonian manner on the chaste splendour of
elastic suspenders, and the secret chronological
suggestiveness of clocked stockings. We shall
quit the flowing fields of literature if this kind of
thing goes on. When we have invented a honeyed
phrase for our own special use and delight, we don’t
care to see it used the next week by some creature
of frills and furbelows to describe a new colour in
petticoats. Hardly.
“ If it were in my power, all I could wish
in regard to the matter would be to attain the
position so magnificently pourtrayed in the lan-
guage of Sterne, that the recording angel might
drop a tear and wipe it out for ever.” Thus the
O'Connor, in a demnition mixed sort of way—for
who, from those words of his, can arrive at any
definite conclusion as to what it was he desired,
unless it were himself to be wiped out—a consum-
mation most devoutly to be wished by a too-much-
yabbered-at community ; yet hardly by a Dan
whose faith in himself is superb. But why wipe?
We are prepared to pardon Dan his attack upon
Dailey and his forbears ; it was in a measure pro-
voked, but not his injury to Sterne’s famous pas-
sage. Sterne never was idiotic enough to write
that the recording angel dropped a tear and wiped
it out for ever. “ Blotted ” was the word that
Uncle Toby’s chronicler employed, not “ wiped.”
There is nothing more revolting than the misquo-
tation of a fine passage, or the maltreatment of a
good story. What is a man not capable of who
will knock out the brains of a joke, or hammer a
delicate point as flat as a boarding-house steak ?
For the murderer of a brilliant writer’s sentiments
the rope should be long and the shrift short.
Sir John Robertson warned the Minister
for Lands that by providing for the admission of
lawyers to plead in the Land Court, on appeals,
risk was being incurred that the Land Bill would
be rendered unworkable. No heed was paid to Sir
John's representation, and the Ministerial proposal
was carried on division by 28 to 27 votes, the ma-
jority including all the lawyers present. There
are 27 lawyers in the Legislative Assembly, so that
in a thin House it is a foregone conclusion that if
they have rolled up to attend to their professional
interests they can generally command a majority.
We believe Sir John’s prediction will be verified.
A selector of the class which land laws are intended
to serve will have no chance against his ordinary
adversary, a pastoral lessee, either wealthy himself
or representing some wealthy financial backer or
institution. If it comes to feeiog counsel in dis-
puted cases, it will not pay to select. Grounds for
getting up a dispute are easily formed, if desired,
and the man who selects a choice bit of land, which
a squatter regards as too valuable to himself to
relinquish without a struggle, will be in a tight
place. The selector’s calculations will be that the
deposit on so many acres will absorb so much of
his means ; it will take so much to effect necessary
improvements ; so much to maintain him till his
stock of produce brings in returns. But add to
that the expense of feeing a solicitor and a bar-
rister, in order not to be at a hopeiess disadvantage
when his dispute with the squatter is Anally adju-
dicated, and the margin of proAt disappears. The
arrangement is ridiculous and unnecessary. If it
be carried out, Ministers for Lands will probably
discover that their whole time all the year round
will be absorbed in presiding over the Court of
Appeal, while professional advocates split straws
and spin out harangues, according to their invaria-
ble custom. In Queensland, when the land was
Arst opened in a comprehensive fashion to selec-
tion under the Alienation Act of 1868, the Land
Commissioner in each district heard and decided
disputes in open court, sitting alone. His decisions
were forwardeditojthe Minister, for conArmation
or otherwise. The plan was simple, economical
and speedy, and worked with admirable efficiency
There should be no reason why it should not work
as well here. Surely, neither Commissioners nor
Ministers in New South Wales are necessarily
more accessible to improper inAuences than the
same officials are in Queensland.


Personal
Items
Was O’Mara’s defence of Dailey prompted
by the place-expectant’s gratitude, which (as
Walpole tells us) is a lively sense of favours to
come ?
Decidedly rough on Parsons to be allowed
to retain the title cf “ Honorable ” merely in con-
sideration of his position as Resident of the N.
Territory. Honour and shame from no condition
rise, and even a Residentship won’t make a man of
a mouse, or honorableness of political dodgery.
The more the question of honours and titles for
democratic colonials is stirred, the more evil-
smelling it becomes.
Henniker Heaton has given a Roman
sculptor an order for a statue of Kendall, to be
placed where a committee of Sydneians may de-
cide. Will he also get one done inmemoriam of
Walter Hampson Cooper, we wonder ? Poor
Walter done in marble or bronze wouldn’t look
bad; he had a fine presence, And, on the pedestal,
what more appropriate than a very low relief of
the historical (hysterical) Heaton-Cooper-horse-
whip episode ?
Admiral Sir Lewis Tobias Jones, G.C.8.,
succeeds Sir Sydney C. Dacres, G.C.8., as Visitor
and Governor of Greenwich Hospital. Jones not
only assisted in bringing the Dey of Algiers to his
senses in the days of Exmouth (1816), but also bore
his part in the Waleheren expedition (1809). And
yet this gallant veteran is a mere boy when com-
pared with our two Admirals of the Fleet, Sir
George Sartorius and Sir Provo Wallis, both beiDg
nearly ten years his senior, and afloat in the days
of Nelson and Collingwood!
“Dr.” George A. Tucker, of the licensed
lunatic house, Cook’s River, has been awarded the
gold medal of the “ Society of Science, Letters, and
A.rt (of London),” at least, so says the Kensing-
ton News ; yet that journal forgets to tell its
readers that no society of that particular name is
to be found in any list of the leading English insti-
tutions established for the promotion of science,
letters, and art. The Herald quotes, without one
word of comment, the Kensington News’ par.
about Tucker, whom it designates “ Dr.” Why ?
The attempt to have Valentine Baker
re-instated in his military rank and social position,
has led to the revival of some episodes not pre-
viously generally known, respecting his character,
antecedent to his brutal attempt on Miss Dickenson.
It is asserted that in certain garrison towns where
he had been stationed, his demeanour to ladies had
been cause of complaint, and that, in Colombo,
where he was a lieutenant in the Ceylon Rifles, he
was not only chastised by a Mr. Wilson, a merchant
of teat city, but also imprisoned in Wellicaddy
Gaol, for some offence connected with a female.
The Earl of Denbigh, who has consented
to act as chairman of the General Australian
Mortgage and Agency Company, is a kinsman of
the Princes of the House of Hap3burg, and also of
the syndicate-framing Major-General Fielding,
who was out here lately trying to “do ” Queens-
land both as tourist and speculator. Denbigh is
also the Irish Earl of Desmond. Lord ! how the
first Hapsburg and the first Desmond would have
squirmed had it ever been borne in unto them
that a common descendant of thei-s, one with two
earls’ baldricks to belt up his breeks withal, would
actually go in for bossing a pawn-shop !
In sentencing Henry Lee, at the Rock-
hampton assizes, for his atrocious assault on
Sophia Arps, Mr. Justice Harding's eccentricity
developed itself in a new groove. The ruffian,
having inflicted 23 wounds upon his victim, the
Judge said he would order him to be kept in irons
for one month for each wound, which would make
23 months in irons out of the 18 years he sent him
up for. Such a Mosaic sort of sentence, breathing
as it does vindictiveness rather than justice, is as
gross an offence against what should be the spirit
of the law as was the crime of the wretch upon
whom it was passed.
Musha now, luk at dis! His Holiness Pope
Leo XIII. has just been graciously pleased to
raise Mr. James Dalton, storekeeper, Orange, to
the dignity of Commendatore of the Order of St.
Gregory the Great. This is a very high honour
indeed, and has been bestowed on Cavalier Dalton
for valuable services rendered to the Catholic
cause at the battle of the Boyne, but more par-
ticularly for the scientific manner in which he
transformed “ tay an’ shooger” into “gooldand
silvur,” and kept the Pope s pot a-boiling. We
don’t know what pay a Commendatore gets, but
we believe his principal duties are to get his hair
cut once a year, to abstain from eating fried
bread, and to send ail his surplus cash to buy
spring costumes for the marble saints and saint-
esses who board and lodge in St. Peter’s Church at
Rome.
And so Mr. George Thorne, junior, In-
spector of Agencies lor the N.Z. Government
Life Assurance Department, lhasjbeen suspended
from office I Well, now, this is too bad. George
was just on the threshold of a career which
promised in a few years, if unmolested, to land
him in comfortable, if not affluent, circumstances,
and now he is suspended, and all the little com-
missions his staff of agents were earning, from the
Bluff in the South to Cape Whatsitsname in the
North, working, as one of them said of himself,
“ day and night ” for him, are nipped in the bud at
one fell swoop. To say we are shocked to hear of
Mr. George’s suspension, is putting it very mildly
indeed. We are, in fact, inconsolably sorry, but
if we could enly succeed Mr. George in his little
billet, including commissions, we would then
probably dry our tears, and once more hire a
washerwoman and a flat-iron, and be happy.
What a touching thing modesty is—literary
modesty, especially! Mr. Alexander Sutherland,
M.A., affords the finest example of this quality we
cm remember. Writing in the Melbourne Re-
view of diary-making, he says]: “None but a
man whose soul moves with a clock-like regularity
can long maintain the practice. Nor do I consider
it an objectionable sign in a man when I hear that
as often as he has essayed to keep an unbroken
diary so often has he failed! I have done so my-
self repeatedly ; commenced them without num-
ber and suffered them to collapse. My deliberate
conclusion is that diaries are the work of inferior
minds.” His deliberate conclusion, remember. It
L very evident that Mr. Alexander Sutherland has
intentions on Westminster Abbey. He was over
in Sydney lately, and writes quite encouragingly
about our prospects. We should not care the
worth of a pie for the praise of a man who kept a
diary, but praise from an ineffable negation like
Mr. Alexander Sutherland overflows us with joy
European journals tell us how the Em-
press of Austria devotes several hours daily to
fencing and gymnastic exercises—how, rising early,
she spends the whole day in athletics. Doubtless,
Francis Joseph, as he ponders on his wife's mus-
cular proclivities, bethinks him of his Juvenal, and
mutters to himself about the women [vide Juvenal’s
6th Satire)—
“ Who wear scarlet rugs, anoint their
Limbs with oil, and practice fencing;
See them hacking at the post, and,
Armed with wooden sword and target,
Go through all their exercises. . . .
Fi I you helmeted viragos,
Apeing men, you’d still be women
Not to lose a woman’s pleasures. . . .
Only watch them in their helmets.
Round their loins thick bands of linen,
Dealing, parrying well-known sword cuts. . . .
There she practices her dumb-bells
Till she’s utterly exhausted.”
The Hou. William Rolleston, Minister of
Lands for the colony of New Zealand, was not
born to be drowned in cold water—that’s pretty
evident, anyhow. As he was crossing the Waiau
River, lately, in a stage coach, the front seat came
out with a jerk, and William was pitched over-
board and fell between the wheels and the horses’
feet. In this position he was rolled over and under
several consecutive times in as many seconds, and
those who saw him at that time declare they
wouldn’t have risked a potage-stamp on his
chance of drawing any more salary from the
colonial revenue. But this is where these persons
showed their want of grasp of the fact that a
Crown Minister has never yet been known to take
kindly to cold water—or give way to it in any
shape or form—and the Hon. William was no ex-
ception to the rule. Before his friends had time
to shake in their boots or attempt to steady their
nerv.es from their respective flasks, the plucky
Minister was out of the water and calling to his
secretary to mind and fill up a voucher for a new
suit of clothes to replace h’s damaged and dripping
habiliments.
“The handsome and gifted young Queen of
Bulgaria has published a volume from her own
pen of so much genuine merit as to call for the
most laudatory mention. It is a romance of Bul-
garian life, aud opens up to the Western people a
new view of the people of the youngest kingdom
of the East. The authoress has eclipsed our own
Queen, whose Royal twaddle about trivial Bal-
moral events and about John Brown has not im-
proved the public appreciation of the mental
power of the House of Hanover.” The above is
from a London weekly. We don’t doubt but that
it may be true. We haven’t read Carmen Silva’s
book—“ Carmen Silva” is the Bulgarian Queen’s
nom de plume— but we aie quite prepared to admit
that a Qui on or other Royal personage may write
a clever book. The difficulty is to know when one
has done so, without coming back as a ghost to as-
certain the truth after a generation or so. It has
become so much the habit of present-day writers
to slobber admiration over any book which Royalty
produces, that unless one reads the book for ones-
self, a safe opinion as to its merits is impossible.
People who wish to know the true merits of Queen
Victoria's books, require to read French and
American criticisms as well as the London Toady
and the Sydney Morning Lickspittle.
REY. MR. STIGGINS : "Mary, you should not waste your
precious time curling your hair; had Providence intended it
to be curled, He would have curled it for you.”
YOUNG LADY : “Indeed! When I was an infant He curled
it for me; but now lam grown up, He thinks lam able to do
it myself.”
Charles Ogden Ferris lately died in Brook-
lyn. He was, in his day, a rival claimant to the
Tichborne estates; and, though a thriftless ne’er-
do-well, worked up a plausible plot that would
have done credit to the smartest swindler on the
boards. He read up our own Roger’s case to the
very hilt, and then concocted a story so cleverly
combining truth with falsehood, that one of th.'
soundest Yankee lawyers of the day, General
Barnes, for a time swore by him. Ferris rehearsed
his first interview with Barnes for weeks before-
hand, and the pathetic style in which he described
his adoption of the name of Ferris from a dear
companion, who, in his travels, he averred, died
alone in his arms, would have taken the cake from
a tip-top actor. Even hard-headed old Barnes
began to glisten about the gig-lamps over it, and
for a time Ferris had a good show of knocking out
our Roger. But Ferris had, of course, a pal in the
“ swingle,’’ one Jules Berrant, a frenchman.
Berrant was too smart, and tried to prove every-
thing so spic and span, that the detectives soon
pricked up their suspicious ears, and the result
was that Ferris was bowled out, and the rosy game
burst up. And now, just as Roger is about to
burst on the arena of liberty, Charles Ogden, his
quondam rival, has waltzed into the hereafter.
Scientists who have tried the experiment
say that if you dance on a worm long enough it is
apt to turn. Something similar may be said ot
Scotchmen. If you keep pestering them long
enough (say for about fourteen or fifteen centu-
ries), you will probably incite them to turn also,
and let off an epigrammatic remark that contains
a heap of wit and wisdom. For example, last
Wednesday night, the irrepressible Dawvid was
worrying the Government, and airing his legal
knowledge, when Muster Stooat bobbed up and
informed the Mudgee junior that the most that
could be said in his (Dawvid’s) favour was that he
“possessed a very large fund of learned ignor-
ance.” And for fear this wasn’t gruel enough,
another hon. member, who is sometimes face-
tiously termed “ Honest John,” struck the floor,
and declared that, in his opinion, Dawvid “ had, in
his professional career, turned more scoundrels
loose cn the country than all the other lawyers
put together.” This reminds us that Dawvid once
defended a man from Mundooran, who was up for
hoise-stealing, with such wonderful eloquence and
powerful reasoning that the prisoner was honour-
ably acquitted, and told he left the court without
the slightest stain upon his character. And this so
pleased the man from Mundooran that he a* once
offered to make his astute defender a present of
the very moke he was charged with stealing.
“ Give me a place to stand, and I’ll move
the world,” was the proud boast of Archimedes, as
he grabbed hold of a clothes prop and went slosh-
ing around the streets of Syracuse. And that’s
exactly the way John Allan O’Neill (who diffuses
intelligence amongst the native bears and “go-
hannas ” down South througa the medium of the
Queanbeyan Times) felt on Monday last as he
went whooping through the town, generously offer-
ing to kick this old globe of ours as high as the
Milky Way, or the price of house rent. Unfor-
tunately for John Allan, however, the servile
minions of a sanguinary and tyrannical Govern-
ment objected to bis boisterous hilarity, and just
by way of cooling his animal spirits, they got him
by the scruff of the neck and the back bosom of
his pants and slung him into a dungeon cell. Next
morning he was brought before a bloodthirsty
despot, who sent him up for four days without the
option of a fine, for his previous “righteous ” con-
duct. This somewhat surprised John Allan at
first, but remembering that Edmund Yates, an-
other somewhat distinguished journalist, was then
putting in a stretch of four months, John Allan
recovered his composure, and calling out, “All
hell shall stir for tbis,” he hooked himseli on to
the sergeant’s arm and strode off to inspect his
new lodgings. We wouldn’t miss the Queanbeyan
Terror’s next leader for the wealch of all the
Indies.
The ladies of St. George’s Church, East St.
Kilda, are very thoughtful, and know how to ap-
preciate a duck of a man when he comes that way.
It is long ago since in these pages we made profes-
sion of faith in the Rev. Rentoul’s ability by word,
and especially by gesture, to win the respect, con-
fidence, and admiration of ladies to whom he ad-
dressed himself. Some who had delighted to dub
him “ the fighting parson ” made it appear that his
departure from St. Kilda for the Professorial chair
was unwept, unbonoured, and unsung; and, in
truth, for a time, it looked ominously like it. But
the triumph of faith has been secured. Last week
the ladies assembled, and, seeking out the fiery
preacher, presented him with a casket containing
a purse of sovereigns. The intrinsic value of the
gift was not to be despised, but that which reached
away down to the bottom drawer of the profes-
sorial bosom was the affection evidenced by the
red quivering lips and the admiration betokened
by the blue, liquid eyes. Whoever else may fall
away, the ladies will be still true to their own old
Larry. And the Reverend Laurence responded
feelingly. He promised that the sovereigns the
casket contained would be “ thrown into enduring
shapes of use and beauty.” Wasn’t that neatly
put ? Instead of saying he would buy ham and
sandwiches and tripe and beef and buns and
things with the money, as a less poetic man might
say,-he allowed the ladies to infer all that; and,
instead of saying that he and his family will enjoy
the spread, be in an off-handed felicitous way,
quite peculiar to himseif, announces that the
articles will be thrown into enduring shapes of
use and beautv! That, of course, is into him and
the little ones! Touching simplicity!
Honest old John Mackay, the harbour-
master at Cookt.own, is the man after whom the
sugaropolis of Queensland is named. John kept a
diary of his early days, and here’s an interesting
leaf from it:—“Self and party came overland to
RockhamDton, from which place we started on
2nd March, 1860, and pushed north. Experienced
varied adventures by flood and field, until we
reached the head waters of the Burdekin, lat. 17’
40”, in the latter end of May. Found several trees
marked by Dalrymple, but as stores were ex-
hausted and fever and ague setting in, agreed to
return. Crossing the Burdekin going south, we
diverged to the eastward of the outward track,
when the head waters of the Pioneer River were
discovered and traced to where the town of Mackay
now stands. Leaving the Pioneer and crossing
the coast range, we buried one of our poor com-
rades at the head of the eastern branch of the Isaac
River, now known as Denison Creek. A week
after, we arrived at the camp of Mr. D. Connor
(now of Mackay), who was then forming Collaroy
Station. Crossing the Broadsound Range, we
arrived at Marlborough, and then went on to
Rockhampton, from which place we were absent
over five months. In 1862, I formed Greenmount
Station, and chartering a schooner at Rockhamp-
ton, ascended the river some four miles above
where the town of Mackay now stands, when, after
sending a sketch of the river and true position to
the Crown Lands office, Brisbane, it was shortly
afterwards declared a port of entry.” Many a
fortune has been won and lost since then, while
the man who opened up the land is rewarded by
the paltry pittance of a harbour master’s salary.
We, therefore, see how much better it is to be
a first-class cricketer than a hardy backwood
pioneer.
This is another about Patti. You will con-
sider it an anecdote of the days of Queen Anne to
hear that there is a rumour to tne effect that
Adelina is going back to her husband, the Marquis
de Caux. If we had not been offered lately—in
recognition of our literary abilities—the admiral-
ship of one of the Watson’s Bay whooping-cough-
ers, we should for one weak but rapturous moment
wish that we were in the shoes of the Marquis de
Caux. One of our disinterested reasons would be
that the Patti diamonds are alone worth £40,000.
Talking of these baubles (we are, of course, now
writing for our appreciative burglar readers;, it is
said that the triple necklace of diamonds which
Patti wears occasionally, contains 123 stones of an
average value of £l2O each. Some people have the
luck of it. All the jewellery we have ever had
was a dog-collar, which a country Mayor presented!
to us on vacating his office. The string of tur-
quoise which the diva wears in “ Traviata ” is
unique, and cannot be matched. To take care
of these precious jewels, she has four “ diamond
men,” two of whom are detectives, and two are
watchmen. On the night when she has to sing,
these men get from the great safe in the hotel the
satchel containing the jewels, and take it in a car-
riage down to the academy. They wait about the
door of Patti’s dressing-room until the maid asks
for the bag, when it is handed in, and a moment
after Patti comes out wrapped in a long cloak,
which she wears until she makes her entrance.
The “ diamond men ” keep their eyes upon her.
When the cue is given, the cloak is thrown to the
maid, and Patti goes on glistening with gems. The
four men and two maids watch her through the
act. The instant she is out of sight of the audi-
ence, the cloak is again thrown over her, and five
minutes after she enters her dressing-room the
mysterious bag is handed out again, and the four
men depart with it as silently as they came. There
would be a difficulty of selling these jewels, we
presume. That is, they would be recognised.
Otherwise we would rather pay to see these four
men than to hear Patti. We are cynics, you know.
The Rev. A. C. Gillies is a Presbyterian
minister at Dunedin (N.Z.) During the past few
years, ever since his arrival in the colony in fact l
he has managed to keep the Presbytery of Dun-
edin in hot water up to its very eyebrows. There
has been no need for any member of that body
visiting the Sulphur Springs since Gillies came
among them. That intensely orthodox divine has
enough of that article on hand to start half-a
dozen little places of his own at any time. Lately
some unfortunate Dunedin reporters have come
in for a severe scalding from the spout of his
ecclesiastical kettle. To one who had incurred his
wrath by reporting his speeches too faithfully, he
sent a letter forbidding his attendance in future at
any of the church meetings or soirees. These
blessed privileges, he explained, were intended for
people who had souls worth saving, and were cap-
able of receiving salvation, and not for low-minded
reporters, who hadn’t, and weren’t. To another
he sent a note inviting him to attend and report a
funeral sermon he intended to preach in connec-
tion with the death of a member of his flock. The
reporter did not turn up, but soon received a note
from the irate Devil Puncher, in which he declared
that now he knew the scribe to be a fellow of
low moral tastes, who fills his “dirty paper
with notices of vile prostitutes, jockeys, gamblers,
idle cricketers, lazy loens of scullers, but who has
no appreciation for such a man as John Reid ” (the
departed;. He followed up the tirade from which
we have quoted by the threat that henceforth the
“dirty paper should get no more of our advertise-
ments.” This awful resolution, it is thought, will
result in shutting up the newspaper establishment,
and turning all its little devils and reporters loose
and penniless on society. Touching the reverend
expounder's estimate of the reportorial soul, how-
ever, we may say we never yet knew a reporter
who would not cheerfully be able to report the
conflagration down below. Heavens! if some of
the boys who have gone before could only get
back, what terrific big type we would require to
do justice to their descriptions of the “ devouring
element ” and the agonies they endured for waLt
of something decent to drink!
Mr. Bierce, of the San Francisco Wasp, is
one of the neatest and most cynicaliy straight-
forward writers in the American press. His com-
ments in the recent Patti craze, in ’Frisco, are
terribly true. Thus:—“This Patti craze has a
more serious aspect. Second only to this woman’s
fame as a singer is her fame as an adulteress.
Heaven forbid that I should set myself up as a
censor of any adulteresses save those who have
the hardihooa to continue famous; I only beg to
point out that when Christ shielded‘the woman
taken in adultery ’ He did not tell her that if she
was a good singer she might go her way and sin no
more. That is how I answer the ever-ready sneer
about ‘casting the first stone.’ That is how I
cast it. If the Magdalen, finding herself possessed
of a single talent, had gone into business as a show
without reforming her private morals, Christ
would not have been found standing all night in
line to buy tickets for himseli and the Blessed
Virgin.” In the same vein he trounces another
celebrated woman, and lashes the generation—
“mothers, wives, sisters, daughters and sweet-
hearts—base enough to gaze without a blush at
the posings of a prostitute recommended by a
Prince.” And he justifies his strictures as follows:
—“These be plain words, my masters; but shall I
eat the bread of sycophancy by flattering vice ?
Shall I in sober earnest imitate the ponderous jest
of Erasmus, setting my pen to the praise of fools ?
Not for a kingly crown—may the devil hot-pitch
me when 1 do. Sin in your own way while I sin in
mine, but when I justily either your vices or my
own may my pen fall from a lifeless hand. Serve
ye what ye will, lam for the truth. lam for pre-
serving the ancient, primitive distinction between
right and wrong. Follow the Prince of Wales who
will the virtues of Socrates, the wisdom of
Aristotle, the example of Marcus Aurelius and
Jesus Christ are good enough for me. They en-
gage my admiration and rebuke my life. From
my fog-scourged and plague-smitten morass I lift
reverent eyes to the shining summits of eternal
truth, where they stand ; I strain my senses to
catch the words of the law that they deliver—go
ye to the Grand Opera House and weep at the
squalling of a singed cat.” Bravo, brave Bierce I
While, in England, as in Australia, the
daily papers published respecting the death of the
Duke of Albany only what accorded with a pre-
conceived opinion as to how a royal saint sbould
start for heaven, and the swell weeklies followed
suit, there were papers of a more independent and
veracious disposition, which seemed to treat their
readers as fools or children. Modern Society, a
London weekly, circulating mainly among the
middle-as distinguished from the fashionable-
classes, gives the lacts only distantly hinted at by
its contemporaries, in a straightforward way, thus:
—“ From what I hear from Cannes it is impossible
to doubt that the Duke of Albany’s end was
hastened by the appetite which was suddenly
aroused in him there for amusing excitement. He
got into a very fast set, and went along with them
in the race after pleasure. There was not the
restraining presence of wife and child. A taste
sprang up for the emotions of the gambling-tables
at Monaco. I hear indirectly from a banker in a
position to be well informed that he had had heavy
losses there, and that he constantly lamented his
bad luck. The day before he died, he spent four
hours at the tables. The atmosphere was stifling,
and the crowd dense and excited. He was pressed
upon and pushed about, for equality is the law of
the public gaming-house. Tbe night before, he
had been to the Bachelors’ Ball, and danced until
after daybreak, and he left Monaco to go to a
dancing party. Dissipation of this kind was so
new to him that it almost intoxicated him. The
reaction set in on the evening of the night on
which he had the fatal attack. Nearly everyone
thought it polite to tell him that he looked well. It
was disagreeable to him to oe reminded of his con-
stitutional weakness. So far from looking in ex-
cellent health, he had a yellow colour in the face,
a drawn expression, and pinched nostrils. lam
not an invalid, and am not easily carried away by
excitement; yet when I go to the South of Franco
I am so exhilarated that I feel like one who has
been inhaling laughing gas. How much more
violently must the stimulating air and the brilliant
colours of the sea, sky, and mountains have
affected one who bad been an invalid from his


v\w»£
»
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
MS
m
Scrofula on neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
T'VISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tioDs, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
itneum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, N Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching:, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura a nd Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyiemia.Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; h<ive had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
ft. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri
tier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, anu
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cent 3; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
AFT CfJ DEFOR2
Copyrighted.
2uOUCTAwII_4 c.ni w
Boyd's Beard Flirir did this, and
I trill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. Fo\ ces heavy Mous-
tache in from" to 4 weeks and never
fails , 20,000 young men already'
- - - wear full beards , having used Ito
3 pktt. No injury, easily applied , certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3 s. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover , free from observation .
fAddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W»
Copyrighted.
Packet .l Is. 6<i.
MATRIMONIAL— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. HOFF—“The Skin fn
Health and Disease,’’
3s. 6d., ail booksellers.
L. BRUCK, Publisher, Sydney.
H. L. SUMMER FI ELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMEEFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
IST’ Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
C. W. BENNETT and CO.,
68 KINO STBEET.
OUR 13-GUINEA BICYCLE
for this season is a marvel for lightness, strength,
and hill-climbing power: it has ball-bearings,
and all latest improvements.
SANSPAREIL RACING BICYCLE,
Won the Five-mile Championship, May 10th, and
all heatsand finals, with two exceptions.
Our TIME-PAYMENT TERMS are by far the easiest and best in Sydney.
We are the only house in town where you can get your bicycle promptly repaired by English workmen,
Sole Agents for BAYLISS, THOMAS, & CO., Coventry; HUMBER, MARRIOTT, & COOPER •
W. ANDREWS, Birmingham.
pp” Send or call for list. Inspection cordially invited.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CATER’S system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter, as done in Paris, is a great sucsess. We have
v both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICE'.
"W- ■W. CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
cradle? When I speak of the Duke as having
plunged into social dissipation, I have no intention
to blame him. It was natural, under the circum-
stances, for him to have overstepped the bounds
of prudence.”
The Brisbane libel case, in which the jury
were discharged in consequence of being unable
to agree whether “ Bobby Byrne ” of Queens-
land Figaro should have to pay Michael Beady,
J P., of Mackay, £2OOO for libel, was based upon an
article in which Figaro denounced Sam Griffith’s
appointment of Ready to the Bench as an outrage
on the institutions of Justice. Figaro gave a list
of Police Court cases in which Ready had been de-
feadent, as follows, prefacing the list with the re-
mark that Ready was a man of means and in a
position to successfully “square” or “husnup”
all the cases in which the phrase “ no appearance
of either party,” stands:— 4 * Here's the record:—ln
1875—Michael Ready, charged with insulting and
abusive language, also assault and battery; fined
£2 or seven day’s imprisonment. Fine paid. July
s,lB7s—Michael Ready, charged with abusive and
insulting language; Fined, with charges, £sl3s. In
1878—Michael Ready, charged with assault and
battery ; no appearance of either party. Same
year—Michael Ready, charged with tho illegal de-
tention of ahorse; ordered to restore the animal
within twelve hours. Same year—Michael Ready,
charged with assault and battery; no appearance
of either party. In 1879—Michael Ready, charged
with obstructing a Custom-bouse officer in the dis-
charge of his duty; no appearance of either party,
Same year—Michael Ready, charged with assault-
ing Constable O’Connor in River-street, Mackay;
dismissed. In 1880—Michael Ready, charged with
assault and battery ; no appearance of either
party. Same year—Michael Ready, charged with
prize fighting; bound over to keep the peace, him-
self in £5O, and two sureties of £25 each. In 1881—
Michael Ready, charged with keeping a disorderly
public house ; dismissed. Same year—Michael
Ready, charged with assault and battery ; no ap-
pearance of either party. In 1882—Michael Ready,
charged with indecent language and indecent
assault : no appearance of either party. In
1883 Michael Ready, charged with assault
and battery; no appearance of either party.”
Ready, in his evidence, gave an explanation to the
effect that it was all a mistake in every instance.
In other words, that he had suffered the singular
misfortune of having been, on thirteen distinct
occasions, brought before the Bench on ground-
less charges. Also that the Mackay Police Magis-
trate and Sergeant of Police had a down on him.
It was elicited, however, that in at least one case,
two other magistrates adjudicated. Mr. Ready
was put through his facißgs in spelling, just as was
our own dear Jannery John, J.P., C.M.G.,and with
a similar result. They didn’t try him with Janu-
ary, probably conjecturing that all magistrates
have now made a point of mastering that cele-
brated word. But they gave him “believe” to
worry, and he rendered it “belive,” while “hono-
rarium” he altogether declined to tackle. The
evidence elicited goes to show that Figaro did
good public service by its vigorous and plucky
comments, [and that Sam Griffith will leave behind
him, as Premier of Queensland, a dirty record as
the man who humiliated the Parliament of the
colony by nominating a recidiviste to the Speaker-
ship, and who disgraced the Magistracy by hoist-
ing a man from the dock to the bench.
In the words of the Oriental poet, “ May
jackasses sing o’er our grandmother’s grave ”
when we forget to champion the cause of young
and lovely woman. But we need hardly empha-
size the fact that the lady to whom this par. is re-
spectfully though humbly dedicated, is just about
one of the loveliest of her sex. But she is in dire
distress at present, and “ the man who would not
h r lp a woman in distress,” &e. &c., for particulars
see small bills. Now all this sentiment has been
worked up through reading the Alexandra
Standard, the editor of which has bpen thrown into
seventeen particular descriptions of fits through the
tyranny exercised by Schoolmaster Hearle over
his first assistant, a young and lovely creature
rejoicing in the euphonious name of Miss Annie
Doyle. Hearle bosses the section of the Education
department which is devoted to the instruction of
the rising generation of Alexandra. And may be
you’d like to know where Alexandra is to be found
oa the map of Victoria. We’ll tell you. First and
ioremoBt, you take the train from Melbourne, and
after a pretty long ride, you change the iron horse
for a pair of Cobb and Co.’s pacers, and then you
get jolted over rough roads, and across creeks, and
high hills, and deep ruts, and then if you’re lucky
enough to escape with only a couple of yout arms
broken and your ribs stove in, you go and stop at
Baker’s hotel, instead of going to the uospital. Then
you know that you are In Alexandra. We’ve been
there ourselves, and therefore ought to know. But
in our desire to impart solid geographical informa-
tion, we mustn’t lose sight of our heroine. For
two long and weary years she has endured the
highhanded and unexampled tyranny of that im-
perious pedagogue in comparative silence, but at
length she has given vent to her feelings in a letter
to the local Board of Advice, in which she patheti-
cally, if not vividly, sets forth her troubles. Hear
the heartrending wail of the young lady:—“l
complain bitterly of Mr. Hearle’s harsh and tyran-
nical treatment, which has at times been cruelly in-
sulting and persistently fault-finding. . . . Mr.
Hearle also thwarts me in my efforts to obtain dis-
cipline, which by reason of his treatment of me
before the children, makes it difficult for me to
maintain, thus adding greatly to the unpleasant-
ness of my position, making it indeed quite in-
tolerable—this seems to be Mr. Hearle’s object. . . .
Ihe constant anxiety and harass are very injurious
to me, and it is becoming absolutely necessary that
l have relief from them; not only for my own sake
is this necessary, but the welfare of the school-
tor such a display of ill-feeling cannot but be in-
jurious to the children. Unless a change for the
better takes place, I fear I shall have to resign.
Leaving my case to your kindly consideration,
. u f course, the other side of the question has
not been touched, and we wait with keen anxiety
Mr. Hearle’s version of the case. So far the
Hearley bird has been the suffering Miss D., who
metaphorically picks up the worm by having her
complaint first in the field. We were just about
to mention that our sympathies are over with the
™ and oppressed, especially when associated
with female youth and loveliness, but reckoning
tnat the Missus might take a sudden and aggressive
interest in ourselves, if she thinks that we wrote
inis par., we’ll say no more.
There are men in England who own more
real property than Mr. W. H. Vanderbilt; but then
it is entailed, or tied up in various ways. In cash,
or convertible property, Vanderbilt is far away
tne richest man in the world. He is reckoned up
at between 20 and 35 millions sterling. Fifty years
nSn- 0 , Jacob A6tor was undoubtedly the only
millionaire in America, and he was worth about
? ne million pounds. Now, there are probably a
nundred men in New York who own that much,
ihelate W. B. Astor and A. T. Stewart both died
Tprih several millions. Jay Gould, the boldest
fancier in the world, «nd Russell Sage, the canni-
pat old caution in Wall-street, are both away up
ui riches, and own millions. Three genera-
ions of Vanderbilts will be recorded in history for
wealth. The founder was old Commodore
h Q . “ er bilt. We don’t know where he is now; but
nd it s worth diverging a moment to
ieiate how he nearly died before he got all his
if° ne Y. and it was this way. He owned a
of sailing vessels from New York to
and had just sold one half
merest in them to Commodore Garrison, when
hni a was discovered in California. This made the
W e poraiouBly valuable, and Vanderbilt, repent-
°i hls bargain, refused to complete the con-
ract papers. Garrison did all he could, but with-
j n ,„ a y, ail - So, one fine morning in 1850, he walked
mo the dogged old Dutchman's office, laid his
and the contract on the table, and locking
Vnr,^ 00 J ,p H t the key in his pocket. ‘Commodore
to oi^ erp bt» he observed, “ it is now five minutes
on tw ll ' At eleven o’clock, if your name is not
flonliv pa P e D I will scatter your brains on the
revoi hyGod!” Vanderbilt looked at Garrison’s
ho and concluded it was likely to be loaded;
brio-h* ed lnto his e y eB - and they were cold ana
Bitrn?i as Steel. At one minHte to eleven, he
tho his name, carefully blotted it, and handed
hp .W® to Garrison. Twenty years afterwards
W r? story himself. It was from him that
and oo Va nderbilt, who now. 60 years of age, hale
sound, represents the second generation, in-
herited a trifle of ten millions sterling; and
Madame, his wife, pays her cook £l4OO a year.
The third generation is represented by his sons,
Cornelius, William K., Frederick, and George.
Cornelius is 35, a Christian, good-looking and smart.
He began commercial life as clerk in a broker’s
office, and passed through all the details of railway
management. He is director of countless rail-
roads, and the father of four lawful children.
William Kissam Vanderbilt is a good business man,
understands railroads, and loves horses and whist.
His connubial quiver at present, contains three of
Cupid’s shafts, and he has a mania for shining as a
society leader. Frederick and George are both
nobodies in particular, only that they are Vander-
bilts, and therefore recognisable as sons of the
man who “damned the public,” and grandsons of
America’s first huge millionaire, ninety cents of
whose every dollar was got by crooked ways.
The Vanderbilt fortunes, like all other great ones,
have been built up on principles that impoverish
the many to enrich the few. Families may starve
and hearts may break, wc rkers be driven to the
wall, and honesty go want; but none throw these
things in the face of the man who brings them to
pass—when he has 25 millions. At every turn let
the masses be victimised that the millions may in-
crease.
The Dukedom of Grafton—which has pro-
duced for the benefit of Fngland that splendid
hereditary legislator, Lord Euston. who can’t get
divorced from Lady Euston, alias Kate Cook, the
ex-prostitute—has, since it was founded, cost the
British tax-payer, in pensions alone, £1,115,850.
Charles 11. accented the responsibility of the
paternity of the first Duke, albeit he wasn’t at all
confident about the matter himself, and everybody
else was exceedingly doubtful. The maternal
ancestress of the House of Grafton was very much
on a par with the probable next Duchess, n&e Cook.
What this “ noble ” family has cost the nation
besides, Lord only knows. A short account of its
ancestress and founder will be interesting just
now. Barbara Villiers was daughter and heiress
of Viscount Grandison. She married a Mr. Palmer,
and managed to get the King, Charles 11., to sleep
with her the very night after his arrival in London,
on being restored to the throne. Charles created
Palmer Viscount Castlemaine. but he disdained
the sop, and separated from his worthless wife.
Thereupon, the King created her Baroness Non-
such (1), Countess of Southampton and Duchess of
Cleveland. During the Bung's life she had six
children, all of whom he “ ennobled.” Whether
they were his is a matter of speculation. Bishop
Burnet says that at a time when the Duke of
Buckingham had fallen out with the Duchess of
Cleveland, and temporarily distracted Charles’ iE-
clinations by throwing Davis and Nell Gwynne
in his way, Barbara abandoned herself to ‘great
disorders, one o f which was, by the Duke of
Buckingham’s contrivance, discovered by the
King himself, “the person” escaping by the win-
dow. Sam Pepys has a good deal to say about
, this fair fountain of the Grafton ducal honour.
1641, November 4, he notes “To the Privy Seale,
and sealed there; and, among other things that
passed, there was a patent for Roger Palmer
(Madame Palmer’s husband), to be Earl of Castle-
maine and Baron of Limbriche[? Limerick.— Ed.B.]
in Ireland ; but the honour is tied up to the males
got of the body of this wife, the Lady Barbary ;
the reason whereof everybody knows.” AgaiD,
1667,29 th July “My Lady Castlemaine hath made
a bishop lately, namely, her uncle, Dr. Glenbam ;
a drunken, swearing rascal, and a scandal ,to the
church.” About this time a scandalous thing hap-
pened. In February, 1688, London apprentices
had the insolent bad taste and contempt for con-
stituted authority to riotously pull down a number
of brothels, not sparing two in which the Duke of
York, the King’s brother, had an indirect interest,
as they paid him £l5 a year wine license. This
was nearly as bad as though some insolent people
to-day were to destroy in Westminster some of the
brothels from which the DeaD and clergy of the
Cathedral partially derive their incomes. But the
'prentices of 1688 were a bad lot. They not merely
pulled down the Duke’s brothels, but insolently
said that they had made a mistake in being con-
tent to pull down the little brothels, meaning
that the Royal Palace was a big one. And to ag-
gravate the occasion a Bulletin of the day, in
'be lorm of a broadsheet, appeared, and wasn’t
“ wholesome fun ”at all. Pepys says “I do now
hear that my Lady Castlemaine is horribly
vexed at the late libeil, the petition of the
poor prostitutes about the town, whose houses
were pulled down the other day. I have
got one of them; and it is not very witty, but
devilish severe against her and the King; and I
wonder how it durst be printed and spread abroad,
which shows that the times are loose.” Dear old
Sam writes in the spirit ot an R. B. Smith here.
They evidently needed a Judge Manning in those
days to suppress satires upon worthy institutions
like Clontarf or Lady Castlemaine. We haven't
space for moralizing t or for further quotationafrom
Sam Pepys. We must finally salute the Ducal
family of Grafton, whose lovely and charming an-
cestress has suggested all this gossip. She had six
children. No. 1 was created Duke of Southampton
and afterwards of Cleveland. No. 2 was created
Duke of Grafton, and was the ancestor of Lord
Euston (God bless his noble heart) I No. 3 was
created Duke of Norfolk. No. 4 was a girl, and
married the Earl of Sussex. No. 5, also a girl,
married Sir E. W. Lee of Lichfield. No. 6 turned
nun. The fair Duchess herself, after the King’s
death, married “Handsome Fielding,” an Adonis
who walloped her. She had too much spirit to
submit, however, and prosecuted him for bigamy!
It is obviously from her that the Grafton Fitzroys
inherit their tremendous cheek. Queen Anne
pardoned Fielding, and this instance of Royal in-
difference to the rights of the nobility seems to
have broken the old Duohess’s heart, for she died
shortly after in 1709. Kate Cook seems, therefore,
after all, a very appropriate wife for Barbara
Villiers’ descendent, and a woman admirably fitted
to rovive in the Grafton race its original “ noble
qualities.”
* * *
Speaker Barton laid up with a sprained
ankle ...Governor Loch ha* appointed Captain
Traill private secretary, and Viscount Castlerosse
and Seymour-Hughes aides-de-camp. Oastlerossn
is heir to the Irish earldom and English barony of
Kenmare. Hia name is Brown, with an “e.” Sam
Wilson, Pentridge warder, died last week. Ex-99th
man; wounded in the John Price riot at Williams-
town hulks, ’57: had served over convicts at Port
Essington, Port Arthur, and Norfolk Alfred
talks of “Dr. Walter Rodway,” Granny talks of
“Dr. Geo. A. Tucker.” Surely journalists who
profess to be leading lights should exercise some
care in matters of this kind Queensland
Supreme Court refuse to re-admit Swanwick as a
barrister, thereby depriving a man of the means
of earning his living, out of sheer vindictiveness...
Ninian Melville gazetted a South Australian J.P.
A prophet is not, etc.
* * *
Henry 111. of France could not remain in
the same room with a cat. The learned Erasmus
had an attack of fever every time he saw a fish.
Scaliger, the greit linguist, trembled all over his
body at the sight of crabs. Tycho de Brahe, the
astronomer, was seized with a cramp at the sight
of a fox or a hare The witty Duke d’Epernon
fainted when he saw a rabbit. Lord Chancellor
Bacon wept whenever there was an eclipse of the
moon. Boyle, the naturalist, went into convul-
sions at the noise of water rushing out of a tap.
Lamotte de Voyer could not bear the sound of
music, whilst the noise of thunder had quite an
exhilarating effect upon his spirits. At the sight
of a hedgehog, Guimod de la Touche went into a
fit of laughter. Dr. Pencker was deprived of the
use of all his senses by the smell of vinegar ; and
a country lad in Rodach was seized with spasms
every time he touched a piece of money
Lord St. Leonards would be 'tried by Ihis peers.
Well, even supposing he is guilty,ait won’t be diffi-
cult to find them amongst our hereditary legis-
lators Triibner, the Oriental bookseller and
bibliographlat, passed in his cheques, March 30
Randolph Churchill re-elected chairman of the
Tory National Union ... Hesse’s morganatic splice
off.
Now ready: Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
post, Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations ; 200 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All bookselle'B, auu
Alex. M'Kiniey and Co., 113 Pitt-street.


Gr
lebe bowing club
Fifth Annual Ball,
PKOFESSOB WEST’S BOOMS,
Castlereagh-street,
FRIDAY, 30th MAY.
Tickets to be obtained from
F. WILLIAMS, G.P.O , Hon. Treasurer.
B. SHUTE, 46 Phillip-street, Hon. Secretrry.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
WILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, the 12th of JUNE.
T. L. CLABKE, Hon. Treaa. *
(care F. Lassetter and Co.)
MOBBIS MENSER, Hon. Sec..
384 George-street.
General Post Office,
Sydney, Ist May, 1884.
THE Postmaster - General desir 8 to impress
upon senders of letters the necessity that
exists for the addresses being- legible and complete.
As regards Sydney and the larger towns, the num-
ber ©f the house and the name of the street should
in every case appear in the address ©t a letter, it
is found that a large number of letters are merely
addressed ‘•Sydney.” or to some street in Sydney,
without any further direction. This greatly re-
tards the sorting, and is liable to lead to the wrong
delivery of letters.
The Postmaster-Genrral trusts that, on their
attention being called to the matter, the public
will co-operate with the Department, as tar as
possible, in facilitating its business.
W. J. TBICKETT.
550 B.C.
550 B.C.
550 B.C.
FOR SALE, a valuable collection of SILVER
COINS; embracing specimens of the earliest
incused period, B.C. 550, and rare types of the
currency of Lete, Macedonia, Corinth, delapon turn
and Alexander the Great; a select ot the
Imperial and Consular issues of the Homan
Empire, embracing rare specimens of Julius
Caesar, Augustus Caesar (the Tribute Money), Otho,
Nero, Vespasian, Titus, Hadrian, andthelater
issues of the Empire. Fine types of the Scotch
National coinages; and a complete sorica ot ttie
English currency from the access on of Athelstan
to the Maundy sets of the present reign. A de-
scriptive price list, on application to Numismata,
Bulletin Office.
rv PBRA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. W. J. Wilson.
SATURDAY, 31st MAY, 1884.
Under Special Patronage. §
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT
Tendered by Numerous Friends and Admirers)
TO
MR. W. J. WILSON,
Prior to his relinquishment of the Theatre.
The performance will commence, at a quarter to 8,
with the sparkling Comedy, in three acts,
EVERYBODY’S FRIEND,
In which Mr. and Mrs. POLK and Company have
have in the kindest manner given their services.
To be followed by a CONCERT, under direction of
MR. CHARLES HUKNERBEIN.
Concluding with a favourite FARCE by the
FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
By kind permission of Fred. Hiscocks, Esq.
For further particulars, see daily papers.
Box Office at A. Huenerbein's Music Warehouse,
411 George-street. N.B. - Please book early,
as seats are fast tilling.
REMEMBER 1-BATURDAY NIGHT.
AUGUST HUENERBEIN,
Hon. Secretary.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, G arnbr, & Musgrov*.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
IMPULSE !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
A Decided Hit and Gigantic Success of Pinero s
Great Drama, THE MONEY SPINNER.
Nightly leceived by crowded houses, and which
can only be performed for a limited number
of nights. Tremendous Success and Farewell Per-
formances o f Mr. Wybert Reeve, in his most sue-
cesslm character of Baron Croodle, supported by
his powerful company. Admission: 55., 35., 25., an<i
Gallery Is. Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music !
HISCOCKS’FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELL *US GIRARDS, in their Grand CHANGEof
PROGRAMME Every artist encored nightly.
Terrific Success of the New Burlesque
WESTWARD HO !
By Leopold Jordan, Esq.
Admission—Fauteuiis, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
TRAGEDIAN aDd COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Maj<?roni, supported by one of the best companies
in the colonies. IOT* bee future advertisements.
s
UNDAY AFTERNOO N.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular llal.ads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2,2.20,2.40, 3,3.20,
The* entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholsen and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
North Shore Rowing Club.
Third annual ball,
Under the patronage of
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS, COMMODORE
ERSKINE, and OFFICERS of H.M S. Nelson,
will take place at
NEEDS’ ROO • S (NITHSDALE),
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5,
Stewards:
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, M.P. Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.P.
C. Roberts, C.M.G..M.P. B. O. Holterman. M.P.
D. O’Connor, M.P. J P. Garvan, M P.
C. L. Sabi, Esq., Consul Dr. Ward
for Germany R. Harnett, Esq.
J. R. Love, Esq. G. M. Pitt, Esq.. J.P.
M. M'Mahon, Esq. W. Fleming. Esq.
James Thompson, Esq. A- Milson, Esq^
Patrick Hayes, Esq. J.P.
W. H. Tulloh, Esq.
John Cooper, Esq.
Tickets • Ladies’, 12*. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 30s , may be had from F. W. B. Love, 99
Bathurst-street: J- S. Davis, 436 George-street;
W. T. Robertson, 409 George-street; E. E. Brice,
Railway Department, any of the leading shops, or
fr ° m HARRY H. ROREY.
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HAN LAN, Champion Sculler of
the World, has signifled his intention of berng
present.
D
N
N
G
PkOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. Th« suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, mo&t elegantly fui msbr d
in Australia, to Rent fur Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academv 20l
Castlereagh street, near Bathuist-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than vestibule
Sydney Town Hal), exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all bo
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, <kc. No decorations required.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
"Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Pleft of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
‘ ” GABO LEURA
BALMAIN MORETON
GEELOVG RODONDO
KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
BAHKABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 27th May, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For ftßl parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kent at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek at
ltobberah, road Dubboto Coo-
namble „ ,
Erection of Three Gatehouses on
the Illawarra Railway
Hand-Geared Punt for Wise-
man s Ferry. Hawkesbury River
Erecting Guards’ Quarters at
Junee Junction
Foundations and Piers for Foot-
bridge, Wagga Wagga Rail-
way station
Superstructure and Stairs ot
Footbridge, Wagga Wagga
Railway Station
Erection of Porters House,
Macdonald River G.S.Railway
Erecting Porter’s House at Mur-
rumburrah G.S. Railway
Supply of Copper Jngot for
Railway Department
Conts. 5,6, 7. and 8 N. Peats
Ferry Road, Railway Deviation
Erection of Courthouse, Bal-
ranald „ , 0 ,
Ereetion of Quarters for Sub-
Inspector of Police, Walgett
Repairs, &c.. Post Office, Alhury
Erection of Ladies’ Refresh-
ment Rooms, Botanic Gardens
Repairs, &e., Police Barracks,
Parramatta
Cart-shed, &c„ Lunatic Asylum,
Parramatta _ „ _
Erection of Retaining Wall, Hos-
pital for the Insane, Newcastle
Supply of Portable Water
Tanks for the Locomotive De-
partment „ , ~
Bridge over Dingo Creek at Tett-
-Bell's Crossing, road Wingham
to Wherool Flat
Additions, &e„ Post and Tele-
graph Office, Jerildie
Addition Water Police Court,
Sydney
Erecting Station Buildings, &c ,
at Young
Additions. &c , Orange Gaol
Alterations, &c.» Courthouse,
Brewarrina ,
Additions, &c„ Newcastle Post
Office _ ,
Addi'ioDS. &c., Courthouse, East
Maitland
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Cobar
Pipes, Special Castings, and
Valves, Sydney Water Supply
Manufacture and Supply of
160,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Tuesday,
3rd June,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
10th June,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
17th June,
at Jl o’clock.
Tuesday,
34th June,
at 11 o’ciock.
Tuesday,
Bth July,
at ll o’clock.
Tuesday,
12th August,
nt 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WEIGHT.
MASON BROTHERS,
]
lii
1
: t:
S 3
*' t
# , 'l4
i \V& | 1
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for BALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENER KL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
earthenware
WINES, BEERS, AND BPIRITB,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T jtA7EN’B
Bcbn u>.-> Uoneva.
A fl V N Jid SONS’
E lini'u Pale * -e.
]
I
WASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empl>
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bullbi 1 -
Ollice.
THY THE
Mm Furniture PiEsi
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWaTS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
\ Correspondents who give neither name nornom-de-
plwne cannot expect to have their cotn-
mwiicatione noticed.}
“ J L.”: Yours is the twenty-seventh ode
to the “ Masher ”we have received this week. It
is as good as any of the others. But, you see, the
subiect is so commonplace and uninviting that the
touch of a Tom Hood or an Ingoldsby is required
to make it decently presentable. So far,that touch
is wanting '‘Marquis of Sydney . Business is
business. Our charge for advertisements can be
ascertained at the office. But even as a literary
ieu-d’esvrit, “ Pauline's Reply is a failure. T here
is no feu and the esprit is absent. Take a couplet:
“ Although named Horderns it is not ordinary,
In fact, I call it Extra-Hordern-ary.
Now. you might start with the venerable Bede,
and wind up with the late Sydney Punch without
finding anything to tie the above in inspired im-
becility. Oddly enough, we have known people to
write something similar, but they all disappeared
mysteriously. Verbumsap..-- Capias . Will see.
“ P.M.H. (Mackay, Q.): Might publish if Koths-
cbild or Vanderbilt backed us up. We totted up
£3OO 000 worth of libel in your short letter, but our
lawyer thinks he could find some
phrases are very telling , especially that one
•*ainvprirur with sycophantic slime. >vny, piess
you that alone would land us on the horns of the
moon“ Alexander Pope”: Of course, the
“Modern Sermon” is a gem m its way, but
it is very old. Why, we heard it preached
—and preached well-by the corner man of a long-
scattered troupe of nigger minstrels. Send along
has little S to y recommend it, and we are surprised at
itfhaving found a place in an Edinburgh paper
It sins against metre in every verse, and the
“ ’prentice hand ”is apparent throughout— Kin-
dergartner”: May have something to say on the
subiect by and bye....'“ G. Vanzetti, M.D.”: In
our issue of the 10th inst., we stated on what we
considered trustworthy authority that Dr. t an-
vetti of Mount Hope, had drawn a miner s (Spargo)
tooth charged 7s. 6d. for the job, and recovered
the amount by legal process-the miner being at
the time a member of a club to which the Dr. was
attendant. The medico rather up : ends
this pleasant little incident, by saying that it has
the advantage of being wrong from start to ijaish.
At least, it would have been right, only he t
hannen to be at Mount Hope at the time, didn t
know Spargo, didn’t yank his tooth out, and didn t
the 7 a 6d It was a local chemist did the
iob°and got the money We believe the Doctor
now and invite the person who sent the item we
think it was taken from a newspaper—to call
round He may escape vith a damaged spine,
but-let him ca 11... “Mr. Solomon” (Liverpool):
rwt know Will endeavour to ascertain...
“J Phelan” (Beechworth): We entitle the
of Svdney “Primate Barry” simply because the
Anglican Bishops of Australia and Tasmania have
accepted him as Primate, whether with strict
ecclesiastical accuracy we haven’t troubled our
heads to inquire. The hierarchical jargon is per-
plexing enough; but since the study of it can only
afford pleasure to fossilised minds, we let it slide.
Dr Barrv is called “ Primate by the official
who are. presumed to know how he
d be entitled, and, outof epurtesy, we follow
cent Articles of War issued from Middle Head,
any enemy or enemies wishing to make an attack
by y sea oTthis colony must previously' give> three
riavs’ notice to the officer in charge of the Tor-
pedo Corps, who will then place a suitable number
of torpedoes in the track, and lire them about
forty-eight hours before the foe is ®*P e< k®£.
the time the invader arrives, they will go off, and,
of course, he’ll go with them. Any foreigner
neglecting to send the required notice will be
fooked upon as a “ dem’d low fellah,” and one with
whom no gentleman so-jah.could ever think of
meeting in aeadly war-fah. Feel any better now ?...
“plrcv W.”: The genius of dramatic criticism has
“ lumped up ” you. We’ve read your little trifle
forwards side-ways, and backwards. We think
the last plan does it most justice, but will try
again In orthography you are strong. It is
pfeasant in these days of slavish imitation to meet
a person who is not above saying has I said, and
“the door* where open/* instead of following'the
stereotyped method of generations of Evinces.
Persevere, Percy- There s plenty of scope in
Wales for all sorts of originality. - E.H.D. .we
are reluctant to throw cold water upon any
organisation of the kind, but seriously do not re-
gard the one referred to as conducted with the
intelligence and elevation of principle which a.re
requisite to give value and usciulness to i s
operations Received; next week....
“freethinker”: You ask, why “ recidiviste ?
Well, because it’s a good expressive word. You
may bet your boots we don’t use it as a euphem-
-8111 “ Antiquarian ”: It was King Billy, of
Knockeradoo on the Bogan, who raised the ques-
tion mlson eloped with a Darling gin xrom
Bourke The monarch now disputes the legiti-
macy of his grand-children; says the marriage
was morganatic—his daughter-in-law s parents not
being of Royal blood and having to chew nardoo
*or if living. The King’s advißers are Conservative
Md reactionary. The arms of Knockeradoo are a
waddP rampant Gules and Or, mosquito ceuc/wmt
on dexter side. Crown jewels: A sardine-tin, hole
punched in the lid for chastely-wrought vinculum
of wax-end. Shall be glad to give you any other
information you may require.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from numbers of the
L Theatrical Profession. 1
Jennie Lee opened in “Jo” at Brisbane,
Monday, and intends playing a four weeks engage-
ment. After that she returns to Sydney, and will
x>inv in the Opera House, which is to be refitted at
?hf expense P of £looo.’ July sth is Miss Lee s
opening night here— George Darrell has gone
home to play “ Naked Truth ” and ** Sunny South
fn London. Everybody will wish bim bon vjnwe,
and a safe return to the colonies.... feddy Hlakeis
re-organising Lloyd’s Surprise Party, which s
billed to give its first pcrformanceatLiverpooL
W. Neilson is in advance.... Mrs. Dr. Potts opens
nt the Opera House next Monday evening—
‘t he Montague-turner Opera Compra hawe oeen
simring " i’ra Diavolo and taust at wagga,
and the local star blazes forth in praise of the
warblers. The attendance, according to the Stab,
has been very meagre, and the paper laments that
the company have such good reason to question
the musical taste and culture of the
Waggans Stanley s Juvenile Opera Troupe
have been at Newcastle, where they sang Phe
Pirates of Penzance ” on Monday evening, and
- Les Cloches de Cornville ” on Tuesday evening.
Master Walter Harman is specially praised by tne
KHERALD, which has a Splendid lip for music.
Barry and M’Mahon’s Dramatic Company have
been playing in Yass to crowded houses. Grattan
Kiggs P was the great poultice..... Hart s Happy
Hours opened at Newcastle on the evening of the
34th instant.... Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels at ln-
verell. Miss Melville and Miss Verne oeneilted
4in Monday evening. The result was a bumper
Souse and a whole pantry full of pastry
Mr James Joseph Pollard, the father of the
Pollard family, died at Townsville, last week, from
foo much water in his system. One ot the younger
Pollards died at Colombo, while the Liliputians
were en route for Australia.... A Cooma exchange,
in criticising an amateur eutertainment, describes
the mother-in-law ot the stage hero as an old
hen,” and the heroine as a ” pullet. Lvgs will be
living through the air up Cooma-way, if somebody
i-tn’t careful . . The Picnic Party were recently at
Maryborough. The Party includes W. Horace, Lillie
Sheridan Ruby Danvers, Violet Sheridan, Mr.
CoUier?and Mr. fetacy....Professor 3. 8. Baldwin
has returned from India, and has been 11
ing ” at Charters Towers and Townsville. From
exchanges we learn that the Professor did a big
business in India. He is making for Sydney.
Mr. Alderman Colin Christie has been edifying
Newcastle with a musical and triepticon lime fig
entertainment, during which he sang old bcotc
songs to the delight of the Herald reporter....
Here’s a playhouse par. from the States,which
reminds us of the effusions of Alfred s music
“cricket,” when the moons full, and the jug s
empty:—“He has dazzled us by his brilliant and
perfect technique; he has excited us by b'stie >
spirit, even as the sonorous pceans of
awoke the martial ardour of the ancient Greeks,
and the brazen - tongued war-songs of Korner
thrilled through the of bis fellow-brav es,
has awed us by an indescribably serene sense of
force, and he has seized upon our warmest sympa-
thies: and so he has won by this senes ot victories
over the intellect and affections, a mest absolute
mastery of his audience. P.S., he plays the fiddle.
.. .Madame Theo, the opera bouffe actress, is said by
the Parisian critics to have the most beautiful bust
and shoulders on the stage. But she firmly
to have them photographed, and rejected a most
extravagant offer from the celebrated Sarony to
sit before his camera. Almost as e ““7i en
gard to such particular charms, was Mdlle. V ainot,
until an accident befel her. She wfs a
woman who had reached the acme of plumpness
without degenerating into the inferiority tat.
She couldn’t sing, and couldn t act; but she wore
the riskiest bodices ever seen on the New’ YorK
stage, and walked about while people looked at
her. However, one day Mademoiselle vail lot
thought there was a balcony outside a window
when there wasn't She stepped out and spoiled
her figure ...The Royal Comic Opera Company,
with Mr. Tyrrell as the “ bright particular star ot
the entertainment, has been doing Q u ® enBla 2P’17,; I 7,;
In speaking of copyrights, the New York
Mirror says: “Lotta has bought the copyright
of ‘Nell Gwynn’ for America. Allison and Rig-
nold have purchased the Australian rights in
Richardson’s play, ‘ Expiation, tor Mel-
bourne.”
Now ready : Socialities for 1884. Is ; by
post. Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations; 200 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Alex. M’Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
Ladies, you ‘have conquered. Even that
stronghold of masculine conservatism, the Oxford
University, has succumbed. After a heroic strug-
gle, though. The proposal to give women the same
examination as men, has been carried by a
maiority. The female relations of the erudite
voters had a good deal to do with this victory, or
we are much mistaken. There is a poor time coming
for men if this new doctrine of women s rights is
allowed to develop much more. The mistake we,
the lords of creation, made was to have allowed
the sex, facetiously called softer, to think they
have any rights at all. If we do not take pretty
prompt measures to nip this notion in the bud, we
shall soon be relegated to the camp-oven and the
wash-tub, white our wickeder halves spend the
money that was to have kept the house and P&id
the rent, in playing skittles and shaking in the hat
—or bonnet, should we say?-for drinks. And then
in the usual course of things, a female bailiff will
be put in, and we shall have to feed heron
oysters, and fresh eggs, and fill her up with beer,
while our wives are out “seeing a woman
to try and square up the debt. And when they
come home they will probably accuse us of car-
rying on a clandestine flirtation with the bailiff.
This is just what it will come to. Imagine the
case of a man—one of your friends, say—whom you
meet on his way to the police court one morning.
He has aface as long as the Tichborne trial, and
a look of weary resignation in his eyes. You stop
him —you yourself are then on the way to the
corner hotel to fetch a flask of brandy home to
your spouse, who has been having rather too high
a time with the girls the night before-end ask
him where he is going. “To the court, he replies
with a sigh. “ What, again ? “ you remark with
sorrowful surprise. “Yes, again, he answers,
“this is the third time in a fortnight I have bailed
her out. Then you both shake your heads, squeeze
each other’s hands with mournlul sympathy, and
you dive in into the bar for the flas*, while your
friend droops weari y down to the lock-up. Yes,
ladies, it is going to be your turn now, and we wish
you luck of it. Only we hope we shall be with the
sober and conservative dead before that day
comes round.
Now ready: Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
Dost Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations; 201 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Alex. M’Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.


I
MM
V;.
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
mis, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
eff ect ts mus * c w ith absolute precision and perfect
It has tw'enty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tlon > °S ! ts music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polka", Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
Price, 30s.
I3P NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOTT PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the OKIENTAL COLD COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
irom the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
a xAr ourLletof Prices, as follows, and note that
SVa k t t KS l k?- e bent fost free -
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent's richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link tiuitts, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d , 10s , and 12s. 6d
per set
Same as a.bove, only Half Suites. 35., 45., ss. perset
very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 10s. per set
Gents Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent s handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s 6d
ts , and 10s. each '
Gentkclegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
Gents elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
ana 12s. 6d. each
Gent's very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
on„,. ts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
~os . 255.. 275. 6d , and 30s. each
hoice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d
Bs. 6d , 10s. '
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
„ * J "' uble slides and tassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Ei. rrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d
P** ir : Uadits’ choice Necklets, from
to 305.; Ladies elegant Bangles, 7s. to
los. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps.
Jos.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chatalaines. 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.: Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 20s.
a . No. 1.
Gent, s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, witn
Oriental Gold Albert .
„ No. 2.
bane as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
No. 3.
Ladies' Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark : the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and eompen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Lavers
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph.
with Oriental Gold Albert
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. ... .. ... # j£lolo 0
We import our watches direet from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
£2 4 6
£2 10 0
£2 17 6
£3 2 6
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£3 3 0
£4 15
£5 5 0
£6 6 6
We want to do business with people throughou
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do no
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them a
once and send them back. If this is done withii
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first pos
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, wi
will return the money, deducting only the trifli
expended on postage. You can keep any oni
article and return the rest, and we will return th<
money lor the articles not kept. Every watcl
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by t
written warrantry for two years Remittances t<
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Marketi
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“lmpulse” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre —“The Money Spinner ”.. ib.
<>pera House—“ Sam’l O’Posen” ib.
Academy of Music— Federal Minstrels ib.
We like to go out on “benefit” nights.
The reason we like to go out on these occasions is
that the managers always look savage when they
see us appear with three dead-heads in tow; and
we like to see the managers look savage. Gener-
ally, they are so gentle and polite to us that the
bystanders imagine we were born in the purple
and nursed into prettiness in the arms of Royalty.
When we frown they tremble, and when we
“ smile ” they “shout;” and between the two, our
cup is generally full. This is only between the
two, however. Immediately after, and just before,
our cup is as empty as the hollow mockery of a
publican’s prayer for Booth and blue ribbons. A
“benefit” always means a crowded house, if the
recipient is at all popular. There are a lot of play-
goers in this as in every great city, who go out
only on “opening” and “benefit” nights. These
people consider themselves “ too utterly utt ” to
attend a theatre on other occasions. You can
always tell them if you’ve had much experience.
There is a something about them that seems new
and fresh, or unusual, like our best frock coat
after we come home from a sea voyage and
take it out of our box. It is creased and wrinkled
and smells of cedar oil and saveloys. And that’s
the way with the “benefit” patron. As a rule,
benefits are given on a Wednesday or a Saturday
night in Sydney, for those are the suburban and
the fashionable nights here. But Sam Genese, of
the Opera House, has a head on him like Talleyrand
and a bow window that was made for fried fish and
baked potatoes. That is the reason he chose an “off”
night for Mrs. Polk’s “ benefit.” He was sure of a
crowded house on Saturday, for that was the
anniversary of John Brown’s death or something,
and the people were bound to crowd into the
theatres at night, to cheer them up after the day’s
mourning. In this instance, Sam’s foresight was
equal to most people’s hindsight. ’Twas the savee
ot years gave him lashins of lore, and he saw what
would happen a long time before, as Campbell said
in tipping Lochiel for a very important event.
Sam knew that everyone who could would attend
the favourite comedienne’s benefit, and so he
selected Friday night. The result must have been
highly satisfactory, for although it rained like
Helen Blazes, the Opera House was fairly filled,
and the applause was so uproarious at times, that
the patter on the roof seemed like the refrain of a
lost cat amidst the turmoil and din of a Glebe
Island sausage factory.
• • •
Perhaps you would like to know some-
thing about the play, and how it was performed.
The piece was “An American," an original
comedy by Mr. Polk, in which the author has
undertaken to illustrate, by contrast, the differ-
ence between the free-and-easy ways of the
Nevada miner and the stiff and formal conven-
tionality of English aristocratic life. The first
scene opens upon the interior of a miner’s cabin
at a little station on the Central Pacific Railway,
in the mountains of Nevada. Two miners named
Pete and Hank (Messrs. Norman and Jones) are
indulging in what they call a game of “draw
poker.” They are presently joined by Gentleman
Jack (Mr. Boothman), an English blackleg, and
the play waxes hot. The only fault we have to
find with this scene is that the game is “ straight ”
iostead of “draw” poker, and the players talk
entirely too much for Nevada gamesters. They
play poker like the Dutch play euchre, until Kit
Bright (Mr. Polk) appears on the scene and takes
a hand. He knows how to play poker in the
Nevada style. His short, crisp answers and
business-like manner indicate forthwith that he
has “ straddled ” more than one “ blind,” and has
raised many an “ante ” before seeing a card. But
it wasn’t “draw ” poker, or, if it was, there were
more “pat” hands.around the board than any-
body ever heard tell of who hadn’t been “cold-
decked ” clean out of the country.
• •
As the game progresses. Lord Alfred Eger-
ton (Mr. Forbes), his sister, Lady Alice (Mrs.
Polk), and Johnson, her maid (Miss Lily Bryer),
who are on a tour through the States, stroll
into the cabin, having missed a train. A
quarrel ensues between Lord Egerton and
Gentleman Jack, with the result that “my
Lord’s” body is perforated by the dagger of the
blackleg. Kit Bright swears to avenge the mur-
der, and the curtain goes down on the lamentation
of the bereaved and the antics of Kit’s Chinese
servant. Three yeais later on the Egertons are at
home in England, and Kit arrives on the scene.
He has got to be a millionaire by this time, but
the off-hand manner in which he tells the Countess
Egerton that she can “bet ver boots, mum,’’ is
prima facie evidence that coin and culture don’t
always go hand in hand. However, Kit’s heart is
in the right place, and so is his money, and he
winds up by identifying the murderer of Lord
Alfred and marrying the pretty Lady Alice.
* • •
There isn’t much plot in the piece, and at
first it drags slowly, and seems to hang fire; but
when you come in again with a mouthful of
cloves and just the suggestion of lemon rind on
your breath, and tell the girl beside you that you
have been to the box-office to consult the manager
on a subject of transcendental importance, you
feel better, and the play seems to have more
vim and vinegar in it. We like Mr. Polk’s
make-up as the Nevada Miner, but at times
be is rather too clownish. The typical Nevada
man is a very determined, cool-headed fellow, who
goes straight to thj point on all occasions, and
neither indulges in nor tolerates any foolishness.
And his vernacular is just a little different from
Mr. Polk’s. If you tell a Nevada man “It’s a
nice day, stranger,” he will at once reply “ That’s
what it is.” If he is on his way into town, and you
ask him if he is going to the city, he replies
“ That’s what I am. He always puts the copula
last, but Mr. Polk evidently didn’t stay long
enough in the great Silver State to learn this
peculiar style of transposing the English language.
And we were disappointed that Kit didn’t blow
the top of Gentleman Jack’s head off before he got
away aft;r stabbing Lord Egerton. As a rule Ne-
vada men are rather handy with their “guns,” as
the navy revolvers are called amongst them, and
they o'ten amuse themselves by shooting flies ©ff
the ends of each other’s noses. The man who can’t
pick the fly off without abrading the skin is looked
upon as a disgracefuly poor marksman, and he
generally gets a caution immediately after his first
mistake.
• • *
Mr. Boothman’s Gentleman Jack would be vastly
better if the actor did not always adopt the style
of a stump orator—in declamation, in dialogue, in
love scenes, everywhere. The blackleg, who gets
his education in the Rocky Mountains, is not a
swaggerer nor a blusterer. The man who could
stab another in cold blood with the accompanying
risk of being killed on the spot, or hanged to the
nearest tree, is certainly not a character from
whom to expect bluster and blow.
* • •
Mr. Ed. Lester’s Wan Lung is a capital piece of
acting, and yet there are weak points about the
character that should be remedied at once. Waa
Lung is entirely too honest for a Nevada China-
man. He doesn’t steal anything, and doesn’t seem
inclined to appropriate the property of others.
He looks like a thief, however, and when he
first came on, we had a suspicion that he
was the copper-coloured heathen who picked
the gold-filling out of our front teeth after
inducing us to “hit the pipe” so hard that we
didn’t wake up for seventeen straight hours. Wan
shows the true Mongolian instinct, however, by
winning all the money of the English butler,
sellers (Mr. Stewart), at the game of draw-poker,
which he has taught his victim to play. Sellers
bolds four aces, and, of course, stakes his last shil-
hng on a hand of that sort; but his discomfiture is
complete when the heathen lays down five kings
mid collars the pot. This is the one redeeming
feature about Wan Lung. The author has happily
developed in thiß role the penchant which Cnina-
men have for imitating 1 whatever they see. Our
landlady once engaged a Chinese cook, and set
about teaching him to make a cake. Into the flour
she broke three eggs, and had to throw an extra
one away because there was too much meat in it,
or something. After preparing the dough, she put
it in the ov en, and, forgetting it, allowed the cake
to burn almost to a cinder. On the following day,
John was requested to make a cake for company
just as he had seen the missus do it. John was faith-
fulness itself. He broke two eggs into the flour,
threw the third one into the coal-hole, and put the
fourth along with the first two. Then he put the
cake in the oven, and left it there until it was
as thoroughly burnt as the one he had seen made
on the previous day. Wan Lung is the same sort
of an imitator—and the coolness with which he
appropriates Sellers’ uniform is only another evi-
dence that a Chinaman is a mighty hard party to
nonsuit. And just here we are reminded of a
little Mongolian we once knew when in ’Frisco.
* * *
Little Ah Sid
Was a Chinaman kid—
A cute little cuss, you’d declare—
With eyes full of fun,
And a nose that begun
Right up at the roots of his hair.
Jolly and fat
Was this frolicsome brat,
As he played through the long summer day,
And braided his cue
As his father used to,
In Chinaland far, far away.
Once o’er a lawn
That Ah Sid played upon
A bumble bee flew in the spring;
“ Mclican butterfly,”
Said he, winking an eye;
“ Me catchee and puli off urn wing.”
So with his cap
He struck it a rap,
This innocent bumble bee,
And put its remains
In the seat of his jeans, -
For a pocket there had the Chinee.
LAYCOCK v. HANLAN.
Yes, we sent our very funniest man to see the great sculling
match. Why he did no more on the subject than appears
above, may or may not be satisfactorily explained in the
sketch. Perhaps he may have thought that public interest
in the race did not warrant further outlay. Perhaps he had
alreaey spent his half-crown to the man who told him where
the “Gorge” was. We shall never know.
Down on the green
Bat the little sardine,
In a style that was strangely demure,
And said with a grin,
That was brimful of sin,
“ Me mashee um butterfly sure.”
Little Ah Sid
Was only a kid,
Nor could you expeet him to guess
The kind of a bug
He was holding so snug
In the folds of his loose-fitting dress.
“Ki-yil ki-yunel”
He cried to the moon,
As he hurriedly rose from that spot;
“Ki-yi! Yuk-a-kan!
Dam a Meiican man,
Um butterfly welly much hot! ”
• • •
Mr. Stewart’s Sellers oould scarcely be
better taken. There isn’t much in the part, but
the young artist makes it up so well that it be-
comes a very pleasing feature of the play. Mrs.
Polk, as Lady Alice, was as captivating as an
oyster pie and three glasses of stout on a frosty
morning. Miss Ruth Gray’s Lady Edith was also a
clever bit of acting, but how she ever came to fall
in love with such an old duffer as Captain Vaniker
is a left-handed conundrum that will never be
solved to the satisfaction of anybody. But we
have stayed long enough with the Polks, who play
their farewell engagement in the Australian
colonies at the Opera House, on Friday evening,
May 30. And now we shall go up to the Gaiety to
see what Wybert Reeve is up to.
** * *
Of course, you will want to know some-
thing about “ The Money Spinner.” That is the
name of the new piece put on at the Gaiety last
Saturday evening for a week’s run. Is it worth
anything ? Yes, it is. It is worth going to see,
and that is saying considerable for a modern
drama in three acts. Most of the dramas of recent
origin are as flat and insipid as a cold potato boiled
in the skin. “The Money Spinner,” however,
embraces a number of good characters, and they
are very well taken by the Gaiety staff. “The
+iP in 5 er ” Millieent Croodle (Miss Maggie Knight),
the daughter ef a Parisian gambler, whose estab-
lishment is frequented by howling swells from all
garts of the country. Millieent is a veteran gam-
ieress, whose good luck seems never to desert her
until after she has married Harold Boycott (Mr.
James Carden), a poor clerk at Rouen, who em-
uezzles his employer’s money. To save him,
Mill cent plays at tcarte with Lord Kerngussie
(Mr. Appleton), a Scotch nobleman, who was her
tprmer lover. She cheats him and is detected, the
result being barrels of sorrow and buckets of woe.
But he finally forgives her, and advances the
money necessary to free his more successful rival
from the ugly embarrassment his folly has placed
him in, and the whole thing ends like a fairy tale
got up to amuse children.
■
Mr. Reeve’s Croodle is one of the best im-
personations of which he has been guilty since hi?
return from England. It is not so powerful a
representation as his Count Tosco in “The Woman
in White,” but it is a role that is well calculated to
bring out some of the strongest points as an actor
of which Mr. Reeve is possessed. The lines are so
funny at times, and Mr. Reeve's rendition of them
so droll, that you can’t resist the invitation of the
man behind you to go out between the acts.
• • •
Last week we had just about made up our
mind that Mr. Appleton couldn’t act a little bit;
but we were mistaken. He can act a little bit—a
very little bit—and we want to give him credit.
L ° rd KerDgussie, you wouldn’t know him at
?. • en pi® indistinct articulation seems to fit
him like der paper on der vail,” and you feel in-
clined to forgive him for other parts that you have
seen him murder in cold blood. If Mr. Appleton
only knew to what advantage he appears as the
scotch noodle, he would adopt the character as an
everyday costume, and wear it off as much as on
the stage. It is certainly a great improvement on
the original Appleton as we have seen him in
several roles. This is not intended for sarcasm.
It is meant as a friendly suggestion to a man in
whose future we have an interest. And we have
an interest in the future of every man who under-
takes to either edify or instruct the public from
the mimic stage.
* * *
Maggie Knight, as the Money Spinner, is
just too pretty and captivating to talk about. We
ofteu wonder whether Maggie ever smiles. If she
does, it must be when she’s off the stage, for we
have never seen her on the boards when she wasn’t
steeped in more misery and surrounded by more
woe than any other actress in Australia, except the
great buck-jump tamer of the Theatre Royal, and
Signora Majeroni who plays Camille. How Maggie
manages to endure all the wear and tear to her
system that must result from so much trouble and
tribulation, is more than we can guess. Maggie's
Millicent is quite as true a piece of acting as we
have yet seen her do, and makes a strong support
for Mr. Reeve’s Croodle.
• • •
Mr. Coleman played the Tout so well that
we felt like braining him with a shovel. He made
us think of the man who told us he had a “ system”
to beat Faro. If we remember right, the “system”
was: Watch until the ace loses and is followed
by a losing king. Then bet the queen to win, and
you 11 never miss it.” That man was a deceiver.
We didn t miss it, but our boss did; and the only
thing that preserved our latch-key and our liberty
was the good pair of legs we had under us. We
are down on deception. We don’t believe in it,
and haven’t ever since the time we kicked a plug
hat with a brick under it.
* * *
And we must give Ethel Adele a hand. We
don’t like to deal all the time ourself, and so we’ll
let Ethel have a chance. Considering the fact
that she plays Dorinda Croodle, we wont’t ask a
fair deal from her, for that would ruin her father’s
business. We’ve been looking for an old man
with a Faro bank, and a daughter like Dorinda,
We found the bank several times, but the daugh-
ter wasn’t there. She was always out, and when
we came back again to squandersome more of our
boss s hard-earned money, she was in bed with neu-
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows,” see page 12-


PEPPER AND SALT.
A Lismore lyrist has arisen and struck the
hoop-iron harp. Here are two lines from a poem
of his, printed in the local paper:
“We shall roam on the banks of the river of peace,
And bathe in the blissful tide.”
Which is as much as to say there are no policemen
in Heaven. Bathe in the blissful tide! If they
did they would probably get seven days for it.
And deservedly. Every grimy gospeller and
malodorous tub-thumper seems to think he can
put off washing until h 6 goes to Heaven. At this
rate, heaven, instead of being paved with gold
would have to be paved with soap. And the
thrones of the elect would, of course, be combina-
tions of throne and bathing-machine. We are
afraid cleanliness will not be quite so near godli-
ness as all this. The Lismore lyrist will even havo
to reconcile himself to washing in this world. Let
him face the peril like a man. It will come easy to
him after a year or two. By the way, talking of
ablution and Lismore, they say that, up there,
instead of washing, a man gets himself ringbarked
round the waist once a year. Then all the dirt
from the waist up cakes and falls off. We are not
prepared to guarantee the truth of this statement.
At least, not to a Lismore man.
Hercules and the Hydra.
Respectfully dedicated to Sir Alfred Stephen, and whom it may concern.
You can believe this if you like. We don’t.
A country paper says that a shepherd was found
in a dying state near Greenwich Park (N.8.W.), the
other day. He had been lost in the bush for several
days, during which he had only mushrooms and
tobacco to live upon. Only! We have numbers
of shepherds in this city at the present time. They
are engaged in shepherding the statue of Albert
the Good, to keep it from stealing down from its
pedestal and going on a drunk. We may say here
that indications of such an intention have been
observed in the statue ever since it heard of the
death of John Brown. But this is irrelevant.
These shepherds live, for the most part, on
seditious speeches and old nails. No such luxuries
as mushrooms and tobacco for them. And we are
asked to believe that a man—and a shepherd, too—
was nearly dying on this diet. Why, all he needed
was rum—and while he had the tobacco he could
have made that, if water was handy—to be in a
perfect Shepherd’s Paradise. The fable is too
thin, sweet rustic!
• • •
What do you think is the latest British
invention ? A new order of colonial knighthood,
you will say at once. But it isn't. It is an electric
railway, upon which—if the laws of Nature do not
object—travellers will be conveyed at the rate of
200 miles an hour. The inventor is making a ter-
rible turkey-cock of himself over this little dis-
covery. Why, here—and we are not at all proud
about it—we have trams that will, occasionally,
carry you further in five minutes. They will carry
you into eternity. But they never give us credit
for having any genius in the colonies.
» * *
One million acres of land. Only. It be-
longs to us. Mr. O'Donnell, the leader of the Kim-
berley Exploring Expedition—which last year tra-
versed a large area of the North-western district
of Western Australia—owned this little paddock.
He tried to sell.it in lots, but failed. Then he
withdrew it from the market, saying that he was
“ in a position to dispose of it in one lot, and to
better advantage.” We were the party. We
wanted it for a graveyard. Poets, of course.
* * *
The London Times— we are obliged to call
it the London Times, to distinguish it from the
Queanbeyan Times— never does the fair thing
for Australian literary talent. It says:—“We
have Wilkie Collins for plots, Mr. Black for sun-
sets, Mr. Howells and Mr. James for unrivalled
painters in miniature, and Ouida for emotions, but
we have not a novelist equal to those of the days
of Thackeray and George Elliot.” And what
about Henniker Heaton ? Is he nobody ? Does
the British nation forget the deadly perils he went
through in carrying the damaged-pork-despatches?
Has he written a full and flashing account of this
desperate deed, or has he not ? Of course he has:
and it is only minds darkened with narrow and
besotted prejudice that could fail to see therein
the traces of a literary grasp that would place him
far above Thackeray or any other, if he were weak
enough to listen to popular clamour, and take up
the pen of romance. But he is not—thank God!
Then how about Harold Stephen—the delight of the
delicious shepherd, the pride of the profane but
cultivated bullock-puncher? We have seen a
story of his which has been running in the back-
block journals for the last hundred years. When
they have printed it through in the usual way they
begin again at the end and print it backwards.
And it reads just as well either way. We would
like to see your George Eliot who could write
like this. We say nothing about Lewis Scott. He
is now a municipal magnate, and, naturally, above
authorship. But what a genius he was before he
gave up unsubstantial literary fame for solid
aidermanic glory I These are not all, nor hali-
but they are enough to show the London Times
that the reading public need not go about with a
dark lantern looking for successors to Thackeray
and George Eliot.
* v *
Just listen. A Riverina squatter has lately
rented a well in a corner of his run to another
squatter for £lOO a week. This is about ten times
the rent of a first-class hotel. Where is your
whisky now ? There is a splendid opportunity for
one or two of your Parliamentary orators to
become suddenly affluent out there. There is
water enough on their brains to fetch twice that
rent in a dry season.
• * *
A Victorian paper says that natives of the
colonies are born pressmen. We suppose this
means they have “ nothing on them ” when they
come into the world. Or, perhaps it means that
they take to drink as soon as they are old enough
to stagger. Anyhow, if they are born pressmen,
most of them seem to die early. In Victoria, that
is.
■ • •
“Non-sequitur ” Smith, the member for
the Maeleay, laid it down in the Assembly the
other evening, with infinite pathos, that if the
House refused barristers and attorneys admission
to the Land Court, they should, to be consistent,
do the same in connection with other courts, and
so do away with the rights and privileges of the
People. Verily, there is nothing like leather, or
rather (as Smith weuld say) like brass! Barrister 8
and attorneys are entities essential to the rights
and privileges of the People, in the gospel accord-
ing to R. B. Smith; in our gospel, they constitute
the pioneers of the brigade which the Power of
Evil employs to set men by the ears. So far has
the legal pundit caste got astray from the proper
track in which tho interpreters of public law
should walk, that they now boss the legislature,
and deliberately fill the statute book with words
darkening knowledge, in order to bolster their
claim to possessing the key to the unintelligible.
We should like to see the father of lies strangling
the last attorney with the tongue and trachea of
the last barrister. Then, dear Cupid, there’d be
some chance of the People enjoying their rights
and privileges.
* * *
Diner en tete is the new French idea. All
guests receiving a card with the words en tete, are
bound to come with their heads in fancy costume.
That is all is required of them. It strikes us that
this style might be acclimatised here with advan-
tage. Why not go en tete to a Ministerial banquet ?
The Premier would only require to knot his hair
on the top to represent, say, Apollo. Ninian Mel-
ville would need no disguise to represent a brass
foundry. David Buchanan would only have to
borrow another head to go as Carlyle. As for Dan
O’Connor, he need not be put to much expense for
headdress. Simply a little garnishing of parsley
round his Ciceronian brow. And so on. We will
take refreshment now.;
Joy for the Jews. Thirteen American
millionaires have started a firm to rebuild the
Temple of Jerusalem, in defiance of all the pro-
phecies against it. You will recollect the last at-
tempt to do this—in the reign of the Emperor
Julian, sometimes called the Apostate was
what you might call a “frost.” The workmen
were driven away by miraculous balls of fire
and Chinese crackers that sprang out of the
ground at their feet. This terrible warning has no
effect on those mad Americans, however. We cer-
tainly think their undertaking is a high and
hallowed one; but if they build the Temple, we
suppose they will present it to the Chosen Race,
And, if they do, you can lie down to the sinless
slumbers of a child, with the certain conviction
that the Chosen Raoe will turn it into a monster
Mont de before they have it two days.
* * *
We will give you this humorous story just
as we got it. It is chattering idiocy, of course, but
we want you to read it, so that when you are on
your death-bed you will make your son, if you
have one, take a terrible vow that he will never,
under any circumstances, become an editor. If
the author of our being had only exacted such a
vow from us, we might now have been happily,
and even lucratively, employed at roost-robbing.
But his giant intellect was too much devoted to
sampling whisky to afford time to bother about
us. Here is the item, anyhow: “ Amongst a num-
ber of visitors to the Botanical Gardens, lately,
were two matrons, who, with others, resorted
there with their children for a day’s outing, and to
give the youngsters an opportunity of amusing
themselves feeding the ducks, swans, etc. While
they were thus occupied, a shower came on, and
they were obliged to take shelter under a large
tree. While there, a very amusing scene occurred,
in which two ‘ mashers ’ got a great sell. Happen-
ing to be in close proximity to one of the
matrons, who had a little girl in her arms,
No. 1 masher commenced talking to the child
and kissing her, evidently thinking the lady was
the nurse. Presently the band struck up, and the
little girl said, ‘ Where’s the musio, mamma ? ’
This exclamation caused the fellow to draw back,
and look quite sheepish. Then his companion No.
2exclaimed, ‘Mamma, aye; what a sell!’” Now,
do you wonder that we get up in the “ dead vast
and middle of the night,” and on bended knees
beseech Providence to spare our reason ? What
would you do if you were running a paper with
some slight pretensions to humour, and a man seat
you a thing like that, at the same time enclosing a
note saying, “ Herewith is a small item which I
hope will add to the news in your journal ?» Yo


•would simply lock your door, swallow the key, and
have a wild saturnalia of gore to yourself for the
next four hours. And when the neighbours broke
in the door in the morning, they would find you
sitting like the corpse of a coroner on the bodies of
all your family. But we have too much self
command to indulge the wishes of our heart after
this fashion. The most we do when we get an item
like the one in question is to go out and poison the
office-boy. No enquiry is ever made about office-
boys. We use up, on an average, about one a
week. They die of desiccation through licking
stamps, or else get mixed up in the machine to such
an extent that it is not worth while to stop it in
order to extricate them; or, failing these ways of
finishing themselves, they stand on their heads till
the paste they have eaten surreptitiously flies to
their head—and they want to write verses. Then,
of course, their end is at hand. We have had a
man employed for some time sinking a shaft to be
Berry’s Knight-hood.
The Sun, and the Storm disputed as to which could strip a wayfarer of his cloak. The Storm of obloquy blew and
raged but the traveller wrapped his cloak the more tightly around him. Then the Sun shone forth, and the man,
cheered by its comfortable warmth, was just going to cast his cloak aside, when he observed another cloud in the
horison, and remarking that he’d be blowed if he did, refastened his cloak.—E[?]or's FAELES-Adapted.
used as a corpse-pit. Last we heard of him he had
got pretty close down to the apartments occupied
by Judas. But we are digressing. Anyhow, all
we have to say is that the corpse-pit is always hos-
pitably open for the man who sent us the above
item, any day he can spare time to call round.
* * *
They have all the luck of it in Bega. If a
calf with three heads is to be born, Bega is the
happy spot Fate chooses for its birthplace. If a
cabbago grows to three times its normal size, or a
hen lays a monster egg with a copper coin of the
reign of King Billy of Corandarrk inside it, the
Bega editors know it before the rest of the world.
So that it does not much surprise us to find that
they have, or had, another gorgeous grotesque
down there. But let the local paper tell it :
Month 3 ago a mechanic left Bega in debt. Things
ran down hill with him ; his business head was
eccentric, and though a long way from an idiot, he
was never able to draw the right change out of his
assets, so he said a modest ‘ adieu ’ to creditors, and
sailed for foreign climes. Recently, one of those
who had always believed in his intentions to pay
if possible, received a consignment of merchan-
dise, with instructions to pass value to his credit.
Let us write it up ; honesty is not yet dead.” And
now it appears that the consignment the creditor
received turned out to be pills. Timeo Danaos et
dona ferentes. We will have the same again, thank
you.
* * *
You all know about Mr. Dick and KiEg
Charles’s head, of course. Well, it is much the
same with Alfred. Speaking of commercial In-
terests, that gifted journalist says, in his own
inimitable manner, “ They’re like a sheep's trotter;
they’re a little shaky at times”’ The full meaning
of this elegant simile may not be grasped by the
general public, but they can be sure it is exact.
Trust Alfred to know all about a sheep’s trotter-
Strange, though, isn’t it, that even in the report
of a sermon, an allusion to trotters or sausages or
pies cannot be kept out? Alfred may be said to
be the master of the appetising style of literature,
and the greatest authority now living on the
common saveloy.
• • •
There is joy among jurymen up at Camden.
They now get nineteen shillings a day for their
servioes. Everybody wants to be a juryman up
there now; and we have even heard it said that
where there is a large family in somewhat pallid
circumstances, the honest toil-worn father gets
one of his sons to assault him, and then takes an
action. The other sons get paid as witnesses, and
the friends of the family go on the jury, and share
the spoil with the old man. This we do not believe.
Neither do we believe another statement we
have heard to the effect that one aged resi-
dent who had never got out of bed for
fifteen years, was in the front seat at court
on the day they raised the scale of payment"
But here is a thing that is certain. A resident of
that township charged another with attemptingjto
shoot him a short time baok. The case was tried
and the defendant was discharged. About an
hour after, he and the prosecutor were discovered
in a bar weeping on eaoh other’s shoulders! They
have a very good sample of Christianity at Cam-
den. Also lies.
* * *
Country editors are curious people. That
is, some are. But one particularly. We forget the
name of his paper just now, and we also forget
where it is published. What of that, though ?
Nobody will ever be interested in knowing his
record—except, perhaps, the undertaker. They
put your name, and the date of your birth, and all
that sort of thing on breastplates now, don’t they ?
It is so long since we were last buried that these
little details have quite escaped our memory.
However, this “edition of Moses and Solomon
both ” seems to have heard that the army authori-
ties at home are going to abolish the feather
bonnet worn by the Highland regiments. He is
averse to this, but, if it must be, he will submit.
He suggests an iron pot, with eagle feathers, as a
substitute. Why not a porridge stick ? It might
not be so picturesque or poetical, but it would be
a sight more serviceable. Imagine the simple yet
noble grandeur of a thousand kilted warriors
making gruel in their helmets! The real beauty Of
the plan is this, though. In case of a sudden attack
by the enemy, the gallant Gaels could clap on their
helmets, gruel and all, and defy the devil. For
while they had the gruel in their helmets, who would
know their brains were knocked outl Not them-
selves, even. We think this is a masterly concep-
tion. The country editor insists upon the iron
head-piece. This is too much like self-conscious-
ness. Still it is only natural for him to think the
head the weakest part of the human ac atomy.
Why feathers in the pot, though ? But what is the
use of asking ? For our own part, we don’t care a
grain of oatmeal what feathers our soldiers show,
so long as they don’t show the white feather The
rustic scribe we are writing about is. by the way,
the only man living who has successfully bearded
Bismarck. Some time ago, he (the scrit e> showed
up the whole of that wily statesman’s policy—gave
him clean away, in fact. In revenge for this, Bis-
marck is said to have sent out an emissary with
instructions to poison the editor with a German
sausage. Now, every country editor, from the
Yarra to Yorke’s Peninsula, is showing up Bis-
marck. They ail want to be poisoned with sau-
sages.
* * *
As a rule, church music is i ather sick just
now in Sydney, and some of, the irreverent flatly
declare that they’ll take the risk of what h—l is
like in the next world rather than stand the
musical torments dealt out in this. “ One of the
tortured ” sends along the following truthful tale.
Not long ago, some heartless wretch caught half a
dozen cats, mildly chloroformed them, and then
tied all their tails together, and slung them into an
old cellar underneath a certain church, on a
Sunday evening. Everything went along smoothly
until about the middle of tbe sermon, when
the cats came to, and began to let off their respec-
tive warwhoops and go for each other’s entrails
This broke the preacher's sermon all to pieces, and
during one of the temporary lulls in tbe battle he
sternly called out, “ Will the choir please wait till
its services are required ? ” Tbe choir indignantly
denied making any noise, and finally, after a long
search, one ot the church-wardens found the cats
and lifted them out on the toe of his number
nines. Everybody is laughing, fit to split, at the
caoir, of course: and the hatred which the organist
and his crowd boar for their beloved pastor is only
equalled bv the maniac fury of tbe oid maiden
lady who owned the cats. 1 hat's our church cor-
respondent’s yarn. For our poor parts, we con-
sider it to be a wilful and malicious libel on—the
cat 3.


ralgia. Somebody is always getting ahead of us.
But we don’t feel well this morning, and are going
to get as far away from Gaiety and its Money-
spinners as possible.
** * *
Perhaps you think it’s fun to trip around
to the theatres every night. That shows your in-
experience. When we were young, we used to
save up pennies and steal eggs to get money
enough to go to a show. Now we never go, ex-
cept when the managers send us around a carriage
and two spanking bays. This happens about four
time 3 a week, so, of course, we haven’t as much
time for devotion as is consistent with the high
piety everybody notices on the end of our nose.
We are tired, to-night, and are not going to stay
long at the Minstrels. Every time we go there
Sam Keenan and Horace Bent make us laugh so
that we have to reach out for the kerbstone next
morning to steady us and keep us from rolling
out of bed.
• * *
We doa’t know what is the matter with
Sam Keeian, but every time we look at him we
have to laugh. There is something so unmistak-
ably droll in the expression of his face and the
roll of his eye that we can’t help it, and don’t want
to. Oh, by the way, we’re going to tell you some-
thing about Keenan that jou didn’t know. He’s
married, and has got the prettiest little boy that
ever cut a tooth or bit his mother. We wouldn’t
tell this on Sam, only he has been telling the girl
we wanted to get acquainted with that we are a
common shoemaker, and have a wife and seven
children over in Adelaide. When a man tells lies
on us like that, we always get even with him.
Tkis is thrown out as a warning to several
people, who haven't told the truth about
us for six weeks at least. And, come to think of it,
we don’t know that we care to have the truth told
all the time. The last man who threatened to do
that, sleeps at the bottom of a shaft up in Queens-
land. We sent him down in the cage to look for
fresh indications, and forgot to pull him up until
the case had been heard, and we were discharged.
* * *
Fred Hiscocks began to smile as soon as he
saw us the other night. We’re not going to tell
you what he was smiling about, or you wouldn’t
let us rest until our last week’s salary had all been
spent in champagne and things. But he was
smiling all the same, and said that he would help
us to pound the fellow who pinned a placard
with the words “ Unemployed, and dam hungry ”
to the tail of our coat We haven’t felt so
mean since we put a fellow reporter to sleep in
a coffin at an undertaker’s shop one night, and got
kicked all over the place for our pains next morn-
ing. Some people never can appreciate philan-
thropy, and our missionary efforts are completely
misconstrued. Fred is great on grammar, you
know, and so we asked him which was proper to
say—“ Gentlemen, what will you have to drink ? or
what will you have to drink, gentlemen ?” He said he
thought a man should say—“ What will you have to
drink, gentlemen ?” and we thought so, too ; but
when we said whisky, he acted as though he
wanted to kick about something. A few minutes
later, we met Smythe, and said to him: “If you
had ten pounds in your pocket and we were to ask
you to lend us five pounds, how much would you
have left?” “Ten pounds,” said Smythe, without
a wrinkle ; and now we are hunting for the villain (
who told us that that conundrum would catch
anybody before a crowd.
• * •
We intended to tell you a lot about
Horace Bent and Mr. Porter, and Lou Braham and
Carroll, and Reid and Emery, but we haven’t time
.just now. After we had told youlthat Leopold
Jordan has written a farce entitled “ Westward
Ho!” the motif of which is to burlesque “East-
ward Ho!” which Mr. Polk took off so unex-
pectedly at the Opera House, the other night.
“Westward Ho!” has a number of good points
about it, and for that reason we’ll have to let it
alone, it isn’t bad enough to deserve our con-
sideration, and so we'll go out with Mr. Jordan
and see if he knows enough to say something with
a wet at the end of it.
** * *
“Impulse” is still running at the Royal*
We like impulse in some places, but not in others-
The piece was written by Mr. B. C. Stephenson*
and the nlot is made up of materials that happened
a long time B.C. There is any quantity of dramatic
situations, and the interest never flags; and yet
we don’t like the moral of the plot. The worst
thine- about it is the second act, in which Victor
de Riel, the French villain (Mr. Philip Day), in-
duces Mrs. M’Donald (Miss Annie Mayor) to leave
her home and slope for sunny France along with
him. Victor goes about his work with such an
intelligent intensity that the poor woman can’t
help herself, and you feel that you either want to
kill somebody or be a villain yourself. Sara Bern-
hardt carried the idea ont to a far greater length
when she was playing the piece in Paris. She
actually disrobed o'* the stage, when her husband,
Col. M’Donald, appeared on the scene.
* * *
We don’t know why authors should get
up sensational plays that teach no lesson. After
you have set out a piece like “ Impulse,” and have
had your system all torn up just to see an actor
like Mr. Flemming indulge in solid yet stupid misery
and an actress like Annie Mayor weep her soul
away in vain regret, you go home and bang
your head against tne wall, and declare that
your brother-in-law is not the only blood relation
who was born an idiot. If Ouida had written the
play, we should praise it, for she is naughty
enough for anything, and, withal, is exceedingly
frank about it; and we like frankness. It doesn’t
cost us anything, and if the fellow says right out
that he hasn’t got it on him, we don’t waste our
time telling him a long story about our brother’s
death and how much we’ve got to pay for funeral
expenses.
# * *
Mr. Flemming’s Colonel M’Donald is well
taken. He usual' y puts a little lemon in it, we
believe, but you like it just as well raw. The only
thing we don’t like about him is the fact that he
runs away to the war in South Africa, and leaves
his young wife at home exposed to all the dangers
that beset a pretty and fascinating young woman
whose nature pines for tenderness and gentle
sentiments. If Edith were our wife, there never
was a war big enough to keep us from home
twenty-four hours at a time.
* * *
Maggie Moore’s impersonation of the dash-
ing Mrs. Beresford is just to our liking. Mrs.
Beresford is so bright and pretty that you wonder
how any' man of gumption could go off and die and
leave a woman like that. They say that matches are
made in heaven. Some of them are made in Sweden,
according to the label on the last lot we “ cadged.’*
But Mrs. Beresford’s match was made somewhere
else. It was a sort of “ safety” arrangement, that
strikes only on its own box, and doesn’t smell of
sulphur. Annie Taylor’s Miss Kilmore is also a
flnished piece of acting, considering the lines. We
like an exaggerated character sometimes, but Miss
Kilmore suits us entirely tpo well. And this leads
us along to wonder why it is that playwrights
nearly always over-draw. When they have an old
maid to present, they make her out to be a man-
hunting, gossiping,meddlesome old vagabond,that
you instinctively want to cut a hole in the ice and
drown yourself to get rid of. If they paint a
murderer, they paint him so black that a nigger
would heave all over him if he touched him with
either hand, if it is a gentleman, they get him up
so faultlessly, and make him talk so nice, that you
feel like clubbing your paternal ancestors beoause
you weren’t born in the same family. If it is a
thief that’s wanted, they bring you one that a
watch dog wouldn’t bark at for fear of pounded
glass in the next piece of beef that may be thrown
to him. And so it is all through the list of dram-
atic personages. The Irishman is always drunk ;
the German is always full of saur-kraut and slug-
gish humour ; the American is for ever off-hand,
clownish, and uncultivated, and the Englishman is
so confoundedly conservative and distant that
you hesitate about borrowing his tooth-brush
when making your morning toilet. We are going
to write a play some time that won’t be over-
drawn. We used to be guilty of over-drawing
once, but we don’t do it any more. The boes ha
taught us different. One morning he came in with
blood in his eye, and asked us what in thunder we
wanted with that last 20-pound note. We scorned
to tell him, and now to avoid such annoying ques-
tions, we borrow what we want from another
man, who has heard, soonewhere, that we are
occasionally the victim of a remittance from
home.
* * *
We thought about touching up Bennett
and Redwood and Tither idge this week, but Alex.
Waugh has just come in, and he says that it isn’t
safe to travel along wi tb Bennett or Redwood.
He tried it once, and hasn’t been able to find the
key-hole ever since. Vnd this reminds us that
Mrs. Dr. Potts, lor whora Major Waugh is advance
agent, is to begin a seas< ra of lectures at the Opera
House next Monday evening. We are going—not
because we want to learn anything about medi-
cine or hygiene, but because we want to pay some-
thing to hear a woman sco'd once. In the mean-
time, we are going to the Minstrels, and you may
come along it you’ve got the price of a couple of
M'Kenzie’s draughts about you.
* *- * *
On Saturday nights the Opera House is to
be the scene of a genuine benefit—that is to say,
genuine in its inception; in its results it should be
genuine, also. Mr. Wilson’s three years’ lease of
the House has expired, and a small band of friends,
led to action by A. Huenerbein and Charles
Huenerbein, have organised a complimentary per-
formance. The patronage of Personages has
been applied for and readily granted, and the
“ perfesh ” is going to roll up with one acoord.
Mr. Wilson deserves the best sort of benefit.
Under his management, the Opera House has
been brought to a front place among Sydney
theatres, and a succession of excellent entertain-
ments, by stars of real brilliancy, has been pro-
vided for the public. This fact should induce
play-goers to throng the house on Saturday, and
give Mr. Wilson a bumper; and if the principle of
personal appreciation be insufficient, the quality
and variety of the performances volunteered by
members of the profession will constitute an
attraction of itself. Since Mr. Wilson undertook
the direction of the Opera House, there has been
no better conducted place of amusement in Aus-
tralia.
THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN
NOSE.
A CHAPTER OF CHINESE HISTORY.
After a long and dissolute reign, Kang Chi ?
the last of the dynasty of Chow, fell by the dagger
of an assassin; and Kung Ki, the founder of the
dynasty of that name, wielded the royal chopsticks
over the rice-pots of the Imperial palace in
Pekin. This was in the ever-memorable year
987, 8.C., a time, it will be remembered, when, by
one of those tidal waves of revolution of which
history furnishes many examples, the Assyrian
and Babylonian Empires tottered to their fall;
when the great dominions of Mexico and Peru fell
from a state of unexampled glory, to become the
vassals of Patagonia, and, when young Ireland,
fresh risen from the deep, presented first her
emerald face to the light of day, and called for
Home Rule, and to h—l with King William. With
the elevation of Kung Ki rose the spirits of a
down-trodden people, for they saw hope once
more for the nation. From Macao to the Gulf of
Pechele, and from the gates of Shanghai to the
foot of the Western Mountains, nothing was heard
but the joyous ring of the tom-tom, the click of
the festive chopstick, and the rattle of crackers,
while the air was laden with the millions of gaudy
kites with which that ancient people, as yet
ignorant of euchre and pin-pool, are wont to
beguile the hours until the Evening News comes
out and cheers them with its funeral rhyme. But
the treasury was empty. The costly expeditions
to subdue New Guinea and Australia-although
they had ended in the complete destruction of
two old civilisations, reducing them to a state of
barbarism of which we still see some examples—
had drained the exchequer without adding lustre
to the nation; and with the unforseen result of
causing strained relations with Japan, and a
threatened war with the haughty Government of
Norfolk Island, bent on retaining her supre-
macy in the Southern Seas. On the day of
his accession, Ki proclaimed that it was
his intention to rule constitutionally, and
immediately called Parliament together. The
Mandarins, who purchased their seats;at public
au^ti f,n . j n the great hall of the palace,
and [took their places in silence. The ladies in the
gaiieiy their feet for a moment’s
ease, and impatiently awaited the advent of the
Emperor. The silvery tones of the court flute
heralded his approach. There was no mistaking
its tones, the holes of the flute having been bored
by the Emperor’s own hand, in the approved style
of Chinese instrument-makers, viz.—in with your
gimlet in the softest place, and hang the distance
apart. The King says it’s music, and the people
are happy. The speech from the throne was brief :
“My children,” said His Majesty, “when I,went
down to the kitchen this morning, the rice bag was
empty. Fill it.” With these words His Majesty
was helped on to the back of a dragon, and glided
in regal dignity from the hall to finish a game of
fantan interrupted in the interests of the State.
The ladies bandaged up their feet, got on the backs
of their attendants, and were carried home to
make it hot for the lazy huzzies who had been
smashing up the tea-things and finishing the last
pot of preserved ginger. And Parliament went
into Committee of Ways and Means.
* * *
The Chairman suggested as an immediate
relief, that those present subscribe something, and
started off with dropping a handful of spurious
coins into his hat, and handing it to an hon. mem-
ber, who dipped his hand in and exhibited the
metal to the enraged patriots. The Chairman was
immediately seized, and sent out to be sawn up—
not for the spurious metal, for every hon. member
in the room kept nothing else when in session, not
knowing to whom they would sit next, but for
breach of privilege, in daring to propose that they
tax themselves, when all history proves that to pay
taxes is the inalienable right of the taxpayer, it
was finally resolved that, after a full considera-
tion of the state of the country, they could see no
turther way of taxing the people, and that tho
Emperor had better retrench. The Emperor, who
had had his ear to the key-hole during this debate,
here had the whole Assembly arrested and ordered
to the saw-mill, with instructions to send the
clothes and pigtails around to the nearest pawn-
shop, and with the proceeds order in two tons of
rice and a leg of ham. “ For” said he, “ the times
are bad, and the King should set an example
of foresight.” Things, however, went from bad
to worse. The harvest failed, the British were
smuggling in opium, small-pox was in the land,
and piracy was rampant on the high seas.
What taxes the Governors of provinces collected
were lodged in the Oriental Bank, and that bank
was suffering from a disease, the secondary symp-
toms of which are still apparent. More Parlia-
ments were summoned, and sent to be sawn up;
but this means of raising revenue began to fail.
Ail the most learned men in the Empire were gone,
and there was only one left who could check the
pawn-tickets, and the pawnbrokers themselves
would advance no more on old clothes and pig-
tails. Ki was reduced to the lowest straits. In
vain he tried to cajole the Governors of provinces
into sending him at least a small portion of the
taxes they collected. Hemet with but one reply-
all the taxes they could collect they required for
themselves, and he must get out of the hole the
best way he could. Everything was in pawn; and,
one evening, when Ki had dismissed the whole of
his servants, and was seated alone in his palace,
boiling his last billy of tea, and thinking of filing
his schedule, he was startled by the appearance of
a venerable man, who appeared to rise out of the
marble floor. “Who are you—mind, I don’t be-
lieve in ghosts—who are you ?” asked Ki, with his
teeth chattering, and his pig- tail standing straight
up through his crown with terror. “ I will take a
chair, and tell you,” said his visitor, solemnly. “ I
have come to relieve the finances of China. lam
the Man with the Golden Nose.”
• •
Kung Ki went to a cupboard and pro-
duced a quart bottle of rum and two glasses (for,
though short of rice, he was not without the
necessaries of life). When the venerable man had
emptied two glasses in succession, and unrolled
his pig-tail, and stretched out his feet to the fire,
the Emperor said, “On with your anecdote, my
son; for gilt I want, and gilt I must have, or up
King-street Igo with the morning sun.” “ I was
born,” began the old man. “Never mind that,”
roared the Emperor; “I know where you’ll die, if
you know how to raise money and don’t; so mark
me, now. How am I to pay my debts, and carry
on the Government?” “Pay through the nose,”
answered the oracle, laying his fingers alongside
that organ. “ Damn it,” shrieked His Majesty,
leaping into the air and hanging there by his own
Sg-tail; “I have done that already.” “If your
ajesty will glide down and listen. I will tell you.
I am a priest in the Temple of Fo, and am two
thousand years old.” “When i« your next birth-
day ?” gasped the Emperor. “ I have studied the
mysteries, and have at last discovered the secret
long sought in Europe—the philosopher’s stone.
It turns the human nose to gold. I say you must
pay through the nose.” “ Whose nose ?” asked
the Emperor. “ Mine,” replied the stranger.
“ Bring your tallow dip a bit nearer, and
tell me what you think of this organ.” He obeyed,
and said he saw nothing but the ordinary Roman
nose, which at that time distinguished the Chinese
race. The stranger then, with a few mystic words
to Buddha, produced a small stone, lightly rubbed
it over the bridge of his nose, and behold a
wonder. Ki could scarcely believe his eyes The
nose was a mass of pure gold. “I think I’ve
struck nuggety ground,” said Ki, going to the
cupboard for a hammer and cold chisel. “ Hold
your head steady, my son, and close your eyes and
mouth, while I try a prospect.” He chipped off a
piece, and after examining it, pronounced it free
from galena and pyrites, and calculated to go a
thousand our cm to the ton. “Take a drop more
of something,” urged the jubilant monarch, filliog
himself a bumper, “and discourse on the best
means of working this claim, oh, thou saviour of
thy country. But one nose will never suffice.”
’Observe,” returned the sage, “I rub my nose
with this negative stone, ano it’s as you were.”
“I grasp you,” said the excited Erneror, “you
propose to remain here and rub your nose as often
as l shall require it. Good. What, ho, within
there! bet the foundry men turn out in force,
aHd let the trusty file ana cold chisel and hammer
re-echo day and night through my ancestral halls!
Gramercy, but I will pav through the nose with
a vengeance.” “Not a r , your Majesty,” said
the man of mysteries; "i .1 <ot propose that you
shall adopt any hand-t >-im>u h policy.” “Nor I,”
was the eager reply of the Emperor, nudging his
visitor in the ribs; “from hand-to-nose is my dart,
old boy, see ? Ha, ha!” and His Majesty fell con-
vulsed on the floor, and kicked up his heels, and
laughed till the horn panes rattled again. “ China
i 3 saved,” he cried, “and King-street may goto
the devil.”
* • •
“We must proceed,” continued the old
man, “by count of noses. Rash proceedings have
been the ruin of princes. What you require is, not
that one, but all of your subjects shall wear the
golden badge. This stone is capable of infinite
subdivision. Let a portion be distributed to each
Governor of a province, with sealed instructions
that it be subdivided and re-distributed to every
magistrate, priest, and reliable constable in every
city and village in the Empire On a day to be
fixed by general proclamation, when a tele-
gram 6hall issue from this Court at mid-day,
let every man, woman, and child (omitting only
C.M.G.e, who cannot be trusted) be supplied with
a small portion, and instructed to be in readiness
when the word shall be flashed through the coun-
try. Let it also be arranged that in each centre
there shall be [an ample supply of small rapidly-
revolving grindstones under the control of reliable
officers. Assemble the court, and pass through the
crowd in silence. At five minutes to twelve, rise
from the throne, and command that every man in
China produce the mystic stone. The wires come
in from all parts—* We are ready.’ At one minute
to twelve, rub your nose with this stone, and let
the proclamation be flashed abroad that ‘the
golden dawn of prosperity shines on the face of
the Son of the Sun, and that all men rub theirs in
sympathy.’ ” Having said these words,and helped
himself to another drop of Jamaica, the venerable
man rose, ar*i saying “Bless you, my son—be
happy,” sank silently through the floor and out of
• * •
The scene that followed, were it not
vouched for by contemporary MSS. recently dis-
covered by the late Mr. Sapphyra Schapira, would
read more like romance than authentic history
For the first time on the earth, a nation was seen
at noonday—a nation of two hundred millions of
people—standing staring at each other in silence
Impudence, cunning, ferocity, even brazenness*
disappeared from every countenance, and there
was nought on the human face divine but one
blank universal stare, lighted up by a golden Sutrv
lamp in the centre. Then they knew that Ki was a
god. “To the grindstone!” shouted the office™
from one 1 end of the Empire to the other- and
through court and alley, in market place and in
Joss-house, in the gaols and on the sandy desert
nothing 1 was to be heard till sunset but the swish
of the grindstone, as taxpayer after taxpayer came
up to the stone, placed his nose in position, and
praised god as he saw the precious dust dribble
down into the sealed boxes prepared to receive
His Majesty’s just dues. For days and weeks the
waggons came pouring into the palace-yard, tip-
ping out tons and tons of the precious dust.
Ki was fairly in ecstacies, and at last delightedly
beheld hin self possessed of the sinews of war.
He called for half a million troops to drive the
French out of Tonquin; but here a difficulty came
in the way. By the ancient laws of the land, and
the precepts of religion, no man could enter the
public service who was mutilated. And there was
not a man In China, except the Emperor, who had
a nose left. He was paralysed. His proclamation
for once had been too well obeyed. Turn where
he would, he met nothing but flat faces, and
streaming eyes weeping for their noses, because
they were not. The common people had no noses
to blow, the insolent none to pull, the boys none t®
punch, and the detectives were unable to smell a
rat. The Mandarins got no respect, and stayed at
home weeping and looking in the glass, and re-
ported to the world that China was bewitched. The
thing became intolerable. Ki, with all his wealth,
had no servant, and was compelled to go out and
purchase his morning chop and cook it in solitude
in the palace. He now saw his gigantic mistake.
He had taken thn philosopher’s stone, but had for-
gotten its negative, which would have restored
every nose in the kingdom. He offered sacrifices
to Buddha, and implored him to send again the
mystic visitor. Scarcely had the smoke ascended
from the altar, than the figure was before him.
• • •
“You forgot something,” began the Em-
peror. “You refer, of course, to the other stone,”
remarked the visitor. “Persuade your people
that they are not mutilated. It is always easy for
pm Emperor to lead his people by the nose.”
“Mock me not,’’.roared the royal madman, “you
know there is not a nose to get hold of.” “ Then
take this stone, and summon the people again.”
It was done, livery nose in the kingdom was par-
tially restored, as we may see by tb»ir descendants,
the gods having left them sunken in the middle, as
a memento of the day of Fan Shi, or the “scoop-
ing out” of Grindstone Day, but all the gold dis-
appeared at the same moment. Then Ki seized a
hatchet to slay his visitor. It went through and
through him, but there he sat unmoved, the Man
of the Golden Nose, smiling. “ When you have
done,” ha said, “ I will take my leave.” The coun-
teuanee suddenly turned to brass, a horn shot out


Parents do not use vile drugs or nostrums
in your families, but use pure Hop Hitters. See
and read.
Ask for Hookings’ High-olass Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others.* Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
If people would only exercise more judg
ment than credulity, they would take nothing into
the system, but what, like Wolfe's Schnapps
vindicates its value by its effects.
Now ready: Socialities for 1884 Is.; by
post. Is. 4d. 130 Comio Illustrations; 300 columns
of Humorous Letterpress All booksellers, and
Alex. M’Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
Fatal Delay.—Thousands of sufferers have
lost their lives by delay in taking the proper
medicines. Reader do not be guilty of this
supreme follv. Avail yourself at once of such
sterling remedies as Bristol’s Sarsaparilla and
Pills.— They have cured many oases worse than
yottrs. Try them. Try them.
* He’s married and settled,” said Brown to
Jones, the other day, speaking of their mutual
acquaintance, Smith; “and what is he s
comfortably settled,” continued Brown. This was
rather an astonishing statement, for competent
iudgeB had for years considered Smith past all
hopes of reformation, and about the last man to
be led into the meshes of conjugal blessedness; for
he was a gentleman who sacrificed punctually and
considerably at the altar of Bacchus, and gene-
rally smoked the pipe of peace, or rather of dis-
cord, in the smaller hours of the morning, fre-
quently finishing his nocturnal adventures about
the hour the milk came round. Comfortably
settled,” reiterated Brown, “for I had my un-
worthy legs under his hospitable mahogany only
lflst Sunday. He’s got a nice little place out
Petersham way, and talks about standing for
Town Councillor, or M L A., or something of that
sort.” “But who gave him credit far the furni-
ture and that kind of thimr,” enquired Jones, for
Smith was an individual notoriously in debt, and
whoso credit was at a very low ebb. Oh, said
Brown, “ he’s given up nil that, and, influenced no
doubt by his better-half that is, he saved up his
money, and went down to Anthony Hordern s
place and paid cash down for everything.’ When
people begin to see the wisdom of those magio
words, “Cash down,” we always think they are on
the right road." 1
The Governor of Queensland visited Bun-
daberg the other day. Ho was given a grand re-
ception, but there was no band. The band had
struck. It seems that, for several years past, these
ingenuous instrumentalists have been pressed into
the service of every show that was started in the
town. If a tea-fight were on the board, the band
loved to play while the dearly beloved garrotted
the muffins ; if a religious rafile was in swing, the
band was expected to stir up the spirits of the
public to the requisite pitch of desperation. The
result was, of course, that all who drew blanks
developed an instantaneous desire to burst in the
big drum. At last, the band grew so cheap
that it was called out to disoourse devotional
music at every do« - fight and rat - worry
that occurred in the township. Naturally,
the members grew weary of this popularity ;
and so, when the Governor was expected to
visit the town, they refused to play, unless they
were paid half-a-sovereign each for their services.
The Council refused to sanction this reckless ex-
penditure. And so, when His Excellency came,
they had to hire a man to whistle the National
\nthem on his fingers. One of the alderme -
offpred to ’ocompany him on a tooth-comb.
somebody would lend him one, but no one v
Nobody hau one. So His V
cintent with the whistling. T 1- xcL-b BtillblclC
band
as a
Me
hi
tiun gyery customer.
Write to us,
OB
Call on us.
Ale,
comfy.
(Opposite Royal Hotel).
upon
in thi
special.
on the forehead a tail unfolded, and saying I m
off to start a religious journal in Sydney, he dis-
appeared, leaving a distinct smell of damplucifers
about.
• * •
Ki here awoke, and found that he was still
seated on his throne, and after the exhaustion of
reading the speech had dropped off for a five
minutes’ nod, which his courtiers dared not dis-
turb. Readers may draw their own lessons from
this history, but none of them will dispute that
the preeent price of meat is unconscionable.
He was a bush missionary, and, strange to
say, his name was not Peter Cpmpbell. One Sun-
day, during the present month, he reined up at the
door of a well-to-do selector’s cottage, on the
Bland River, about 1 p m., and immediately
rounded up every soul on the place into the back
parlour, and was proceeding to wade into raul to
the Ephesians when the good woman of the house
beckoned him out, and begged to be excused, as
she was busy fryiDg an immense panful of home-
cured bacon and home-made sausages for the
dinner, and was afraid to leave the pan. But the
zealous missionary was eager to have her soul,
and, catching her by the hand replied, Come in,
come in, my dear Mrs - th Looard will pro-
vide, and if y’ jest leave the pan on th fire, and
the kitchen-door open, I’ll draw to a close when I
hear the bacon frizzling.”
In describing tbeamusements of the people
Mr. Walter Besant declares that the working-man
cannot play at any game at all, neither cricket nor
foot-ball; nor does he run, leap, or practice
athletics of any kind; he cannot swim; he can-
not dance. This is the crass one-sided view of the
smug middle-class man. It may be true as regards
the English working-man, hut, even if true, it is a
shabby idea to use it as a reproach against him. In
England, the artizan classes are mostly congregated
in the cities, where opportunities f<ir engaging in
games or exercises are not available to them.
And from their youth-from the time they are old
enough to he apprenticed or set te work—they
have all available energy thoroughly pumped out
of them by hard labour, and are not likely to feel
much disposed to re-commence
fivpn if thev got the chance. That a lack or
dexterity at games is not due to any structurai or
intellectual deficiency in the working-man, is
sufficiently proved by the experience of this
colony, where working-men h a veas a clasamore
leisure and easier lives. Here, i” Sydney alone,
the aquatie clubs regard it necessary to debar
mechanics from competing in amateur matenes,
becauge they sweep off all the prizes when they are
admitted on even terms. And it was the mechanic
class which gave our first international cricketing
eleven the two Bannermans. And has produced
nearly all the athletic record-makers and breakers
in the world.
In Melbourne, the “obituary” poet has
added a new terror to death Hear him. In
Memory of the Late Charles Bro ™"' u k< j£’
Morav street, South Melbourne, Died March 15,
1884:
“ Father of all who reigns s uprc™ e „„. wn
We mourn for our dear friend, Brown,
Thou took from us in thy own wise way
To heaven above to wear his crown.
His age while here was twenty-eight..
He was a father, and to me a friend,
God bless his children and the widow. (>
So that they will meet him at the end.
Our own oanary answereth :
Hear me, Great Jove, whose red right hand
Bringeth thy lightning mallet down:
Crush to the dust, with sulphurous brand.
The wretch who wrote the dirge on Brown.
Heed that ho grow not old in crime,
To mock the memory of a friend,
To wound the weak with heartless rhyme,—
Let black perdition be bis end:
And, that both soul and body die,
Starve thou the dull editor with about a ton
and a-half of his own " pie.”
“ The pension of the Marlborough family
has been commuted by the payment of £IO7,UUU.
Thus a late cablegram. The original granting of
the meant-to-be perpetual pension was a swindle ,
the payment of each successive year s amount
wivh an infamy: and now the commutation, ter-
minating though it does the scandalous transaction,
i 8 a more disgraceful swindle and a deeper infamy
still. Repudiation of the contraot, on the ground
of its Inherent immorality and inconsistency with
healthy Liberalism, would have been the proper
step,
For, say could e’en a prostrate tribune’s power,
Or a mock Benate in Rome’s servile hour,
Insult so much the claims, the rights of man,
As doth the fettered mob, the free divan
Of “ noble ” tools and “ honorable ” knaves,
Of pensioned patriots and privileged slaves!
Just fanoy a professedly Liberal, semi-Radical
Government consenting to the commutation of an
inherently disgraceful pension what time the wild
wail of outcast London and pauper Britain was
echoing in their ears. When such attention is paid
to the vested interests of greed and selfishness by
the powers that be, what wonder that want ana
misery and dread of sheer starvation plot what
insolent authority calls treason and violence, hut
which, after all, is liker justice than Right Honor-
able Tite Barnacelism will condescend to admit.
“ When an English Prime Minister (re-
marks the Melbourne Age) recommends for
knighthood, he may fairly be supposed to do it
from something like personal knowledge, and In
recognition of ostensible services to the State.
When the same man recommends a list of colonists,
it is generally understood that he does it by the
advice of the colonial Governors of the dav, and
he Is tolerably certain to act with regard to English
rather than to colonial interests. Now and again,
of oourse, as man after man suoeeds in takirg or
keeping high office among us, the choice of Down-
ing-street will fall upon some man whom his
feuow-oountrymen would have honoured. Even
so, the honour loses half its value when it comes
in a haphazard fashion, and is either tardy or
premature. Therefore, even if it were desirable
that titular distinctions should he naturalised
among us. many of ui would be inclined to think,
with Mr. Francis, that they ought to come directly
from the oommunity. It is more than question-
able, however, whether titles are not out of date
and out of place in modern society. That here-
ditary titles are bad almost all are agreed. Of
those that die with the wearer it may be surely
said that there Is no accurate way of dispensing
them, that they interfere with social equality,
that they minister to a diseased vanity, and that,
like hereditary honours, they furnish a Minister
with a very potent engine of corruption. There
are probably still a good many English politicians
who look forward to a seat in the House of Lords
as the reward of long service. We cannot remem-
ber any important instance of one who has taken
a knighthood of any kind, except as a law officer
of the Crown; and what even second-rate English
statesmen despise ought not, one would think, to
be an object of ambition to the best Victorians.
This is true down to the ground. If one could
only persuade Australian politicians who are
hankering after titular distinction, that knight-
hood was beneath their deserts, a great point would
be gained, since, as no British premier would ever
think of advising the Crown to confer a peerage
on a colonial, there would be a chance of the
ridiculous practice of “interfering with social
equality ” falling into desuetude.
Starkey's [?]rated Cordial Works, Pkilip-
street, Sydney.
We give in this issue a sketch of Starkey s mrated
cordial works, Phillip-street, in this city—one
of the most extensive factories of the kind in
Australia. And, if these works have been pro-
minent for their extent, they have certainly not
been surpassed for unvarying excallenc or,manu-
facture. The name of Starkey has been identified
for over a quarter of a century with the very best
description of cordials—in fact, with that name is
associated the record in this colony of the intro-
duction of most of the novelties or inventions
in this important line of trade. The business was
established thirty years ago by Mr. John Starkey,
different premises being used during that period as
the requirements of trade demanded. In Castle-
reagh-street, Mr. Starkey bad very extensive
works specially built for the purposes of a factory,
but, during the last few years, even those became
inadequate, and premises in I hillip-street
had to be secured. Then, when these were
found inadequate, the commodious site now
illustrated was taken, and new works erected.
These are certainly the best designed and most
commodious in the colonies, and in every part
b-ar the stamp of great strength and permanency.
They have been specially built from Mr. Btarkey s
own designs, and nothing hut a thoroughly practi-
cal experience of what was required could have so
well worked out the plan. On one portion of the
ground stands a first-class residence, which, while
being entirely separate from the works, is
so connected at the southern end as to allow
of entry to the main gallery of the factory,
from whence a view can be obtained of
the operations in every branch. The entrance
to the factory is through a spacious arenway,
which opens into a wide, expanding court-yard,
asphalted throughout, with stone guttering and
other similar conveniences, the natural fall giving
means for first-claas drainage. To the left, on
entering, are the offices, and at the rear rises a
three-storey stoutly-built store, with patent hoists,
&c.. for receipt and removal of goods. The base-
ment is clear, as the first floor rests on stout stone
pillars, and the upper floors are used for storage
purposes, and likewise for the private cordial
laboratories, whence supplies are obtained for tne
various descriptions of cordials manufactured
*>elow. There is here an extensive first-class cor-
dial bin, kept separate from the other branches,
and here, likewise, supplies are obtained, as re-
quired for the trade. Overhead are the boiling
and svrup floors, where there are all the latest ap-
pliances, and it is so arranged that the
workmen below obtain their supplies without
ever once entering the department. Off this
store there extends a spacious gallery sup-
ported on strong pillars, the gallery having a
depth of about 35 feet, and a length of not less
than about 180 feet. It is used in the upper floor
for a variety of manufacturing purposes, as wen
as for the storage of bottles, casks, and other
goods. Tho space below forms an extensive
covered factory, where there is an eternally
busy scene, upwards of fifty hands being engage a
in one capacity or another. At the Northern end
is to he found a splendid 10-h p. gas-engine, the
latest patent, tho prettiest bit of mechanism tnat
can probably be found in Sydney. This engine
gives power to all parts of the works, and oper
ates as required in the filling, bottling, and wasn-
ing departments. There are twelve washing or
cleaning appliances, and a large number of ( odd s
and -ther patent fillers. There are five large
cylinders for the mrated waters, these being
supplied from overhead, without reference
in any way to the workmen below. The style ip
which the arrangements for work are here found
in operation at once proves that, tor cleanliness
and quality of material, no similar factory in these
colonies can be found to surpass it. At the
fouthern end of this extensive department, the
floor is raised three feet, and from here all the
vehicles are expeditiously loaded, operations
proceeding in all weathers without the slightest
cessation. And as in other respects Mr. Starkey
has adopted a liberal plan, so, in respect or the
stabling accommodation for his horses, does his
establishment do him great Credit. Trie stabling
here is as good as is to be found anywhere in
Sydney Pine wide boxes run from end to end of
the stabling, the front being entirely open, the
hay and chaff-cutting loft overhead being sup-
ported bv stout stone pillars nearly two feet, thick
; All this stabling is commanded by water jets, and
the fall is such as to secure effective drainage.
There is every convenience in this respect, in
fact, to tho smallest detail, the greatest, considera-
tion appears to have been Riven : so that, tnemoie
minute the inspection of a visitor, the more
thorough the Tsatiafao.i n. It is almost, unneces-
sary, in conclusion, to refer to the fact that Mr.
Starkey has won the highest prizes in all the
colonial exhibitions. In closing this sketch we
desire to call attention to the life-like portrait of
Mr. Starkey, which appears in a corner of the
illustration. That is the likeness of the man
who has built up a mammoth business in
Australia, and whose enterprise and industry have
made his name as extensive in its familiarity
as the aerated waters that spring [from hia
establishment.


Now ready: Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
post. Is 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations ; 200 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Alex. M'Kinley and Co., 113 Pltt-street.
Don’t Die in the House—“ Rough on Rats, ’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaehes, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
The Referee.
SPORTING’ FIXTURES.
We shall he glad to have this index pasted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Liverpool May 31.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
Coolah ..June
Coonamble June 18,19.
Clarence River J.C }?•
Rockhampton J.C ...July 10, 11.
Hawbesbury August 21,23.
AQUATIC.
Grafton R.C. Regatta June 28-
ATHLETICS.
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Grafton Rowing Club regatta has
been postponed till 28th June.
It is stated that it will he fully a month
before “Professor” Miller will be able to put his
foot to the ground. ,
The three New South Wales representa-
tives made nearly half the runs scored in the
Marylebone match.
Cassimer defeated Johns in a foot-race, 125
yards, at Mudgee, on the 24th. The stakes were
stated to be £lOO a side.
h On Queen’s Birthday, a 150-yards’ handi-
cap. run at Bourke, resulted in a win for Budd,
Rogers second, and Arnold third.
The footballers are footing it merrily in
Melbourne. During a match between Carlton and
South Melbourne, Gates had his jaw broken, and
J. Resser sprained his ankle badly.
Donnelly and Sullivan have just planked
up a 14-ft. “canvasser” for Mr. M’Conville, and, so
far as can be judged in the shed, she promises to
make sad havoc amongst the other small fry next
season.
At the Steeplechase meeting of the Melton
Mowbray Race Club, in Tasmania, Princella won
the Maiden Steeplechase ; Denmark the Handicap;
Princella the Handicap Hurdle ; Granvil e the
Handicap Flat Race ; and Bottler was successlul
in the Hack Race.
The opening football match at Albury,
between married and single, resulted in a drub-
bin# for the benedicts. One of the latter said he
did not mind losing the match. It was looking
forward to the lively billet of telling the wife that
completely broke him down.
Sir Thomas Elder’s sale of blood stock at
Adelaide, brought £8133, 40 horses being the num-
ber disposed of. Guesswork was sold to Mr.
Matthew Bryant, of Victoria, for £1100; Con-
jecture to the same buyer for £lOOO ; King of the
Gipsies to Mr. Inglis for £825 ; Bassanio to Mr.
Weekes for £350 ; and Baron Mueller to Mr. Leeke
for £225.
Eleven bicyclists made a start for the 25-
mile amateur bicycle race for a ten-guinea trophy,
in connection with the Melbourne (Vic.) Bicycle
Club. The finish between the first three men was
very close. J. Foulkes (smin. 15sec ) won is lh.
27min. 25sec.; H. Sheckelford (lmin. 26sec.), fifteen
yards away, second; and H. C. Bagot (smin. sscc.),
third, twenty yards behind Sheckelford.
The Melbourne Hunt Club had fine weather
and a small attendance for their Birthday meeting
at Flemington on Saturday last. Liddington wen
the Selling Race, Pailleroo carried off the Corin-
thian Flat Race, Cupola won the Flying Stakes,
Blackthorn made an easy win of the Open Steeple-
chase, Impulse won the Bonni Selling Stakes, and
Pailleroo made a second win in the Birthday
Stakes.
Raynor, the long-distance walker, has been
worrying the sawdust at Alnury. The Mechanics’
committee would not grant the use of the hall, so
he walked in the open air, 50 miles in the stated
time of eight hours. Thunder 1 J. Miles, in 1876,
covered 50 miles in Bh. 48min. 28sec.; and our own
Dan’l O’Leary, when in his prime, 1875, made the
record for 51 miles, 9h. 6min. 16sec. But Raynor’s
50 miles in eight hours; this is too much!
Even the weather on Saturday last could
not frighten the irrepressible footballer, and the
match at Newcastle, Wallaroos v. locals, duly
eventuated, and resulted in a win for the visitors
by 5 points to 2. The Wallaroos were made as
comfortable by their entertainers as the slushy
state of the weather would permit—one player, in
particular, receiving marked attention, in the
shape of a black eye, a very appropriate tribute
from the coaly eity. The “ladies on the Block”
receive ©ur heartfelt sympathy in re the tem-
porary seclusion of one of their brightest shining
lights.
Matterson has made a good debut amongst
metropolitan scullers, and promises, when he fills
out, to make a big bid for championship honours.
He was evidently a dark horse to the Nepean ban-
dicappers, and was fairly “ thrown in ” for the two
handicaps. Gulliford has forfeited to him, and
should a match be made with Bob Edwards, the
raee would cause interest amongst boating men,
whether pulled on the Parramatta or the Yarra.
We cannot growl at our first flight of scullers,
take them all in all, bnt still we don t suppose men
who take an interest in aquatics will regret to see
a good man come out of such a “straight” run-
ning stable as Mick Rush’s.
The Waterloo Cup meeting in connection
with the New South Wales Coursing Club was
brought to a conclusion on Thursday last, when
the Waterloo Cup fell to the Hon. W. M’Culloch’s
r w d Monsoon (late Gosson), Chester—Mint, who
beat Mr. E. Lee ns bk d Morniagton, Masterton—
Coomassle. For the Waterloo Purse, the Hon. Mr.
M’Culloch’s bk w d Manifesto, Tumult—Gazette,
and Mr John Wolstenholme’s ns Modest Mac (late
Xuxury), Dionysius O’Kane-Bashful Lady, divided
the stakes; and the St. Leger Stakes fell to Mr. W.
Cooper's r and w d Cairngorm. Master Joe—
Dumah’s Joe, who beat Mr. A. L. Park’s be and w
b Prudent Jane, Bashful Jerry—Pretty Jane.
George M. Robinson, who recently made
such a sorry show with Sullivan, is the champion
heavy-weight dumb-bell lifter of the world. In
1875 he gained a best on record for putting up a
50 fl>. dumb-bell fifty-eight times. The same after-
noon, after completing that performance, he put
up a 100 lb. dumb-bell twenty times, lifting it from
the ground each time. He then went into practice
to gain strength to beat the record of Pennell for
lifting a 201)4®. bell. Finally, he thought he could
do it, and on the 4th Sept., 1876, made the attempt.
He had a 201Mi®. bell cast for the purpose. A large
company assembled to see the attempt to beat tne
best on record, and were astonished to see Robin-
son jump the bell from his shoulder, hold it there
8 sec., and then lower it to his shoulder slowly.
The fourth Australian eleven have met
with a crusher from the Marylebone eleven, who
defeated them with an innings and 115 runs to
spare. Cooper justified the opinion pretty gener-
ally held on this side of the Murray as to his bowl-
ing ability, and he must now be simply a passenger
for the remainder of the tour. It is hard to say
how the team could have decided to play him in-
stead of Boyle, who has invariably proved a good
man in all the first-class matches played at Home,
unless Boyle wanted a rest. The mistake, however,
was better made with the Marylebones, than when
the champion matches come on. Luckily for
* Our Bovs” the gate-money rolls in, win or lose,
something after the style of championship races
on the Nepean; so we need be under no apprehen-
sion that they will be compelled to hump their
swags just yet a bit.
The football people were knocked all of a
heap when the composition of the team to meet
the New Zealanders was first made known, and the
general opinion is that, unless some alteration is
made, the Maoris will walk rough-shod over the
Welshmen. How, in the name of thunder, such
players as H. Fligg, Graham, Shaw, and Wade were
left out, is beyond us. H Fligg is, without doubt,
one of the best quarter-backs New South Wales
can boast of, and as the final pick does not take
place till this (Thursday) evening, it is to be hoped
the selection committee will overlook every other
consideration except the playing qualities of the
men, in which case we feel no doubt that Harry
Fligg will figure in the field next Saturday. Fligg,
when playing against King’s School, got through
twice and obtained tries—no small performance
against such a well-trained and disciplined team.
The Nepean trip proved an unfortunate
venture for several of the oarsmen who competed,
and with the majority the course, or rather the
situation of it, found no more favour than it did
with the general public. By the falling in of the
boat-shed M’Clerkin had his boat, purchased only
the day before from Donnelly and Sullivan,
smashed to atoms: and by the same mishap the
boat pulled by Gulliford had her planking split in
several places. Gulliford has now forfeited to
Matterson, his backers, we hear, not thinking it
good enough to go on with the match; but a fair
criterion could not be taken from the racing on
the Nepean, as Matterson had ten pounds the best
of the handicap and pulled in the flyer built for
him by Messenger. Gulliford could not have been
in first-class trim for racing either, as the sleeping
accommodation was so very limited at Penrith, he
was compelled to share a table with Pearce and
another, which we should say was anything but a
bed of roses for men booked to race on the
morrow. Pearce, notwithstanding the table, had
plenty of blanket as the whalers would term it, he
being a couple of stone above his rowing weight.
This is what the Melbourne Sportsman
fired off about a fortnight ago:—“ We notice that
our Bydney namesake apologises for the non-
appearance of its usual sporting column by the
sudden illness of its sporting writer Wonder
where the majority of our papers would find their
pars, to clip if we came out with a similar notice.”
Nemesis was, however, on the track of the Mel-
bourne blower, and here’s what one of the papers
alluded to wrote on Thursday last:—“That most
unreliable of sporting journals, the Sportsman.
yesterday blundered in a manner which, whilst it
caused a good deal of merriment in sporting
HOW’S THAT TOR HIGH?
No. 1: “That’s a tremendous tall horse, how do you ac-
count for it?”
No. 2: “Oh, he belongs to Hawkes, the livery man, and
his tallness comes through his having been regularly hired
every day for the last three years!”
circles, was somewhat disconcerting to backers of
horses. For example, in its report of the Melton
Mowbray Maiden Steeplechase, it gives Princella
as the winner, whereas there was no such horse at
the meeting, the race having been won by Nicholas,
with Josephine second. Again, in the Handicap
Hurdle Race the Sportsman gives Princella as the
winner, whereas it should have been Nicholas.
Blunders like these are inexcusable in any sporting
journal, unless on the supposition that it obtains
its news indirectly from other journals. Curiously
enough, the Sportsman’s account of the races on
Wednesday conforms word for word with that
published by the Argus on Tuesday.” When the
blind lead the blind, &o.
“ William B. Curtis, athletic editor of the
New York Spirit,” says an exchange, “is probably
the best-known athlete in the world. In 1868, while
living on Sixth Avenue, in that city, he rigged up
a frame upon which to lift heavy weights, at which
he was unrivalled. He lifted a dead weight of
3339 pounds, the best on record. He also lifted 3300
pounds and 3500, but the latter performances were
done in practice, and do not form records He has
the best recorded “ hand-lift,” lifting 1330 pounds,
or thirty pounds more than Dr. G. W. Winship,
and eighty pounds more than H. Buermeyer. He
was also a most remarkable oarsmen, and previous
to removing to New York was a member of the
celebrated North-western crew of Chicago. While
in Chicago, in 1874, Mr. Curtis rowed a fifty-
mile race against time. He completed the dis-
tance in lOh. llmin. 55sec. The course was on
the Calumet river, and was one mile in length, to
be rowed up and down until the distance was com-
pleted. Mr. Curtis waa president of the New York
Athletic Club for several years, but is now a mem-
ber of the American Athletic Club. He was a
member of the champion tug-of-war teams of 1877,
1879, and 1880; won the championship at throwing
the 56-pound weight in 1878; was champion ham-
mer thrower in 1876, 1875, and 1880. In 1874, with
Frank E. Yates, he won the double-scull cham-
pionship. In 1873 and 1874 he won senior single-
scull championship of the Harlem river, at the
spring regatta. In 1870,1873, and 1874, he won the
senior single sculling championship of the North-
west at Chicago.
The irrepressible interviewer has just
turned Fred. Archer inside out, and amongst the
revelations we find the “ Tinman” says : “ I would
not be surprised to see Australian horses come to
England and beat our best racers over any course,
and at any weights, for I know some excellent
mares have gone out there, especially three to Mr.
Bell, in Queensland, where, I believe, the climate
is better for breeding than in England, and I have*
also met a few Australians—notably, Mr. William
Long, who is what is known amongst English turf-
ites as being good and clever enough to hold his
own in any company.” Touching the probabilities
of a visit to Australia, Archer said : “I should
like the trip to Australia very much for a change,
not to do any riding, but merely to see what that
part of the world is like, and to witness the great
race they call the Melbourne Cup. I would not
think of riding, however, because I might be
all at sea amongst the Australian boys, who
ride their horses, from what I hear, very well,
and, perhaps, with more judgment than many
of our English louts (doubtful compliment
that): besides, the races are run from end to
end there, and require more stamina than I would
possess if I ever got to Australia. As for book-
makers, there are good and bad ones, just the
same as in everything els 9; but, as an instance of
honour among bookmakers in Australia, I may
mention that, some years ago, I sent to an old
acquaintance, who lived in Sydney, my tip for the
Derby, and told him he might put a bit on for me
if he liked, and if there was any book open in that,
part upon the event: and I was surprised to receive
by the mail or so after it, a draft for a nice little
plum from a Mr. E. E. Jones, who, I hear, is an
educated, and a real good fellow.” They don’t
know very much about our turfites at home as.
yet, but it is satisfactory to find that the little they
do know is to our credit.
There was as much difference in the style
of the boats pulled by the competitors in the so-
called race for the championship, as in the style of
the men in them. Hanlan pulled in a boat similar-
to the wager-boats in vogue in Port Jackson many
years ago. Her midship section appears as nearly
as possible a true half-circle, and she is well carried
out till within five feet or so of the bow, when she
takes a sudden knuckle and comes home very fine.
Laycock pulled in “ The Joker,” the boat built for
him by Joe Donnelly for his £5OO race on the Clar-
ence with Rush, which he won with ease. It speaks
well for the builder that after all this time she
should have been selected by Laycock for his
match on Thursday last, and although age may
have made her a bit heavy, in our opinion she is a
faster boat than the Yankee pulled by Hanlan—of
course, taking into consideration the fact that one
was built for a much heavier man than the other.
With regard to the men, Hanlan pulls in an en-
tirely different style to any of our Australian
scullers. His seat is fixed higher in the boat,
which gives him, when afloat, the appearance of
being a much bigger man than he really is: he
pulls with a very short stretcher, takes a good—
though not over-reach clean over his knees,
which he could not do were he lower in the boat;
gets a clean hold of the water and draws his sculls
through till his body is nearly upright, and he is
in the best position to use his strength, and then
he puts the power on. His sculls dash through
the water with a swish to be heard yards off, not
with a jerk, but with a clean draw, not finishing
the stroke till his hands are at least so far back as
a line between the hips and armpit, slightly meet-
ing his sculls, and coming forward with great
rapidity for the commencement of the next stroke.
Laycock looked rough alongside the Canadian;
and, if Hanlan pulls correctly—and of this we can-
not think there is much doubt—he, in common
with our other scullers, sits too low in his boat,
pulls with too long a stretcher—which he is com-
pelled to do. sitting so low—gets his power on at
the wrong time, and finishes before the stroke is
pulled otit, as, fitted as he is, his hands would not
clear hiß body were he to finish as Hanlan does.
Hanlan, being the champion oarsman of
the world, very properly received a right regal
welcome when he struck Australian soil. The
trouble now, however, is to know where we are to
draw the public ovation line. It is probable that
we will one day be honoured by the distinguished
presence of Mr. Fred. Archer, the champion jockey
of the world. Archer is to the turf what Hanlan
is to the water; therefore, we must haul him
round in a four-in-hand, Ministers of the Crown
must trot him out and slobber him over with ful-
some praise, while our bare-headed senators stand
by. and we, the free and independent citizens of
this glorious land, go down on our knees and grovel
and yell “ Long live the * Tinman’!” Slogger Sulli-
van will also pay us a visit before he polkas along
to the Golden Shoah, and, the first time he’s sober
enough to stand up straight, he’ll demand a similar
reception at our hands also, because he is to the
“ ring ” what Archer is to the field and Hanlan is
to the Hood. Having started the “ ovation ” game,
we must in perfect consistency play it out to the
bitter end ; and, if we don’t, our subsequent
silence will be about as consistent as the spectacle
of one of the starving unemployed looking for
charity through the butt end of a ten-guinea
gold-mounted opera glass. And this reminds us
that new branches of sport are springing up
almost every day; and as Australia is apparently a
perfect El Dorado for champions, we will be at
last compelled to hire some other nation to assist
us in doing our conquering heroes honour. The
very latest addition to the sporting ranks, is a
gentleman who rejoices in the name of “ Micky
the Spud,” and Micky’s speeiality is fighting rats*
Persons who take an interest in this innocent
recreation may be pleased to hear that a slashing
fight recently took place between Micky and an
old man rat, which was bred and trained ia a
place called Granby, Sheffield, England. Every-
thing being prepared, and a large and in-
fluential number of sporting gentleman being
assembled, a piece of string was tied round
the rat’s tail, whilst Micky allowed his hands
to be tied behind him with a rope. Everything
being being ready, time was called, and the fun
began. The man in charge of the rat (himself an
authority in the pugilistic art, it is said) placed the
animal on tho ground, retaining in his possession
the string attached to its tail. The fight then
began in earnest, and the man and the rat al-
ternately grabbed at each other. The rat drew
first “JiJood ” but fastened on the man’s face,
whiistffhe latter made grab after grab to get hold
of the rat with his teeth. The animal, however
seized the man by his nose and inflicted a wound
which the fellow will have cause to remember.
Eventually the man became tired and the rat
worn catt. During his brief, but brilliant career,
Micky has chawed up no less than 28 rats, and
fought three draws, and as we are always rather
flush of the rodents here, we long for the happy
day when we will be able to crowd round and yeil
ourselves hoarse as some of our iloquint o-ray-tors
clamber up on top of a hotel verandah, and
call for three cheers, for Micky the Spud, the
Champion Rat-chawer of the World.
Great were the preparations made for the
Nepean race on Thursday, the 22nd, and great were
the efforts made by the dailies to out-do each other
in keeping the metropolitans posted up in the
doings of the competitors billed to meet in the big
race for £lOOO and the Championship of the World.
A couple of columns in the Rum last week quite
woke Granny out of her customary nap, and she
at once despatched the reporter who ordinarily
does the religious items to the seat of war. Upon
his arrival in the giddy little town of Penrith, the
reporter wended his wav to the boat-house and
began to interview an obliging individual who was
fixing up a racing craft. After an interview of
about an hour and a half, the reporter asked the
stranger his private opinion as to why Hanlan
refused to row on the Parramatta. “ Web,” said
the stranger, “ I am a bit mixed up with Hanlan,
but I don’t mind telling you in confidence. Hanlan
is afraid of the sharks, and has a mortal dread of
the jelly-fish.” The reporter then departed, and
next day Granny came out with a column and
three-quarters by “ Our own Reporter,” the sharks
and jelly-fish yam being given in all seriousness.
The “interviewed,” who was Harlan himself,
now tells the yarn, with true Yankee humour,
of the manner in which he was drawn out by
the reporter who was sent up to glean informa-
tion of the race for £lOOO aside and the Champion-
ship of the World. Thursday turned out a day
made to order, but even this was insufficient to
draw a big crowd to the Nepean; and it is not
under-rating the numbers to say that barely hun-
dreds put in an appearance where thousands were
expected. That the course is a grand sheet of
water there can be no two opinions, but there can
also be no two opinions that it will never form the
champion course of Australia, judging from the
expressions of dissatisfaction on all sides during
the return trip; and the odds are that in the event
of another raoe on the Nepean, not ten per cent,
of last week’s visitors would turn out for such
another remarkably slow day’s sport. Boat racing,
at the best, is the poorest of sport, except to en-
thusiasts, and it is made doubly slow when four
hours train has to be put in for the sake of seeing
a 20-minutes race—or rather three or four minutes
of it, as that is the outside glimpse the grand-
stand people saw of it on Thursday. The grand-
stand was put together in a rough and ready
style; and perhaps it was as well it was not
called upon to carry more than a handful
of people, as, had there been anything like
a crush, the local sawbones would have cut in,
and Hanlan, Laycock, and the winners of the
other races, would not have been the only ones to
make anything out of the day’s venture. That the
promoters must have burnt their fingers over the
affair there can bo no doubt, and we sincerely trust
it will prove a warning to other speculators, who
make the attempt to change the champion course
of Australia from the splendid and convenient
course on the Parrramatta. The big race of the
day will allow of little description. Hanlan looked
in tip-top condition, and we looked in vain
for the haggard and stale appearance attributed
to him during his training. Used as we are to big
men for champions, he appeared a very boy along-
side his rival, no one would have cast a look
on him so far as physique was concerned. Laycock
looked well, but he could not have been in tip-top
condition, as his preparation was a deal too hurried
to allow of his coming to the post at his best. The
wheezy old launch that carried the umpire and
the press waited for the men some three-quarters
of a mile down the course, and after they passed,
she puffed away in chase seemingly making harder
work of it than Hanlan. Laycock dashed away
with the start and rowing at his top, at the quarter
had a shade of a lead, but evidently on sufferance
only, as Hanlan passed him without an effort,
and rowed over the remainder of the course
with the greatest ease, winning eventually
by a length, which he could have have lengthened
out to as many hundred had he felt so inclined.
On the Sunday preceding the race, Banian tried
the new boat put together by Edwards, of Mel-
bourne, and gave a select few a show of what he
really can do in a wager-boat. He covered over
half a mile in 2min. 20sec., and this in a boat not
fitted up to his liking; so that, if time goes for
anything, the sculler who holds him for a mile,
when at his best, will have to clip along to rather
a lively tune. Only two boats started in each of
the local races. W. Rowe won the single sculls,
and in company with W. Sykes he also carried off
the double scull race. Matterson (25ft.) won the
handicap light skiff race, with ease, irom Gulliford
(35ft.); and he also made a win of the all-comers’
outrigger race, with a handicap of 10sec., Messenger
(6sec.) pulling into second place. Messenger had
been suffering from boils, and was far from ap-
pearing in first-class condition; but he pulled a
plucky though hopeless race to the bitter end.
Taken as a whole, the Nepean show cannot be
looked upon as anything but a huge frost, and we
fancy It will be soma time before a like venture is
entered upon again. 8o far as the Parramatta
course is concerned, it has gained in popularity at
the expense of the Nepean.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Sports at Casino on 24th. W. H. Crook
won the handicap; and H, A. Smith proved victor
in the champion race... North Shore Jockey Club’s
races, at Mudcee, on Saturday.—Opening Handi-
cap: Aurora 1, Granny 2, Wanda 3. North Shore
Handicap: Wingadee 1, Coralie 2, Corrie 3. Queen’s
Birthday Handicap: Wingadee 1, Sunset 2, Wanda 3.
....M. Egan won the 200 yards handicap at Gundagai
on Queen’s Birthday ...At the South Canterbury
(N.Z.) meeting, Derritt rode and won seven races.
At Wagga, Quilty was quilted by Hyland, in a
billiard match for £2O a side, 300 up. Quilty stood
at 279, when Hyland ran out The Adelong
’orny ’anded cricketerß defeated the Tumut ditto
by an innings and 43 runs to spare. Bealette, for
the Adelong side, performed well with the ball.
In England, the Gentlemen beat the Ox-
ford University cricket team by 31 runs Henry
Robertson, a veteran English jockey, died on 21st
February, aged fifty-eight years. Deceased was in
his prime in the days of Chanticleer, Laneret, &c...
Teemer, who is looked upon in America as the
man most likely to be the first to lower Hanlan’s
colours, uses a 28-mch slide, 2 in. longer than that
used by the Canadian.


THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
Caterers
(LIMITED),
to the
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking- Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
l X3a.«s» ISeliafble I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 &24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 88. fld.
Prepared by A. C K KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist,
43 SRSKINE STREET.
r.V>W hv W TOT. SOTTr,. »n 4 all Chomlata.
;morellas
8
RE-COVE Rl^
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield A ill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tlime*. Kenslm n«at,ly oxf>-
n itj, A
J. GJ-. Hartoorow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta. 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, In all the Latest Styles and Shades :
a Large Consignment of Ladles’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashm ere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTI 3NSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILT* [NERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILL INERY—A large stock to select from.
MILL INERY—A new stock to select from.
MILL INERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
bTKAWa-In all new shapes.
t 3 F" Having- engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and I ondon markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
abovi > line. A large stock of FANCF GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and S eal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among- the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
BEYEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
.J
N
/
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Oor Prices Lowest.
t * P * Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion e *° ry customer.
Write to us,
OB
Calfon us.
rv
& com.
3»9 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Oonoslte Hofei).
“Why,” asked Coleridge, Chief Justice,
when sentencing Yates for his alleged libel on
Lord Lonsdale, “should we have our lives pried
into, our movements watched, our dress recorded,
our company catalogued, our most private rela-
tions dragged into the light of day, not for aay
conceivable good to the great English people, but
only to gratify the foolish vanity or the abject
curiosity of a small minority of a privileged class?’
Why ? Because (especially in the case of heredi-
tary legislators) the dress they wear, the company
they keep, the movements they execute, are keys
to their characters, in which, since they are pre-
sumed to be good enough to legislate for the
people, the people have naturally no slight interest.
Seme items which are published in society journals
about the Lords—our would-be Gods—are doubt-
less only gratifying to the vanity, and exciting to
the curiosity of very small fools; but, on the other
hand, there are scores and scores of items that are
published about Lords, and which, themselves but
idle as thistledown and dry as Sahara dust, yet
are not unimportant in the estimation of the wise,
inasmuch as each one of them, frivolous though
it may seem to be, helps to swell the indictment
that ultimately must crush the pretentions of a
lordly caste, and annihilate the monstrous farce of
a privileged aristocracy. Every libidinous beast
of a peer, every titled ruffian, does yeoman s ser-
vice for the good cause by realistically illustrating
the utter absurdity of conferring legislative
powers upon a scoundrel or a brute, merely be-
cause one of his ancestors happened to be a lucky
general, a royal bastard, a crafty lawyer, a schem-
ing politician, or a pimping courtier.
One of the most successful dog-shows ever
witnessed this side of the equinoctial line was held
on Monday week, in Goulburn. By the kind per-
mission of the local Police Magistrate, the capa-
cious court-house was placed at the disposal of the
exhibitors, and on the judges taking their seats it
was found tnat no less than 73 exhibits were
entered. Almost every style of dorg known to
fanciers was represented, from the huge mastiff,
with a mouth as large as a Fish River cave, or the
kisser of the silvery-toned Georgia Minstrel tenor,
Billy Wilson, down to the tiny little terrier who
was so small that it took two men and a 40-guinea
magnifying glass to see him. Bo pleased were the
judges with the exhibits that they treated all the
exhibitors alike : that is to say, they stuck them
in fines, and costs of court, for 14s. lOd. each. So
far as the public revenue is concerned, the show
was, therefore, a howling success in every sense of
the word, and a wish was expressed that the inde-
fatigable promoters would make it an annual
affair, and increase the number of entries. No
reply was given to this, however, except in the
case of a lady fancier, aged about 63, who emphati-
cally declared that before she’d pay any more for
her pet, she’d “git an axe an’ chop th’ sanguinary
poodle’s gory head off.” It is, indeed, a matter of
sincere congratulation to find that even in these
days of depression the poorest person in Goul-
burn can keep a “ dorg”; in fact, it is said that
some families are so wretchedly poor that they
can afford to keep six or seven. And. by the way,
what are our own police about that they cannot
give us a similar canine treat down here ? We
have the unregistered dorgs. All we require now
is for the foorce to find the dorgs’ owners.
It is said the Queen is firmly determined
not to sanction Colonel Valentine Baker’s re-
admission either into the army or into any society
where her influence is recognised. We wonder
how many of those interesting women who are so
anxious to have him back as a pet amongst them
really know the particulars that led to his exile.
We’ll refresh them with a few words verbatim
from Miss Dickenson’s evidence at his trial. She
was travelling alone in the railway carriage, and
at Liphook-station the gallant Val. got in. After
passing Woking, he asked her name, and on her
not telling it, he came and sat close to her. Then
“ I said, ‘ Get away; I won’t have you so near.’
and pushed him off. He said, ‘ You are cross.’ He
then put his left arm round my waist, drew me
nearer with the other hand, and kissed me once.
He said,‘You must kiss me, darling.’ I pushed
him off. I tried to ring the bell to warn the guard.
He said ‘Don’t ring; don’t call the guard.’ He
then forced me back into the corner, pressed me
back against the cushion, himself being on me,
and kissing me on the lips several times. He was
pressing heavily on me, and I could not move.
He sank down close in front of me. and I felt his
hand underneath my dress, on my stocking, above
my boot. His other hand was not touching me.
I did not see what he was doing with the other
hand, but I have an impression what he was doing.
I got up and succeeded in getting the window
down, and screamed. The defendant tried to pull
me back; I screamed again loudly, and turned the
handle of the door, and slipped out backwards on
to the footboard.” This was the little episode
which led the War Office to think that Colonel
Baker would no longer be an ornament to the
English Army. In Sydney the other day, a work-
ing man who had just come from the bush and
got intoxicated, placed his hand rudely on a female
in George-street. He was flogged within 48 hours.
“ Why th’ h—l don’t you look where you’re
goin’ to ? ” How ©ften have those cheerful, soul-
stirring words warmed the cold and sluggish blood
in our veins, and the frozen wax in our ears, as
we bent back in our favourite boat, and, with a
Hanlan-like swoop, sent her bow slap under the
nose of a Newcastle steamer, or clean through the
barge of a higbly-ind'gaant, but utterly helpless
family picnic party. As a rule, these little bits of
pleasantry on our part generally caused trouble,
not only to ourselves, but also to the energetic
members of the Water Police Force, who used to
fish us up by the “ sag ” and hang us across a fence
to dry. One of the main causes of our obtrusion
on the comfort of other aquatic people was the
culpable negligence on the part ot the person who
made us omitting to put a pair of eyes in the baek
of our head to enable us to see whether we wore
making our skiff “ walk the waters like a thing of
life,” or hauling it slap up against the back pre-
mises of some of our marine-villa’d aristocracy.
All this, however, is now straightened out
by the latest improvement in boat-building,
which enables the rower to face the bow and
take stock of the scenery dead ahead of him. 1 his
invention comes from the workshop of Messrs.
Bpong and Co., London, and one of its speoial ad-
vantages is that all the essential points of the old
style of rowing are retained. The motion is abso-
lutely identical, the action of the oars being
reversed by the “employment of a couple of cog-
wheels. Automatic feathering is secured, nor does
this advantage entail, as might be supposed, the
disability to back water, for, by taking a shorter
stroke, the feathering water mechanism ceases to
act, or it can be stopped altogether by the removal
of a bolt.” There is nothing at all complicated or
elaborate about the new invention, which has
proved to be satisfactory in action, and highly
calculated to increase the safety and enjoyment of
tae sport without the sometime accompaniment
of such advantage—namely, the loss of power.
Our boat-builders here ought to make a note of
this lot.
Strange as it may seem, there is evidently
more than one Sims in this little world of ours,
and the sprightly author of the “Ltghts o’ Lon-
don” is frequently reminded of the fact. Not
long ago, some of the home papers contained a
thrilling account of the.. doings of a certain Sims,
who was charged with revelling in the mild little
amusement of jumping on his mother, and forth-
with the gentle “ Dagonet” was crushed beneath
a pile of letters from former friends who told him
plainly he was a brute, and to never again dare to
speak to them on any pretext whatever. That was
rough, but the following epistle which G.R.B. has
just received is even rougher: “Dear Sims,—
Having waited for some considerable time for an
answer to my last note, 1 must again remind you
of your promise to redeem the piece of paper I
hold against you, within a few days. The few
days has now exiendeu to a few months, and I
regret to say I am still in possession of the paper.
• . . . lam really rather pressed just now, and
I should feel extremely obliged it you would
make an effort to let me have the whole or half
this week. I trust the bad foot is all right now,
and that you can get out.” That neat reminder
came from a box-keeper of a theatre in the North
of London, and, as the popular writer never owned
a bad foot in his life, and is generally believed to be
rolling in riches, it is evident that he is not exactly
the “ Dear 81ms ” that’s wanted. Talking of this
reminds us that Wilson Barrett, the lessee of the
Princess’S Theatre. London, whilst orating at a
recent banquet, pleasantly referred to the time
when he —flattering himself upon the grand recep-
tion he had met with in Dublin—“ was brought
down from the pinnacle on which he had placed
himself by the assurance that the audiences had
applauded him imagining him to be related to the
Barrett who had recently been hangedifor his share
in the Fenian explosion at Gierkenwell.” The
man who said there's nothing in a name was a
most egregious ass.
Constable Bennett has been “houldin’his
head too - high ” to suit the taste of the Reedy
Creekers (Vic.); at least, so the bucolic xesiden s
of that rural hamlet say. But, on the other hana,
the “guardian of the pace” asserts that “he just
holds his head high enough to maintain the repu-
tation of a constable”—whatever altitude that
may be. However, it can’t be very exalted, if we
may judge by the evidence adduced in meKilmore
Court last week, when Edward M’Manus and
Gregory G. Anderson were charged with having
used abusive language to Constable Bennett. It
appears that one evening of late the policeman
was “in want of information and in search of
merriment,” so he dropped into the Commercial
Hotel, where a young lady was pounding out
selections from the opera of “ The night before
Larry was stretched,” on a grand piano, and quite
a number of youths and maidens of the Creek
were holding a musical festival. Amongst the
giddy throng were the two young men already
alluded to. Anderson was a vocalist of good local
repute, and on being asked to warble, refused
point-blank, on the plea that the audience was
getting mixed, and lightly referred to the presence
of the constable by remarking, in a loua tone of
voice, “I don’t sing before such low company as
this. I don’t sing before a snake-headed like
this.” And then the constable took the hint and
left the scene of revelry, but as be was going down
the street the two young men followed and
broadly accused him of giddy proceedings in con-
nection with a young lady to whom the amorous
constable had been paying his addresses, and who,
it appears, “loved,not wisely, but too well.” Under
cross-examination at the Kilmore Court, Beaneu
“ maintained the reputation of a constable ” right
through, especially in the style in which he tried
to evade the authorship of a ietter which he had
sent to his “ Dear .Nelly,” and the profound ignor-
ance, natural or assumed, that he displayed in
court. Anderson was fined 10s. for insulting
language, but it is possible that the conduct of the
polioeman will form the subject of an investiga-
tion ere long.
Talk about the Wars of the Roses, the
rouseabout days of the Commune, and Bull’s Run,
why they’re never in it when you turn to the ciTil
war that *s now raging in a sprightly little town
out West. It appears that some time ago the
bong-tong membahs of the place in question, held
a private meeting in the churchyard at midnight,
and decided to form a Winter Quadrille Assembly
Club for the aristocracy of the district only, and it
was unanimously decided that no tradesman or
store people, or “ any othah dem’d, low, working
fellahs ” were t© be admitted under any pretext
whatevah. In order to make doubly sure that this
aesthetic society would not be contaminated by
the presence of any of those howid low-dorm per-
sons who work for their living, the entrance fee
was fixed at a guinea, and the list of persons in-
vited was kept as secret as the State correspond-
ence of the old tow-headed Doges of Venice. After
a time, this silver-tail club was duly formed, and
the hours were chased with many-twinkling feet,
and then the dreaded day eamewhen the treasurer
found it necessary to scoot round and chase the
guineas also. Then the club became more select
than even its most enthusiastic membahs cared
to see; and now, to jeap the trouble, the vul-
gah portion of the community have formed
an opposition society called the Mercantiles, which
is started, as the advertisements state, for “ gentle-
men—other than bank officials.” Half a hundred
of the most respectable and influential men in
the district have already joined, and so great has
the success of the new venture been, that one half
of the aristocratic beggars opposite, are kicking
themselves for being such lunatics as to have ever
done anything to help to throw a slur on honest
labour* Where the sting comes sharpest, however,
lies ip the fact that the ladies connected with the
Mercantiles can dance the crinolette poufes off the
aesthetic damozols connected with the opposition;
and so, when the lively strains of the Mercantile s
“ First Set ” fill the frosty air, the culchawed crowd
stuff wool in their ears, and pull the blankets over
tneir aiminished heads, and assign those dem’d
fellahs to various sultry places in the dim and un-
certain future. Of course it was a “ Mercantiler ”
told us this, and now we wait in breathless sus-
pense to hear trom the shirt-collared mashers who
* kick with the other leg.”
The reporter, concerning whose wrangle
with John Brown a one-sided and garbled account
from John Brown’s point of view is given by the
Queen in her last book, was Mr. Donald M'Naugb-
ton, who, at the time, represented the Times. Mr.
M'Naughton has now published his account of tho-
affair. Mr. M’Naughton was in company witki
Messrs. Allan, of the Glasgow Herald: M'Aus-
lane, North British Daily Mail; Gilbert, of tie
Edinburgh Scotsman, and Colin Livingston, head
master, National School, Fort William. He writes:
—“At this time of day 1 presume I may be alio wed
to tell the story myself. John Brown was not
more civil to us correspondents than he was to the
rest of Her Majesty’s servants and loyal subjects;
if anything, he was less so, bullying wher begot
the chance. Evidently he knew he had tae Quean
to back him in any case, and acted accordingly.
When I saw him on his wayup from the Royal party,
making towards me, 1 was fully half a mne off,
but I guessed he was ill-pleased at some of us, and
I waited to see the fun. 1 was in no way afraid of
him, though I was alone, and he double my
weight; for I knew that his stiff, almost perpend -
cular, climb would take fighting inclination out of
a far more sinewy man tnan him. f never
budged. Soon he stood before me raging. * You
move away out of there! ’ was his first salutation.
* Who the are you ? I have as much right to
be here as you have,’ I said. He stood still for a
while, as if resolving what to do next, while I
went on with my werk. ‘ Wull you be ceevil
eneuch to move out of there ? ’ in a more pacified
tone. * Not on your orders, but if the Queen com-
mands me, I fly.’ Another moment's rellection,
and he said, * Yes ; it’s ta Queen’s commands.’ 1
gathered up my things at once, and moved along-
side of the mountain, John walking close to my
right. I endeavoured to open up a conversation
by remarking, * What a splendid day to be out! ’
‘You had a spying glass, looking at the Quer.n,’
ignoring what 1 said. ‘ I have, but I know how to
use it better than that.’ *By the bye,’ 1 said after
walking another twenty yards without speaking,
‘you know, I suppose, a countryman of mine,’
mentioning the name— ‘ a piper in the Royal house-
hold?’ This drew him out. He glared at me for
some time, and then, throwing in all the dignity
and scorn at his command, answered, ‘Me! what
do 1 know about pipers ?’ This riled me up a bit,
and, as the other correspondents were pouring in
from all quarters, I felt stronger, so I faced him
with, ‘ Mr. Brown, I have nothing further to say
to one of your sort; you can go now.' We both
stood still, he eyeing me savagely. 4 Well, a’m—,
but I’ll fight vou.’ * I have no time to spare just
now for pleasure, but meet me in Fort William at
a quarter-p ast five to-night, and we’ll see about
it,' I replied. ‘Well, a'm , but I wull;’ and
with that we parted, I to divulge the great Court
secrets to my companions, with which they sus-
pected John of supplying me, and he to join the
Royal party. When we parted it was five o’clock.
Fort William was over twenty miles away, thus
leaving us only fifteen minutes to do that distance.
Were we Glencoe eagles we could not keep our
appointment, and perhaps neither of us was sorry
for it. John, so eager for the fray, did not seem
to think much about the time till, when half-way
down, something seemed to strike him about the
arrangement. We saw him stop suddenly, take
out his watch, turn in my airection, and shake his
fist at me threateningly. He evidently saw the
trap he was led into. The next time I saw him he
was too busy lecturing Dr. C of K ,on
board the steamer which took the Royal party to
Inverness, to notice me. We were always about
half a mile at least out of the way.”


JIU
SNITUBS SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY, *'* WTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
p nd
LIBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINET!' for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
F
LA!
URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
MB, O’Conneli-street.
H/f ARBLfc-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
i-TJL SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking' rooms, Sec.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
TNIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Mil Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atreet.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d: Tables,from7s6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 258; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
*
e£3s
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
nVvl a ir« Xlln/»V n TTr-t-4-1% /I n
able designs in Black and Gold, with Sid®
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL\TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
AJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BE DSTEIDS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
JNING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas,
• DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
JAREY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
and LAMB (only).
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
sfc
SC?
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. 11»e above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price - "" *
30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
'ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
DiHing-room”furni-
Massive, in Oak,
X7IRAMEWORK for
Jn TURE, Handsome and
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ABHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
„ t xi.ii. DiSN SEATS, 20e: Verandah Chairs,
\JC INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment: best make, lpw eat prices.
SOCIAL
Once again, oh, say it sweetly,
Once again,
We have twirleu with maidens featly
At Balmain.
We again a little verse on
Paper put,
Chant a charming little person
Dainty-Foot.
It was at Balmain we met her,
In the crush,
With a smile, and, what is better,
With a blush.
Little figure, satin bodiced,
And her eyes—
Well, you never sa«v such modest
Scraps of skies.
Still upon our hand there lingers,
Lingers yet,
Touch that we-oh I magic fingers—
Can’t forget.
Any man is apt to soften
Thus, you say ?
Yes; but we alas! so often
Get this way.
There have been few pleaeauter dances held in the
Balmain School of Arts than the second ssembly
Ball, last Friday, despite the weather. The ram
descended and the winds blew most violently, but
Balmain is founded on a rock, and the worst result
of the weather was some delay caused by the
difficulty in getting cabs. Dancing started about
9 o’clock, to the tine music of Shapter s band, ana
the floor was in excellent condition. Between 70
and 80 people present allowed ample space tor all,
and as the storm raged without, it was cheering to
see, not only the seats filled all round the hall, but
a gallery-full of spectators who found interest in
the scene until after midnight. Great pains hao
been taken to make the hall ornamental; round
the walls and doorways aud across the ceiling was
a lavish display of flags, which were not only gay
but clean. This is so phenomenal a fact in connec-
tion with ball-room bunting than it ought to be
recorded. The platform was carpeted and arranged
with seats, and in the spacious supper-room every-
thing was well provided by Mr. and Mrs. Holden.
A sensibly assorted programme contained twenty-
four dances, but, as it was determined to keep the
music going till about 5 o’clock, so that city visi-
tors could catch the tirst morning boat, a number
of “extras” were added. Of course, the ladies
who honoured the occasion demand a notice,
especially as some of their toilettes were very
pretty. With a married lady from Duke-street, in
a quiet dove-coloured satin, came her sister, a tall
and handsome blonde girl, whose enthusiastic
fondness for dancing detracted not one whit from
its gracefulness. Her dress was in keeping
garnet or ruby velvet bodice, and plain satin skirt
of similar colour with one flounce halt its leDgth,
both flounce, hem, and bodice edged with flue
white lace. With the party was a Melbourne lady,
whose dress was a very s ylishly-made black bro-
cade, with folds of white lace held at the waist by
a rose, and who was also an excellent dancer. One
of the treats of the evening was an extra, playea
by Miss Durning, a long dreamy waltz, in
which many tunes were dovetailed into one
another with admirable skill and expression. A
little blonde, with hair piled up, wore a nice
black satin top, aud blue satin skirt vandyked over
a black kilted hem. A Darling-street visitor wore
white madras muslin and roses ; another, whose
airy skirts appeared to be supported by some un-
seen but fashionable agency, wore palest straw
material with an almost limitless number of tucks;
and the dress of a local lady, of cream broche, &e.,
and flowers, was, like herself, as charming as po;-
sible. A smiling little maiden of Mul lens-street
was all m black and pink roses; and a Beattie-
street resident bad dotted her black satin with bits
of blue ribbon, in a way which suggested the idea
that she had been simultaneously attacked by a
dozen of Mr. R. T. Booth’s “ workers.” A tasteful
dress was worn by a flowery-named young lady
from town—ruby plush bodice with ridged
Shoulders and ruff neck, and a pink veiling skirl
In three flounces headed with cross bands. Two
city sisters, one in blue satin, the other in a pretty
straw-coloured and cardinal satin, were exquisite
dancers. From Castiereagb-street was a fair lady
all in black, which quiet colour was also adopted
in velvet by the sister of the hon. treasurer A
drees combining electric blue satin with white
skirt was choice. Pink plush and satiu suited a
pleased little maiden of the great boating suburb,
whose cousin from Sing'eton looked asiaseinating
as any girl could desire to, at her tirst bail, in
crushed strawberry ottoman and cream skirt of
nun’s veiling. A pretty Surry Hills visitor wore a
nice ball dress, the bodice of lavender satin, and
cream skirt in many small flounces up to the waist.
As the night was a long one, adjournments to the
tables, where Mrs. Holden so deftly and civilly dis-
pensed her good things, were frequently neces-
sary, and it must have been daylight before some
of the dancers got home. The ball was organised
by a committee who deserve everv credit for the
way it was carried through; aud a large part of its
success was certainly due to Mr. J. J. Gates for his
efforts during the evening to make everyone feel
at home. » » •
The Royston College boys, whose sports
were postponed from Wednesday to Friday on
account of wet, had a fine gathering, although the
sun did not patronise them much. They had a
gaudy pink programme containing 20 races, and a
liberal prize list. Entries were unusually numer-
ous, four of the races having over 30 each; and
among the racing colours such distinctions as
“skull and crossboaes ” and “ brickdust and,
crushed lemon ” were decidedly novel. Music was
provided by the Naval Brigade Band. The stand
enclosure-where, on such occasions, ‘ both sexes,
well-appointed, take the field ’’—was comfortably
full. Close against the white palings crowded the
enthusiastic male friends of the young collegians,
who cheered as each individual struggle was made;
and up in tne stand sat their proud parents and
patrons, content to express their satisfaction in a
loss exuberant way. Tne chilly air kept the lawn
full of promenaders, and there it was, garbed in
the latest allurements of fashion, were seen the
Bisters, cousins, and aunts in all their giory. Some
wretchel cynic has said that when a woman is
perfectly well dressed, she : experiences a peace ot
mind such as no religion can give. Of course, we
cannot be expected to endorse such an objection-
able statement; but, supposing it to be distantly
possible that the horrid man had the least atom of
truth in him, then some of the ladies must have
had their minds in a peaceful condition on Friday.
And it is only fair to the influence of dress to say,
that when che fair sex devote themselves to
parading that lawn, they do not allow any such
trifles as spi rts to disturb their sweet placidity ot
mind. The gallant athlete may be beating the
field or “breaking a record,” his comrades be
wildly entrea ing him to “put it on,” and the air
be rent witu cheers-but the lawn girl never
minds: she walks from the gates to the smoking-
paddock, and from the smokiug-paddock to the
gates, in her pretty gloves and her pleated skirt,
and thinks what a beautiful world it is—while she's
there Perhaps she is not far wrong, either. And
we admit some of the costumes, among which
dark brown and blue prevailed, were quite charm-
ing enough to justify beauty in feeling just a little
Belf-consciousnes i of its own worth. A few only
of the dresses must suffice. Mrs. Wells, from
North Shore, wore a rich and striking toilette,
consisting of claret velvet bodice, claret silk skirt,
acarf drapery of red and gold brocade, with bonnet
to correspond. A Darling Point ovlle looked ex-
tremely pretty in a seal brown velvet, brown
trimmings, and cream hat. Two noticeable cos-
tumes were of light slate silk, coat tails, and
pleated skirts. Mrs. J. Williamson wore a hand-
some bl ick brocade, with dark bonnet and scarlet
flowers. A Jittle favourite of the Cathedral Fayre,
from Elizabeth-street, in dark blue velvet bodice,
cashmere skirt a la Mary Anderson, the interest-
ing, winsome little face shaded beneath an olive
brouze velvet hat, made a pretty picture. A quiet
yet elegant dress was worn by au always notice-
able Glebe Point belle, of black velvet skirt, grey
cloth overdress, velvet cuffs and pockets, with a
charming i.igh-crowned hat with grey plumes. A
myrtle green brocade, with small jockey cap,
attracted much attention; as did also an electric
blue costume with surah trimmings.
* * •
At 9 o’clock on Monday night, Sir Patrick
Jennings opened the bazaar at Waverley In aid of
St. ulare’s school. Purchasing a ticket from an
importunate vendor, who bailed us up in a dark
and suspicious-looking lane outside—for the good
Sisters of St. Clare had quite inexplicably for-
gotten to send us one—we entered, and to our pro-
found amazement, got right inside without being
asked to buy a doll or evenaebromo of a cow.
Such forbearance was almost staggering; but it
was temporary. The fact is, Sir Patrick was in
possession of the house; behind him were Lady
Jennings, Mrs. J. Martin, Father P. L. Dunne, and
others; and before him a small but select audience,
and a number of predaceous assistants laden with
albums, cruet stands, and lists purporting to repre-
sent shares in art-unions or tontines. Sir Patrick
paid some nice compliments to the good Sisters of
St. Clare for their efforts in aid of the school. He
admitted s >me people objected to bazaars; but
the experience of thess who had to carry through
large undertakings, proved them the best way of
raising money. And the money must be got. As
the State refused them money for teaching the
tenets of their cre®d, and they were determined
not to separate secular education from those
tenets, money they must have. Hence the bazaar,
which would be conducted in an unobjectionable
manner. Sir Patrick then descended the platform,
and the pretty assistants at once attacked him.
And they attacked everyone else, too; and it was
only in the intervals of our dodging their well-
meant attentions, that we noted that the princi-
pal stalls were kept by Mrs. Hewlett, Mrs.
John Martin, and the Sisters of St. Clare. Misses
Brewer and Barlow were active and attractive
at a pretty flower-stall; two assistants ran a fruit
booth, and a cosy retreat was cornered off with
little tables for the celebrated noong Shan tea,
which Quong Tart had “in the most generous
manner ” presented to the bazaar. Presently, two
policemen entered. Bearing in mind the fate of
tie 25 Wellington young ladies, who narrowly
escaped languishing in prison for the crime of
carrying raffle lists, we expected an immediate
suspension of business. Not at all. Instead, a
courageous maiden tackled the solemn repre-
sentatives of Her Majesty’s peace, and audaciously
wanted to “put down their names ” fora “sofy”
cushion. The foorce smiled grimly, but never
took his hands from his pockets, kver since we
were a little boy we have regarded the majestic
“peeler” as something more than an ordinary
human being, and his adamantine firmness under
the ordeal of wiles and smiles that opened on him,
convinced us. He was rock. As regards the other
ladies, they were persistent as usual, and we are
not at all sure that it’s expedient to employ very
little ones. If this sunny climate produces natur-
ally precocious children, certainly, bazaar-work
will produce • reternaturally precocious ones.
Their best point is, that little girls only ask for
little sums. But they asked us so often; that even-
tually we had to come away. Our pockets are
filled with cigarettes, woolwork, and a terra-cotta
apostle; and our memory with visions of a
beauty in black with a sunflower—oh 1 happy
flower—nestling under a cherubic chin.
• • *
TheWoollahra Private Assembly had their
first gathering this] year, on Fri ay, at Needs’s
Rooms. Although it was raining heavily, nearly
150 came, out of 180 tickets issued. Commence-
ment was made at 8 o'clock sharp, and 20 dances
were completed, also two extras, by 1 a.m., when
the tram, as usual, rolled up, much to the disgust
of the honest cabbies who had waited in expect-
ancy. It was noticeable that ladies had come to
dance and enjoy it, instead of merely to show
dress and do nothing. For this reason, it would
be more congenial for us to dilate on the dancing
than the dresses. Only that would be too personal,
wn devote a line or two to the dresses instead.
Mrs. Dunsmure wore a nice white silk, with Eliza-
bethan ruffle, flounced with nun’s veiling, and
spotted w>tn swansdown and pearls. Mrs. Birk-
myre looked well in white satin ; and Mrs. Russell
in a plain cream silk with two rows of pansies in
front. In old gold plush skirt and plain bodice,
Mi is Watson proved herself an accomplished
dancer. Another young lady was determined not
to discard the pronounced hue of terra-cotta. A
uiae silk, with nun’s veiling skirt, looked excel-
lent. Plain pink was plentiful. Nearly every
suburb represented. Baumann's catering richer-
ch<S, and the music of Mr. Ernest Needs’s band was
all that could be desired, and it was considerably
complimented bv the committee. The chocolate
programmes, gilded with flowers, were novelties,
and we ought to mention that not only have the
tine Nithsdale Rooms been re-decorated with
ferns, brackets, and various pretty ornaments, but
the floor of the little room has been rendered per-
fectly luxurious in its polished smoothness.
• •
The committee of the Mercantile Quadrille
Assembly at Orange were gratified by an attend-
ance of nearly a hundred on their opening night,
which demonstrated the popularity of the Assem-
bly ; and some rich and elegant costumes were
displayed. Tnere was a neat programme of tweive
dances, which, with extras, were managed by mid-
night. to the music of a string band conducted by
Mr. H. Green. Peace aDd plenty reigned at the
refreshment table. A charming Jewish lady, in
white satin tastefully relieved with roses, carried
off the honour of belle, for which distinction the
atti active mistress of the Superior School, in
white and cardinal, closely competed. A stately
brunette in blue, and another in white with
eardinal, each attracted much interest. The
daughter of the month may be said to have
held her own against the counter attractions of a
charmer in pink. A trio from the Terrace com-
manded marked attention. The exquisite dancing
of a blonde in black, and another In brown,
with her companion in fawn, secured full pro-
grammes. The stately wife of the Mayor was
in a rich costume of black, and the daughter in
navy blue. The bride of the season still continued
to exercise her charms over the sterner sex. The
wife of a bookseller in a rich dress of white and
scarlet, and the better halves of a popular knight
of the hammer and the C.P.S. added their attrac-
tiveness. The namesake of a Scottish lord in a
stylish dress of blue, and a stately captivator in
white from the same street, were noted lor their
charmingnaivctA The “Exchange” contributed
a petite damsel in black, whose attentions wfere
confined te th« chosen few. A fair one in white
satin wreathed with ivy, and the sisters of one of
the energetic eecretarles in blue, had numerous
admirers. An accomplished blonde from Summer-
street in white, was in eager request. Several
ladies sacrificed their usual pleasing appearance
at the shrine of fashion by the treatment their
miffures had received at the hands of their hair-
dresser.
* * *
Notwithstanding the inclement state of
the weather,4o couples made their appearance at the
second dance of the Gleue Point Private Assembly
Club. Ingham s music was voted Al, and Calla-
ghan's catering very good. Blue predominated in
the dr sees. Brisbane and Melbourne were repre-
sented by tastefully dressed and beautiful dancers,
1q cream cashmere trimmed with satin and silver
braid, aud blue satin and white lace, respectively,
a favourite dancer appeared in maroon satin,
lengthy aud circular, with an elder sister iu
s lmon broche and black lace; a friend from Rose-
bank with them in heliotrope broch<s trimmed with
pansies. Two f ar young damsels created a great
sensat'on in black velvet bodices and trimmings,
with loose flowing cashmere skirts ; oue with a
blue satin-lined Mercedes collar. A charmiog
widow in cream corded silk and black Spani-h lane
danced excellently. Glebe Point had several
pretty representatives; chiefly a claret silk and
cream lace; a blue satin bodice and nun’s veiling
skirt; a pink cashmere, &c. Toxteth-road sent a
lady In cream cashmere and gold braid, and a sister
In pink trimmed with pink satia. Stanmore had a
white satin, nicely made, and a white rauslin-trim
med cardinal, wittt a relative debutante in cream
cashmere ruched bodice. Two of the most hand-
some dresses were—crushed strawberry broche
waterfall, over blue oatmeal cloth ; and a pmk
satin trimmed with cashmere and lots of pearls.
Black satins were worn by several ladies, married
aad single—one especially nice with beautiful lace
sleeves, which, together with a pretty face, formed
the picture of the evening, and —“ qucß palmam
meruit ferat” —was belle. The committee’s arrange-
ments are now very good indeed, a programme
(nicely got up) of the dances being ended just in
time to catch the last tram.
» •
The By wong Club, Botany, which a roll of
over three hundred members during the p-ist year
shows to be flourishing, held its annual meeting on
the 19th in the Club premises, Mr. J. B. Ollifte,
M.P., in the chair. Various improvements have
been carried out, with a view to promoting the
comfort of members, and a vote of thanks was
given to the officers, after which all adjourned to
supper. The Bywong Club’s anniversary will be
celebrated by a Garden party, dinner and dancing
in the Sir Joseph Banks pavilion on Wednesday,
Uth Juae.
v * *
To - morrow night (Friday) ooours the
annual ball of the Glebe Bowing Club in West’s
Booms, Castlereagh-street. Plain and fancy dress
are both to be worn, so that ladies will be able to
suit themselves and please everyone else. A large
committee have been organising the ball,
determined to make it a success, and it is expected
about two hundred guests will enjoy the occasion.
* * *
Within a few years, Petersham has de-
veloped that fondness for dancing which seems to
follow, in almost every suburb, immediately on
the erection of a Town Hall. By a popular fletien,
dancing is supposed to be something maintained
for the especial benefit of ladies. Whenever balls
are got up, it is always for the delectation of the
fair sex, you notice—never for the gentlemen.
They only join in—like members of Parliament
join tontines—purely for the sake of others. This
amuses us. we have seen dudes live on the
thoughts of a ball for three weeks beforehand,
and then “ trollope ” for three months afterwards
about the El Teb conquest they made of the heart
of nearly every good-looking girl who had the
misfortune to be introduced to them. Society
cher'shes too many of these little one-sided
fictions, and we have no hesitation in launching
the statement that at least three sexes enjoy
a good ball—men, women, and dudes. That is
the reason why, on last Friday, so many pleased
faces and pattering feet gathered at Petersham
for the first “social” of the Winter; and, not-
withstanding the very unfavourable weather, an
enjoyable evening was spent. Stringed music was
engaged, and light refreshments were set out for
the visitors, who were not confined to Petersham
residents only. Mr. G. Pile, president, was there,
with two fair daughters. The belle of the floor
was generally conceded to be a young lady from
Darlinghurst, with a tasteful toilette of blue satin
and pink, and a face “all sweetness and light”
which would have delighted the apostle ol the
beautiful. Two sisters from Stanmore looked very
fascinating, in pink and ivy leaves, and pale blue
trimmed with lace. A young married lady from
Burwood ornamented the hall with a pretty face
and a handsome dress of claret satin and velvet,
set off with laces of same colour and white. From
Newtown was a young lady in a charming cream
cashmere and pearls, with Elizabethan ruff. An-
other kalizoic young lady wore a handsome white
satin with a full-sized Niagara curve, and clasped
at the waist with a claret Swiss belt. Among other
nice toilettes were a blue sateen trimmed with car-
dinal, worn by a bright little brunette of the neigh-
bourhood, and a black satin and pink cashmere,
worn by a lightsome little dancer. Mr. B. Bone,
jun., was the hon. secretary, and a good one. too.
An extremely pretty programme, with sixteen
dances, kept the company brisk until the mid-
night train.
• • •
An entertainment in aid of a young fellow
named Gaffey (who recently broke one of his legs
twice over) comes off in Parramatta Town Hall
next Wednesday. It promises to be quite the
reverse of a lame affair.
* * *
Mr. G. Jamieson (of Prince, Ogg, and Co.)
gave a ball on Friday night last, at the Ashfleld
Town Hall, and a gay and fashionable assemblage
was the result of his invitations. About 150 were
present in all, and in the enjoyment of the affair
no one regretted having braved the boisterous
weather to attend. Torning decorated the hall,
and the Compagnoni Co. provided an elegant
supper-table and standing refreshments. The
music was by the well-known Kopflf and Austin’s
band, and was consequently lively and true (o
time. A special train took a number of guests
back townwards soon after 2 o’clock, after which
a “tag” to the programme was added by the
remaining ones, mostly local residents.
* • *
On Monday evening, the annual dinner of
Consular Bepresentatives in the city took place at
Compagnom's. Dr. Krauel (Germany) and Mr.
E. M. Paul (Russia) occupied the chair and vice-
chair, eighteen other representatives being pre-
sent, besides twelve other gentlemen whose social
or official status entitled them to the distinction of
an invitation. All wore their orders and insignia.
Toasts were: The Queen, Rulers of the countries
represented, the Governor, Guests, the Colony,
and the Chairman. The menus were elegant works
of art; the tables, covered with blood-red cloth
edged with green ferns and a white bordering, had
a peculiarly rich appearance, and the repast was a
choice one.
• • •
Those pleasing occasions when Madame
Charbonnet-Kellermann’s pupils give their periodi-
cal concerts have become so popular, that her next
annual audit will be divided into two perform-
ances, for which a large number of complimentary
invitations have been issued.
•• * •
Next Monday, there will be a Bachelor’s
Assembly in the Glebe Town Hall—On 25th June,
the Normanby Bicycle and Tricycle Club at Mel-
bourne will hold its annual ba11... Mr. F. A.
Franklin, late Calcutta Commissioner, has gone to
his home at Wollongong ... Pupils of R. C. Convent
School at Wellington are to reproduce the drama
“ Mary, Queen of Scots,” under the stage direction
of Archdeacon D’Arcy.. Early next month, a club
room for ladies in the afternoon and young men at
night is to be opened at Bowral, to keep them
cheerful during the winter.... Rev. Dr. Bromby
was presented with an address in Melbourne Town
Hall on Friday, and a testimonial of more intrinsic
value will be handed to him later on, to mark his
75th birthday A new Masonic Hall is to be built
at St. Leonards, with a ballroom 80 x 40 feet.
Foundation stone will be laid with some cere-
monies, next month probably—Last week, Mr.
Richard Hirsch, merchant of this city, was fare
welled by his friends with an excursion to Boitany.
They sat down to an evening banquet at the Sir
Joseph Banks, when the health of the guest and
others was toasted. Mr. W. Morgan, solicitor, was
chairman, and among the company was a con-
siderable number of gentlemen having Teutonic
names and musical proclivities. Mr. Hirsch lef tin
the Iberia on Friday A novel idea. The people
at Kempspy were so delighted at having a Quarter
Sessions Court established in their town tb it they
celebrated the event by a fancy dress bah nn iey
are droll people at Keinpsey, but they e\ l< t y
Know what’s good for them—Tickets are o hr
the Owl Bail, and with them are furnls d he
programmes. This is a new idea, and nab bean
adopted with a view of ensuring selectness, as all
the cards are numbered, and every member is
responsible tor each ue disposes of. Mi
Hueoerbem provides music, and a good attend-
ance is already ceitalu.... a great effort has been
taaue to revivify the Tamworth Mechanics' Insti-
tute, and an entertainment was given therein last
week, including songs, mimetic performances,
(For continuation of »oex*l» see next page./


glees, &o. Messrs. Lewis, Tribe, Hunt, and May-
nard were chief singers Mr. Elsasser, who
oaine over to Sydney with the Melbourne
Liedertafel two or three years ago, was the
recipient of a benefit from his musical brethren
lately. He is suffering from paralysis. All the
best known musical names in Melbourne were on
the programme, and the acting-Governor of Vic-
toria, the Governor of Fiji, and their wives, were
among the large audience. A clever soprano.
Miss Mitchell, made her first appearance....At
Ballarat, the Liedertafel are to have a ball soon.
....At East Melbourne, excitement ripples over
the approaching wedding of a knight with a pretty
golden-haired girl of theGoulburn River.... This
month, a ball was given by Mr. Tanner, of Hast-
ings (N.Z.), to 200 hop-pickers and friends, to cele-
brate the first hop season there. Most popular
dance, was the hop waltz A daughter of Major
Murray, having obtained a free-soholarship at t fie
Ladies' College. Thames (N.Z.), she waived her right
to it, urging that the scholarships were intended
for deserving needy students, not for those who
could pay Last Monday night, the second Social
to the employes of .the Compagnoni Co,, was given
by Mr. Tollemache, the manager. Singing and
dancing were kept up till midnight with hearty
enjoyment.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale)..... .May 30.
Glebe R.C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms)... .May 30.
Sydney Grammar School Sports ...May <u.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale).. June 5.
Sydney Liedertafel Smoke Concerts .June 5, 6.
Mayors Banquet (Town Hall) ..June 9.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Annual
Audit; two recitals (Protestant Hall)...June i, 10.
Bvwong Club’s Celebration (Botany) June 11.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall). .June 12.
Masonic Ball (Parramatta) June 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale)...... ...June 13.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)...June 20.
Scandinavian Ball (Taitersall’s Hall) June 20.
Cyclists’ Union Sports June 21.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition). ...July 3.
American Celebration ... -July*-
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms).. July 11.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
« Lad ”: Rather gushing, but thanks.
«An Unprejudiced Observer ”: Much obliged. We
had par. in type, and so could only use part of
yours. Glad to hear from you again.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— We have Miss Alice Sydney
Bnrvett here again giving
Now. I never knew a more courageous lady
courageous, did I say ? Well, I might have used a
■word which would sound less polite, but be nearer
the truth. It requires a great deal of nerve to give
r recital before a Sydney audience, who have
heard Madame® Kellermann, Miss Thompson,
Messrs. M‘Quade, Moss, Huonerbein, and last, but
not least, Herr Vogrioh, t»oai<I«8 tti o ma-guaiHceot
Ketten. Perfect technique and an original
fresh st.vle might justify one in giving these re-
citals- but anything short of that is altogether too
severe a tax on the public,
thnv mav be. To give you an idea of miss uui-
vettWvle I may just remark that of all the
nieces she played, the pther night, Gettschalk s
Last Hope” was the most satisfactory. In the
maiestic opening to the sonata “ Pathetique, I was
•dreadfully s disappointed, the reading to A “J
mind, altogether lacking depth ot
then “ Moses in Egypt had too much
of the school-girls* weakness about it altogether*
i°n that,“ not a few oases, the theme was sacrificed
to the variation; and the finale Lf 8 Ip P tb a t
jumble of sounds. I have n at all that
Miss Burvett has been a hard student, but she is
ili-advised in giving recitals. Her execution at
times is very brilliant, though not alwaysclear;
•besides this, her left hand is mor ®
powerful, but these tacts alone do not justily ner
tn taking a position which should only be held by
musicians of the first rank.
One of the latest fashionable crazes is imitation
mushrooms, for trimming hats. I ney look quite
k»rettv, too, made with fine silk, from a light cream
Mhade to a pale brown. One bunch I was shown
wetterday was made to look ridiculous, by having
screen ikuwes mixed with the mushrooms-who-
<m*er beard of leaves with mushrooms? We are
gating to have startling combinations of colour
S this season. I suppose you are aware that
Worth gets some of his wonderful effects by
etudying nature He goes into the woods, where
the most beautiful wild flowers are to be found;
auad surely it must have been there that he dis-
covered that different shades of the same colour
fpoeCiier was the acme of good taste. And do you
>ol6l® her, when green and blue were first worn,
tne®d»eA g that B|loh a delicious combina-
bov> /mil i ever have escaped our notice before,
toon c, gky and green trees staring us in the
with th.. wer % born ? One can get scores
face ever walking through the Botanical
of ideas by . studying the plumage of the
Gardens here, O t>j e ot to bright-ooloured
birds. Maiy, i * fMe B a'd colours are more be-
toilettes, and to x ., „. rey da ys, such as we have
ooining; but fora ~ b ttxiDgiß more cneering than
had the past week, n « bri * ht co lours occasionally,
to catch almost invariably dress
I have noticed that laa y QW , j hold tha t this is
to ” match “J® always stands out and
wrong, for a pretty pictutf g ' y than against a
shows better against; a. lea and varied
more cheerful backgroun . when
colours, then, d ® L an t you that they
artistically vulgarised—so
Despite the wretched quite Enlarge
audience assembled to be *!: faaauie Marius opened
matings last Wednesday.
the concert with Jerusalem
choice. Madameil Uin^ Mg# pat hos
but a voice actually teeming VB next 80 i 0 waB
shouid slug v® I may be hard to please, but
too much of the plissutult) style, .
» «nd Bound perlome^,
twn strings and piano, in each partot tbeperto m
two strings auupiu. p raaC ik. and Hermann), and
was in (rood voice, and sang “Der Pirat.
Huenerbein played some of the accompaniments,
so that helped things along nicely. Now these
matinees aro over, I f-niok wo shall miss them some
what, for we have come to think of them as among
the events of the week. It was announced on the
urogrammes last Wednesday that another series
,vill shortly be given, but it will not tend to
Dopularise them if one cannot whisper to a
neighbour during a performance without meriting
a rebuke—aye, and a public rebuke, too. The
fadv who was so scandalised by the whispering,
whfch no one heard, will surely diecover that when
she is in Rome she must as Rome does, and it
we want to exchange ideas sir- “ u9t a , ll ,° w us
to do so without bringing us to book about it.
Mrs Polk had a benefit last Friday night, and it
was very mortifying that it should turn out to be
siioh a wet night as it did. That only could be the
reason of tfee meagre attendance, for the lady is so
popular that we were quite prepared to see the
Onfira House crowded. A. beautiful bftBkot of
flowers was handed to the beneficlaire after the
first act, but the noise of the rain quite marreu
nart of the performance. Mrs. Polk s costumes
were very brilliant and tasteful. A crimson satin
skirt hadche front width covered with rich cream
Roman embroidery; the jaoket, of
short and out square at the neck. In the last act
her dress was most beautiful. The palest blue
satin nrofusely trimmed with biscuit-ooloured
mffiese lace and deep blue velvet. The whole of
the baok width and train was covered with the
lace, which was threaded here and there with the
velvet, and down the front of the skirt
nink flowers were embossed in velvet and
rotin. A I"ge bunch of deep pink flowers
on the left - shoulder, completed one of the
handsomest toilettes I have seen on any stage. I
like the orchestra at th© Opera House .the musi-
cians are all picked, so what music you hour there
is sure to be good. Some time since, a piccolo
obligato used to be given during the eyemng. but
I never thought it was properly appreciated, for it
really was very fine.
You grumble at my neglecting to give you any
Block dresses of late, but, my dear, you forget
what weather we have had. There is
' be said in favour of crinolines, and that is they
keep one’s dresses clean in muddy weather. No
matter how short the skirt is, it *‘ y *2,^7
1 ages to knock around th© boots and wipe off all
TO LET.
GENTLEMAN (in search of lodgings, to pretty Maid Ser-
vant: “Are yon to be let with the lodging.”
M.S.: “Oh, dear no ! I’m to be let alone.”
the mud, but with a crinoline it is held out of
harm's way, and all is comfortable and nice. Cer-
tainly, it also shows off the feet to perfection, or
imperfection, as the case may be; and it only
needs to walk round the Block on a wet day to be
convinced how vastly the latter quality pre-
dominates among Sydney girls. So you see, dear,
after all,the much abused crinolines have some use,
even it it only amounts to keeping the skirts cleau
and giving a small-footed girl a chance of de-
stination. Amongst the new materials for winter
wear I admire most the ottoman cloth. It is. soft,
clinging, and substantial, and the favourite trim-
ming for it is plush ribbon velvet about an inch
and a half in width, which is shown in all shades to
match the material. Velvet and plush tippets are
still in favour with the shoulders very much ridged.
Four-in-hands always look stylish, whether made
of the dullest woollen checks or of the richest
Paisleys or brocades. The latest in veils is a long
piece of soft black tulle, say about two yards,
which is crossed at the back of the head and
brought round and tied in a large bow under the
chin. The tulle must be very soft and fine, or it
will be too bunchy.
But here I am gossiping with you at the risk of
a good scolding for neglecting everything else, as
I invariably do when I write to you. So you see
what I go through for your sake, but then I always
was and always shall be,
Your loving,
MAD.
All your own fault if you remain sick or
out of health, when you can get Hop Bitters.
Read.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 604 Hunter-streef,
Sydney.*
Now ready : Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
post, Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations; 300 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All boo> sellers, and
Alex, M'Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
Eat and Live.— lf your stomach craves for
a pieasaut bittir to sharpan the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at the principal patent medi-
cine warehouses, and the proprietors, Marshall
Brothers M.P.S, 104 and ID6, Market-st., Sydney.
BRIEF MENTION.
A “tight” fit: D.T’s.
The whip man of the West: Mudgee Taylor-
A light “ weight”: Waiting by moonlight.
Bound to “ come to a head.” A shillelagh.
The nooze of the world: The Telegraphic
girdle.
A “ teen ” old and young like to be out of:
Quarantine.
Relations that are always disagreeable:
Poor relations.
The balls with the most dangerous
“break:” Pawnbroker’s; they’d break anyone.
A Bundaberg poetess writes exactly forty
lines of verse to know “ are they thinking of me
at home.”
Latest temperance item. The Duchess of
Sutherland has signed the pledge. We are re-
spectfully glad to hear her Grace is off it.
Solomon said a wise man’s heart is at his
right hand, bat a foel’s heart is at his left. Wisdom
was not much justified by her child Solomon.
Mr. Alexander Stuart says that Mr. David
Buchanan possesses a “fund of learned Ignor-
ance.” It is the privilege of beauty to be super-
cilious.
“ Come, cheer up, Brown, we’ll soon be in
the Heads ; we are off the Long Reach now.
“True; too true,” gasped Brown, aa he meandered
to the side.
Some lunatic has rooted up statistics to
prove that 100,000 persons are killed by whisky
where one is killed by a mad dog. We should like
to know who drinks mad dog.
The flunkey-est flunkey in connection with
the death of Prince Leopold was, after all, not an
editor, but a scullion. The cook of t* l ® fro?* 1
Society of Music sent up as an entrie, at their dm-
ner, sweetbreads on domx-douil (sweetbreads in
halt mourning) I
When Lome returned home to his Baronial
Halls, he was met by the local brass band, who
played out “The Campbells are coming. Poor
Lorn© glanced furtively at the Missus, and mur-
mured sotto voce, “ Who could have spread such
a stupid story ?”
Both the Rum and Granny head their
cablegram about the receht big lire at Bei-Bazar,
in Angora (Asiatio Turkey), ,r Fire in a Turkish
Bazaar.” On the same principle, if a Are confla-
grated Christchurch, they’d head the par. an-
nouncing it “ Fire in a New Zealand Church.”
A Surry Hills clergyman lately asked in
a lecture “Is there a Hell?” He might have
saved much of his valuable t'me if he had put
the question to Jack M Elhone before he sailed.
There is a popular belief that that honourable
gentleman was born there. So he ought to know.
The shire of Corio (Vic.) wants 100 trees
planted at once. It avers that since its trees were
cut down rain has persisted in keeping away. In
the olden times there used to be enough rain, but
of late years the clouds have carried their liquid
deposits to where there are plenty of trees and—no
churches.
Shocking occurrence: One of our most
respected cilizens on returning unexpectedly
home the other day, was paralysed to discover his
wife hanging, her feet barely touching the ground.
He wouldn’t have minded so much, but that she
was hanging to the neck of the young man from
next door.
Here is a crusher for the lords of creation.
Henry Ward Beecher—wno seems to know as
much about it as though he had been born there —
says] that four-fifths of the inhabitants of heaven
are women. Perhaps this accounts for men being
so sinful. The other fifth, we presume, is made up
of ministers.
Mr. John Sutherland says that Mr. David
Buchanan, in his professional career, “had turned
more sconndrols ioose on the country than all the
other lawyers put together.” Perhaps so; but we
do not like these violent statements. When Par-
liament is dissolved, Mr. Sutherland will be saying
the same thing of Mr. Stuart.
You remember that au attempt was made
on the life of the Queen some time ago with an
infernal machine. You remember also that pray-
ers were said for her safety ali over the empire.
Well, now, it turns out that the infernal machine
was a little electric invention used by a man to
oure his tooth-ache. This is perfectly true, though
you mightn't think so.
What a aubjeot for a great realiatio painter
—W. B. Christie on the balcony of a Newcastle
pub., dancing a wild pas de seul upon the local
Herald, what time its callous editor sat close be-
side him, putting smoke from his pipe into his
face—the crowd in the street below the while up-
roariously shouting “ The sweet boy ’Anby.”
A couple of weeks ago we recorded the death of
abailiff, by hanging himself, and thought the times
pretty bad when a oailili should hang himself
owing to reduced circuu: stances. We are re-
quested to state that ho wasn’t a bailiff, didn’t hang
himself, and wasn’t in reduced circumstances.
In other words, we explain that the party we
wrote about wasn’t the party we referred to.
Says a recent Evening Snooze: “A man
has been committed lor trial at Melbourne, for
shooting his brother, under warrant lrom a
magistrate.” We are authorisedjto state, however,
that a marked improvement will soon take place
in the literary department of Alfred’s giddy little
rag. The .public-house just opposite has been
condemned, and will be thrown down instanter.
Twenty of the Liberal newspapers in Eng-
land are said to be owned by an American syndi-
cate. The editorial manager boasts he can speak
to 2,000,000 people every day. This is what you
might call an Owen Glendowerish statement. We
can speak to quite as many, but we don’t boast
about it. Of course we count the dead in. We
mean the respectable dead. The Shroud caters
for the others.
The Salvation Army in Melbourne are
organizing a Chinese camp brigade. We suppose
by this time Bt. Peter is going round among the
angels with an anti-Chinese petition. Anyhow,
if this sort of promiscuous proselytising goes on.
no choioe of future residence will remain for
decent people. We are now speaking merely on
behalf of the public. Our own tastes are tropical,
and we are suited already.
Here is the reward of good nature. We
put in a nice little paragraph about the Maitland
Mail, some weeks ago. And this is how the irate
ant who edits that journal turns upon us:—“The
slangy smartness of the Bulletin is too often ob-
tained at the expense of truth.” This is cruel, yet
contains a grain of comfort. It proves to us that
we have never obtained any smartness at the ex-
pense of the Maitland Mail.
About the very latest, and neatest dodge
out in the advertising line, comes from a sister
colony, where a certain company of poor—wo
might even say dam poor—vocalists t re starring.
On one side of the intermission checks is printed
the scriptural text “Not by bread alone doth
man live,” and on the reverse “Try Blank’s for-
famed German Sausage.” This is playing it veiy
low down on the St. L'eciliau art.
Mrs. Smith, of South Yarra, swore in the
Melbourne court that 100 fowls had been stolen
from her within the past three months. Let's see.
Two members of the Ministry were banqueted;
three parsons, before their trip home, wei e enter-
tained at farewell dinners; Purse gave a spread to
the employes of the Daily Telegraph, and
several other ‘affairs” out of the common took
place. [.What are you driving at ?— Ld. B.]
What the bona fide unemployed want
from the Government Is judicious treatment;
what they get is spasmodic charity and bureau-
cratic red-tapeism. Why can’t Stuart place live
men in charge of the Labour Office, with instruc-
tions to deal with tbose in search ol work as with
men, not as with chattels, and directly, net through
those whose sole credentials were the votes of the
most leathery-lunged gathered together at a most
informal meeting ?
The temperance people are now quoting
Liebig. Liebig, it will be remembered, was the
author of the meat extract that bears his name. It
was the only digestible work be ever accomplished.
However, he says: “The drinkersjof whisky and
brandy are going to certain death.” We suppose
this conveys an inference that the drinkers of
giuger-aie and sarsaparilla are on the way to a
vague immortality. Let them; we are happy.
Only in a choice between certain [ death asd ginger-
ale, the grisly terror would take the first prize as
far as we are concerned.
Of course, you would like to know the
latest freak ot fashion. Well, it is the adoption of
mimic household implements, such as frying-pans,
gridirons, gravy spoons, strainers, meat spits
and Dutch ovens for brooches and charms. And
very nice useful looking ornaments they make too.
We are glad to see fashion taking this turn. Per-
haps some day in the ciepusculous future we may
expect to see the tender creatures we cherish,
take a fancy to using these implements instead of
wearing miniatures of them as ornaments, and let-
ting the hired girl smash the originals.
Cahcoar Mary remarks:—The General
Post Office is little better than a den of thieves.
A gentleman of our acquaintance, a tew weeks
ago, posted a flve-pouud note to his father ;
it duly fell into the hands of the thieves, and
the sender wrote to the General Post Office con-
cerning it, but the authorities have not even
condescended to reply. Mmilar complaints are
constantly cropping up in the country papers.
The worst of it is that registration is no security ;
rather the reverse, si nee it indicates spoil, and in
reality only makes the Postal Department an-
swerable for the delivery of the envelope.
Booth is good at a bull. He told his audi-
ence the other night that if they all signed the
pledge that evening, there would be no drunks at
the Police Court next morning Then his audience
laughed ; and he plungt d again, by remarking
that if all the people or Sydney kept the pledge
there would be no drunks. Then the audience
laughed seven devils of laughs worse than the
first, and Booth pulled himself together for a final
effort. He explained that what he meant was that
there had never been a total abstainer arrested for
being drunk, and the explanation was hailed with
more joy than if ninety-and-nine just men had
chopped a cord of logic.
The greatest brigand of modern times is
dead. His name was Cipriano la Gala, and he was
convicted of over fifty murders and about fivo
thousand robberies. He has been residing In Elba
for eome years past, chained to the wall—on ac-
count of a weakness In his back, we presume. He
took it very much to heart that King Humbert
never came to see him when he was dying, nut
of course King Humbert was too high up in the
profession to visit a common robber. Cipriano
would probably have been a C.M.G. If he had been
out here. Perhaps, however, as they say when
infants die, he is better where he is. There are
plenty of C.M.G.’s there, too.
“ Nerissa,” a Goulburn poetess of the
Della-Crusca school, passed to the Hereafter some
little while back. A sorrowing friend, who haa
dropped into elegiac verse on her account, tells us
in one place that, like the short-lived brilliant
meteor, passed she into endless niirbt; and, in an-
other, that the “angles,” missing her from the
realms above, searched, and on the earth they
found her, bore her thence to a home more fair.
From all of which we gather that the realms
above are realms of endless night, and that a home
in utter darkness is more lair than was the de-
plored one’s in Goulburn; which may quite pos-
sibly be true, only the statement’s a little angular
on “Nerisaa's” people, as well as on the realms
above.
About this time, 1860 years ago, ten lepers
were miraculously made clean, in a small out-of-
the-way hole called Galilee; but so very little did
they think of the favour uoue them, that only one
of the gang thought it worth his while 10 trot back
and thank his benefactor. Human nature appeals
to be pretty much the same now as it w«s in those
days, for we find that out of the whole caboodle of
clergymen who were recently praying themselves
kuock-kneed and bald-headed to obtain rain, only
one has been found to “return thanks to God,’’
and that one comes from Lithgow. And, by the
way, this reminds us of a good tale told by Car-
lyle of an Annandalw farmer, who, with bis iauiily,
was praying with 40-parson power for a “dry hay-
time.” Just us the crowd was in full devotional
swing, however, a perfect deluge of raiu suddenly
burst upon the district, upon which the disgusted
farmer jumped up off his kuees and exciaimed,
“Oh! I Bay, Lord-look here—this is positively teq
ridiculous.”


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Board of experts recommend an annual
Inspection, at least by a competent official, of all
Victorian locomoti v« boilers, that a third valve (out
of driver's control) be fitted to every engine, and
that the number of locomotives be increased....
Another decade of Von Mueller’s “ Eucalypto-
graphia” just Out; live of the eucalypts described,
discovered since the publication of ” Flora Aus-
tralieusis.”....One of the latest dodges in pocket-
picking at fashionable weddings The thieves,
who are always well-dressed and gentlemanly, are
supposed by the bride’s party to be friends of the
bridegroom, and vice verm; so between the two
stools, they manage to come at both parties
pockeis, and naturally, on such occasions, the haul
is mostly worth holding .. .The Hum, referring to
Sir Charles Cavan Duffy’s proposal to publish a
series of biographies of representative Irishmen,
says: “ All the volumes of the series will be edited
and revised by our late Speaker.” To whom can
the Rum refer? to Allen or Dan Cooper? Its
ignorance is surely not so utter, that it does not
know Duffy was never Speaker on this side of the
Murray!. . Sydney Corporation proposes to bor-
row £200.000, to enable it to proceed with wood-
paving- the principal streets ...A mile and a half
of North Shore tramway construction (from the
high land near Milson’s Point Ferry to the comer
of the reserve) approved of by Executive Council.
New barrister, G. W. Hunt .. Railway exten-
sions from Armidale to Glen Innes, and from
Rylstone to Mudgee to be opened 26th June and
9th July respectively... A female lunatic died last
week at the Parramatta Asylum, from the effect
of burns. Her clothes ignitei while she was play-
ing with fire. That she should have got the chance
of playing with fire seems to indicate that
Parramatta Asylum discipline is dangerously slack.
More Knightmen in process of creation by
“Rogers.” Miscarriage of justice at Grafton.
Parent, eharged with not sending his child to
Dower Coldstream School, alleged that building
had been unsafe—as it proved to have been by
tumbling down some days prior to the being
heard. Notwithstanding this fact, defendant was
fined—only a “nominal penalty,” siy the daily
papers; but why a penalty at all? The reason
was surely sufficient, or is to be flat justitia riMt
schola ? University Extension Bill assented to
last week .. Westinghouse brake being fitted to
carriages on Victorian suburban lines, and Woods
brake to others. Saunders and Bolitha’s automatic
vacuum brake to be used on the overland express.
. .Robberies by blacks frequent in Palmerston.
....Cassell and Co , the publishers, have opened a
branch in Melbourne At the N.S.W. Royal
Society’s last monthly meeting. Dr. Morris, with
his new microscope (the most complete one in the
colony), resolved for the first timein Australia the
test diatom, amphipleura pellucida, by a quarter-
inch objective ...J. L. Hordern has commenced
perch breeding at his place at Wentworth Falls
with stock from Lake Wendouree Enoch
Hughes, late of Lithgow, gone up King-street....
Morgan, the Panmure murderer, spine years ago
in Tasmania committed a crime similar to that
for which he is now about to be hanged.... The
Attorney-General opines that the Chief Inspector
of Distilleries is right in demanding a license-fee
from all sellers of Australian wine as wine and
spirit merchants, excepting only the actual grower.
Melbourne authorities will not allow certain
half-chests of tea, ex Amalfi, that have been
proved to be mixed with exhausted leaves, to go
into local consumption, but will allow them to be
re-packed and sent away-about as unneighbourly
an action as a community can commit. Food unfit
for consumption should be destroyed straight off.
Cootamundra gazetted a municipality. We
predict gay old times for its Council.....Wulf
Bartels to act as German Consul in absence of
Carl Sahl.... Machattie, M.P., added to Water Con-
servation Commission....Storeman King, of Gun-
dagai, presented with a watch by the A.M.r .1. Co.
and his employer, for saving latter s premises
from destruction by fire. Good watch to good
watchman.... One Chown died recently at frog-
more, Burrowa district. No doctor certified to
the cause of death, yet Coroner Panter said an
inquest was not required. The Burrowa Times
down on Panter for carelessness in discharging his
official duties The French convict transport
Fontenoy, just arrived at Noumea, brought 30 1
convicts (54 murderers, 19 voluntary homicides,-
five coiners of false money, seven forg-ers of bank
notes, 35 persons found guilty of criminal assaults
upon women and children, and 158 thieves). Of
the entire number, 185 are rocidivistes Denili-
quin waterworks completed ; first of the kind
donstructed by the Government under 44 Vic., No.
14; money taken at 4 per cent, to be re-paid at
rate of 0 per cent, by 28 annual instalments of
£1033 . A fortnightly steam service between New
Zealand and England to be commenced in October.
A colonial bank formed at Hamburg. ..Granny
™iia John Dunn the “ President of the Boers,
sfr J. H Brand?LL.D., is President of the Orange
Free State, and Messrs Kruger, Joubert, and Pre-
torious are the President! .1 triumvirate of the
Transvaal Republic. What does the venerab e one
mean?... The Cumberland Permanent Building,
Land, and Investment Society to be closed and a
company formed in its stead. There are who
Bmell a rat and make insinuations.... Ellery and
Cosmo Newbery maintain that the dust which re-
cently fell in Victoria with the rain was local
choeolate soil, and not Krakatoa dust; a statement
that must be hugely satisfactory to the Protec-
tionist party Federal quarantine regulations
much needed to prevent recurrence of vexatious
farces played by local pigheadednegsand mter-
oo'oniai jealousy.... During 83, £16,008 dutj was
collected at the port of Normanton (Q.)... .Mary-
borough (Q ) and Bundaberg sugar statistics tor
-—Maryborough, area of cane crushed 3910
acres • average yield, 25cwt. per acre ;37 mills in
operation. Bundaberg, area of cane crushed
4417 acres ; average y»eld, 33Mcwt. per acre , ~6
mills in operation Melbourne Observatory
communicates weather news to the country
districts. Now then, Russell !....Blacks playing
up in ihe Ear North; spearing cattle, &c...
Mr Arthur Corrie, of up Miltagong way, was fined
£l5 and costs, or three months, for severely green-
hiding a boarded-out youth of the age of eight
vears. The urchin’s offence was endeavouring to
abscond from the tender mercies of Mr. Greenhlde
Corrie. As the Mittagong Bench called the penalty
they inflicted an exemplary one, we can only pre-
sume their sapiences don t know the meaning of
pxemDlarv... Rear-Admiral Richards, K..C.13.,
junior naval Lord, succeeds Erskine in command
of the Australian station.... Ihe perforation of
N S.W. postage, often clumsily performed, some-
times traitorously through toe Queens head....
A vokel from the back-blocks saw on a concert
ad., the other day, “Chairs, 45.; front seats, 35.;
back seats, Is.; full programme 3d Hang it,
said he to his mate, “let us waltz into the fud
nrofframme den.”.... “ Professor Smith says (says
the Nooze) “that, during his recent visit to
Europe, he had several good opportunities pf
comparing the two modes of street lighting in
Paris and London, and came to the conclusion that
the best examples of gas lighting were more
successful than the electric h£ht> B °ft e L
better diffused, and more agreeable to the eye.
Did the circumstance of the alphabetical one s
holding shares in the Gas Co. in any way lead up
to this conclusion?—Joe Laurai is building in
Normanton (N Q.) its fourth pub. in which he in-
tends to work a revolution in tue price of drinks
by dispensing nobblers at sixpence. Ihe whole
district yearns for the completion of the West
End” . .Bundabergians (Q.) propose to form a
mounted (on bicycles) volunteer corps to help in
uolishing off New Caledonian invaders, should such
haughty Gauls attempt the annexation of an inch
of Queensland soil.. . Farquharjs sugar plantation
“Tbe Hummock 9 (Bundabergdistrict, Q.) sold for
£41,250 to one Rhodes.
Now ready: Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
most Is. 43. 130 Comic Illustrations ; 200 coiumis
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Alex. M'Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
Ateb’s PjfcLS are effectual in a wide range
of diseases, which arise from disorders of the
stomach and digestive organs. They are a con-
venient remedy to have always at hand. Ihey
are sugar-coated, easy to take, effective to operate,
jure to bring relief and cure.
The French Senate have decided to sell
the French Crown jewels, and to place the money
obtained in the public Treasury. They are valued
at half a million. The English Crown jewels, kept
at Windsor Castle and in the Tower, are worth
nearly three millions, which represents, at 5 per
oent., exactly £150,000 per annum of national
money lying idle.
“ A person bv the name of Thomas,” such
is the cold-blooded style in which Sir Arthur
Gordon, in his recent publications re Fijian mat-
ters, refers to our esteemed friend Dr. Julian
Thomas, L.L.D. By the way wouldn’t L S.D be
three very respectable letters after ones name? In
future we propose when a man is worth say £lO,OOO
he should be styled as follows, for example:—Dr.
L. L. Smith, L.S.D. If worth £lOO,OOO, two L’s, and
for a million, three, and so on.
A Queensland butcher, driving a lot of fat
beasts along a narrow mountain voad to his
slaughter-yards near Cairns, met a man who by
galiopiDg into the mob scattered it right and left.
The butcher, mad, went for that man with his
stockwhip. A second man, riding up. asks the
angry one does he know who they are ? “A pair
of damned fools,’’ is his truthful i - esponee; which
he felt to be not a whit the less applicable to them
when he learned that they were a Judge and a
Crown Prosecutor on their travels.
The Victorians who were foolish enough
to send exhibits to the recent Parramatta Juvenile
Exhibition are mad with the slow-coaches who
ran that measly show. And they have a right to
be mad. Those worthy Parramattans returned
the Victorian exhibits (some of them in a dis-
gracefully broken, torn, or otherwise mutilated
condition) to Melbourne, but neglected to send
any letter of advice with them to their Victorian
agent—hence the exhibits lav at the Queen’s Ware-
house for three months. But to a Sleepy Hol-
lower, three months in a matter of business or
correspondence is as one day. You may take a
Parramatta man to the grindstone, but you can’t
make him sharp.
W. Gibson, of Gympie, is a man who ap-
preciates popular confidence. He is not one of
your Palmerstons or Disraelis, who receive with
equal indifference the applause or hoots of the
crowd. And so, having served Gympie well, and
feeling a natural sort of a sinking in the stomach
on leaving an appreciative community, he deter-
mined to set an example of patriotic gratitude.
He arranged, before retiring from the blaze of
popularity, that a suitable successor should follow,
and keep the fire burning. This is his notice:—” I
HALF-MEASURES.
LILLTILE GIRL : “I say, Gran’pa, I heard Ma say we should
all have to go into half-mourning; are any of our relations
hale dead?”
beg to state that my successor, Sam Sing, is a
thoroughly experienced charcoal burner, and I am
confident that he will give every satisfaction to
my constituents. —W. Gibson.”
Says Granny: “It is consolatory to know
that our representative (at Calcutta Exhibition)
was courteously entertained at Government
House, and invited to meet such distinguished
persons as the Nizam of Hyderabad. well, yes;
the Nizam is distinguished in a certain sense.
Though only seventeen and a half years old, he is a
confirmed sensualist, plunged into the excesses of
the zenana, a drunkard, and a tyrant. Of the
large sums extorted from his people, the bulk is
expended amongst the unproductive classes of the
city of Hyderahad-his pimps and panders and
concubines; and he plays tnis game of lust and
robbery in security, the tranquillity of the robbed
being guaranteed by the British. Yes, he is a most
distinguished young man. We trust Franklyn
slobbered with sufficient effusiveness.
The Wise Man had a level head when he
said “ The beginning of quarrels is as when one
letteth out water, for, verily, one never can toll
when the thing will stop.” Last Thursday, Mr.
Joseph Silberberg and another.Tmight of the pen-
cil were standing in front of Tattersall’s discus-
sing the question as to whether there was a per-
sonal devil or not, when some person or persons,
unknown, took Silberberg under the ear with a
lot of dried peas. This seemed to distract Joseph s
attention from the argument, and, turning round
to a by - stander, he remarked that-the role of.a
practical joker or natural buffoon didn t suit tne
party addressed at all, and the nest thing he could
do would be to “go and drive Mother Hill about,
whereupon the by-stander began to drive Joseph
about in such a vigorous style that he drove him
into the gutter. Next day, the by-stander en-
riched the revenue to the extent of £4 195., and
JosepU called for tenders to build a new veran-
dah over his eyebrows.
Talk about hard times l Why, we’re posi-
tively rolling in riches. At least some of us are; for
from a satisfactory little return just out, we hnd
that since the year of grace, 1850, down to the year
of die-grace, 1884, 261 families of dukes, marquises,
and earls, embracing 4536 scions, asd filling 8~28
offices, have obtained from the taxes the sum of
£66,247,242. Who wouldn’t be a “dook” or a
“markios” after reading that lot? Why, its
better than being either a recognised saiat ora
n.ght policeman. And if anyone is mad to know
who the more favoured of this band of titled
beggars are, they can run their eyes over the
following list: —Argylls £140,000, Atholes £417,000,
Beauforts £540,000, Bedfords £554,000, Graftons
£1,115,850, Marlboroughfl £638,250, Richmonds
£1,600,000, Wellingtons £1,425,000, Glenrioardes
£635,000, Hertfords £598,000. Some of these days
we may step across and enquire if there s a vacancy
for a nice, respectable son-in-law in the families of
either the Richmonds, Wellingtons, or Graftons.
The Hon. J. B. Patterson, M.L.A., is com-
ing back to Victoria. He has been addressing the
frugal swains who played pitch and toss with him
in his youth, and they have all gone to bed with
the notion that Jim is King of Australia, and lives
in a house built of golden bricks. Jim is now
manager of a Financial Agency in Melbourne, and
was a Minister. Parkes has floated a financial
agency. Sir Julius has floated a financial agency.
MTlwraith has gone home to finance. Service is a
financier. Duffy is not bad at finance. Then why
are we poor ? And why do we not go home and
pick the hawthorn blossom, and fish for trout with
a pin in the clear brook that threw back a chubby
face, so long ago, or visit the old woman who gave
us milk and bread and honey when we were an
eight-year-old truant, and had lost ourselves and
were starving, when three miles from home?
Why don’t we drop in, in a plug hat, and black suit,
and say, in a bass voice, “ here, good woman, is a
sovereign.” And why don’t we round up the
villagers, and deliver a speeoh about our great-
ness? Alas, why d=m’t we? Well, we haven’t
gone into politics, and we can't flnanoe. Therefore
we don’t go home.
Beyond all doubt, the Sir Boyle Roohe of
our Legislative Assembly is the Hon. Mr. Abigail.
Speaking on Dr. Tarrant’s Medical Bill, the other
day, this gifted orator defended the unlicensed
jalap-dispensers of this city from the strictures
passed upon them, and, amongst other profound
rubbish, observed, “ Let me tell you, gentlemen,
that some of these se-ealled quacks have fre-
quently been the means of restoring to life soores
of unfortunate persons who were murdered by
the blatant, boastful medical faculty.” Here the
speaker looked significantly at a couple of the
“faculty,” who happened to be present at the
time, and when the yells of laughter which greeted
his scathing assertion ceased,he fairly out-Abigailed
Abigail by declaring, "Yes, gentlemen, and what
is more, I have known some of these much-
maligned quacks to have achieved the most won-
derful success in my own family circle, when the
very best legal men in the colony had completely
failed.” This was too much for the gravity
of the House. Hon. members fairly roiled on
the floor in fits, the Speaker buried his head
bet ween his knees, his portly frame heaved in con-
vulsions, just asifjhe had accidentally swallowed a
small spring mattrass, and the Chairman had to
plant behind a Ministerial bench and kiok himself
to sustain his dignity. As a rule, the proceedings
of our jaw jaw shop have not been over lively of
late, but whenever Senator Abigail strikes the
floor, the show is as good as a nigger minstrel
crowd, with fourteen corner-men, and thirty-seven
interlocutory Maas’r Johnsons.
On board a French conviot ship at Nou-
mea, Granny’s “ special ” recently noted a young
Englishman, who, like himself, was taking stock
of the vessel, its interior eoonomy,’&c. “On the
side of the deck-cabin,” writes Granny’s own,
“ between the two steps of stairs leading up to the
quarter-deck a scroll had been painted, bearing
tne word and date, ‘ Fontenoy, 1745.’ The date, of
course, referred to the event In Austrian history,
but the young man was not aware of this. * Bless
me, 1745 I Gracious, what an old tub I ’Stonishlng:
never heard of the like. Won’t they be surprised
when I tell them at home I’—and the young man
made a careful entry In his note-book, and will no
doubt, when he returns home to his mother and
sisters, open their eyes at the astounding
tion he has collected,” Aud supposing the young
man did make such an entry, would he be such an
astounding prig as the ass who imagines that a
French snip-decorator would chronicle “Fonte-
noy” as an event in Austrian history—" Fonte-
noy,” at which lamous fight English, Hanoverians,
Dutchmen, and Austrians, under Butcher Cumber-
land, showed Johnny Crapaud their backs, what
time (for drummers)
“ it was pleasant to rattle
The sticks and to follow old Saxe ”?
Nat Copeland was a gay bachelor residing
in Fitzroy (Vic.), and Nat was impressionable. If
fie had read old Weller’s advice to his son Sam—
“ My boy, be wery careful o widders all ye’r life”—
he must have either forgotten or entirely dis-
carded it. Nat had a weakness for supper beer;
and, about eight weeks ago, he went into the
awan Hotel, Gertrude-street, for the u3ual supply
of that comforting beverage, when he saw a buxom
young widow sittiog in the parlour, reading a book.
As we said before, Nat was susceptible to the
charms of female loveliness, and, to use his terse
and cheerful style, he got c ‘ struck on her.” He
learnt that the dashing little woman had a regular
income of £1 a week, sure, besides an expectant
legacy—so he promptly laid siege to her tenner
Ueart, and wooed and won and wedded her ere a
moou had waxed aud waned. He forthwith endowed
Mrs. C. with his earthly wealth, wnioh was invested
in stocking a small shop, but ere another month
had fied, the quondam widow presented Nat with
a daughter. Whereupon he realised the truth of
the old saw, “ Marry in haste and repent at lei-
sure.” Nat’s first act of repentance was to turn
his lawful wedded wife out of doors, and we next
find the happy pair in the Carlton Police Court, she
sueiag her lord and master for maintenance, and
Nat assuring the Bench that he was only in receipt
of 10s. 6d. per week, a modest sum enough to keep
house on. So the Bench decided that he should
pay the missus os. a week, and Nat does not hold
very exalted ODinions on “widders” now, espe-
cially sentimental ones.
An Anglo-Saxon was recommended to try
a hath tout complet whilst he was visiting Vienna.
He accordingly went to the Dianan Bad, and was
somewhat surprised to find that the price was two
gold ducats. The bath and dressing-rooms into
which he was ushered were, however, most
luxuriously fitted up. Whilst he was admiring
thvm, an attendant of the female persuasion
entered. She was simply dressed in Quaker gray,
and wore a small white apron, the strings of which
were daintily tied iu a bow-knot behind. Her hair
was gentillement frisee, and a little standing-up
collar clasped her cream-white throat. “Hoes
monsieur wish anything?” “Oh, nothing, thank
you; nothing at all. I kave everything I want.”
A faint smile came over the dryad’s face. The
Anglo-Saxon first blushed and then, provoked
beyond measure to be so much embarrassed about
nothing bowed her out, seized the door and
closed it. The very next evening he dined
out, in a mixed company of ladies and
gentlemen. About the middle Of the dinner
he got to talking with the gentleman on his
left. “In our country ” said he, "we have not the
slightest conception of the luxury of your baths.”
“Indeed!” “ Not the slightest, I assure you. We
think a shilling quite enough to pay for a bath.”
“ But it is less in Vienna.” “ How can that be, when
I paid two ducats ? ” “ There was some mistake-
there was some mistake.” “ i here was no mistake.
To be sure, my bath was tout com-” Here he
stopped. Some one had given him a violent blow
under the table He looked around the company.
There was an amused look on the ladies’ faces—
a pained look on the faces of the men. Then, as if
by inspiration, he saw it all. His bath had been
decidedly incomplete.
We rejoice to observe that the Evenooze
is going straight in for levering up the masses, es-
pecially since the new Bishop took hold out here.
But there is a way of doing these things gently,
and by degrees. It is not well to dismay beginners
in morality and well-behaving with recondite de-
ductions. We may have explored the profoundest
depths of knowledge—we may have dredged the
lowest and farthest gulfs of Philosophy in our un-
ceasing search for the causes of things: but in
front of comparatively unreasoning folk, we
should not spill out the result too suddenly, lest
the glory of our “ take ” should altogether abash
others from the deep strange levels of wisdom,
rather than stimulate them to search. The aver-
age human mind needs educating and training
up to the reception of a great truth. So we
think Alfred, however well - meaning, was a
little indiscreet, considering that he addresses
a mixed constituency, whereof each member can’t
be a Kant or a Herbert Spencer, the other day,
when he let the cat out of the bag in this sudden
manner: “ Always be brave, chivalrous, noble. A
mean, skulking, cowardly, hypocritical, and tho-
roughly despicable disposition will never be assidu-
ously cultivated by that nobleman of Nature’s
handiwork, the true gentleman.” Again we say
that this disclosure should have been led up to
with consummate tact, and let dribble out in sec-
tions, instead of being rashly placed before a
totally unprepared public in one issue. We must
confess that the discovery that these attributes
are not “assiduously cultivated” by true gentle-
men has been a facer to us, and we've had a fear-
ful time of it since. We can see now, but too
plainly, where we barked our shins in our blind
stumblings after the great and good. We have
been assiduously cultivating just the wrong sort
of specialities, all on acconnt of Alf.’s not having
spoken out long ago. Why, oh, why didn’t he give
these matters his attention before we went so far*
for now, like Sir Gareth, we seem as one
That all in later, sadder age begins
To war against ill uses of a life,
But these from all his life arise, and cry
“Thou hast made us lords and canst not put us
down I”
We dreamed of being ultimately a millionare, and
riggingup a memorial window to John Br no,
to Leopold; ergo, we were mean, we had hopes of
attaining a high post in the Civil Service; ergo, we
were skulking, we yearned to be a captain of
ergo, we were cowardly, we thought
it possible we might triumph through Grace
as a preacher ; ergo, we were hypocritical,
we decided as a dernier ressort to be a
C.M.G. ; ergo, we were thoroughly despicable.
There’s meanness for your millionaire, skulking
for your Civil Servant, cowardice for your cap-
tain, hypocrisy for your parson, and thorough des-
spicability for your C.M.G. And now, after our
disposition is just nicely formed, Bennett must sit
up of a night thinking, and thinking, and think-
ing, and find out we’te on the wrong tack alto-
gether, and blurt it out in his plain, blunt way.
But, however sincere he is in the promulgation of
the new doctrine, and however many anxious
hours of self-communing it may have cost him to
formulate it, we hold it was rash to divulge the
whole scheme at once. It’s too new. Nobody
ever thought of it that way at all. The world isn’t
ripe for such startling revelations. He shouldn’t
have shown his hand to everybody, yet awhile.
There’s whole heaps of money in original wrinkles,
and now everybody’s in possession of the fruits of
Alfred’s brain!
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is*
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops'’in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete oure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Dmara-ist*. Monos. Moss A On.. Gee era. Acents.
Now ready: Socialities for 1884. Is.; by
post, Is. 4d. 130 Comic Illustrations : 200 columns
of Humorous Letterpress. All booksellers, and
Aiex. M‘Kinley and Co., 113 Pitt-street.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly ooloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Bach package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these onoe. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
Sackage. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
colours, &c., &o. by return post.


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will lu her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
A young lady in one of our pro-
HAMBURG minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
TEA. among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
HAMBURG her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
TEA. accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
HAMBURG tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
TEA. physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
HAMBURG ailment, failed to afford relief A
TEA. friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
HAMBURG using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
TEA. made trial of i f , and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
HAMBURG the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
TEA. restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
HAMBURG sible to say too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
TEA. Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
HAMBURG vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
TEA. sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
HAMBURG foul bteath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
TEA. ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of ail Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London .”
Ilfff
DE
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly cheek the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS :
CHARLES 11 aii CO,,
375 George-st., Sydney.
S - TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
MIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
JL-URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. BCALD3, &e- and
taken internally cures DIARRHfE A, BYSEN .HKY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lUtbrna aches
tnd pains. .
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere#
C. E. MOULTON, sole propixtor,
MEX.BOXJEISrU AIHSTID o - DNEY,
PAINT
Marshallo
TONIC NERVINE
&£'• ; v Jl*. •» a/ ** -V.
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonio
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’3
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
Sold everywnere. Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL
BROTHERB, M.P.8., Manufacturing Chemists,
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park,
Svdney. N.B.—All imitations illegal. TAKE NO
SUBSTITUTE.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Oh, bright as the glitt’ring diamond shines
Were her eyes of blue—love’s sacred mines;
Her hair, like a wreath of golden glow,
-Framed in the glorious lace below.
iHer cheeks had a blush that sham’d the rose,
Her bosom was white as driven snows;
Her lily-white hands and dainty leet
To an artist’s eye were a heav'nly treat.
I ga/.'d on her with my eyes entranc'd,
While Love like fire through my bosom danc’d;
When, tripping up then, cried my sister Poll,
*• Why, you old spoon! that is a big shop doll!”
On the subject of marriage with the de-
ceased wife’s sister, a “ High Church Reetor ” has
been writing to the London Daily News. This
good, simple-minded man lived, it appears, for
many years in Australia, and must have had a
very extensive acquaintance among gentlemen
who had espoused tne sister of their first wife, for
he writes ;—“ Famines whom I have known as re-
spectable members of society, and supporters of
the Church, looked on universally as models of
Christian behaviour and regular communicants,
are, on their return to this country, denounced by
the clergy in tho most violent language ; called by
approbious terms; driven from the altar, and
almost, if not quite, excommunicated from the
Church. As the husband is generally commanded
to separate from his wife, in too many instances
he obeys, by discarding her and his family, and
marrying another woman.” In a fair heel-and-
toe ‘‘lying” match, we don’t think that Ananias
could have given any start at all to the “ High
Church Rector.” Setting aside the fact that the
“Rector’s” epistle makes it appear as though
every Australian who marries his sister-in-law
takes her and his family home to England, and im-
mediately explains all his domestic arrangements
to the parson—the notion of the latter command-
ing the tractable hubby to become again a bache-
lor, and he (poor dear “communicant,” and
“Christian model”) obeying, is very funny. Cer-
tainly, we haven’t a very exalted opinion of
communicants, but it must be remembered that
the wife would have a say over this “ excommu-
nication ” business. She might suggest the idea of
returning to Australia, and becoming respectable
members of society, supporters of the Church,
regular communicants, and models of Christian
behaviour once again. However, we will en-
deavour to express the High Church Rector’s ex-
perience in a doggrel :
Now, Boddles had a darling wife,
And when she died he missed her
So very much, that (such is life)
He had to take her sister.
Thro* Austral wide you’d need to look
For ones to beat the Boddles—
The sacrament they always took.
For they were Christian models.
Just twenty years had they been wed
(They’d several sons and daughters),
When Boddle took it in his head
To cross the briny waters,
And settle in his father land,
In sumptuous style and regal.
But there (as you must understand)
His marriage was illegal.
So, as the story got abroad
About this lawless union,
When Boddle went to seek the Lord
They “ barred ” him at Communion.
Poor Boddle wept in dire distress,
But, quite unmoved, the “pas’on”
Explained—” You can‘t come here, unless
To some fresh girl you fasten.”
For days B. pondered in bis mind
The parson’s words (and morals).
Thought he, “ My wife is good and kind,
We never haw had quarrels;
M And yet, although it seems unjust
To leave the wife I cherish,
I somehow feel I really must
Take sacrament—or perish.
“ Since over here (he wiped his eye
Not binding do my vows hold,
,2’d better bid my love good-bye,
And start another household.
“ ’Tis good to take a priest’s advice,
And do the thing he bids me,
Especially when—that is nice—
Of all old ties it rids me.”
Next week our Boddle took a bride—
A blushing, sweet, youDg creature—
To church, and then the parson cried,
“Oh, now I’m pleased to greet yerl”
Bright, shining lights those twain became
Among the congregation—
While she who once bore Boddle’s name—
Well, she died of starvation.
A blood-curdling littio book has just been
published by Mr. H. C. Jacobson, proprietor of the
Akaroa Mail, New Zealand. It is entitled “ Tales
of Banks, Peninsula.” A considerable portion of
the little work has been written by a Maori
clergyman, the Rev. J. W. Stack, of Akaroa, and
consists of rather startling details of the principal
massacres perpetrated on each other by different
tribes of the native population of forty or fifty
years ago. Here is one of the stories as told by an
old chief still living:—A party of Kaiapoi warriors,
having attacked and routed an opposing force,
started in pursuit of the fugitives. “As I ran
along,” said the chief, “I saw in front of me old
Upokohina, a first cousin of Te Maihara, trying to
escape. He was carrying one little child on his
back, and leading two others by hand. He called
out to the man who was pursuing him, ‘ Do not
kill me.’ Te Whakatuka, who was at a little dis-
tance, heard him bea-for his life, and called out to
keep him till he came up, intending to save him.
But the old man’s relation, Te Maihara, ran
forward, crying in a loud voice, ‘ Spare my
cousin.’ Upokohina sat down, and his pur-
suers stood round him. When Te Maihara
came up, he at once rubbed noses with his rela-
tive, aDd with each of his children; then, without
a moment’s warning, he buried bis hatchet in the
side of the old man’s head, who fell over with a
groan. Withdrawing the hatchet, he struck each
of the children on the head, cracking their skulls
like bird’s eggs. Then, turning to Whakaluka, he
said: ‘But for your interference, I should have
spared my cousin and his children, but I could not
permit you to boast hereafter that you had
either slain or spared any of my relations. Our
honour demanded their death at my hands.’ ”
Alluding, in his preface, to the help he had reee ved
from Mr. Stack and others in the compilation of
the book, Mr. Jacobson says: “ Here is only a nose-
gay of cut flowers, and nothing is my own but the
string that binds them.” A nosegay, indeed!
Truly Mr. Jacobson is possessed of a streak of
very fine humour, almost rivalling the old war-
rior’s keen sense of honour.
A SUCCESSFUL SEANCE.
Unquestionable Instance of Materialization.
“ Sweet Sixteen ” asks: “Do we believe in
High School education for our girls ?” Well, you
better believe we do. How could any man so far
forget his self-respect as to partake of a plate of
dry hash or a “toad-in-the-hole,” which had been
cooked by a woman who never heard of the Dif-
ferential Calculus, and who couidn’t tell whether
Pons Asinorum was a branch of the Presbyterian
Synod or a new style of insect powder ? Or, how
could he ever become so degraded as to wear a
pair of striped socks that had been darned by a
wife who didn’t k low any more about iEschylus
and Sophocles than a dirty swamp frog does about
the retreat of Xerxes. “ Sweet Sixteen ” reminds
us that Juvenal once sang
“ Oh, never may the partner of my bed,
With subtleties of logic fill her head;
Enough for me if common things she know,
And boasts the little learning schools bestow.”
But why, in thunder, should we take that old
Pagan mule’s opinion on the subject? Think a
man wants to be talking all his life to his wife
about baby’s boils, and why tho hen with the
yellow ears and the pulled tail has knocked off
laying, and all other “common things” like these?
Not a bit of it. The 19th-century man wants to
discuss the agnostic theory, and to hear all about
Joe Cook and the Silurian period; and if his
own legally-ordained wife can’t hold up her end
of the stick when arguing about these things, the
19th-century man is going to skip round and chum
in with somebody else's wife who can. D’ye hear
that, Sweet Sixteen ? And are you quite sure that
you’re not nearer to sixty times sixteen, and that
you haven’t got a single idea in your old red sand-
stone brain-pan that isn’t as old as the grey-headed
grand-mother of the Chinese empire ? Of course
we believe in High Schools, and high-toned educa-
tion for our git is, and we long for the day when
our Sydney Morning Muffin-W'rapper will
teem with such ads. as this: “ Wanted, by a
B.A. young lady, aged 20, a situation as plain cook
and, laundress. Would be willing to till up her
spare time by giving lessons in Greek, Latin,
French and German; Algebra, Drawing, Music,
and figure-painting to the children. Wages no
object.” When we see that day on hand, we’ll
sling up our best hat, for we’ll know the millennium
is close upon us.
Dan’l Dooberry, of 27 Blue Bear Lane,
London, is three years old, and a self-convicted
murderer; in point of fact, a fratricide. We pur-
posely start this par. off in the mildest manner
possible, because, if we let out the whole facts of
the case at once, the interest our readers would
take in Dan’l Dooberry might draw i heir attention
from the heavenly lectures of Brother Buncombe
Booth, and, perhaps, seriously interfere with their
digestive apparatus also. Mrs. Dooberry slings
suds at gentlemen’s shirts for a living, and, when
she returns home with the proceeds pf her toil,
Mr. Dooberry sits on her head till she hands over
the pool, after which he banks it with the landlord
of the Seven Dials shanty, and wraps himself
round bad rum, and discusses the troubled state
of affairs in the Soudan. Master Dan’l, however,
is a young gentleman of advanced ideas, and if he
is spared, will certainly rise to a very exalted posi-
tion, by the help of a flight of steps and the ver-
dict of an intelligent British jury. In his political
views, Dan’l is decidedly Nihilistic, and would ap-
pear to be a sort of cross between Pat Ford and
Joe Brady, with just enough of the Louise Michel
thrown in to give the amalgamation a high-toned
flavour. Mrs. Dooberry owns a mangle on this
mangle Dan’l has set his innocent little heart,
and he pines for the day when the machine will be
his, and he will be able to entice his unsuspecting
little playmates to poke their fingers underneath
the rollers while he playfully turns the crank, and
crushes them out like so many strands of pulver-
ized German-sausage. Up to the 20th of last
December, nothing happened to disturb the usual
tranquility of the Dooberry household. Mrs. Doo-
berry washed all day; Mr. Dooberry danced on her
ribs after tea, and then sallied off to his pub. to
get the latest tips from the seat of war, and Dan 1
sat round and gloated over the mangle like a
veritable young Robespierre in petticoats. But,
on the 21st, there came a thunderbolt crash. A
baby boy was born, and, in course of time, they
called him Joseph. In this young intruder, Dan 1
saw a dangerous rival. Joseph would grow up to
be the favourite son, and Joseph would scoop the
mangle. That, and the tax-papers, were all his
parents had to leave him. One day, however,
when Mrs. Dooberry had gone home with the
“wash,” and the Soudan politician was sleeping
off the effects of last night’s debate in the fire-
place, Dan’l entered into himself, and began
to discuss the crisis. When he came out
of himself, he got hold of a tomahawk,
and creeping over to the cradle, he made
dry hash of the baby’s head in the most
artistic manner possible. Not content with this,
he proceeded to hide his dreadful work in the
most effectual manner possible by eating Joseph
raw; but unfortunately for Dan’l, his mother re-
turned, and raised some very strong objections.
The case was actually tried last month in a London
Court, but through some miscarriage of justice,
the playful Dan 1 was discharged without a stain
upon nis character. According to Sir Alfred’s
theory, Dan’l ought to have been hanged as a sort
of mild preventitive to his indulging in any more
of his devilish little pleasantries. However, he
was honourably acquitted, and, as the other Alf.
would say, “we predict a brilliant career for this
gifted young artist in the extremely useful sphere
of life to which he’s called.”
England’s Old Nobility.
Let each of us a handkerc/i’e/
Bring out, and shed sorne tears
Of bitter, wild, indignant grief
O’er poor old England’s Peers—
And cry, with all humility,
“ God spare us a Nobility.”
Why, not so many months ago
It cut us to the quick
To find the Duke of Marlboro’
Was wont his wife to kick.
(There’s much irascibility
Among the old Nobility.)
And ended all conjugal strife
By bolting with a girl—
She, by the bye, the lawful wife
Of Marlboro's friend—an Eari.
(What an act of incivility
'I o one of the nobility!)
The Earl, too,—as explained in Court
(You recollect, of course).
Himself strange goddesses had sought
And couldn’t get “ divorce.”
(There’s so much sensibility
Amongst the old Nobility.)
Then, only quite the other day,
A lordling, fresh from school,
Behaved in Bueh a shameful way
To “ Fortescue’’—false fool!
(There’s a snobbish imbecility
About the proud Nobility.)
And now, another titled “swell ’’
Has done an action vile—
Committed an assault—oh, well—
He has to stand his trial.
(There’s often no gentility
About the old Nobility.)
Since these are instances a few,
A mong a hundred such,
On which, though very sadly true,
There isn’t time to touch—
We ask, with all humility,
“ Do we want a Nobility ?”
“A Woman’s Love.”
There is one bliss for man ordained,
As pure as the Celestial dove;
One priceless gift from heaven retained,
All else immeasurably above,
God-given and by God sustained,
The undying Vestal fire of one true womans
love.
Oh he, in whose immortal soul
There lies enshrined that sacred fire,
Cares nothing how this world may roll,
He lives in realms removed and higher;
No curfew in his heart shall toll
To quench the glorious flame whose virgins never
tire.
For him the Ossian “Joy of Grief,”
For him the Stoic’s “ Dain,”
Tor him the Mystic’s fond belief,
“ A heaven to lose and one to gain,”
•Of human joys he claims the chief,
Who on the throne of one true woman’s heart
shall reign.
A. MESTON.


The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. 8.,
and in every way tryiHg to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “ Hop ” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Heps on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists aDd Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
Speedy, Gentle, Safe.
As a Blood Purifier, Spring Medicine, Aperient,
Diuretic, or Tonic, Cuticura Resolvent sur-
passes all other compounds. According to the
dose taken, it acts gently or freely upon the bowels
without the least pain or griping sensatioo. Taken
before breakfast it will act iu about four hours,
and hence is invaluable for those who wake with
Sick Headache, Furred Tongue, Billiousness,
Dyspepsia, Torpidity of the Liver, Constipation,
Piles, High-coloured Urine, Inflamed Kidneys, and
other congested conditions requiring a speedy,
gentle, and safe cathartic.
So insidious are the first approaches of
Consumption, that thousands remain unconscious
of its presence until it has brought them to the
verge of the grave. An immediate resort to Dr.
D. Jayne’s Expectorant, upon the first appearance
of Cough, Pain or Soreness of the Throat or Chest,
would very generally preclude a fatal result, or,
in case the symptoms indicate the presence of
Latent Consumption, would tend to subdue the
violence of the disease, and thus materially assist
in prolonging the life of the patient. Use the Ex-
pectorant therefore when you take a Cold, and by
so doing prevent the necessity for its use in more
dangerous complaints. To be had of all Druggists
hud Storekeepers; and wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
"Wells* “ Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
General Campenon, the French Minister
for War.
A returned colonist, of the usual meddlesome
type, having written to acquaint the people or
Great Britain, by the medium of the London
Times, that if the French Government persist in
their recidivist© scheme, we Australian colonists
will settle the business off-hand by seizing
New Caledonia, a portrait of the officer who
at the present juncture presides over the
armies of France has a particular interest for
Australian readers. Before we declare war
and proceed to bombard Noumea, and effect
a lodgement on Isle Nou, preparatory to
driving the frog-eating Frenchmen into the sea,
under the masterly guidance of Commander-
in-Chief Loftus, or War Minister Soft-goods
Sargood, we will naturally ponder the features
and expression of the man upon whom the foe will
rely to organise the preparations for running
away at our martial appearance and awful front—
especially our awful front. Although General
Campenon cannot, of course, compare in respeGt
of military experience or tactical genius with
either our own Commander-in-Chief, the Victorian
Field-Marshal Sargood, or the veteran Garden
Honey; still he has, in his small way, seen a little
lighting. He is of an antiquated school, as com-
pared with Sargood, whose first uniform is still
in very good preservation—which, however, may
be due to the excellence of the cloth, at 4s. 9d. per
yard, with liberal discount to the trade. Campenon
was born 1819, entered the Military College of f't.
Cyr in 1837, and passed as sub-lieutenant in 1840.
Since then he has been arrested and exiled after
the coup d’etat which placed Napoleon 111. on the
throne ; was subsequently reinstated, has served
in Algeria, Italy, and China, and participated in
the war with Prussia, in 1870, taking part therein
as General of Division in a desperate and histori-
cal charge, in which he was seriously wounded.
He was among the number of those shut up in
Metz with Bazaine, and shared his subsequent cap-
tivity. On the restoration of peace, he took a
prominent part in the reorganisation of the
French army, and was chosen by Gambetta (who
probably had not heard of Sargood at the time) as
Minister for War in his Cabinet of 1881. He shared
Gambetta’s fall, and remained without Ministerial
employment until, in October last, M. Ferry
nominated him to the same position.
In military chronicles, it is the generals
and higher officers who get all the glory, the subal-
terns and rank and file coming in fc>r none of that
dazzling article. To remedy this injustice, there
is published in New York a paper devoted to
private soldiers, another in New Orleans, another
in Louisville, and a monthly magazine in St. Louis.
In the columns of these publications the idea is to
rescue from oblivion anecdotes and incidents
known only to the private soldiers, and which help
to make accurate history. The object of one of
these publications is thus defined:—
“ We sing the nameless host, unknown in song or
story, A .
Half hidden in the dazzling light of aggregated
glory;
The men whose deeds have made their chiefs re-
nowned to all futurity,
While they loom dimly through the haze of lumin-
ous obscurity;
The common herd, the rank and file, the anony-
mous immortals
Who ope but never enter through Fame’s glorious
golden portals;
Who mined and trenched and marched and toiled
with ardour unabated,
And swept across the battle-fields like whirlwinds
incarnated! .
Whose grand impersonal renown adds to their
country’s glory,
But gives them not one line in song, and not one
page in story!”
Since Earl Cairns—who delights to preside
at tea-fights, and take the chair at missionary
meetings—instructed his son, Lord Gumboil, to
inform the fair Miss Fortescue that godly people
regard everyone connected with the stage as
“ little better than dirt,” lesser lights of the pro-
spective heavenly kingdom appear to have
plucked up courage to express themselves in a
similar strain. The Y. M. C. A. of Portsmouth
(Eng.), recently organized a series of entertain-
ments in aid of some charity, and engaged Mrs.
Bellington, the well-known actress, to give a few
recitations. This brought Chadband to the front
at once to denounce the Y.M.C.A. for its thought-
less wickedness. With tearful eyes, the pet local
parson expressed his opinion that “when people
had to engage an actress—as he believed Mrs. Bel-
lington to be —to give humourous recitations
under the auspices of a Christian association, he
believed it was time to expunge the word “Chris-
tian” from the title of such association.” This
sweet thing in clergymen (who, by the bye, is a
Church of England man, and not a Presbyterian)
appears to have taken special umbrage at the reci-
tations being humourous— that had a lot to do
with the performance being un-Christian, no
doubt As Mrs. Bellington is a lady of leally
quite irreproachable character, it is only to pre-
sume that the good man’s denunciations were
directed against her artistic—and not her moral-
character. What he really meant to say was that
a Christian Association can’t countenance any en-
tertainment in the strict sense of the word. How-
ever, as this self-asserting professor of Christianity
chose to deliver himself of such rashly personal
remarks, it would be only right that his pro-
ficiency in one of its branches—muscular Chris-
tianity, for instance—should be fairly tested by
Mrs. B.’s husband. Mr. John Billington is quite
big enough to tackle an average snuffling parson.
By the way, many of the unco guid who hold
forth about the contaminating influence of the
stage would be aghast at learning that one of the
Queen’s particular friends, Lady Martin, was the
leading actress of a past generation, and that the
ex-actress’s husband edited “More Leaves from
my Diary.” But perhaps they would hold that
last un-Christian circumstance accountable for
poor John Brown’s death—in the final chapter.
The recidiviste question is claiming a good
deal of attention now-a-days, especially up Lane
Cove way. You’d hardly think that the fossils
who wile their happy hours awav amid the
oysters and other (sylvan beauties of that seques-
tered spot, would care a tinker’s malediction or a
Salvationist’s blessing about such an abstruse
subject, but it is a fact, anyhow. It happened
this way. One day last week a couple of sewing
machine agents, intent on pushing a smart busi-
ness amongst the rural population of Lane Cove,
hired a boat, and having loaded the little craft to
the gunwales with sewing machines and provisions
for the lengthened voyage, weighed anchor from
North Shore and steered their bark for Lane Cove.
They had a good passage, and everything went
smoothly until they sighted a habitation close to
the foreshore of a secluded inlet. They beached
the vessel and started right away for business, the
spokesman being an Italian from Cork. His mate,
too, had a slightly foreign accent. They inter-
viewed the proprietor of the cot, and expressed
their wish to trade either c. o. d. or on the time-
payment system, and with the eloquence peculiar
to the machine or book agent, proceeded to show
the old man the different uses to which the ma-
chines could be applied. They pointed out how,
by shifting the shuttle, or the cog-wheel, or some-
thing, it could be converted with ease into
a garden seat; and then, by an easy movement of
the patent lock-stitch, and the adjustment (of the
kilting gear, a high-class and comfortable baby’s
cradle could be formed, fitted up with noiseless
rockers and a feeding bottle; and, further,
by taking off the top, the frame could be utilised
as a wheelbarrow, or a fish-trap, and the spanners
and screwdriver would answer for can-opener and
oyster-knife respectively. The ancient party of
Lane Cove, in reply to the earnest solicitations to
trade, and the incentives held out to him, said that
he had no use for one, and declined to purchase
on any terms, and hinted that he thought they
were infernal machines of the dynamite order.
The captain of the vessel then asked if they could
light a fire and cook their dinner, but the old
party was obdurate, and refused to allow them
even that privilege. Then high words ensued, but
eventually the cruisers went abroad, and hoisted
their sails for a better market. T n the meantime,
however, the Lane Cove man went to the nearest
telegraph station and wired to the police authori-
ties in Sydney for a battery of field guns and
some cavalry and infantry, to capture two French
escapes who, he said, were cruising round, intent
on rapine and plunder, and had some infernal
machines with them, which were evidently in-
tended for the destruction of all the public build-
ings in Lane Cove. Thereupon a mounted trooper
was sent from Sydney so reconnoitre, and the
standing army of the colony was held in readiness
to go to war on receipt of information as to the
location of the enemy. By that time the pirates,
having disposed of their cargo, had taken advant-
age of a fair wind and ebb tide to return to the
depot, and so got away clear. However, such a
scare has been created in that neighbourhood that
a whole consignment of bolts and bars have been
shipped there, as well as a number of horse pistols
to guard the inhabitants from the depradations of
GENERAL CAMPENON, THE FRENCH MINISTER FOR WAR.
the French escapes. And all this because one of
those harmless agents had a French accent.
Catch on to this, Dr. Barry. It is a some-
what remarkable fact that although we, Christians,
profess to believe that God alone knows what is
for our advantage, and what is not, still we gener-
ally specify what we want when we pray, in a style
so exact, as to lead an unbeliever to suppose that
our Deity was a sort of Hebrew general store-
keeper who would ring a skoddy article on us
whenever an opportunity offered. One Pope—
who was a sort of poet in his own small way- once
sang a little song like tbis:
“ Unask’d, what good thou knowest, grant,
What ill, though ask’d, deny.”
And even the mule-headed old pagans who used to
bribe their gods with fried cow-heel and bullock’s
livers had a higher opinion of the Omnipotent
MISS FORTEBCUE, LORD GARMOYLE’S DESERTED SWEETHEART.
than we seem to hold, for their principal prayer
was, “Father Jove, grant us good, whether we
pray for it or not: and avert from us all evil, even
though we pray far it.” And this leads us up to
the following tale;—Some months ago, the Queen
of Italy was out for a run when she unexpectedly
came across a little girl named Anita Cardoni, who
was kneeling down on a log and praying away to
La Regina d’Cielo, fit to burst. On making en-
quiries, Queen Margherita learnt that Anita had
an eye to biz., and was asking for the modest
sum of four-pence ha’penny to enable her
to buy enough stuff to knit a pair of stockings.
According to the editor of the Roman Lanterna,
the Queen of Italy at once appointed herself as a
sort of advance agent of the Queen of Heaven,
and gave the girl a purse containing sixty lire.
The editor of the Lanterna is probably a lire
himself, and all Margherita handed over was
what the Italians call a sprat; however, Anita
bought the stuff, made the stockings, and sent
them to Her Magesty as a birthday present. Then
the simple-minded little ragazza had another fit of
praying, and she was barely off her knees before a
court messenger returned with the stockings,
which were then full to the bung with glistening
shillings. Now, any man with a healthy imagina-
tion and a sound liver would at once perceive the
finger of Providence sticking out a foot in all
this, hut the subsequent proceedings clearly
proved that it would have been better for Anita if
she had prayed for the chicken-pox instead of a
heap of silver. First of all, her old man, who was
Captain of the Free Lunch Brigade, and used to
lie on his back all day in the sun for a living, col-
lared the whole of the royal “ greed,” except a
few pieces that his eldest boy, Giovanni Baptista,
stole, and then went off on a howling Jamberoo
around the city. Then the trouble began.
First of all, Giovanni Baptists invested his
pile in an old horse-pistol and ammunition
with which he accidentally blew the roof off
Anita’s head, and filled the Southern hemisphere
of a monk’s pants with buck-shot. About the
eleventh hour, the old man (whose front name was
Pietro) began to make the city lively, and before
the fifteenth hour was chimed, it was rumoured
that Antichrist had broken loose, and was raising
Cain throughout the district. Then the “ f oorce ”
was called out, and after a pitched battle
was fought, Pietro was “run in.” Next day
he was hauled along before a pot-bellied old
magistrate, and charged with drunkenness, dis-
orderly conduct, profane and seditious lan-
guage,, painting the statues of S.S. Pietro et
Paulo pea-green, and chalking filthy inscriptions
all over the walls of the Colosseum, shooting at
fourteen priests and the editor of the Lanterna,
setting fire to the Government powder magazine,
and blowintr up a public school with dynamite,
hamstringing the Pope’s horses, burning down the
hospital, and about 17,000 other minor charges,
which the prosecuting sergeant said he didn t
wish to press. Anita doesn’t pray at all. now. It
takes her all her time to hold her scalp on with
one hand, and carry the old man’s grub to the gaol
with the other. And we're thankful we were
badly brought up ourselves, and don’t even know
what prayer is.
The idea that Her Majesty's Government
can be composed of English gentlemen not habi-
tually addicted to murder, arson, piracy, forgery,
robbery, and perjury, oan only be entertained by
people who have not read the recent speeches
of the Marquis of Salisbury, Lord Randolph
Churchill, and the leading members of her
Majesty’s Opposition. After reading these opposi-
tion Culminations, one is apt Isays Dagonet) to
fancy that one has been asleep for a year, and that
in the meantime the Cabinet has been reeon-
structed somewhat as follows
First Lord of the Treasury.. The Right Hon. Judas
Iscariot.
Lord High Chancellor .. .. The Right Hon.
Judge Jeffreys.
Chancellor of Exchequer .. The Right Hon.
Charles Peace.
Home Secretary The Right Hon.
An^Qi&B>
Foreign Secretary The Right Hon. Titus
War Secretary The Right Hon.
Colonel Blood.
Indian Secretary The Right Hon. Nana
Sahib.
First Lord of the Admirality—The Right Hon
Captain Kidd.
Postmaster-General .. .. The Right Hon. Mr.
Burke.
President Board of Trade .. The Right Hon. Mr.
Hare.
President Local Government „
Board The Bight Hon.
Richard Turpin.
Maziere Brady, in his “ Plea for an A.nglo-
Roman Alliance,” says:—“The Queen paid two
short visits to her Irish dominions, and never
spent a single Sunday upon Irish terra firma. On
the occasion of her last visit, she went on board
her yacht on a Saturday night, and steamed out of
Kingstown harbour on the following morning.
She never once entered a Catholic place of worship
in Ireland. Yet when on the Continent of Europe
she has been known to witness functions in
Catholic churches. Her sons have visited St.
Peter’s and the Pope, and given their photographs
in token of friendship, to Irish Catholic ecclesi-
astics in Rome. The Queen, when in Scotland 1
attends Presbyterian worship, and receives com-
munion in a sitting posture. Her representatives
in India pay respect to the idolatrous religions
of the natives, and her troops in Egypt did
homage to the Holy Carpet. Her Majesty would
have set a striking example of tolerance to
her Protestant subjects, and would have
gained the hearts of many of her Catholic
lieges, had she attended High Mass or a Te
Deum in the Dublin Catholic Cathedral. There
are millions of Irish Catholics in Great Bri-
tian and her colonies, and there are also no incon-
siderable number of British Catholics in the same
regions. In America the Catholics of Irish descent
are so numerous as to constitute a formidable
power in the United States, a power whose in-
fluence no political party can afford to despise. All
these millions of Catholics, are spiritually subject
to the Pope. The spiritual master of these
millions is a potentate whose aid cannot safely be
despised by! the temporal sovereign. At present
the autocrat of all the Russias finds it necessary to
establish diplomatic relations with Rome; and the
Protestant Emperor of Germany is not ashamed to
go to Canossa, and send an accredited agent to the
Vatican. Why does Great Britain refuse to send a
duly authorised envoy to the Papal Court? It
may be confidently asserted that the principal
leaders of political parties in England, whether
Conservative or Liberal, entertain for themselves
no objection against establishing regular diploma-
tic relations with a Court with which they have been
from time to time, if not continuously, compelled
to treat indirectly. Years ago, the Papal Nuncio
at Paris or Brussels was the occasional interme-
diary between Rome and St. James’. Sometimes a
Protestant prelate, such as the notorious Bari of
Bristol, conveyed the wishes of the British Cabinet
to the Propaganda. Hundreds of letters of Sir J.
Coxe Hippesley, an officious but unofficial envoy
of the British Crown, lie in Roman archives.
Cardinal Erskine was also employed in an under-
hand manner at the Vatican; among the more or
less official and officious agents at Rome were one
Jenkins, an antiquary, Lord Mr.
Petre, the Earl of Minto, who threatened the Pope
with the British fleet, Lord Lyons, Mr. Odo Russell,
and Mr. Clarke Jervoise; and, in short, there never
was a period when the British Government omitted
to seek the Pope’s aid through irregular channels,
whenever that aid seemed to be desirable. Even
in more recent times no Papal appointments to
important episcopal sees in Ireland were made
without attempts, more or less indirect, on the
part of English agents or quasi-agents to influence
them. The mission of Mr. George Errington, so
long denied, was at last acknowledged. Those
British statesmen, theretore, who say that a British
envoy at the Papal Court is unnecessary, while
they themselves employ one, are guilty of hypo-
crisy. Most persons, however, are of opinion that
if diplomatic intercourse of some kiod with Rome
be necessary, such intercourse should be open and
above-board. The Conservative Premiers are only
deterred by fear of the Orangemen, and the Liberal
Premiers by fear of the extreme Radicals, from
taking the honourable course of openly establish-
ing those diplomatic relations with Rome which
they know by experience to be absolutely indis-
pensable.


4 ■
0
fts
//
&
m i
i 1 1 r
''V .;
■
r
trr
r
f
awyMiinr.
&
<b
iK
*o
$
<a
SB>
%s
55
ft
38
<s
A
O
N
*8
ss
v
&
§s
o
$
V
?v
&
*
$
\'
£
&
N
'*■ Ci
<&
$
§3
s>
Cj
\
,v
o
«
o
2>>
O
,\
sJ
SS
«
»\
■$S?4 ■
*
=w»
5&1&
rSJ
;‘U'
■
-.-
*«
HW,
Mt
f
r-
Vj
'. IS® &t:
J
-
W
-<mr/z
M
£k&&is&J^z!£3L
Vt
•'*
0
%
7*
MM
a
■ ‘
rf
m
-wBK
'
w
55
is*
&#?
mm
‘i:M£
m iligflll?
m
,* \-faS
&
&*»s*?*«
11
H
ms
-i
!v*'
*?V\V
I;',|L
wx
•: J 7 f/M//S
#
If
I
S' V
! /
3*
w?
: ! ; J "
Si
m
fr.@B
rr’-TT*
Si
U±JL
FOR WINTER.
First Quality Tweed Sac Suits - - £1 15 0
Extra Quality Tweed Sac Suits - -£220
Special Quality Tweed Sac Suits - £2 10 0
Navy Blue Serge Sac Suits - -£220
Blue Cheviot Serge Sac Suits - - £2 7 6
Send for Samples arid Directions for & Self-Measurement.


co^ h
Celebrated Ready-Made ~*o
ORIENT CX<
U
FOR AUTUMN AND WINTER WEAR,
THE BEST VALUE PROCURABLE IN THE COLONY.
BSfTX&a&BNT'S
SAC SUITS,
FIRST QUALITY TWEED 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY TWEED 42/-
SPECIAL QUALITY TWEED 50/-
NAYY BLUE REGULATION SERGE, per Suit 42/-
NAYY BLUE CHEVIOT SERGE, per Suit ... 47/0
EXTRA QUALITY TWEED WALKING SUITS 58/0
Neat dark Patterns. A capital Suit for general wear.
A most useful Suit, in fashionable neat patterns; finished in the best manner.
A very superior Suit, in ohoice Tweed; excellently well trimmed and made.
Indigo Dye ; thoroughly shrunk ; very durable.
Indigo Dye ; strong, warm, and" most comfortable in wear.
Splendidly cut; neat dark patterns; all wool materials.
COATS.
'Double-breasted Sergerette Frock Coats 55/-
Blaok Dress Coats 52/6
Black doth Double-Breasted Frock Coats 63/-
Single-breasted Sergerette Walking Coats ... 38/6 & 42/-
Single-breasted Sergerette Sac Coats 25/- & 32/-
Single-breasted Blue Serge Sac Coats 21/- & 24/-
TROUSERS
and
VESTS.
Fanoy Tweeds and Doeskins in great variety ... 17/6 to 28/6
Navy Blue Serge 21/- to 25/-
Blaok and Blue Sergerette 28/6 to 31/6
TEOUSSBS.
Az? 'ia
VESTS.
IFanoy Tweeds and Doeskins
Black and Blue Sergerette
Black Cloth
Blue Serge
Black Cloth Dress
5/- to 8/6
lO/6 & 11/0
lO/6 & 11/0
7/0 to 8/0
lO/0
OVERCOATS.
'The CHESTERFIELD and GLADSTONE—
In neat all-wool Tweeds & Col’d. Sergerettes... 30/- to 65/-
In Beaver, Witney, and Frieze, favourite Colours ... 45/-
The NEW BRIGHTON Overcoat, extra long—
In fancy Tweeds and Choioe Sergerettes ... 42/- & 47/0-
The ULSTER—
In all-wool Cheviot Tweeds and Sergerettes... 30/- to 60/-
In Grey Irish Frieze and Blue Witney 80/-
The COVERT Overcoat—
This new and fashionable short Overcoat, in choice
shades of Drabs, Browns, and Sages ... 35/- & 45/-
The INVERNESS Cape—
In Meltons and Sanitary Tweeds...
42/-
RELIABLE
WATERPROOF
CLOTHINQ.
The largest and best asserted Stock in the Colony, in every
variety of material; single and double textures; in all
the newest shapes for Pedestrian, Buggy, and Horsebaok
wear.
"|"HE chief features of the ORIENT CLOTHING are its EXTREME ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY OF CUT and SUPERIORITY OF STYLE
In directing your attention to our ORIENT CLOTHING for the present season, we desire to inform you that several important improvements have
been effected in the Quality of the Trimmings, the Security of the Buttons, and the general Cut and Finish of all the Garments.
It is worthy of Special Note that although the prices are the extreme of moderation, the quality of the goods is unexcep lona e, a
the standard which we have the reputation of always supplying.
All the fabrics are specially adapted to the climate of Australia. _ . .
Samples of nearly the whole of the Clothing can be had Post Free on application, and goods when supplied, if not approve , can e re une .
Gentlemen and Heads of Families should send for a parcel of our ORIENT CLOTHING and test the style and value.
Directions for Measuring for the ORIENT CLOTHING will be found below.
Heads of Families are requested to Notice our
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ ORIENT CLOTHING LIST.
TROUSER, SUITS —
To fit Boys & Youths
from 9 to 16 years.
rPlain and Fancy Tweed, fashionable
I Blue Cheviot Serge
' Blue and Black Sergerette
Black Sergerette, Eton shape ...
..Black Cloth
21/- to 36/-
24/- to 32/-
27/- to 40/-
48/6 to 54/-
31/- to 45/-
KNICIIER SUITS—
Sizes 0 to 8.
To fit Boys from
4 to 12 years.
Short Trousers.
'Special lines for School wear 7/6, 8/9,10/6
Superior Tweeds, all shapes 10/6 to 25/-
Blue and Black Sergerette 16/6 to 26/-
- Do. do. do. Harwich ... 22/6
Do. do. do. Albion ... 22/6
Coloured Velveteen, new shapes, sizes
00 to 7 14/6 to 21 1-
BLUE SERGE—
No Trimming, good
quality.
The Man o’ War long Trousers ...
The Maritime short Trousers
The Melville short Trousers
... 22/0 to 29/-
... 21/-
... 14/0
BOYS' JERSEY SUITS—
Sizes 00 to 0.
("The City Navy, with Cap
The Oxford, in Grey, and Heather Cap
and Stookings to match
. The Hastings, with white Vest and Cap
The Bunthorne, in Navy and Seal
The Manchester, with new Polo Cap ...
A variety of other shapes
10/6 to 19/-
12/- to 18/6
17/- to 22/0
19/0 to 25/0
14/- to 22/6
13/6 to 18/-
BOYS' & YOUTHS'
OVEECOATS-
'Little Boys’ Overcoat, detached Cape,
sizes 00 to 0 ... ...
Boys’ and Youths’ Overcoat, Sanitary
- Tweed, light texture
Boys’ and Youths’ Ulsters, and Brighton
Overcoats, in Plain and Fancy Tweeds,
sizes 7 to
10/0 to 24/-
22 1- to 29/-
19/- to 33/-
BOYS’ TBOUSERS—
From 7 to 2 sizes.
iln New useful Tweeds, thoroughly
l shrunk
8/6 to 18/6
mCEERBOCEER TROUSERS—Sizes oto B—ln New Strong Tweed ... Of- t 0 ®^
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
mibcirs,
349, 351, AND 363, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f IK** n """
DIRECTIONS FOR MEASURING FOR SAC ORIENT SUIT. h-mml
COATS, VESTS, Ac.-From neck seam of collar to bottom of Skirt From centre of Back to elbow joint, continued to length of sleeve at wrist Size round dies un er
round waist under the coat. TROUSERS—From top of trousers to bottom. From between the legs to bottom of trousers, round waist, roun ip*
SUPPLEMENT TO THE “BULLETIN”


THE
M
IGNO||
3l?ia,:n.©_ |w
i|r
IMli
m**
v,
THE
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
migrnon
PIAITO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
IMEigrnon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
Wilmer
Z^l-A-ZTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY!
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker <6 Cutler.
HT TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY*
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Kifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
t, N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
rngiigu maker, Chas. Osborn® ; also Angela Bor-
dom, of Brescia, Italy.
Champagne
Heidsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAUUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co.. Reims.
"O OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
IST WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNBF
Country Orders reosive prompt attention.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs*
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fataV
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral lias
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ light
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
® Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
ft prepared by <e
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
, N Sold by all Druggists. %
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
HOT WATER PATHS
HAIR ESTABLISHMENT
/ 137, 139 & 141 OXTORD .S T .
HALF HOLLOA Y FLYS/? Y THUS?SOA Y
K
SKISH BAlill
*4
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
It ?Lu ™ oBt fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and ail dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
an ? non-gritty tooth powder; suchßow-
M Odonto has always proved itself to be
ROWLANDS’ EUXONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
d i?i?t rti ? cat o of Purity from Dr. Kedwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rise
and cream. ’ ’
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Hetail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co , Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rjIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food &, Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWATS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter bv
weekly Cart: City * daUy: suburbs, three times
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
SI HARBOUR STKEET.
COLUf
BLEND
-Il
Imar&l
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
f/l ll ill I
VeLEBRff&l
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURBERI PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, BCENES, <K).
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-etJ
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
ft
ST
5J
ysi
•MHIII
m
r.
'n
£2
INVALUABLE
Lq
Ss
V!)
Wf
Ne
Ce
fUl e
'gSPECIALLV^
ADAPTED FOR THE
Australian Colonies
ESTIMATES
GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
>
>
c
J
©
jU\N@
OUOI/j^
KMM
f u
»■»-,. , .. .^yNCAl^ropposiTCPosTomce.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
.ilxpert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
JRADE
MARK.
[-Registered]
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
*** 2s. 6d. per lb.
Our TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength;
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
J.
i enochsberg,
MAN
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Banitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Jgf" Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
I lumping, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,’
‘VALVE,’’ & “PAN” CLOSETS,
PREVENTERS, &c.
‘VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
T77“lllKCLore’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STPvEET NORTH, SYDNEY.
I a ?i? establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
P, b,,ciness of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the weU-
K H>^v« Ke im U fr^ t «R. r .^ V K O H B y known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for oountrr
ln close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
jnd trg.inway terminus. Hpt an<} cpjd shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.


The Shun Pao (Chinese journal published
at Shanghai) thus reports the battle ot Sontay (as
will be observed, the account varies considerably
from that given by the French)“ The Chinese
General Lau, had previously prepared mines, con-
taining gunpowder and stupifying drugs, in his
encampment On the arrival uf the French troops,
the Chinese, feigning defeat, retired, surrendering
three of their camps to the French, who at once
took possession. Thereupon the Chinese fired
their rockets into the mines, which at once ex-,
ploded with a noise as of underground thunder
the French troops being blown to atoms, (literal ’
killed and cooked.) The Chinese troops who w
placed in ambush, at once rushed out and ut cer i v
destroyed the French soldiers. The third ba' o tali( n
of the French army auvauceu to tne assis* ' e (
their comrades, but were annihilated £ „ general
Lau before they got over half the grour J pif teen
three-striped officers and over a b one
and-two striped officers and wound©' , w „ r „
alive. On that day the
wounded and prisoners, over 7,0 f ’
strewed the plain and the blood flnwPfl in rivpr .
Of the Chinese soldiers oyer a t’ oouslnd were sllfn!
The following were killed >r jn e p re nch side:—
n riVhm 1 se Ghosts- 2000. Native
Roman Catholics-2600, Per ilonB (Tureos)—looo.
|-|' ER restored.
Clair View. f inverell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publisher 8 Bulletin.
» to acquaint you of a marvellous
Lai' /Q the use o£ st - Jacobs Oil, which
' in my own family. lam a poor
children, and for years have been
a • rer f rom sciatica. My wife was ad-
y St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
h? •*rT y e been using it of late with good results;
ew t 1 J of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
inaL i wisli to tell you. she retired one night
atiou J f our months ago in her usual good health,
but the ne xt morning she could not speak. My
w .fe took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
Yier throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
.TAS. R. HATCHER.
Enjoy Life.— What a truly beautiful world we
live in! We can desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per cent, of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, (Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symptoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its wonderful effect. Sold by all Druggist*
at 3s. 6d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 6d. Try it.
The Burrowa Times referring to the
suspension of the local branch of the Oriental Bank
says Statements and reports of large amounts
having been deposited on Saturday were freely
made. In short, people who were never before
supposed to be troubled with a plethora of cash,
were credited with having locked up in the strong-
room of the neat little Oriontial Bank buildings in
Brial-street immense sums of money. It is ODly
when a financial crisis like the present occurs that
the names of large depositors leak out.” Quite so.
There are a good score of fellows whom we could
name, an’ we were so disposed, who mean furnish-
ing, simply on the strength of the Oriental’s mishap.
Cunning little darling, indeed, is Henrietta
Ettie Sturgess, who toed the scratch at the
* Central,” Melbourne, on Tuesday last, on a
charge of having gallantly attempted to support
two husbands at the same time. Before the trial
was called, the knowing Ettie made herself ac-
quainted with the domestic relations of the jury-
men likely to be rounded up to sit on her, and
then, when the proper time arrived, she challenged
nearly every man who she thought was married,
and thereby furnished herself with a boxful of
sympathetic, blushing bachelors. The result
proved that the fair enslaver wasn’t very far
wrong in her estimate of that portion of the
human race which wears pants outside its clothes,
and has an artist’s eye for a well turned loot and
ankle, for, although the charge was sheeted home
to the very much married Mrs. Sturgess, she got
the benefit of a rather|slim sort of doubt, and was
let off with a short three month’s seclusion; Judge
Holroyd at the same time ordering thatshe should
be kept apart from the other prisoners. Now let
us warble the 77th hymn, “ Oh, it is love, ’tis love,
that damns the wor-ruld all round,”—long metre.
“Oh, my Neville, if you should ever prove
untrue to me, I think I would disfigure you
for life with a bottle of vitriol!”
Shortly after the recent farcial trial of
Berber, the Cincinnati murderer, it was rumoured
round that he had managed to ‘‘get at” the jury.
Immediately on hearing* this, a deputation con-
sisting of something like 3000 infuriated citizens,
armed with axes, daggers, clubs, and shot-guns,
endeavoured to get at the same jury also, but the
gentlemen required, having found J the climate was
getting unhealthy, packed up their traps and
Bktpped the district. Being disappointed in this
particular part of their praiseworthy programme,
the deputation then went for Berber in a style,
compared with which the massacre of Ist. Bartho-
lomew’s night was “never in it,” and it was only
after being half dragged tojdeath and subjected to
other annoyances that Mr. Berber managed to
keep his head on. These frivolous proceedings on
the part of the frisky deputation have given
general dissatisfaction to the respectable portion
of the community of Cincinnati, because, as it is
justly argued, if a jury cannot positively guarantee
that their verdict will protect a murderer from all
future risks and trouble, what prisoner will be ass
enough to pay for their services? The sacred
majesty of the law must be upheld at any cost,
and the rights and perquisites of jurymen must be
respected also. All this, of course, applies to Cin-
cinnati only.
Make a note of this lot. Speaking, re-
cently, in the House of Lords, the Earl of Carnar-
von “contended that nothing short of immigra-
tion would mitigate the evils suffered by the
population in the east of London, where the people
were, in many cases, paid low wages, or earned no
wages at all. While the population was increas-
ing, and the evils from it increasing in London,
people were wanted, and good wages were being
paid in the British colonies.” That’s the idea. All
the Earl of Carnarvon wants is a leaky, bachy-
found ship, and free communication between the
saloon passengers and the single women, to be a
whole immigration service in himself. The noble
Earl sends ship-loads of unfortunates out to Syd-
ney, our noble Premier sends them up the country,
and so they get passed along until they reach the
bounds of beggary. Immigrants are wanted here,
but they must be made cf sterner stuff than the
miserable paupers from the slums of East London.
Men, broad-chested, oak-limbed men, who can
catch on to a shovel and sling sand like a wild bull
going to war, are the style of hairpins wo want at
this end of the globe to-day, and not a nation com-
posed of barber s clerks and piano punchers, who
faint at the sight of a pick, and who know no more
about country life than a Madagascar monkey
does about the Ten Commandments. Keep your
refuse, Mr. Carnarvon, and give us reasonable
time and we’ll make our own colonists.
The Honeymoon, is the sweet, sugar-
candyish title of a new journal which has just
appeared in Brussels. The editor announces that
he has secured the co-operation of a doctor of
law, and of an experienced genealogist. The busi-
ness of this latter functionary will be to find illus-
trious ancestors for those ladies who love to tell
their acquaintances how many milk-white horses
used to draw their grandfather’s “ kerndge, and
for such gentlemen as take a pleasure in lying
about what their ancestors did during the un-
healthy days of the Norman conquest. Talking
about this reminds us that a certain continental gen-
tleman, holding a high Government office, was fopl
isb enough to solicit the aid of a matrimonial
agency company to help him to a wealthy wife, and
this was agreed to, providing the gentleman con-
fided to the directors the history of his earlier
years. This he did, and in the course of his con-
fession, owned up to several rather shady mone-
tary transations, and to being the father of two
living “love” children also. Matters were satis-
factorily arranged, however, and the suitor was
soon married to a most accomplished and
beautiful young lady. Almost immediately
afterwards, however, the husband found himself
perpetually annoyed with letters from the directors
of the agency, the object of these being to extort
money from him. He was carefully informed that
if he did not forthwith plank down ten thousand
francs, certain disclosures would be made to his
wife that would cause that cruelly-deceived young
woman to smash furniture and drag the very hair
out of the innocent plaster on her bedroom walls
with rage. Contrary to expectation, this only got
the gentleman's back up, and he not only bucked
against the demand, but he actually brought »n
action against the company, and had the satisfac-
tion of getting the enterprising directors boosted
up for seven years. That s where the prudent hus-
band had the bulge on the smart directors. Before
these gentlemen retired from the giddy whirl, how-
ever, they placed the newly-made bride in full
possession of all the particulars connected with
her lord and master’s early life, the result being
that she has just succeeded in getting a first-class
divorce. And that’s where the short-haired direc-
tors have the laugh at the prudent husband.
Cattle branding, as a fine art, is now one
of the most popular studies amongst the counter-
skippers of a certain brisk little mining town
down South’ard. It appears that in the town re-
ferred to, the leading storekeepers favour their
employes with a half-holiday every Thursday; and
the shutters are barely up, before the linen-grocers,
sugar-measurers, &e., are scooting away to a
neighbouring cattle station in order to get initiated
into the Eleusinian mysteries of the stockyard.
The modus operandi in the branding business is
carried on as follows : The most verdant artist in
the crowd is told off to hold the other bull-calf by
the horns; the next man grabs the tail, four others
hang on to a leg each, half-a-dozen more keep up
the fire, and when all is ready, the captain of the
gang seizes his weapon, takes a run of 50 yards,
and dabs the red-hot iron on the first section of
the calf he comes to. This is fun for the company
on the fence. Simultaneously wnh the arrival of
the branding iron, however, the infuriated calf
takes the joker in the rear such an enthusiastic
kick in the stomach, that the astonished young
petticoat-peddler at once severs all connection
with the animal’s tail, and shoots over the fence
to see how the crops are looking in the next dis-
trict. By this time, the rest of the artists are mak-
ing for the gate at a pace that would burst Malone
all to pieces before he could cover twenty yards;
but the sugar adulterator in front, being gener-
ally a new hand, holds on to the bull-calf's horns
and yells out “Fire! Murder! Bigamy! Arson !
Obtaining goods under false pretences!” and every
other crime in the Newgate Calendar. This is
where the fun for the bull comes in. First of all,
he throws his head violently backwards, until he
brings the butt of his tail and the dried-apple dis-
tributor's heels on a level; another tremendous
jerk spills Mr. What-can-I-do-for-you-next-madam
into the middle of the yard, and then the calf
Eokes his horns through the Southern Ocean of
is victim’s pants, and proceeds to dust the fences
with him in such a business like manner that in
ten seconds’ time the unfortunate grocer is as
destitute of breeches as the unborn babe of a
Highland gillie. Even the maker's name is lost,
and by the time the bull is called off, the miserable
COSTUME OF AN EASTERN LADY.
young salt-fish merchant looks like a man who had t
called a threshing-machine a condemned liar. An j
adjournment is then made to the stock-owner's
mansion, where a sumptuous banquet is ready, I
and all hands sit round the festive board, and
laugh and joke over the afternoon’s amusement.
All except the young man who had hold of the
calf’s horns. He generally stands outside, and
resolves himself into a select committee to ascer-
tain which part of his body requires the most
rubbing.
At a banquet given in his honour, Earl
Shaftsbury is reported to have said, referring to
the “Bitter Cry,” that it was all a mistake to
speak of “Outcast London.” Every home, every
nook and corner, he said, had been enquired into
long before the present agitation began. His
Lordship referred to the state of London as he
knew it, more than fifty years ago, and declared
that between now and then the difference was
immense. “No one but those who could look
back could have any conception of the filthy
courts, dens, and alleys, which are now swept
away—their very names being forgotten.” Ex-
actly so, and it is this very action of sweeping
away the dwellings of the poor which adds to their
misery, and crowds whole families into single
rooms in the remaining districts. The enquiry
into every nook and corner which his Lordship
refers to, was made principally by tract distribu-
tors, whose sole idea of doing good consists in
“saving souls.” How, we ask, can people who
believe in hell be expected to care for mere phy-
sical suffering ? Hunger, dirt, disease, starvation,
cold, are mere trifles in their estimation, and i.ot
to be considered worthy of serious thought. A loaf
of bread might save a starving family, but that
would cost money, and, after all, only save the
body ; a tract, however, costs next to nothing, and
rich people are willing to furnish an unlimited
supply of printed matter for the saving of souls.
Earl Shaftsbury’s enquiring friends have been
exceedingly liberal in the matter of tracts. They
visit a hovel where some miserable wretches are
dying of starvation, aad leave a tract, and think
they have acted charitably and done good service.
For the benefit of peeple like this, we will trans-
late some verses of the Gospel of St, Matthew into
the language with which we are familiar at the
present day “ Many will say to me Lord, Lord,
have we not preached the Gospel in Thy name ?
Have we not distributed tracts in Thy name ? And
in Thy name sent missionaries to the heathen, and
done many other wonderful works ? And then
will I profess unto them I never knew you ; de-
part from me, ye that work iniquity. . . Then
shall they also answer Him saying Lord, when saw
we Thee hungry, thirsty, cold, clothed in rags, and
did not help Thee? Then shall He answer them
saying. Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the
least of these friends of mine when they were in
that condition, and ye had plenty of money, and
could easily have helped them, ye did it not to
Me.” When the great roll-call of the world comes,
we are pretty sure that sermons, psalm singing,
tract distributing, &c., will draw very lightjy on
the Heavenly treasury, and that the honest, kindly
heart of the poor humanitarian, be he Pagan or
Christian, who helps to lift the load from the
shoulders of a poor neighbour will have earned a
bigger cheque han all the paraphernalia and sham
phdanthropy of Exeter Hall.
For grim humour we doubt if Michael
M’Gilvery and Job Lavarty have any rivals this
side of the equinoctial line. One night last week,
Sub-Inspector Hyam did a prowl round the Do-
main at that silent hour when churchyards yawn,
and their ghostly tenants polka out in their
shrouds to catch a mouthful of fresh air and get
up Tambaroora pools to decide whose gravestone
inscription contains the greatest number of plaio,
undiluted lies to the square inch. Why did Sub-
Inspector Hyam leave his virtuous, rose-leaved
couch at that sad and sloppy hour? Was it to
gather figs from thistles, or to seek inspiration
! rom the reeking sewers in order to enable him to
sling love songs for the back end page of the
Evenin’ Snooze? Devil a bit of it. He simply
(to use the melodious language of Woolloomooloo)
went round to see how th’ employed were “ dish-
in’” and “dossed,” and how it felt to feel to be
compelled to drink rain-water-soup and eat grass
like a cow or Nebuchadnezzar, The first able-
bodied son of toil the good Sub-Inspector struck
was so thin that it took him half an hour to find
out what part of his ragged attire the poor devil
lived in, and Sergeant Pirie coming past at the
time was instructed to tie him up to a fence and
put bricks in his boots to keep him from being
blown out to sea and cheating the city
a Aver. He was 73 years of age, and with the
exception of a speckled banana and tne sight of
a board with “good meals, fid,” chalked on it,
ho hadn’t had a particle of nourishment lor fly e
days. He was told to put his trust in Provide Q ce
and the Dimycratic Association, and them the
“foorce ” moved on till they came to the ca T aip of
Messrs. M’Gilvery and Lavarty. This worthy pair
was found under the friendly shelter of otie of tha
Domain seats, and on being roused up, Mr. JoO
Lavarty said it was an infernal shame to shake a
man out of his sleep j ist as he was dreaming that
he was saucing the girls at the Coffee Palace for
bringing him rissoles with tomato sauce, instead
of veal cutlets Ala Cardinal Richelieu. Job de-
clared that if he hadn't been fortunate enough to
have found a couple of 'eaves ot an old cookery
book, he must have died of starvation at 39 mi-
nutes past 1, on the Ist of May, and that even now
he felt so weak that he believed a fair kick from
a brewer’s horse would knock him down. He was
advised to keep away from such spasmodic cattle,
and then Mr. Gilvery was asked if the rain, which
had been falling heavily, did not slightly incon-
venience himself and his partner. “Not in the
lasthe,” replied the festive Michael; “ y’ see, mean’
Job forninst there hez a Sydney Morning Herald
a piece on top av’ us, an’ be th’ howly St. Patbric e
the contints av’ them papers id keep us dhry if we
wuz on th’roof of owld Noah’s Ark at th’ toime
av’the Diluge.’’ Then the officers knewhewai
prevaricating by speaking the truth, and so they
went on their way reioicing.
He was a high-toned delegate from one of
the sister colonies, and, his official business being
ended, he went on a tear, and made things
lively round the district. She said her husband
was a plougher of the sea, and, now that the dele-
gate mentioned it, she thought it was rather
dangerous for a lovely young woman like her to
live by herself in such a lonely spot as the skirts of
Carlton. This conversation happened on a Tues-
day. The bloodyjbattle of Tel-el-Kebir had been
fought and won ; fierce threats of Nihilistic ven-
geance shook the Russian throne, Java lay in
ruins, and sheep’s-trotters were sold at a penny
each in the sti tets of Melbourne. Why we mer«
tion trotters is because the lauy above referred to
was bringing home a dozen for her supper on the
night in question. By this time, the delegate was
so ’smitten by her charms, and so touched by her
defenceless position, that he offered to escort her
home and remain there until the prospect looked
more cheerful. The lady dieaded this, however
because she knew not the day, nor the hour, her
husband would return. The delegate calmed her
fears ; bull-dog beer and divers other things sup-
plemented the trotters when they reached home, a
ligh old time was held, and then the loving pair
kissed “good night,” and retired to roost.
The delegate was longest saying his prayers,
and was standing divested of everything save his
shirt, and socks, and trousers, when the lady called
out from her room to his that it would be a prudent
thing to slio quickly out and lock the front gate,
so that, if her husband should come home, our
delegate hero would have time to retreat unosten-
tatiously over the back fence. This seemed to be
such a sensible thought that the delegate slipped t
out at once; and, having leturned, he was greatly
surprised to find that the front door had beeni
carefully locked upon him. On throwing pebbles >
at the lady’s window to attract attention, how-
ever, he was still more surprised to find a bullet-
headed man poking his head out of another window
and angrily demanding to be informed “ Who the 1
devil was down there ?’’ No one, of course, could!
possibly describe the delegate’s feelings then, be-
cause he remembered that it was a cold night, and!
he had forgotten to take a valuable gold watch
and £75 in cash with him when he skipped off good-
naturedly to bar the gate; but every active mind
can conceive the grotesqueness of a stout, middle-
aged party, clad in the scanty habiliments of a pair
of trousers, frilled shirt, and scar'et socks, stand-
ing out in the road at 3 a.m., and endeavouring to
persuade incredulous cabmen that he was a gentle-
man in disguise, and if they’d only drive him to
one of the leading city hotels, the obliging Jehu
would be amply rewarded then, and in course of
time get a billet as night policeman. About sa.m.
one cabby said he’d chance it.[and the delegate went
home next day, a poorer, if not a wiser, man.
THE BELLE OF THE “BAWL."


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
pf 1011 PREMIER whiskey is
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Quality unsurpassed.
°*^ Y BROTHERS,
f ° r N ' S ' W ' and Queensland,
3 ««&a sisikt kies
George Street, Sydney
® e nuine Irish Whiskey
JAMESON & CO/S DUBLIN WHISKEY
Itl* bottl 18 TJNS(IRPA SSED.
<aj^sSS^4H!astS!!Sss
diamond on label, cork and capsule.
- “ a ly Brothers,
N.S.W. and Queensland.
&
S 3
la
e.
0
MARK
TRAOt
Or
tR
*</
BP
X
-o
a
a
V
hues
CROSS
t*
o
o
N
D
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this Brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
Drofit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTRLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
PEAPES and
8? 188 RESPECTFULLY invite inspection 01
SEASON’S
U(li es > , as follows
an J Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment,
sums
1 THEIR
GOODS,
, Mantles and Jackets,
as follows
Uni-, TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS,
r “ neaa
Kolman'^ 8 Ulsters - f rom ss. 6d. to 30s.
,!/ ,)< -CD3’ J Ant? ed - Ulster «- New Cloths
llr AhS in NEW FANCY Mil
r MATE-
PUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
fi ach „„„
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER'*, from 12s. fid. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
BroeatelleSilk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
PEAPES a Bid SUM
Es and SHAW.
Standard
j)8^ Sa 5 Tweed Clothing.
1111 now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
iDs Pecti o ,i KBADY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
ine various classes of goods enumerated below.
dt Cr
I®??OATS, CUT LONG,
Italian cloth, 255., aos.,
Sjjfefl* 2 Twlt D^S LSTEßS ’ LINED WOOL ’ 30S "
ana D SgCIv OVERCOATS, 635.
n° Ver o oatB ’ suitable for
a Or£fs Suit, 43s . 605., 555.
fr> , lnTTr ,lil) iSA -C SUITS are
IIiTT Y and 9 Ut jFIT, STYLE, and
, f ° r Good Honest Value
*an AS FOLLOWS
ifcv W» ]lr . 42s- ’ 50s -- ,J 3s. the SUIT.
K^N k CoSyand Vest, 50s.
ts t aiid y ° Bt 01 ® agland Broadcloth),
B'ack Doeskin, 255., 30s.
t6 Wi, , J? l Bs.ed/ el Bhrunk and well made,
1 CELTIC Vf!?/ - and 16s. od. per pai;
JACKETS, 25s
E E nne| T « G + OOWNS, in Felt
111 to 84s e ’ Scotctl Knicker, Quiltei
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPE-', Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sgwh Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. Od. to 525. lid,
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. (Id ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BRAWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. 01, Bs. Od.
9s. Od , 10s. Od , 11s 0 1 ,12s. Od.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
and SHAW.
STREET.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEOUGE STREET.
"^77" l ol£f Son'i
roln all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies
*£ W
premises, 107 pm street,
o"w Open.
*CLEERY'S HOTEL,
ot King and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
bs *d Mcgleery’ (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
ft
OOCN;
T HE ONLY GENUINE TIN TAG
TOBACCO.
stand
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
iftto N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
- IItST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco
’ Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
NCiUEROR and BARLY BIRD hold a h5 Sh position.
Tinea Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
K ’ TOBACCO 170RKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY*
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling-’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assorts
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, CMnaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian "Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOOBS ANB TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solh,o Bazaar
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
'
r V
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.— The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. KOPFSTUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
w Warranted first quality
Charges strictly moderate
' MARSHALL BROTHERS
mm
all dental operations performed
WITH SKILL,
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a Ist rye and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Blsck Swan Hole?.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Privste Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting-, fbhing and
bunting. Good Stabling-. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment's notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnificient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIEB I,
. From the late Mr. James Curtis,
T7:ei.d.ex'ta,3s:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
.
ToSiacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURs: TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse.
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
>
liJillll
mz
MUfflllftlHMail
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PJTT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, IST 1
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £133,500
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John Bay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Alien.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G j Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
is - •
Sole Agent for
W. Sc C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, Sea
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREfe,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. Ariel! & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
H, 24, and lib. tins*
R. WHITTINGHAM& CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
GIBBS
Automatia
Silent
BEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
mangles
CASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
ffALKIft
Wood,
act-. &c. &o.
HEBBLBWHITE & CO.,
416 GEOIiGE STREET.
*
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
NERV
B.RALAI
TREATMF
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of tne brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 6s.
box, or six boxes for 855.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 855., the purchaser will receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all ehemiats and druggists


-A-fg'liSLii.istajn. G-olcL J" oTy
!
(REGISTERED.)
feS'
*
WATCHES,
Special Novelties, &c.
PEOH 3 Os. EAC^-
Country Orders punctually attended 1°
BOYB-S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
8 °An^’r^noh t * a e^ U Pfc ie f S carr ? ed on with fche original staff of Artists speeially engaged by
- Jar. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style. K
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
J. J.
)ISP
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. /.tin ft o ®® 'L o fi
EST Both shops are thorougly choclr full. Come early and inspect the Sto cbo ose * ,
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDN ~ *g C RIPTI° W '
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVER
J. «i. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hayi* 1 * 1 * 8 1 i
* Market Street.
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near
ASK YOUR GRO CER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
JT- 3. PH £■ <k SQITS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.*
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
VTNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
U duction of the LION TOBACCO ;it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYOE, TOQHAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
CT GEORGE STREET WE!)T.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
V -.N
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents tor all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to. any imported.
TOCKBR & C©., Sole Agents,
George-atreet, Sydney.
DEHTISTOY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MB- F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney,
!£§?" Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
HIG-GHOT’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OP PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
EngMsk Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 49S GEORGE ST... SYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
JiOßlf£
ORN
ORNti
AND
I
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottie should he carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
ViRGQE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EURE
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
tsr THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco off the Aqe !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The on y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
tW Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
M’sTtl)M)Cg.,Li.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And nan be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
'mitation®.
BLAKE’S
STEAM P' 0 ’
H. P. GREGORY®
PITT STB
SYDNEY
17
ARE SOLE AGENTS E ojl
i to a rfl
and have in Stock ana
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SER VI J
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & Clß ctJ
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS v{ js? 9
deep-well-sinking p
SEND FOR PRICES AND
CATALOGUES FOR^S
ppp;
[A
H. W. coOv (/
34 0 CROWN ® pflf’lpl)'?
Late with Dr.
Author of “ Modern gnaO 1 ’
Queen’s Hospital,
mr Patients treated W
PAINTS.
OILS.
<V
Office: 330
STORES:
isssr
K.T». Patter**
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of W
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. 1
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for JErated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
