

T MU k SMIS,
T . A.rm
IHE POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
'
6 o| % Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
v e
•9
Alj]j OUR GOODS, AND GIVE OUR CUSTOMERS THE EULL BENEEIT ARISING THEREFROM.
HORDERN AND SONS
A| -ACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY,
!
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
OICE WIITTEE GOODS
'^Ojs
®Mp OR] 0 R]
in the Australian Colonies.
Haymarket, is celebrated for the Best and Cheapest Boots, Clothing, Overcoats, Mantles,
Qftkots, Flannels, Linens, CaEseoes, Woollens, Merinos, and all kinds of Dress Goods.
FURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOWWARE, of the best English manufacture.
V T the very best value for the least possible outlay.
HORDERN AND SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
=§F: S AL providers.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin New Series


f; ;n \C
Gompleta Phatojjraphic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHINGIInECESSARY TO ENABLE
EYEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
H v L,_ SUMMERFIELD & 00.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 ansi 237 PBTT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. Xu SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
SHr Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
poods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
CSS-. Hartoorow,
470 Cf-EOS&CIE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades;
51 J a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
-EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—Tn all qualities.
IsTRAWb—In all new shapes.
g3F“ Having- engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
' London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
i line. A largo stock of FAN OF GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
ana seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &e.
Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
W- CATER,, !nap©s’!®s% 193 & 195 Pitft-streef.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
f ' <AT SIPS system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
% . pnees is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown hy our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
£ DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
W
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess We havi
•ow both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
°W*. "W. CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
; Th
STAB AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Alotel ig centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
"' AJomtortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
ppfie’d/ Sporting telegram from all parts of the colony posted up.
m. ft. BROWH ft GO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Heidsiteck St Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLL
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
££BtCBE£ BICHAKDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsioek & Co., Reims.
®£TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARM’S AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery iSstrS
ceived. All work and repairs executed
any European workmanship.
N.8.-Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angel© Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy. 80 Hor
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & M*
IS, ICIIEI, ail ill IP*
397 GEORGE STREET,
« and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SVO>' Ky '
AND AT ijJP I
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, EN GJj
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENBLOO.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers* Tools, Eounders* Materials, Ship
- Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag rl °
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
'V ethical oad 'HLoriaotital.
MACHINERY. . „
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammer*
Massey’s unequal!
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Baw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines-
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-I
English and American Agricultural Impleffl*®*®' ay
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoe^jjresH
Bakes, Beapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Sheliers,
Railway Contractors* Material and Plant. . ,
COACH Buiudeks’ Swtroaim.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Fund®
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. lvan i*o»
Large Stocks always hh hknd of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ;
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. &ni W 0
Woolpaeki, Sheep Shears, Oils, Saddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Lochs, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carp
u/
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application t°
BRISCOE, DRYSDAIiE ANl>
397 Sfp@@f p Stfdisasr-
CO-
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
'''■ (LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS.
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Rowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narandes’
Hulong
Carratfiool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tam-worth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Balby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella /
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswooe Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
Wffi, M'CULLOCH ft 00.. LIMITED.
ar- Agencies in all partt of the world.
Foster’
GUINNESS'S EXTRA STOUT.
and B^o
The BEST ALE
SOLD BY ALL
Yirgoe,Son,& Clj31 ’
A soe»
»■ z T N H vi s ?a? 0 rt»,s
Allow Interest aa
on fixed deposits for S? p twTi D*
and UPWARDS for s |? to 150I 50 ftT# 1
CENT, on sumstrom * naU d.
Branch, Payable on D
\
a
»
ft
*4.
a
4
cm
my
OAR
B of stout m
beat of the brefi*fd c 2
oeai oi iub njj
Arthur Guinness.^
cannot be ex*~r~
OATTBL.Ii & c0


THE
BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 60.—New Serie
SATURDAY. JULY 5. 1884.
Price—6cL
The Bulletin.
8ATURDAY, JULY 5, 1884.
The new Anglican Bishop has lost no time
in commencing operations against the prin-
ciples of our Publio Instruction Act. That
he should be moved by a spirit of antagonism
to that Act is no more than might have been
expected. The policy of his sect has, from
the first inception ef the system, been
adverse to it Dr. Barry’s predecessor op-
posed the movement for unsectarian public
education with consistent hostility. The
really surprising thing is the alliances which
Dr. Babhy finds himself able to enter into
Dr. Barker was under the necessity of
working in effectual, although tacit, fellow-
ship with the Roman Catholic hierarchy.
His keenest adversaries were the very per-
sons who are now hand in glove with Dr.
Barry In the endeavour to destroy the
structure they themselves helped to build
up. It is quite entertaining to observe tbe
personnel of the Bishop’s “tail” on the
occasion of his presenting himself at the
Education Department to open his first
approaches against the Act. The spectacle
of a posse of Dissenting parsons backing up
an Episoopal Bishop in what was, in reality,
simply an attack upon “non-conformity’’
of present-day pattern, was even grotesque-
Mr. Jefferis, the Pope of the Sydney Con-
gregation sts, seems to have recognised the
satire of the situation, and finessed by com-
ing late, in lieu of swelling the Bishop’s
retinue. But Mr. Jefferis’ presence, undir
any circumstances, illustrated the extra-
ordinary nature of the situation. He ba s
frankly confessed that he now thinks he
blundered when he zealously worked for the
principles of the Education Act. We pre-
sume that the other “Dissenters” who took
part in the deputation have made a similar
discovery.
* • •
We will endeavour to analyse the situa-
tion. It is more than two years since we
pointed out that the “Evangelical” Pro-
testants—as the Anglican “low churchmen”
and the Dissenters from the Church of E>"g_
land style themselves—had, in the heat of
what was really on their part a crusade
against the Church of Rome and the high
ecclesiastioal section of the Church of Eng-
land, over-reached themselves, and that, in
their eagerness to disable the Papists from
indoctrinating their children with their
hereditary faith, they bad played the game
of the Secularists, and dealt a fatal blow to
all dogmatic teaching. There is no room for
mistaking, now that time has exposed the
results of the exertions then made, and tl e
true intentions of some of the most active
agents. The moment that the schools of the
sects were superseded, the children of the
State escaped from the influence of the par-
sons. These functionaries had been skilfully
led by the nose. Sir Henry Parkes— the
Protestant Hero—found it, shortly after the
passing of the Act by his Government under
the impulse of the Education League, cod.
venient to claim all the credit due to any-
body for the Act. He will, when he returns
to the oolony, probably be glad to forget
that he ever advaneed such a claim ; and we
are perfectly willing that he should quote
The Bui/letin of the time, in which his
claim was derided as an impudent imposi-
tion, and the true father of the League was
asserted to have been the Rev. Mr. Green-
wood.
• ■ •
Now, Mr. Greenwood was indubitably
strongly influenced all the time by the
principles which he not long after adopted
in their entirety the principles of Free-
thought; and the line in which he directed
his operations, and in whioh he was fol-
lowed with blind docility by Mr. Jefferis
and all the non-conformist professional
theologians, secured for the movement the
support of that powerful, slthough unorgan-
ized contingent, the Secularists. Had the
drift of the proposed legislation been in the
direction simply of securing for one group
of sects a triumph over another group of
sects, the Secularists would, in all likelihood'
have thrown their weight against the aggres-
sors, on the principle ttn,t their attack was
equivalent to an interference with pqual
liberty of conscience. But when the League
declared—and acted on the declaration—that
the sects which co-operated with it were
willing to abandon dogmatio teaching alto-
gether as a part of the curriculum of the
State schools, and so leave all sects upon an
equal footing, nothing seemed fairer, and
J. F. GAI[?]CK, ESQ, THE NEW QUEENSLAND AGENT-GENERAL.
the thing was carried with a swing and a
rush. We remember the programme very
well, and Mr. Jefferis has been honest
enough to confess in effect that he too re-
members it, and admits that his present
attitude is one of repudiation. It will,
therefore, be vain for the rest of the agita-
tors of to-day to pretend—as the Bishoji
speaking for them pretended—that their de-
mands are not inconsistent with their
former desires, and with the spirit which in
the byegone time they helped to impress
upon the Public Instruction Act. This was
the programme:—That the State had nothing
to do with the religion of its members.
That it was concerned to secure a proper
development of intelligence in secular
affairs, and that there its functions pro-
perly ended. That iu its schools uneec-
tarian teaching should alone be imparted,
and that each sect should be equally at
liberty and should be afforded equal oppor-
tunity to gather together the children of its
members, and to indoctrinate them with
whatever amount of dogma was considered
requisite The famous clause 7, which pro-
vides that there shall be “general religious
instruction ” in the schools was no part of
the actual system. It was simply an ex-
pression thrown in to turn the edge of the
thrusts which weremado at the plan by its
critics as “ godless and immoral.”
• • •
This is made very apparent by the absence
of any definition as to what constitutes
“goneral religion.” There was, indeed, a
good deal of palaver about “ Common Chris-
tianity,” but clearly that was not the inten-
tion of such supporters of the Act as Mr.
James Greenwood and the school of
thinkers which supported him. The Rev. Dr.
Barrt aud his followers now desiro to foist
an interpretation of their own into the Act,
and that interpretation would, if admitted,
simply make the Instruction Aot do the
precise thing which, prior to its enactment,
all its supporters persistently, solemnly, and
vehemently declared they did not desire.
That is to say, it would oonvert the Publio
Schools iuto seminaries of one combination
of sects. The pupils turned out by the
Public Schools would be, if no parson or
priest meddled with them, just an inferior
sort of Protestant. They would be taught
to believe in miracles, and in the Divinity of
Christ, but they would have learned uo-
thing whatever to iuduce them to regard
the Episcopal tradition, or to respect the
Virgin Mart or Father O’Flannagan. In
short, every Publio Sohool pupil would be
dogmatically indoctrinated to the stage
which would lit them for the ministrations
of the Pitt-street Congregational Churoh. or
any other little Bethel. Mr. Jefferis and
his mates would not need to wag a finger. If
Bishop Barry and his clergy, and Arch-
bishop Moran and his clergy, would only
equally refrain from any exertion to add to
the school curriculum of “general religious
teaching," and if the Churches of which
th se Prelates are the heads in the colony
would just discontinue their present exer-
tions and sacrifices, and, abolishing their
own schools, permit their children to pass
through the State schools, there would wot
be a native-born Anglioan or Roman Catholic
in New South Wales in another generation,
except suoh as had been specially attended
to in the matter of dogmatic teaching by
their parents.
• • •
There is no honest e*cape from the recog-
nised fact that the very clergy who aro to-day
clamouring for religious instruction in the
ordinary school course, represented, when
agitating for the Bill, that they knew nothing
of the kind would bo either possible or fail *
and undertook to equalise everything, and
to fulfil all requirements, by themselves
arranging independently for special religious
instruction of their special lambs. The fact
is that they have neglected the duties they
promised to discharge, and are now endeav.
ouring to cloak their own practical exhibi-
tion of laziness, meanness, or indifference by
raising a fresh tumult of sound, beating the
drum-ecclesiastic, and posturing in publio
deputations. And all to what end? To
shift off the>r own shoulders the burden they
had volunteered to bear, while promising
alresh—but with cautious vagueness—that
they will arrange, this time, for special reli-
gious instruction, by their own agents. They
ask the publio to believe that although while
the “general religious instruction” in
the schools was minimised to a degree
which has excited their present grave
anxieties and aroused them to their pre-
sent attitude, they did nothing to pro-
vide the supplement of “ special religious
instruction,” they will become aotive iu
that respeot after succeeding in converting
the “general religious instruction” into a
very fairly effectual equivalent for the
“special religious instruction” they bad failed
to supply! This is surely too large a draft
upon the credulity of the laity. For our
own part, we don’t attach the slightest
oredit to these promises for the future. If
thedeputationists could succeed in their
present aim of converting the State schools
into proselytising institutions, they will be
under no necessity of arranging for indepen-
dent special dogmatio instruction. It is
ridiculous for them to expect people to be-
lieve that they will make, when there is no
necessity, the exertions and the sacrifices
which they failed to make when there w us,
according to their own showing, a very
urgent necessity.
* * *
The requests urged by Bishop Barry and
his retinue were not only repudiatory and
sectarian in their very essence, but they are
—happily, we think—impracticable, or, at
least, so glaringly inconsistent with the pro-
fessions of the deputationists, that the publio
is almost certain to detect the absurdity,
and laugh the whole business off tbe stage
of serious public affairs. Bishop Barry in
the name of the deputation, demanded that
in the examination of pupils “due import-
ance should be given to Scriptural know-
ledge.” Further, that the teachers should be,
whether they were Protestants, or Roman
Catholics, or Secularists, be subjected toatest
as to their competence to “intelligently im-
part Scripture lessons!” And, ia addition,
he demanded that the school exercises should


MS, Eras, a cs:s
BRIAN BORU
fi/Ait
$3
TbRIAN BORU WHISKY is manufactured from
the finest Irish Grain. When well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the offloers of H.M. Customs, and exported in
enormous quantities to all parts of the world.
Australian consumers will And this brand pure,
mellow, and wholesome. The great demand for
this Old Irish Wlr'sky in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality. Brian Boru Whisky was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley,
BOLE AGENT,
THE LAMMERMUIR BLEND
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
This celebrated brand of Scotch Whisky is
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
excise supervision. For purity, mellowness, and
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full contents guaran-
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley,
BOLE AGENTS.
ON SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED-
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle.
The Lammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do. do
Brandy in case and bulk, * and ***.
West India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass’s Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 25 Flinders-street East.
Adelaide Office ; Grenfeil-street.
Coughs and Colds.
TUB Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
tm~ PURE SUM,
Extra Strong,
«B. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Siiglt Sittli Department,
MIBIBT STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
€. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
6d.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RBD or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thi most Wholesomb or all Bbvbragbs.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 64. per bottle.
0 L Y N E L I ill” WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 64. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2b. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY.
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
daily be opened by a prayer and a hymn.
Mr. Jeffhris supplemented Dr. Barry’s
propositions by an explanation necessitated
by an objection raised by tho Minister for
Education. Mr. Jxfferis did not think the
deputation asked that any teacher’s religious
belief should be inquired into. Only that
the facts and statements contained in the
Scripture lessons should bo known to him
before he entered upon the work of instruc-
tion.
* * *
It is difficult to believe that these are seri-
ous propositions, emanating jointly from a
Prelate of the Church of England, and Min-
isters of Noneomformist bodies. Here we
have the Prelate actually proposing what is
equivalent to a Test Act for a body of Civil
servants and representative Dissenters
backing him up. Surely the Dissenters of
to-day must be badly acquainted with their
own ecclesiastical history. But the Bishop
and his abettors would probably deny that
his proposed institution of a test would be
equivalent to a Test Act, inasmuch as he
does not propose that there should be any
profession of faith or any disability for infi-
delity. All that would be required—he may
plead—is that the teachers should prove
their acquaintance with the theories they
Would be called in to teach. Presuming
that agreement with those theories or dog-
mas were not exacted, liow, in the name of
goodness, could an examination of teachers
be conducted ? Or how could it be expected
that—as the deputationists require—teachers
should not only recite the Scripture les-
sons, but explain them, if they did
not believe in them ? When “ tested ” —the
expression is Dr. Barry’s —the teachers
would, of course, have to travel outside the
record —that is to say, to show that they
“intelligently” comprehended the signifi-
cance of the lessons. They would have to
explain how this or that passage struck
them. Who, then, would be adjudged to
have exhibited most intelligence in Biblical
criticism if desirous of entering upon the
duties of a Public School teacher —the Rev.
Mr. Spicer, for example, or Mr. Charles
Bright, or Dean Mahony ? The thing is
preposterous, and would close the teaching
regards State schools, against
all but dogmatists of one complexion. Again,
if, in the examinations of pupils, due import-
ance were to be attached to Scriptural
knowledge—which means that more marks
than at present allowed should be awarded
to pupils proficient in that department—all
children whose parents object to their par-
ticipating in that teaching would be placed
at a disadvantage in comparison of results
as against the other children. And this is
not a trifling objection, for Mr. Trickett
told the deputationists that, “as a matter
of fact, when those Scripture lessons were
read in the Public Schools, large numbers of
children retired.”
• • •
And, moreover, there are scholarships and
other advantages, whioh may be won by
competition in examinations. For all such
rewards of exertion and intelligence, the
pupils who did not attend Scripture lessons
would be, if not absolutely disqualified, at
least heavily handicapped. Of two aspir-
ants, supposing one to be superior in secular
knowledge to the extent of, say, 80 marks
out of a possible 100, the other gaining 90
marks for Scriptural lessons which the other
had not been permitted by his parents, for
conscientious reasons, to attend, would
snatch the prizo from him! We do not ex-
pect that the public of New South Wales
will tolerate any such subversion of the
present Act as the Bishop and his helpers
desire, or will permit them to disseminate as
they propose, in the secular schools of the
State, the seeds of sectarian strife and ani-
mosity, which it was hoped the Act would
serve to allay.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Insurance.
The case of Hordern against the Commer-
cial Union Insurance Company should induce
business people—especially such as are insured in
the defendant company-to overhaul their policies
forthwith, and satisfy themselves that what they
bslieve those policies to express is duly expressed,
and in a fashion that will not admit of two inter-
pretations. In the particular case referred to, by
careless wording alike of proposals and of policies,
the plaintiffs, Messrs. Anthony and Samuel Hor-
dern, of the Haymarket, have been exposed to
extreme annoyance; and had they not been in a
position to fight for a principle and for their repu-
tation, without considering expense, they must
probably have submitted to endure the entire loss
of goods destroyed by flre in premises which they
had been for years paying premiums to protect.
The case was exceedingly entangled by defective
descriptions, and by change in the numbering of
premises by the Corporation. But the main
features were perfectly clear. The plaintiffs in-
tended to insure the premises where the
fire reached with the defendant company,
and believed they were so insured. It is
almost equally clear that the defendant com-
pany believed also that the plaintiffs were
fully insured with them. They were push-
ing business, as is customary with insurance
companies, and the plaintiffs were, like Barkis,
“ willin’.” If either party had believed that there
was aught remaining uninsured, there would have
been a fresh policy directly. There was no pre-
tence that plaintiffs had not been paying premiums
adequate to the amount they claimed when the
fire occurred. And as to the plea of the conceal-
ment of Barlow’s tenancy, that was flagrantly
absurd, considering that Barlow’s shop fronted
the main street of the metropolis, under the plain-
tiffs’ first floor, and that the insurance company’s
representative had been over all the Horderns’
premises. If insurance companies were all to ex-
hibit a readiness to look for quibbling points in
policies whenever a fl r e occurs, and to charge re-
spectable insurers with concealment of circum-
stances obvious to every wayfarer, insurance
business would soon come to an end. It is right
to scrutinise every detail where incendiarism or
intentional misrepresentation may be presumed.
But to deny compensation to a straightforward
customer, because what had all along been mu-
tually regarded as the existing contract, and had
been paid for as such, admits on scrutiny of
technical cavil, is surely the most perverse
policy ever adopted by an institution which de-
pends for business upon the diffusion of an im-
pression that it would not condescend to profit
by an accident, when its very business is to
protect its customers from the ill consequences of
accidents.
«♦
The National Conscience.
It is intensely cheeriDg to observe that
wholesome principles of national morality are
now and again Inculcated upon and accepted by
the working-men of Great Britain. As a matter
of fact, such principles are advocated with con-
stancy and courage by several of the most influ-
ential and widely circulated of the journals which
address themselves particularly to the working
class. In view of the steady gravitation of political
power towards the actual people of Great Britain,
as distinguished from the aristocratic and pluto-
cratic orders and those middle classes which follow
in a servile fashion every whim of their social
superiors, the views advocated by these journals
are of a significance in many respects superior to
the teachings of the Times itself, and of the other
great dailies which minister to the section of Eng-
lishmen wh»i at present oontrol the affairs of the
nation. These show only what are the ideas which
find acceptance at the hands of the present politi-
cal rulers of Great Britain. By reading the organs
of the masses, one ascertains what are the prin-
ciples which re recognised by the people who
will undoubtedly ere long wield the prevailing
power, and govern the national councils. By study
of the great dailies, one learns what is. By
perusing the cheap weeklies which have enor-
mous circulation—far transcending that of all
the famous dailies combined—one is enabled to
comprehend what will be. Besides these im-
mensely influential weekly papers, however, the
working classes have from time to time other
special teachings. And these are so uni-
form in their tendency that there is no
room to doubt that their drift is accept-
able to and approved of, by the class to which they
are addressed. No reader of The Bulletin need
be at a loss to comprehend what that drift is. We
find it invariably in complete accordance with the
ideas which prompt our own utterances. As an
example, we may quote the following epitome of s
free lecture delivered at the Working Men’s Col-
lege, Great Ormond-street, London, by Mr. New-
oomen Groves, M.A., on “ Egypt: A few Personal
Recollections.” In giving an interesting account
of the ancient history of E?ypt, Mr. Groves said
that “ the inhabitants of Alexandria had suffered
more cruelty than the inhabitants of any other
city in the world, not excepting Jerusalem, but he
did not think that the English nation could say
much about this, for, in his opinion, one of the
foulest blots that ever rested upon English history
was the way in which England bombarded that
city two years ago. Mr. Groves enumerated
various acts of injustice to which the fellaheen
were subjected. The Pachas and the Khedive had
the power of making them work without pay, and
such a thing as justice was, and is, unknown.
Arabi’s demands wore just and right, and the army
revolted because it was the only organised party.
What really interfered with English justice to
Egypt was that our eyes had been blinded by these
cursed—he used the word advisoably—Canal shares,
and the interests of the bondholders.” We need
scarcely oxpatiate on these remarks. Our readers
will immediately perceive that they are identical
with the opinions which from the outset of the
Egyptian trouble, The Bulletin, alone, among
the newspapers of Australia, has uniformly ex-
pressed.
The Matter of Fuller.
There is certainly a singular amount of indiscre-
tion among our daily journalists. The Evening
News and the Dally Telegraph each commented
with severity upon the tardy admission of Fuller
that he might, after all, have signed the bond
upon which he was being sued. Mr. Fuller is
held up to execration as a villain, who only failed
to cause an innocent man to be held guilty of for-
gery because he had not courage sufficient to
stand to the amount of perjury requisite to the
accomplishment of his execrable design. Of
couise the journals mentioned did but re-echo the
tone of comments adopted by Sir George Innes,
the Judge who presided at the trial. But what
more terrible confession of weakness could there
be than a disposition to adopt, without reflection,
the ideas of Sir George Innes ? That the Judge
was moved by an honest cannot be
doubted. That he gave clear and prompt expres-
sion to his indignation and his meaning is entirely
creditable to his heart as a "'man and his sense
of duty as a Judge.*: But how stands the
case as to his judgment, and that of those
who echoed his remarks. The nature of the case
was such that the oath of one man was pitted
against the oath of another. M’Kay’s word was
against Fuller’s. The.bank official and the cus-
tomer had not even equal reason for perjury, if so
inclined. Mr. M‘Kay’s whole career, as a bank
official, his reputation and integrity, all hinged
upon his success in proving that the bond was
bona fide. If not signed by Fuller, it must have
been signed by him. His verv existence hinged
upon demonstrating that Fuller had really signed
it. With respect to Fuller, it was not a question
of life and honour; it was simply a question of
£634. It was possible that Fuller had forgotten
having signed. Tt was impossible that M’Kay
could have fo/got having forged. The alternative
was a friarhtful one for both parties. If Fuller
persisted, M'Kay was a lost man. If Fuller re-
treated or winced at the awful responsibility de-
pending upon the trustworthiness of his memory,
he exposed himself—first to an apparent loss of
over £6OO, and, secondly, to suspicions just as
frightful as those from which his retrogression
would relieve M'Kay. We prefer to believe that
Fuller had really signed the bond, and had really
forgotten the circumstance so entirely as to re-
gard the claim as an imposture when pre-
sented. We prefer to believe that in lieu
of being the blackguard the Judge made
him out to be, and the dailies indicated—
that in lieu of being, in short, a scoundrel and a
poltroon, he may be a conscientious and courage-
ous man. We reason that there was more courage
required to confess a doubt after the case had
gone so far, than would have been requisite to let
matters proceed. There is no question that almost
everyone who road the evidence as this case pro-
ceeded, regarded M’Kay as guilty. The corrobora-
tive chaiacter of the accessory circumstances was
fearfully against him. His confessed indiscretions
seemed to lead .naturally up to the point alleged.
And now, consider. Had Mr. Fuller persevered
in his conviction that he did not sign, he would
most probably have obtained a verdict. Whether
he did or not, he would certainly have escaped the
the vituperation of the journals. Had he been
a hardened villain, he would have stood
under the aegis of the law, sheltered and pro-
tected by that magnificent ruling of Sir James
Martin that naught may with impunity be
cast in the face of a scoundrel, save facts that
can be proved to the hilt in a court-of-law sense.
As a scoundrel, Fuller would apparently have
been safe on all sides, except the side of his con-
science. As a man, frankly confessing that he
might have been mistaken in his recollection of
events, he exposed himself to be scourged and
derided by every blockhead that wears a wig or
wields a pen. The first time a man of deficient
conscience or pluck finds himself confronted with
such a dilemma as that which Mr. Fuller had to
face, he will, no doubt, bear in mind the lesson
rubbed in by Judge Innes and the dailies, and
swear straight ahead to the bitter end.
England, yearning to free herself from the tram-
mels of a faineant , mischievous aristocracy, owes
a deep debt of gratitude to Lord St. Leonards
Some noble lords have, by a certain splendour in
their very vices, fascinated the groundlings whom
theyjrampled on. Others, by the stately hauteur
of their vanity, have dazzled, if not awed, even
more than they have offended, “the general.”, For
great robbers of the commons, there has been not
unoften a savour of admiration in the very hatred
with which they were regarded. When, however
the baron condescends to low blackguardism—to
the filthy tricks of the pot-house bully; or the
duke takes to emulating the brutality of a Bill
Sykes, he excites a disgust unrelieved by one
scintilli of sympathy, and causes even dullards to
see that the hereditary principle of nobility, by
conferring great privileges and legislative powers
on the criminal, the lustful, the idiotic, or the mad
successor to a perhaps originally well-earned
honour (perhaps also not), is a blasphemous iDsult
to Humanity.
♦-
Sir Alfred Stephen contends that no represen-
tation tending to show the innocence of a prisoner
charged with a capital crime should, on any ac-
count, be made to the newspapers: it should be
made to the proper quarter. Sir Alfred doesn’t
condescend to give any why for tDis surprising
dogma. Ordinary folks would imagine that, if
there were any doubt of the guilt of a prisoner
under sentence of death, the greater the publicity
given to a fpublication of the doubt, the greater
the probability of securing the information neces-
sary to dispel it. Representation to the “ proper
quarter,” as the ex-C.J. euphuistically puts it, are
too often met with the official snub direct. More-
over, the “ proper quarter,” in nine cases out of
ten, is the very authority whose action is under
review by the public; hence, to confine making
representations to the “ proper quarter,” is to pre-
sume that the “proper quarter” possesses the
desire to prove itself in the wrong—a presumption
which the experience of ages by no means war-
rants. In the majority of instances, it is only by
making representations to the horrid newspapers
that sufficient pressure can be brought to bear
upon the “proper quarter" to induce that very
conservative entity to “ go about.”
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch s
special positions in the paper 7s. fld. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 38 consecutive insertion! *
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Mr. Dymock, bookseller, of Pitt-street, has
published a set of five ooloured prints, represent-
ing Sydney as it appeared at the commencement
of the century. Those prints are well done, and
quite interesting. Their price is one guinea the
set, and they are worth the money.
Bishop Hale, of Brisbane, proposes to
retire from the Bishop business in March next,
when he will have attained the 73rd year, and the
37th of his espiscopate. About ten in Brisbane, we
believe; previously in Perth, W.A. Bishop Hale
is a worthy man, and has worked hard. He is a
lineal descendant of Sir Mathew Hale, whose nau.e
he bears, even to the traditional one “t” in Mathew.
Mr. Critchett Walker, chief under-clerk
to the Colonial Secretary, has just issued a neat
pamphlet and map descriptive of New South
Wales, its climate, productions, soil, resources,
population, progress, wealth, and a thousand and
one other things that every immigrant wants to
know and generally has to wade through three or
four exhaustive volumes to and out. To the
immigrant, this pamphlet will prove invaluable,
for it contains in concise form just the very points
he needs to guide him in the selection of a farm or
a place in which to live. A perusal of the publica-
tion has taught us more about New South Wales,
its progress and resources, than we ever knew be-
fore, and we have already got our eye on a few big
run that we mean to squat on, one at a time, of
course, just as soon as we can get around to it.


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Mb. DeCoubot Bkowne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Caatle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of recon) IP the Dep&rttgepfti an<J
Supremg Court,*
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Madame Scasi has resumed her own name
In N.Z.. and now is billed as “ not only an Associate
of the Royal Academy, London, but Associate of
the Consorvatorio, Milan, and Conservatoire,
Paris; and she likewise obtained a scholarship
from the Royal Aoademy,” Not a word about
the Hlbernicon and Miss Vesta Amor, this trip
By the way, Madame P. came out under engage-
ment to Fulton. Fact!... Oh, and the Auckland
Observer says that Dunning’s crowd are going to
perform “ Bashe (sic) Bleu” at Abbott’s, where
Carry Nelson and James M’Fadya (the Sootch
tragedian) seem to have been playing to
very bad biz .. The latest melodrama is called
“Haunted Lives,” It ip by “T, Wilton Jones,”
and has a ship on fire, a dynamite explosion, ten
trained rats, and an educated camel. How this
The Devil Reproving Sin.
“PRINCE BISMARCK HAS COMMENTED ON THE DISPOSITION OF GREAT BRITAIN TO APPROPRIATE UNOWNED COUNTRIES."- Cablegram.
reminds us of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
D’ye mind ?
Theseus: I wond»r if the lion he to speak ?
Demetrius: No wonder, my lord; one lion may,
when so many asses do.
Dave Gardner, the minstrel, was assaulted and
robbed in the Fitzroy Gardens (Melbourne) the
other night. Dave’s star attracted the cupidity of
the thieves. On going to divide the plunder, how-
ever, they were disgusted to find the ornament of
base metal, bearing upon it the legend, “L.
and L and Globe.” Since then, the air of
Bilking Square has been thick with curses
“Miss Ana Ward comes out to the colonies in
October, under medical treatment.” Directly
Larry heard this, he took his pink fleshings out of
bis shoe-trunk, and surreptitiously handed them
to the hired girl to he darned. “You know!
D’ye see?” The Lawton company, which, we
M# given to understand, consists largely of Minnie
Hopo and a man who punishes a “ MignoD,” is com-
ing here slowly. Tenders, so we are told, have
beqn called for by Alf., for reconstructing and
embellishing the Exhibition Building. We don’t
believe, however, the place in Prince Alfred Park
will hold all that will want to hear Alf. Ping
“Eighteenpenoe.” And, on Queen’s Birthday
night, at Parramatta, that rather pleasant per-
son, Dr. Walter Rodway, lectured on Prison Life,
with a “musical” accompaniment; after whioh
Harry Flynn gave his “ renowned impersonation ”
of Othello. Oranges and nuts were in much
request. Miss Creo Stanley also appeared,
and celd nous Spate! Tom Rainford !
Thank goodness we are now in receipt of what
our correspondent calls (in italioa), “ correct news.”
Here you are:—“ Collins and Vernon’s ‘Fun Com-
pany’ are still doing well in N.S. Wales. . . . The
nature ol the entertainment is variety. Hugh
Vernon, laterly (sic) of Melbourne, being the Il-
lusionist and Ventriloquist, and John Collins the
Irish Comedian. A lady pianist completes the
company.” What will surprise you, though, will
be to learn that this “correct news,” is from Col-
lins and Vernon themselves. This will dispel at
once, and for ever, all doubts as to the genuine-
ness of the intelligence. We have seen the Collins’s
show, by-the-way. It is an alluring spectacle.
“ Ev erybody receives a present,” and the night we
went there our party came away the richer for a
ring of Jezabel-like tendencies, a penny-whistle
and a small-tooth comb. It was rumoured that
Collins was under the impression that the latter was
a musical instrument, until undeceived by a China-
hiLet’s remember thflt the Sydney Progressive
Lyceum have been indulglng-at Professor West’s
—in what they facetiously oall ‘‘a bazaar of choice,
useful, and fancy articles.” . . . Literature was
principally represented by that gorgeous author.
£ yr .. w .{ nl e the poetry was looked after
by Philip Dale. * Bam,” though present, with
her familiar spirit, “Awassa,” did not speak a
piece on this occasion, but contented herself by
eloquently looking after the muffins. A great
feature of the opening night was an address de-
livered by that disinterested ex-legislator, Edward
Grevilie, Esq., the following couplet, we are told,
forming a portion of the poem, whioh was much
applauded:—
“ Advance Australia! and let there be found
In each contractor’s hand, one hundred pound! ”
....Did we tell you that Grattan Riggs is at New-
castle, and that the paper says ot' him:—“ Mr. Riggs
is a humourist, in the true sense of the word.
Every action, every word spoken, every minute
piece of by-play indicate the true artist.” This
will inform you plainer than words that Corrigan
is bagk again (ho is) on the N- H. Wp suppose we
may, therefore, expect dally to see some more
about the “August Lady.” Corrigan, by the way,
is a splendid fellow, and so hirsute, that when
he bursts his boot-lace, he stoops down and
fastens his shoe with a hair of his whisker. We
are very fond of Corrigan, though he did make
Lord Beaconsfleld say some unkind things about
our blocks those weeks when all our engravers
were away getting married, and we had to rush
up things ourselves with a type-mallet and a razor
. Professor Baldwin writes (with a rubber stamp)
that he will soon appear in our city. For this we
waft our thanks to Providenoe. The Professor, it
seems, is his own manager now. He used to be
run by John E. Fulton, who, it seems, remained
in St. Louis. This doesn’t surprise us a bit. We
knew John couldn’t last forever! We have met
(such was our good fortune) Mr. Fulton in nearly
every city in Australasia, and he has always been
“ on the fake,” Once he billed Adelaide like a
circus, and chartering D. C. F. Moodie to lecture,
and subsidising an old German and a magic-
lantern, set forth that he would produce a “ grand
diorama of the Zulu war,” and f urthey announced
that the affair would “coruscate with beauty,”
and that “ competition was paralysed.” The flrst
picture represented the embarkation of the Black
Watch, with a fog thrown in by the operator; and
the next was a view of Capetown, with all the
ohurches balancing themselves on the tips of their
steeples. Cetewayo. very drunk indeed, followed;
and on that monarch being succeeded by the ex-
plosion of a fort—4 squibs and a “ roman-candle
the feelings of the audience expressed themselves
in apples. Loud ironical cheers and calls for
Fulton resounded through the Town Hall, and de-
risive and uncomplimentary epithets were con-
tinuously hurled at Moodie, who, for all that could
he heard of his—we can’t help it, Copeland, old
boy!—of his “ remarsh,” might have been singing
comic songs with a tol-di-rol-de-riddle chorus.
That night, John E. was serenaded with cat-calls
outside his hotel, and Moodie hid in a coal-cellar
and lay covered with a corn-sack until morning.
We next encountered Fulton at a place called
Laura, where he had a gift-show, which he
modestly termed “ Barnum’s Great Comedy Com-
bination, direct from America.” The entertain-
ment consisted of a “veinous” old panorama of
“ A Journey through Scotland,” and was managed
by the faithful Teuton we have mentioned. This
retainer used to lecture until every possible shilling
bad beeq taken, and this i§ a ppgejmea of (m
style; Dls is vat deyoall Balmorals. De Queen
live dere when she don’t live nowberes else. Dem
tings awimmln’ un dor vaaser is sohwans.” The
audience stood an hour of this, all expectant for
the gifts. When, however, it was discovered that
one trooper got the tea-service, the other
the coffeerset, and the Police Magistrate’s
son the kitoben olook, the audience rose as one
man, and went outside to look for bricks. They
way-laid John that night, and bombarded his
pugSTF to such an extent with eggs and rooks, that
the entrepreneur was fain to pull up the hood and
mde as much of his ear under the seat as would go
there. Then he had the “Band Contest” in Syd-
poy, and, subsequently, that noble organization,
the Chinese opera, imported direct from “Little
Canton, and the funniest show it was ever our
lot to witness. This took Fulton away, and he
heard Jt!? Palace Hotel, 'Frisco,
engaging stars at fabulous prices, and sparkling
with diamonds. We don’tsuppose Fulton was found
guilty, for no one was ever found guilty of any-
thing but feloniously distributing tracts at St.
Louis; besides John’s appearance was sufficient to
pull him through several murders. Talk of
Adonis!—but ask the ballet, who adored him. And
that reminds u« of a man we know who started
a show by means of the ballet once. He
engaged twenty - five “ shapely ladies ” for
a chimerical pantomimoi and got each to
deposit 16s. as security for her “ tights.” There
were no “ tights,” of course; and at the end of the
week, in collusion with the stage-manager, ho
altered the hour of rehearsal suddenly, and the«.
fined them a week’s salary all round for being an
hour late!


Personal
Items
Sir William Montague Manning lays it
down that a woman who prior to her marriage
with her deceased husband had lived with him as
his mistress is not a widow in the ordinary sense of
the term. We venture to dispute this monstreus
dictum, and to assert that had a woman lived w th
A man for 60 vears as his mistress and then married
him as he lay on his death-bod she would be as
mu oh his widow in the ordinary as Manning is a
judge in the extraordinary sense of the term.
Lord Ernest Hamilton nominated by
United Conservative Association, to run for
Canterbury along with Henniker Heaton which
loSksasif the U.O.A. meant to utilise Henniker s
coin to secure Ernest a return. Henniker will
probably come to regard his expenditure as
earnest money of a bargain that shall secure him
the entrte into uppor ten-dom, per favour of the
House of Hamilton— only he d better get the
sntrtf favour, &0., before the election comes off,
as, opris, the House ef Hamilton will drop him like
a too hot spud.
The Cumbkrland Nobbs presents rather
an emaciated appearance. Courtney has gone from
it. and now sub-edits the Bum, and affects even
boot-heels. C., by the way, is to try his luck at
Canterbury next general election. Air. Courtney
has eualifled himself for candidature by the pur-
chase of a “ house and lot ’’—the former modestly
oonoealing itself behind the water-tank. We went
there to spend the day not long ago, and, after
knocking for an hour or so, the door was answered
bv a goat. It struck us then that perhaps the can-
didate for parliamentary honours had retained the
services of this quadruped as perpetual ohairman
during his approaching stumping tour.
Captain Fournier, who engineered the
treaty with China, is said to be the youngest
captain in the French navy, and he is 43. A navy,
over the heads of whose youngest captains more
than forty times over has Miohaelmas passed, is in
a bad wav. Nelson was under 40 when he won the
battle of the Nile. Before Wellington was 40 he
had been victor at Assaye, Vimeira, and Talavera.
Disraeli simply exaggerated a truth when he
wrote, “the history of heroes is the history of
vouth.” On the other side of the question, there s
no doubt a whole lot to be said; still in a military
service where the openings to high command are
closed to men in that decade of their live* that
terminates at 40, there is but slight hope of its
tactics extorting a world’s admiration either by
brilliant originality or splendidly audacious elan.
The Brisbane correspondent of Vanitv
Fair tells la story about Sir Arthur Palmer when
introducing the Hon. Dr. O’Doherty to Sir An-
thnnv Musgrove:—“The occasion was a formal
dinner given by the Legislative Council of the
colony to its Governor; and the president, a white-
haired, tough old squatter—a K.C.M.G., ot course
—was introducing some of the members to His
Excellency, who had recently been installed. This,
81r A..’ he said, ‘ is our old Fenian, as a pleasant
old Irish ex-rebel was brought forward. You may
fill up the blank with a word in frequent use in
Ratcliffe Highway, and never heard among gentle-
men.” If this isn’t true, it is ben trovato. Palmer
Is the fellow, it will be remembered, who, while in
Svdney at the Conference, expressed himself with
onual elegance about journalists. “D —d press
feilows.” Personally, he is a fat-bullock fellow,
but honest withal.
R. H„ better known as “Bobby,” Rhodes
died recently at Christchurch (N.Z.), leaving an
estate valued at £600,000. Bobby was one ot the
very few extremely wealthy men in the world
whom nobody envied, and with whom, probably,
the poorest whiteman in New Zealand, or any-
where else, would not have desired to change
places in every respect. The deceased gentleman,
during the last decade of his existence, was an ob-
ject of pity to all with whom he came in contact,
whether rioh or poor. He was afflicted with some
kind of leprosy, which all the skill of the medical
fraternity was unable to cure. At one time, how-
ever, some years ago, when he was at death s door,
he was saved from immediate dissolution by being
buried for a time up to the chin in the pure virgin
soil of his adopted country. There ar.-, probably,
many other disorders which a similar course ot
treatment might beneficially affect. Ohesity, for
instance, and we recommend it for A. G. Taylor s
legs. They are getting too rotund.
When it was neoessary to designate a great
man down South, at one period of oolonial his-
tory. all you had to do was to smack your lips and
sav Berry.” Time brings changes, however; and
the oldest resident, when he takes his stand on the
rubbish-heaplabutting Prince’s Bridge,rand gyrates
■around the philosophy of things, finds that there is
no statement truer in the whole complex region of
art, soience, and leligion than that wmch is
summed up in the enduring sentence. Things
isn’t now as they used to was. No, they re not.
You can’t reach the ne plus ultra of greatness now
by saying “ Berry,” simply. There are more of
that name at present swaggering around the South
than there were in the innocent childhood of the
towering State. There’s D. Berry there now. It
■need not be observed by those with first-class
memories for profanity that the sound of the
appellation is not altogether new. The D , as
applied to the recently risen Berry, represents a
basin of baptismal water and a guinea fee. You
must therefore say D. Berry or G. Berry, as you
want to bring one or other of the two great men
before your mental vision. And who, some be-
nighted foreigner may ask, is D. Berry, or what
special claim has he to be considered eminent in a
colony where great men are as numerous as pats
of butter in a dairy? Well, first, D. Berry is a
man; secondly, he is a clergyman: thirdly, he is a
college man; and, fourthly, he is the only man in
Melbourne who has taken up Joseph Syme s chal-
lenge about the divinity of Christianity. It is in
bis character of “ only man ” his claim lies.
Mr. Jager delivered a very interesting
lecture some nights ago in'.the Melbourne Coffee
Palace. It was in connection with the Tonic bol la
Association, and dealt with the musical instru-
ments oftthe Bible. The lecturer let light into the
ksobwebbedjrecesses of a lot of heads, from cer-
tain groups cut out on the tombs of dead Egyp-
tians and Assyrians, he showed that those old
people knew how to blow .the fog-horn and tin
whistle and thump the big drum, almost as well as
«those accomplishments are now known. And he
naively observed that where the knowledge of
bow to commit the nuisance was present, you
might bet your boots that that the actual com-
mission was a fact. Hearers rubbed their scalps
«t this. Why, hearers had fancied that these
nuisances were of modern invention altogether.
No matter, however. Mr. Jager was not long be-
fore he informed everybody that every man of
the inventors was now dead. That consoled the
bearers somewhat. The information was not as
complete as might be desired, lor there was an
evident wish to have the same result of all who
followed in the inventors’ footsteps. Time, how-
ever. will bring that about. “ A time will come,
said Mr. Jager, “ in whioh the musicalinstruments
of our day will be described just as I describe
these of the Babylonians and Assyrians.” ‘And
will the instruments be out on .their tombs like it
was on the B’s. and A’s?” asked some of the cob-
webbed people. “Probably,” replied Mr. Jager.
“Then, hal ha!” cried the people, revenge is
aweet, and we’ll have it.” And a vote of thanks
to the lecturer was carried without a dissenting
voice, the meeting broaaing up with cries of
•* Ha, ha! Revenge is sweet!’
The morganatio marriage of the Grand
Duke of Hesse on the day that his daughter was
jnarrjed to Prince iQiW Qf Bftttehhwrg seems tq
have been an odd business altogether. It now
seems as though the Queen wasn t displeased at ail
or else didn't know of the marriage when she
quitted Darmstadt, as the Grand Duke went over
to Windsor with her 1 That’s another queer fact
of itself. Within a day or two of the marriage the
husband was at Windsor, and the morganatic wire
at St. Petersburg. She, by the way, is Polish with
a streak of Hebrew, and rumour alleges that she
was a very great frieDd of a Polish Count who used
to live on his wits in London, and was on the best
of terms with the highest personages. She is a
musical amateur of the intensest kind, and an
original. One explanation of the Queens com-
plaisance to the Grand Duke is that she had pre-
vailed on him to repudiate his marriage almost as
soon as it was divulged, and that stops are to be
taken to cancel it altogether. No clergyman
officiated. It was celebrated by Baron Von Stark,
the Hessian Minister of State, as a civil ceremony.
Another queer fact is that Prince Lou's of Batten-
burg, who married the daughter of the Grand
Duke, the Queen’s grand-daughter, is himself the
offspring of a morganatic marriage, and his family
history is altogether peculiar. .His brother, Priuce
Alexander, was repudiated by his father, who
asserted that both Alexander and his sister were
begotten by a Master of the Horse. The sister,
however, was sought in marriage by the late Gzan
and duly became Czarina, whereupon the old
Grand Duke found it convenient to shut up, albeit
he had repudiated his old wife and taken to him-
self a morganatic spouse, Prince Louis mother.
Pretty Connie Gilohrist has been staying
down at Badminton, the honoured guest of the
naughty old Duke of Beaufort, and the delectable
spectacle of the amiable Duchess driving the
Gaiety damsel over to the meet has been striking
consternation to the hearts of some of the sur-
rounding country squires. Connie herself must
have felt that she was playing in the funniest bur-
lesque she ever had a part in, and the general
opinion of “society” at home is that the Duke
came it “ a bit too strong ” in flaunting his fascin-
ating young friend in the face of his wife and
family. Anyway, though, little Gilchrist is a clever
girl, and plays her oards well. Transferred from
the music halls to the boards of the Gaiety Theatre
while yet only a child —fourteen years ot age
Connie soon became (to quote her own proud
boast) “the youngest girl in London to nave a
brougham of her own. ’ The skipping rope
dance” first brought her into notice, and the
“ friendship ” of the mashers-led by the venerable
Duke, who is more than old enough to stand in the
relationship of grandlather—has kept her there.
Connie wasn't more than seventeen when Whistler
painted her as the “Gold Girl with her yellow
tresses hanging down a somewhat scraggy back.
Someone wrote some drivelling verses, too, under
the same heading, if we remember rlghtly-every-
thing, in fact, was done to make Connie the
fashion. And, although she ean t dance half as
well as Kate Vaughan, nor sing worth a cent, still
Connie is unmistakeably smart, and may one day
make a big name for herself as an actress. Mr.
and Mrs. Florence, the American artistes, were
very much taken with her when she played a small
part in their “Mighty Dollar/’ and offered her an
engagement in the States. But, just at present,
while enjoying 1 the run of ducal residences, Connie
doesn’t need to devote much time to the profes-
sion, and, as with many another leading actress or
the present day, her best talents won t be de-
veloped until admirers begin to drop off. By the
bye, like her rival, Kate Vaughan. Connie has a
sister (Marie) who is much lower down the theatri-
cal ladder than herself. Marie has never' got higher
than the music halls, and, not being a Gold Girl
dukes and duchesses know her not.
Young Power, the Times correspondent,
who was locked up with Chinese Gordon in Khar-
toum, has a history almost as eventful as his com-
patriots, M’Gahan and O'Donovan. He is the son
of a late manager of the National Bank, Dublin, a
nephew of Richard Lalor, M-P. for Queen s
County,lreland,and of the Hon. Peter of that name,
Speaker of the Victorian Assembly. Power was
eduoated partly in Belgium, and partly in Austria,
and went through the Servian and Russo-Turkish
campaigns as journalist and semi-military attache
to the Austrian officers. His yarns concerning
this campaign, told on his return to admiring
Bohemian brethren of the Dublin pres 3, earned
for him the title of “ Ghazi the Magnificent. It
was Power of whom Kdmund O’Donovan wrote,
prior to starting with the ill-fated Hicks expedi-
tion, as being ill with fever in his tent; it was this
fever which detained him in Khartoum, and en-
abled him to kDock the other “specials out or
time. Power is an artist as well as a journalist; and
an American admirer asserts that the Ghazi
book reviews with an air of profound
erudition—make witty paragraphs with a flavour
of Attic salt in every line of them—write love ron-
deaus, and triolets, and vers de sociite, the melody
of whose words will linger in your ear for hair a
day after you have heard them—and that he has
written novels three volumes long. The Royal
Hibernian Academy of Ireland have hung three of
his pictures at their annual exhibitions. He can
talk in four or five languages, and sing drinking
songs in a dozen. He can fence like a Frenchman,
ride like an Irishman, box like an Englishman, and
waltz like an Austrian hussar. Power is in aU
things characteristically Irish. His mother lived
in what West Briton apes call “ Murrion Squeer,
the most fashionable spot in all Dublin; but the
Ghazi ” was seldom seen there. He was living in
lodgings, enduring hardships which only his inti-
mates kuow, often trudffiiigf the streets all nig’ht
because he chose the anti-rent ticket* those
occasions he generally breakfasted on a pig s foot
and a bottle of stout, the nett cost of which in
Dublin is 4d. Power is only 27 years of age; and
his title of “The Ghazi,” which is apt to stick, was
earned by his many affectionate references to
Ghazi Mouhtar Pash 1.
Miss Alice S. Burvett writes to the Evev-
ing News pitching into the musical critic of the
8. M. Herald, because, the critic, after taking the
pains to ascertain the name of an encore piece,
mentioned another by the same composer in the
published report, also because three instead of one
of the pieces played by Miss Burvett had not been
previously played by her in Sydney, and finally
because the critic had mentioned that the con-
cert commenced late. Miss Burvett writes that
“It is a pity for the profession (not residing in
Sydney at least) that this newspaper should have
for musical critic a lady who presumes to know so
much about music, but who, somehow, finds <t
necessary to make such inquiries as, for instance,
whether Weber’s ‘Polonaise,’ which I played,
was in E flat!” Miss Burvett would have been
better advised had she kept her annoyance to her-
self. The lady who writes the critiques for the 8.
M. Herald has by this time established her repu-
tation among musical connoisseurs in Sydney, for
better or worse, past the possibility of being
affected by a single slip of the pen, or by the'Spite-
ful protestations of a mortified professional. We
know a good deal more about her qualifications
than Miss Burvett is likely to for years to come,
and if Miss Burvett were anything like so capable
a pianiste as the Herald’s representative is com-
petent as a musical critic, we have no doubt that
the best feelings would reign. The real state of
the case is quite evident. It isn’t this one
critique which has provoked Miss Burvett.
That young pianiste was launched here with an
amount of pretension which her Actual abilities
were quite inadequate to sustain. The S.M.
Herald’s critio judged Miss Burvett on
her merits, and dealt with her perform-
ances discriminatively. We have read all the
Herald critiques, we believe, and all we have
read we have concurred with. Their sense has
been plain, and, to our mind, their expression has
been merciful. Our own impressions and notices
have been in complete acoord. To put the thing in
a nutshell, Miss Burvett tried to do Ketten busi-
ness here. She was not nearly good enough. There
are a lot of better pianistes than she in Sydney, who
would never have attempted to give unassisted
pianoforte recitals, and who would have failed to
draw audiences if they had. The Herald s critio
may have made a mistake in a matter of dr tail in
her last report, but she has certainly made no mis-
take in her general estimate of Miss Burvett s
status as a pianiste.
Mr. Moncure Conway has been saying
more—and worse—about Australia. We have no
literary judgment. We have no artistic taste.
Which means that we had no money for Monoure.
This fact is, for its pathos, principally indebted to
its truth. We had no money for him. Conse-
quently when he got back !to London, he could
not afford to drink much champagne over the
profits of his Australian tour. That is to say, if
h 3 does drink—a matter of which we are not sure;
though, if he never did before, we think he must
have taken to it somewhat enthusiastically since
he went home, judging by the tone of some of his
late lectures. But, though Mr. Conway has chosen
to say some bitter things about us, we shall say
nothing bitter of him. Btlll, in onr own defence
we wifl say that, as a rule almost without excep-
tion, only men who have come out here empty-
headed have gone home empty-handed. If any
person, whatever he may be, has anew and worthy
thought, or theory, or faot, or performance to
show to us, he will nave no reason to complain of
our lack of either literary judgment or artistio
taste. But, he must be able to justify himself
upon the Piazza.” If there are any more pseudo-
philosophers, or second-hand sages in Europe, who
think they have only to some out to Australia
with some coloured beads and brass buttons in a
satchel, to dazzle us into making their fortunes for
them, let them take warning in time by the fate
of Moncure Conway. He happened to be able to
get home again. They might not have such luck.
And then ?—the Statue and the Domain. Before
we finish with this subject, we think we will pre-
sent Mr. Conwav with a few little verses, whioh
may help to brighten up the next lecture in which
he has oocasion to speak of Australia. Here they
are:—
We have received a note, written in a bold
and original style, from Seymour, a small town-
snip in victoria, chiefly remarkable for support-
ing two editors on half a paper. The note is from
Charles Puller, ot the "Stray Leaves” Company,
and is written in superior handwriting on superior
hotel-paper. It informs us that the company has
been doing handsome business in Victoria—a
?hrase which we would translate, handsome does
hat handsome is. The first time we saw Mr.
Fuller was when we were in Queanbeyan, deriv-
ing a precarious income, partly from editing one of
the local papers and partly from playing the ac-
cordion at bush-balls. In those halcyon times, wo
used to stand at the office-door, or sit down on the
footbridge in front, and stare across the street at a
splay-footed butcher, who stared stolidly back at
us and gnawed a skewer. Both of us were waiting
for something to come down the street—a dog, or
a Chinaman, or the parson's horse, it mattered
little what, as long as it moved and could be made
to howl—that we could throw a stone at. When
we had thrown the stone, we were satisfied, and
used to go inside till the flatness of life again got
the better of us, and we were driven forth once
more to stare at each other with intensified
stolidity, and look for fresh excitement. Whisky
was no break to the monotony of being down
there: it was the atmosphere. Dog-fights also had
no great attraction, as most of the dogs were too
broken-SDirited to fight after the first round. All
was despondency and gloom. Literally, the most
cheerful man in the place was the undertaker.
And he had the most hope-inspiring name for an
undertaker that we have ever heard of. Lazarus
he was called, and his jocularity was appalling.
When you looked into his eye, you saw your own
image, but you saw more. You saw your chin tied
up, your arms crossed over your breast, copper
coins on your eyes, and a coffin with the lid off
lying ready beside your bed. This coffin was not
too large nor too small, too light nor too heavy,
too plain nor too ornamental. It was your exact
measure; it was to your exact taste. And why?
Because, in his first look at you, this devil of an
undertaker had guaged the size of shell you would
take to an inch, and in all subsequent casual con-
versations his hidden purpose was to worm out of
you whether your tastes inclined to the sumptuous
or the severe, the rose-wood of the rich or the
plain deal of the poor. He never touched any-
thing stronger than treacle-water himself, but he
took a lively interest in those who drank sterner
stuff. The men who were his meat he knew at a
glance; and they knew it, too, and drank the
harder to drown the thought. So he was merry
when all else were mournful; and as he came up
the road in the morning, his face, transfigured with
yellow soap and water, shone like one of his own
breastplates, or the golden helmet of Mambrino,
which turned out to be a barber’s basin. Much of
the gloomy glee with which our present writing is
infected we caught from conversation with this
unique undertaker during intervals of leisure al-
lowed us by our musical and editorial duties —which
intervals were nearly all the time. From him we
derived a ghoulish taste for following funerals at
our own invitation, and mourninglover the grave,
of people we never saw, at our own expense. In
the middle of all this miasma of despond came
Charles Fuller. What times we had during the two
or three days he was there I What whisky we
drank I What songs we sang to the accompaniment
of a piano that had in it as much music as an old
gatel What lies we toldl What girls we would
have kissed if they had let us! It was a small ex-
citement, but to us who write, it was a saturnalia.
We can look back to it now from the Olympian
heights of opulence upon which we'at present
Thunder I Ihe bailiff is at the front gate, and we
have to barricade the door. Excuse us, and we
will be at your service in live minutes. . . . It’s
all over. He made an ugly corpse. It was a bloody
deed. Let us drink.
The S.M. Herald, in a two-column review
of the published “Life of the Princess Alice,”
managed to suppress all reference to the most
striking circumstance connected with that excel-
lent woman. The Princess Alice was a declared
Freethinker during all those years; of her married
life in which her virtues as a woman, as a wife, a 3
a mother, and as a daughter, so embellished her
station. Tnere is no question that Alice was an
admirable woman: the flower of the Royal flock,
her father’s darling, and her mother’s tender
counsellor and friend. Her wedded life, despite
troubles and sorrows which brought her nearer
than any of the family to the great world of work-
a-day folks, was, in the main, exceedingly happy—
a condition in no small degree due to her own
beautiful character and loveable disposition. Her
husband, who has now so oddly exhibited a dis-
graceful disrespect for her memory, was, while
she lived, entirely devoted to her: and, by every
token of genuine affection, illuminated her life
with the joy of domestic happiness. In letters,
written at intervals of several years, she bears
testimony to the fact that it was not a mere honey-
moon fondness which subsisted between her
and her husband. In one, she writes: “ There is
such a feeling of security, and we two have a world
of our own when we are together, which nothing
caw touch or intrude upon. My lot is indeed a
blessed one, and yet what have 1 done to deserve
that warm, ardent love which my darling Louis
ever shows me ? I admire his good and noble heart
more than I can say.” Two years afterwards, the
Princess says: “Our life is a very happy one. I
have nothing on earth to wish for, and much as I
loved my precious Louis when I married him, still
more do I love him now and daily.” The pair were
all the time not only as poor, comparatively, as
church mice, but absolutely harassed by duns. It
doesn’t seem to have been altogether, if at all,
their fault, either. Prince Louis had been
pretty wild in hie younger days, no doubt,
and had been reckless in money matters. But
he is scarcely blameable, as he had been led
into financial indiscretions by his own father,
who seems to have encouraged him to be ex-
travagant, in order that he might find him-
self in a fix, and, consequently, well-disposed to
join in encumbering certain entailed estates,
which could not have been hypothecated without
his concurrence as heir. His father’s affairs were
frightfully embarrassed long before he, Prince
Louis, had arrived at years of discretion; and as,
when he came of age he joined with his father in
encumbering the family property, he was obliged,
throughout his wedded life, to make all kinds of
sacrifices to keep the old man afloat and steer his
own barque as well. The Hesse-Darmstadt family
has? long been hard-up. They used to sell their
subjects for soldiers to England, at the time of
the American War of Independence, and right up
to the fall of Napoleon. Later on, one reason given
to Parliament for the Crimean War was that
Russia had sought for influence in Germany, by
paying the debts of the Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt;
the Czarwitch of that day being son-in-law to the
Duke then reigning. Of course the poverty of a
Prince’s household is a relative term. It is pro-
bably fraught with some mortifications which a
oommon person would escape, but it nevor touches
the real misery point, in which, after every insult,
mortification and indignity beoome chronic, and
actual cold and hunger afflict the sufferer, chil-
dren cry for bread, and are thrown into depraved
company, and afflicted by poisonous surroundings
both moral and physical ; babes starve at the
breast, and death is an escape rather than an ill.
The gentle Alice suffered in her degree. Magnifi-
cence was denied to her, and she had even some
1 actual discomforts. But the bitterest drops were, of
course, unknown to her. She seems never to have
made her troubles occasion for actual complaint.
The sweetness of her disposition, and her
strong sense, saved her from that. But the
instances she gives of her worries indicate how
far remote they were after all from the real agonies
of the world’s poor. Thus she writes: “We have
sold four carriage horses, and have only six to
drive with now, two of which the ladies constantly
want for theatres, visits, &c.; so we are rather
badly off in some things.” The straitness of the
family’s means did not prevent their building a
new house—on tick. The result, very simply re-
corded in one of Alioe’s letters, brings to mind the
inoident of Ruggles, the ex-butler, who had let his
house in Mayfair to Colonel Crawley and Becky,
his wife. Writes the Princess: “The man who
built our house has nearly been made bankrupt,
and wants money from us to save him from ruin,
and we can scarcely manage it.” The fate of “ the
man ” is not disclosed in subsequent correspond-
ence; but it seems that even the furniture of the
new house was obtained on the “time-payment
system.” On receiving a present of money from
her mother, the poor Princess writes: “ The money
will go at once to Louis’s man of business towards
paying off the furniture, and, is, indeed, very, very
acceptable, more so under present circumstances
than anything else you could give us; and that
part of the furniture will then all be your pre-
sent.” Poor Princess Alice 1 She was a good
woman. Her character is embosomed in charms.
In every domestic relation she showed herself an
examole worthy of universal imitation, and the
strength of her intellect was disclosed no less by
the degree in which she emancipated herself
from the traditional system of training which
corrupts the minds of Royal personages by
the misconception that the peop e exist for
their benefit, and not they for the benefit
of the people, than by the independence with
which she liberated herself from the shackles of
orthodoxy, in her best years. It is, indeed, a most
notable tact that, during the very time when the
Princess Alice was most actively displaying virtues
which endear her memory alike to the people of
Darmstadt and of England, she was an earnest
Freethinker. In 1870, when the Princess’s husband
and children got the scarlet fever, she nursed them
herself. During the forced seclusion, she became
acquainted with David Strauss, the theo.'ogian ;
and .the Princess, with that courage of opinion
which was characteristic of her, allowed him to
dedicate to her his work on Voltaire, which ap-
proved of the French philosopher in many essen-
tial points. It has been said, indeed, that she re-
canted, later. But the authority for this is more
than dubious. Her last illness was very short
Orthodoxy never fails to allege either a recanta-
tion or a frightful death-bed. To allege the Jatttr
with respect to a Princess so universally beloved
as Alice of England would have been injudicious.
The former was safer. No doubt the same will be
said of Alice’s sister, the Princess ttoyai of England
and Crown Princess of Germany, when she
dies. But as she is still alive, and a proiouncel
Freethinker, silence is the present expedient.
Dead people cannot contradict falsehoods about
themselves. Live people cam
There went forth over the world a wail of
grief; and we wailed with the rest. In a ditch be-
ind the Castlemaine brewery, in Melbourne, whs
found —so it was voluminously reported—the
mangled and outraged form of the once well-
known and notorious “Lady Munro,” who was
stated to be sister to Lady Mordaunt, and also -we
the Newcastle Hanby— “ a daughter of the
of Dudley:” though, how this can be, when
Lady Mordaunt’s father is Sir Thomas Moncrieff,
we can’t quite understand. Hold on, thought Now
we come to think of it, the but it’s none of our
business I The ejaculation of George ll.’s dying
Queen, somehow, occurred to us, “ Cela n’empechc
pas!" Comprenny ? Well, when the sad news of
Lady Munro's untimely end got abroad, there was
hardly a rag in the country whose bard did n«t
trickle forth his little stream of poetry. Here s
some of what our poet coughed up, but which was
crowded out, at the last moment, by an unlooked-
for theatrical “ card ” :
MUNRO.—A MEMORY.
In her cold and solemn shell,
Lol a grave man came and kissed her:
In his eyes the tears did well,
For he loved that fallen sister!
Through the haze of silv’ry gauze
Shed the moon her soft pale sheen,
As amidst a solemn pause
He thought what she might have been!
“ Gone,” he moaned, “ to thy last rest,”
And with grief he seemed t@ choke;
“ Lay a chaplet on her breast, ’
And went off to weep—and smoke.
The Brunswick Banner was, if not so musical
at least considerably more practical. Witness:—
! a denial. •
: Munro dead in a brew’ry ditch,
* Yesterday morning was found, sirs;
; Some blame our boys for this crime, which'
* The poor things never did, sirs.
The Sandridge Signal took a more lofty flight:—
Say, who is that in diadem crowned
That whirls in merry valse around,
Her face with pride aglow:
A duke her partner—rapture rare I
To clasp, thinks he, that form so fair ?
It is the gay Munro.
Who is it that stiff, stark, we see
Stretched out behind a breweree ?
Oh, horror!—is it so ?
Her eyebrow shows a patch of mud.
Her heart has ceased its gentle thud—
It is, alas, Munro.
We think, however, that Bermagui DisPATCn is
entitled, on the whole, to clutch the Sally Lunn:—
“ONE MORE UNFORTUNATE,” ETC.
It seems but yestreen since we gazed on this waifi
And heard her gay laugh in the walls of a kafe;
Beheld her, at. dawn, with a swell so rekerky,
Discussing with laughter the “ gold top ” and tur-
key!
So merry and blithe was this pretty Munro!
With what grace she could kick off a squatter fl
chapeau!
But now it appears we shan’t see her encore,
For it is reported poor Munro is 21 lort! *
These are only a few of hundreds of elegies, and
her ladyship has had as many biographical pars.
* Bermagui French.
TO MONCUNE CONWAY.
(A Tribute of Admiration from Australia.)
We may. Moncure, be blind, and bound
In ignorance; but though our plight
Be sad, indeed, full soon ■we found
It did not take much lore, or light,
Or revelation new,
Poor thing, to see through you!
So the more ignorant are we,
The shallower, then, you must be!
Your little game would make us smile,
If we were dead. You said Carlyle,
And Spencer, you agreed with, too.
Agreed? Well—yes; but yet that you
From either system stood alone.
With some improvements of your own!
Which is as though-just, please, suppose—
One from a statue knocked the nose,
Said “ This is Phidias, and fine!
But the improvement, sirs, is mine!/”
And, now, when next of us you speak,
Just add this, Moncure, dear,
You came out here upon your cheek—
And went home on your ear!


The Singer Sewing Machine
ARRANGEMENTS TO SECURE THE
AUSTRALIAN TRADE.
SINGER, THE BENEFACTOR OF HIS AGE.
Thu mechanical scientists have been the real
kings of modern time. While some men have
fought for and Won renown on the battle field at
a huge sacrifice of human life, there have been
others engaged in the field of mechanical inven-
tion who have won empires in the hearts of men
of every nationality, by reason of the world-wide
benefits of their genius. And undoubtedly one of
the men who pre-eminently deserves a pinnacle of
imperishable fame is that great benefactor of
modern time, I. M. Singer. His was a genius which
knew no border-line, but which conferred on
Europe and Australia alike the good wrought in
his own country. William Cobbett, England’s
stern reformer and historian, always stoutly main-
tained that the heroes of the sword sank infinitely
below the men who devoted their talents to peace-
fully ameliorating the condition of mankind by
lessening human toil and improving the means of
human subsistence. And fitly, therefore, can it be
said of Singer, the inventor, that he well deserves
a front place in the gallery of modern benefactors.
The story of his life is of thrilling interest —a
career of patient observation and plodding work,
and repeated disappointments and ill-successes in
his efforts to master a yet unknown principle, till at
last he is found grasping that triumph of scientific
mechanism, the Singer sewing-machine, which
gave the world, as it were, a lift into prosperity,
and struck the shackles for ever from tens of
thousands of toiling hands. Thejinvention of the
Singer sewing-machine, and the speed and perfec-
tion to which its manufacture was soon brought,
increased tenfold the capabilities of every house-
hold furnished with such an appliance; and the
manufactories being smilarly affected, it caused a
complete revolution in that essential of life, the
production of clothing. And just as the wide-
stretching fields of America opened new granaries
to starving Europe, so did The Singer Manufactur-
ing Works spread broadcast great and permanent
benefits. Upwards of five millions of these splendid
little appliances have been turned out of the works;
and after 25 years’ experience they continue to be
produced and sold at the rate of over 600,000 per
year. As the Singer machine represents the labour
of ten hands, it can be calculated from these
figures the extra saving of labour called into the
world’s assistance by Singer’s great invention.
Over and over again, at every exhibition and con-
test in Europe, America, India, and Australia, for
the last 25 years, the Singer sewing-machine has
been declared the perfection of mechanism—the
simplest, solidest, and best made appliance ever
produced—and the solid gold and silver medals
awarded the invention during that period would
together cover the faces of two large-sized billiard-
table s. Last year the sales of the Singer totalled
the enormous number of 650,292, which means that
over 2000 of the machines are made and sold every
working day of the year—being exactly at the rate
of three out of every four of the whole sewing-
machine production of the whole world. If this is
not a triumph for mechanical genius, it would be
well to know what is. The Singer Company have
an active working capital of £5,000,000-a trifle
over the annual expenditure of the two rising
colonies of N.S.W. and Victoria—and employment
is given all the year round to not less than 50,000
hands. During the last few years the great firm,
having established additional works in Scotland to
meet the trade of the United Kingdom and the
colonies, have taken steps to have Australia par-
ticularly well attended to. During the last few
years, Mr. Fernie, the Australian representative of
The Singer Manufacturing Company, has been
establishing branches and bringing the business of
the whole group under one central head. For
some considerable time the source of colonial
supply has been the central dep6t at Darling
Harbour, Sydney, and these extensive warehouses
are still maintained; but Mr. Fernie has deemed it
advisable to be represented in the business centres
of, the great metropolis. To this end, he has
secured splendid premises in Pitt-street, on the
site of Moore's old Labour Bazaar—a spot of his-
toric interest, known from end to end of our
island continent. On this site Mr. Fernie has a
spacious business house. The business part of the
warehouse has a depth of nearly 130 ft., with a
width of nearly 60ft., and the arrangements are so
well designed that the front portion answers the
purpose of a splendid show-room, and the rear
for a suite of offices for the clerical and managerial
staffs. The whole space is splendidly lighted and
ventilated, and the show-room is vastly superior
to anything of the kind elsewhere in the colonies.
Entering from Market-street, there are nine floors,
giving a superficial area of floor space of about an
acre. These floors are magnificently fitted for
their various purposes—the cellars, the best in the
city, being designed for the reception of heavy
machines and parts. On the ground floor is the
paeking-room and the counting-house of the j
invoice and shipping clerks. The next is occupied
by the staff of mechanics, cabinet-makers, and
French-polishers. The others hold the lighter
machines and the cabinet-work. On the top floor,
concealed amidst cases of black walnut is the
beautiful gas engine which works the patent hoist
with nearly the smoothness and precision of the
Singer machine itself. Mr. Fernie, the Australian
representative, has arranged for continued large
shipments of the Singer machines for every class
of domestic and factory use, and the whole of the
agencies throughout the colonies will be found
to be supplied with machines of every size and
price. The vastly increasing sales of the Singer
machines in the Australian colonies enable the
representative of this genuine appliance to make
as easy arrangements on the time-payment system
as the vendors of inferior machines. That the
coming year’s business in these colonies will eclipse
the previous is certain—a proof that in Australia
people are as fully alive to what is best to buy as
elsewhere; and a proof also that the genius of the
great inventor, Singer, meets with real honest ap-
preciation, while base and flimsy imitators are
discarded and condemned.
Inflammation, coughs, catarrhs, and i
pneumonia, resulting from colds, may be cured by l
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It allays the inflam
rnation, removes the irritation and soreness,
soothes the organs, and restores the sufferer to
health,
*
i'«vi hW
\\\\ AV* • ;l
or. >
Mi
Eczema on Face& Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FBOH
Scrofula on neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
¥~\ ISF’IG URING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Soald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ennemia, Pyaemia,Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pa«k-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
DEAFNESS !—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the SeDior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford.
Auckland, New Zealand.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
PJUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Purl,
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonou*
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humori
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh I
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, r®*
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Bkin Beautifief
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, if
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflera
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $l.OOl
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, *l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the r
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
[A CARD.]
H. W. COOPER,
34 0 CRO WN STREET,
Late with Dr. Langston Parker,
Author of “Modern Treatment of SvnhiUn •*
Queen s Hospital, Birmingham, England.' °
Patients treated by Parker’s method.
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THE RENOWNED matters
tv. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE BANKOP NEW SOUTH WALES. *
written about her aa Archibald Forbes. Well, we
have no sooner wept over her and buried her—the
last sound of the harp has hardly died away upon
the wintry breezes—than we light upon the fol-
lowing in the Newcastle Herald “ A female
known by the police as ‘ Mrs. Munro,’ of Sydney,
reputed to be a daughter of the Earl of Dudley,
and sister to Lady Mordaunt, was at the Victoria
-theatre last night. As usual, she became erratic,
and narrowly escaped expulsion by the police.”
Subsequent enquiries reveal to us the humiliat-
ing fact that after the play, the “ Earl of Dudley’s
daughter ” put her aristocratic foot through an
oyster-shop window, bombarded a cab-stand with
baked potatoes, and was last seen smoking a pipe
on Bullock Island, and entertaining the crew of a
collier brig with reminiscences of her life amongst
the aristocracy. Lady M. has, we understand, to
receive her money shortly; so we may expect to
gee her in Sydney at any moment. We may re-
mark, that generally when going for her “loot”
(£SO a quarter), her ladyship is accompanied by a
suite of ladies and gentlemen whose proolivities are
peculiar; and Lady M. not unfrequently finds her-
self, on the morning after her remittance, wrapped
up in a chaff-bag, and lying on a tombstone.
• • •
Buchanan, the modern “ malleus eplsco-
porum.” M’lver has served under fourteen
dags, more or less, yet be declares the roughest
Service he ever saw was Victoria’s own James....
When is William O’Neill, of the City Bank, to be
called upon to explain the little mystery about
that land transaction up Young way ? The Crown
should have afforded him a chance of publicly
explaining it before this. In a good cause—and
what cause can possibly be better than that of
Truth ?—of clearing up a oonsumedly mixed sort
of transaction, is the holy and venerable O’Neill
ever dumb? What! dumb, he? No. no; though
echo murmurs “ dummy I” ... Calcutta Tea Inglls,
in a recent lecture on “ National Characteristics,”
delivered in the Ashfleld School of Arts, attacked,
inter alia, the mental laziness of young Australia.
How true it is that the fault which a man most
resents in another is that which is his own bane.
Another illustration of the same truth is Parson
George Sutherland with his down upon unneigh-
bouriy behaviour Madame Wien is trying for a
divorce in Adelaide. How musioal her voice used
to sound, when she said—“ I spike ze ongleesh
littel— godam! ” —When the Rum critic said to
Miss. Ward “How old are you ?” she blushed
and immediately got on the other side of Jordan.
W. H. L. Bailey, writing to his own paper,
says:—“ Sir, It has come to my hearing that a per-
son named O’Dwyer, practising medicine in Gun-
dagai, has asserted that he attended me in my late
illness.” . . . Does this imply, we wonder, that
O’D. has a touch of the Job attack, and But,
of course not!
“NO CARDS.”
Two weddings ‘mongst the nice pros., please
(At this we re an hurray-er);
Herr Vogrlch’s collar’s
And “Arthur’’
....Windeyer doesn’t want Mr. E. P. Field to have
his clothes and furniture. E.P. might do without
the latter, but he would find it cold, not to say in-
convenient, to go about without the former.
Every feeling of decency would be outraged if he
appeared at the School of Arts Debating uiub in a
condition of Cupid I And yet it may come to this.
If so, let him look us up. He shall have the choice
of all the pants belonging to the other lodgers!
Mr. Weld-Blundell, of Ince Hall, Lancashire, has
married a Miss Lane-Fox. This is, probably, the
ex-M.L.A. of Queensland, who made a pile by
Barcoo stations.
* * *
The hope of the Netherlands, Alexander
Prince of Orange, son of William 111. and Bophie
of Wurtemburg, dead, aged 33. Worn out by de-
bauchery. He used to be nicknamed Marmalade.
Manchester has just made a permanent
reduction of 15 per cent, on the rental of the arable
land of his estates, Other peers doing ditto.
Lightening cargo before the coming storm ...
What’s in a name ? Well, when !a Court chaplain
(like him of Darmstadt) is named Bender, a good
deal. “Chaplain Bender!” Why, the mere words
call up the image of a clerical Sir Pertinax Macsy-
cophant, booing—booing —booing himself into
comfortable preferment “Baker Pasha,” re-
marked tne World, “ is more like a Turk than an
Englishman.” “So he is!” exclaimed Mrs. B„
when she alighted on the par. And she ought to
know. But there I Valentine always was a harem-
scarem sort of fellow! The Czar’s youngest
brother, Grand Duke Serge, is about to wed a
German princess. He wooed her incognito, and
she thus, at once, fell a victim to the Suit of
Serge — Mr. Howard Vincent, director of Criminal
Investigations, is about to resign. He married a
woman with a quarter of a million. He is to be
succeeded, d ce que Von dit, either by his brother,
or Mr. Knox the Police Magistrate. ,
TIME PAYMENT.
It is possible that the readers of Thb
Bulletin may detect, in the following sketch, an
element of hauteur, which is not, as a rule, a dis-
tinguishing characteristic of the ingenuous articles
wbiGh invariably appear in this journal—articles
which are clothed alike in the roseate garb of
modesty and enveloped (if we may so state It) in
tne poncho of poesy.
* * *
Thefaotis, we have moved. Now, all please
bend down at once, and we will burst up the whole
conspiracy. We have taken a house, and fur-
nished it on time-payment; and, we have found
the result to be funnier than any comic paper-
alive or dead. As a matter of fact, ever since we
took possession of our “ commodious family resi-
dence ” our ear has been on the hearthrug and
our feet on the fender. The house for which we
have contracted is, on the whole, a feeble resi-
dence. It has a garden in front which is a howl-
ing desert, and a back yard which is an insult to
the neighbourhood. At the time we write, we are
encamped in this luxurious abode. It has become
patent to us that meteorological mystery painfully
pervades the precincts of our mansion. Most of
the wall-paper evinces a disposition to peel off and
emigrate, while that portion which is still loyal to
the incoming tenant, displays, with curious exact-
ness, maps of Norway and Sweden in every apart-
ment,
• • •
We don’t mind reiterating, although it is a
delicate thing, that we have furnished our residence
on the time-payment system. The time-payment
system is a gorgeous institution ; and w« will, in
future, keep a briok to drop on the man who in-
vented it, should he pass our way. When in treaty
for the luxurious furniture, whioh we madly sup-
posed would be the envy of the neighbourhood,
we were, at the hands of the furniture-man, effu-
sively received. He was a fair, we may remark,
blue-eyed, chestnut-bearded, Jew. His manner
was fatherly; and, taking us round to the back of
a second-hand copper, he assured us, with much
emotion, that he knew no guile. On our
broaohing the subject of time-payment, he
begged us to believe that money to him was the
veriest dross, and that what little profit he made
by labouring daily for eighteen hours he lavished
ou the deaf, the lame, the blind, and the indigent.
There was no hedge (we are referring now to the
Scriptures) so far as we could gather, no ditch, no
sewer he did not explore in search of the poor and
needy. “ I find my reward,” he said, in tremulous
tones—“ I find my reward in the consciousness ©f
alleviating the wants of my fellow-creatures. The
love of gain is with me,” he continued, “a thing
of the past. In my shop,” he went on, huskily,
you will see a picture of the Twelve Apostles;
each one with a halo yellower than the yellowest
butter; eaGb one with a trump which would fetch,
through the influence of liivine Providence, a
higher C than was ever clutched by Levy. I want
but little inafter-lile,” he went on, with emotion;
a oouch hollowed out of a single pearl, a raiment
Jhade exclusively of sunshine, a bell-topper fash-
ioned solely from moonbeams, and a pair of wings
that have upen them that silvery sheen of which
fWop so eloquently sings.” “Is that all you
want? ’ we asked, timidly. “That is all,” said he,
with a sigh. . . And then he proceeded to make
out our little list.
* • *
The things came in due course. It was a
gorgeous array. We wound the clock up and set
it at four o’clock. It then struck 91. The
‘blower ” was, on the whole, a feeble instrument.
We set the son and heir to work with those bel-
lows to endeavour to infuse some excitement into
the kitchen fire. He blew for three-quarters of
an hour; the only result being that the wind com-
ing out of the side of the bellows gave him a celd
in the eye. The lamp is simply a deep and bloody
insult. Set up upon the mantelpiece it stands out
a monument of iniquity. As an ornament, is has
its attractions: as a lamp it is abject. The
furniture of the bedrooms is one grisly spec-
tacle. But, it must be stated that, embo-
died in the various articles, is a strong sense
of humour. The legs of the various beds
resemble those of camels; and one ordinarily long
night on any one of the flock mattresses would be
sufficient to cause a serious excoriation in your
spine. When you look in the looking-glass, you
wish you were dead; and when you shave with the
razor this philanthropist supplied you with, the
ambulance waggon takes a few of your family to
the infirmary. It is no figure of speech to state
that the teapot is drunk, and the coffee-pot
possesses a leak which amounts, on festive occa-
sions, to a perfect squirt. However, it is a matter
of self-congratulation to us that we have pur-
chased all these treasures from a man who has a
heart above mere venal profit—who has a soul
superior to mere worldly gain.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscockso
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
w.
Sydney.
P
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
1 One of the most versatile artistes on the staff®.’
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 12th,
in bis great production of the
CREOLE.”
New Zealand Tour Postponed pro tem.
All communications en route.
T
H E
ATRB ROYAL.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
THE GHNBVIBVB WARD SEASON*
COMPLETE SUCCESS of the NBW COMEDY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
<t new comedy, in 4 aote, by Sydney Grundy, entitled
the QUEEN’S favourite
The Queen’s Favourite.
The next great feature of this Brilliant Engage-
ment will be a Grand Revival of MACBETH.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
Gaiety theatre.
t Mr. John Bennett.
finL-lesaee' Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Third Week, Third Week, Third Week of the
Greatest Irish Comedian that has ever visited Aus-
, ralia JOHN F. SHERIDAN, who has received a
luostlegitiraate triumph as The Widow O Brien, in
ine immensely successful musical and farcical
oddity. FUN ON THE BRISTOL, which is now
Lein* played to densely crowded bouses nightly.
lundreds turned away. Fun on the Bristol This
j.nd Every Evening. On Saturday next, entirely
' ew Songs, Dances, &c.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Warehouse, 325 George-
* f .reet, where seats may be reserved any number
days in advance. w . . . ,
TO prevent crush, and disappointment, purchase
tickets during the day at Theatre and Loder s St.
John's New Brunswick Hotel (opposite Theatre),
i nd purchasers will be admitted quarter of an
Lour before opening of doors.
Manager for " Fun on the Bristol Company, H.
J. Whittington. Representative of John F.
j hertdan, W. Hughes. Business Manager for Mr.
Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
N
bole Lessee and Manager, Signor B. Majeroni.
The performance commences at 7.45 precisely.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of
FIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNORA MAJERONI M ta RIE ANTOINETTE
MARIE ANTOINETTE,
supported by her powerful Dramatio Company, and
the pieceß^wUh^em^nifloence of the
iteme ?SffiwSM-s n o l s£ir nted
Prices : Private Boxes, £2 25.; Dress Circle, ssl ;
Rmlls 3s t Parquet, 2s. Children In arms not ad-
mitted, Day tickets at Roberts’, tobacconist ad-
ioining the theatre. Box plan at Huenerbein s
"duslc Warehouse, 411 George-street.
H
aymarkbt academy,
Corner of George and Campell Streets.
MONDAY, 7th JULY.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
THE HARTS,
Assisted by MISS LOUISE and MR. W. KIRBY,
in their ever-popular entertainment,
“HAPPY HOURS I”
Popular Prices t— Front Seats, 25.; Back, Is.;
Reserves (a few special), 3s.
Doors open 7.30; overture, 8 p.m.
WALTER KIRBY, „
Business Manager for E. A. Hart.
A CADBMY OF MUSIC*
f\. Lessee and Manager— Mr. F. B. Hisoooks.
The Evening Fashionable and Popular resort,
maco&za' federal MiN^mELfc
md Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, every Evening, at 8.
L’he most successful, amusing and refined Enter-
tainment ia the Cltv.
Cremendous theilocaljabsurdity, called
Admission—Fauteuils, 45.; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 25.; Balcony, Is.
m:
A S ° NIC HALL,
YORK-BTREET.
BRIGADIER-GENERAL MACIVER.
BRIGADIER-GENERAL MACIVER.
BRIQADIBR-GBNBRAL MACIVER.
LECTURES
on
HIS EXPERIENCES
*» UNDER FOURTEEN FLAGS,”
“ UNDER FOURTEEN FLAGS,”
« UNDER FOURTEEN FLAGB,”
on
THURSDAY, July 3,
FRIDAY, July 4,
SATURDAY, July 5,
and
MONDAY, July 7.
LECTURE commences 8 o’clock.
Bex Plan of Reserved Seats
at
W. H. Paling and Co.’s.
T. BALDWIN-RIGBYB.
Business Manager.
WASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale/ Apply Publisher, Bulletin
pfflee.
s
UNDAY AFTERNOON}
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pasi a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The followingtalented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIIN’S
Renowned Siring Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3, 3.20,
3.40,4. _
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
A N C I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon olasses. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly fui nishe d
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.B.
The ball-room is much, longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
FRIDAY, 11th JULY,
Day after the C.R.J. Club’s Annual Races.
Holmsten’s
FAMILT HOTEL,
VICTORIA-STREET, GRAFTON.
The Premier Hotel on the Clarence.
JOHN H. MUNRO has received instructions
from Mr. J. A. HOLMSTEN, to sell by public
auction, at his Rooms, the Colonnade, Gralton.
On FRIDAY, 11th July next
(the day after the C. R. J. Club s Annual Races),
at 11 o'clock,
All those GRAND HOTEL PREMISES, so long
and favourably known as
Holiusten’s Family Hotel,
situated in the business centre of th<- city, and
having 99 feet frontage to Victoria-sireet, by a
depth of 105)4 feet to Wharf-street, being
bounded on the back by Victoria Lane, and
containing 38)4 perches, more or less; being
subdivisions 7 and 8 of section 2 of original al-
lotment 8 of section 3, city of Grafton, parish
of Great Marlow.
The Hotel premises are very substantially built
)f BRICK (on stone foundations), Two Stories in
weight, with Attics extra, and very HIGHLY
FINISHED. Containing a Drawing-room, 13 Bed-
rooms; large Dining Room, 43 x 17)4 feet, with
folding doors; Bar Parlour, small Parlour, Hall (6
feet wide); extensive Cellars; and Balcony (12 feet
wide) round two sides; also, Verandah at back; 4
Servants’ Rooms, Pantry, Kitchen, Laundry, Bath
Rooms, large Billiard Room, 2 large Commercial
3ample Rooms, large Yaid, Harness Room; Sta-
bling, having 4 loose boxes 10 x 14, with extensive
loft accommodation; and every other convenience
for carrying on a flrst-class Hotel business.
The trade done at this House is probably the
largest on the Clarence, as it is situated right in
the centre of the traffic, and also close to the C.
and R.R.S.N. Company’s Wharf, where the ocean
steamers lie. It also commands the passenger
traffic by the river stcamers-a very large trade
Indeed—and is one of the oldest established Hotels
in the district. The only reason the proprietor
has for disposing of it is that he has secured a com-
petency, and wishes to retire from business.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS’,
And the Term* will be
One-third, Cash; balance in equal amounts, at 1,2,
3, and 4 years’ date, bearing 8 per cent, interest,
and secured upon the property.
Fuller particulars can be obtained upon applica-
tion to the Auctioneer, and anyone wishing to in-
spect will be shown over the premises, and afforded
the fullest information.
Remember —FRIDAY, 11th July.
JOHN H. MUNRO, Auctioneer,
Grafton and Casino.
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL
THE NINTH ANNUAL BALL,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, JULY 3rtj,
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Worship tiie Mayor,
JOHN HARDIE, ESQ,
and
THE MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
EVENING DRESS.
Refreshments by Mr Thos. Cripps. Decorations
by Messrs. Sale and Dare. Band: The Young
Australian.
Traffic Arrangements:
Carriages enter by Cleveland-street; ret down at
southern door, and depart by gate opposite Bed-
ford-street.
Entrance for visitors to gallery by northern door
near Devonshiro-Etrcct.
Doors open 8 p.m. Ball commences 9 p.m.
Tickets: Double, 30j. ; Gentlemen’s, 305.; Ladies,
13s. bd.
D. MURRAY, ) Joint
A*. A BLACKSTONE, (Hon Secs.
R. A. KEDDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
JJIOURTH OF JULY ANNUAL BALL.
NEW MASONIC HALL, Cattlereagb-street.
COMMITTEE.
Chas. Kahlo, U.S. Consul
Win. Fleming
E. A. Little
Dr. Geo. M. Slate, Vice-Consul
Frank Coffee
Dr. J. C. Harrison
E. D. Tollemache
E. B. Clifford
M. S. Hill.
Tickets limited, and procurable only from’Chas.
Kahlo, hon. treasurer. 40, Hunter-street, and
from Members of the Committee.
r O
4
Medicated Vapour Baths
340 G row nS t Sydney
/ rrr?nt xtss/ivf'/s-
FOR BAP LETS,CONSTITUTIONAL
SKIN&BLOOD DISEASES Etc.
RELIABLE TESTIMONY,
To Mr. Cooper, 340, Crown-street —After many
years’ intense suffering and failure of various
treatments. I am happy to certify that under yeur
care for 10 weeks I am perfectly cured, and I
strongly recommend anyone afflicted with skin
disease to avail thems3lves of your treatment.
Sebastian Hodge, Commercial Hotel,
King-street.
To Mr, Cooper.—l wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—For years I have been suffering
with pains all over my body, and for two years my
hands were broken out and sore. I could not
sleep; I consulted our best doctors, but got no
relief, until I was persuaded to try you. lam now
quite well, and I have not had ache or pain since.
Thomas Smith, 75, Albion-street, Redfern.
"Witness: Rev. Thoe, Curtis.
Space will not permit me publishing further, or
I could fill a newspaper with voluntary testimony
from people living among us.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamer? f)r MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRA BOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
%r THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Ivfsftu-red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIEB
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Exycrt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t-crefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ ~ hiskey Doctors.’*
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
iiisrsyiri
SSTOg™
MRieOßffS!
iKSSEMCKofUFEI
ie only intaumie remedy for
4* //ERybifs JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords reliet and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the. important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions In cases at 13s ,or four quantities is one for
365.; if by coach. 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and * 0., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
TASMANIA MEMO HAM SALES,
SYDNEY,
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
10th and 11th JULY, 1884.
BRUNKER & WOLFE, Auctioneers.
The Scone Merinos.
The Sheep from this well-known Stud Flock will he ofiered for sale at the AUTRALASIAN
WOOL STORES, Lamb’s Wharf, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, the 10th and 11th July.
THE CONSIGNMENT COMPRISE-
-76 PURE-BRED and SELECTED RAMS
202 BLOCK RAMS
20 STUD EWES.
BRUNKER & WOLFE, Auctioneers,
SYDNEY and MAITLAND.


Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flaff and floral decorations. 604 Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
aured by Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers: it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
In Murray and Lanman’s Florida Water
the most debilitated and nervous can find relief:
used freely in the water of the bath its effect is
almost marveUous, so strengthening and bracing,
and with all so exquisitely agreeable.
I was traveling lately in the Jungle, and
the constant exposure to extreme heat and damp-
ness, followed by chilly nights, brought on a severe
Cold, which quite destroyed my voice for a few
days, and then settled into a hard Cough. I pro-
cured a bottle of Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant as soon
as possible, and it gave me immediate re'ief, and
soon removed the distressing symptoms. One of
my friends who had been suffering with a Cough
and severe pain in her Lungs, was persuaded to try
\he Expectorant, and after taking less than half a
bottle, found herself quite well. We believe Dr
Jaynes Family Medicines are the most valuable
that have ever been introduced into Burmah
Rosa Adams Bailey, of the Baptist Mission, Ran-
goon, Burmah. To be had of all Druggists and
Storekeepers; and wholesale by Elliott Bros .
Pitt-street, Sydney. ’
“ Where is it ? ” was the motto embossed
upon a very useful little note book published
some time ago, and such an enquiry awakens
curiosity to the tune of ” What do you ?” thl
one question following the other as night follows
day. Well, what do you want ? and when we know
we will answer the query contained in the first
proposition. It will matter not what it may be
™ at y°u do want, the result will be the same/ It
will signify in no degree how singular your neces-
sity, craving or desire, there is the univS
«V W^ ethe y ve reference to the enlighten-
i m u n su° f m, u d or the comfort of the body,
I whether it be useful or whether it be ornamental
1 b , ut ? ne re P ] y and we believe the
spirit of that reply, is approved and'endorsed by
Ff. 7.9 Ice °£ People, for if you ask us “ Where
is it? we shall say at Anthony Hordern and Sons.
the Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
The Test of Actual Trial. This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6d. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trifling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspejisia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &c., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Prioe for full-sized bottles 3s. od. Sold
by all druggists.
Accident ON THE Western Line.
the matter d of holi day-makers-and, for
were f hv h thi, those OD c business bent”-
>vt3ro scared Dy the news of an noon
Toongabbie Station. That a passenger train should
nJ°? d8 ’ especially on a holiday and in
f»uhnruV C pw r 80 . m , e explanation from those in
authority. Fortunately, no lives were lost - hut
d’saPPoiutment was experienced by those
who had availed themselves of the railway passes
issued by Messrs. Boyu and King. the Property
auctioneers, of Sydney, for the* sale, on the
of the people’s £5 allotments, in the town
Qhi? lvt^on S’ which form so sound and proflt-
smnif n6tment for Bmall savings. Vv e under-
stand that passengers by the earlier morn-
ing train arrived safely, and the large 47c
Howete? U th brov ® the value of these allotments
crtn^9vntfVho^L7 ho were disappointed last week,
a yail themselves on next Saturday’s train as
win !e h« “r Hr advertising columns that the sale
will be continued on that day. Thepastexncri!
th^ o flrm th i°n e rwho hav , e bought allotments from
utm in other estates in the thriving and
sssttTsas »i ?»asnsssi v.
The Autophone!
rfl HE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
JL have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Market*.
The Autophone is a wonderful little Instrument,
whioh, while It weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfeot
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts or most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruo*
tIon » 557 °, f it? music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas.
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. li
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
hi* wonderful power in executing very lively
Price 30s
NEW MUSIC* NOW ARRIVED.
W HEa E DO Tgg T ,a?9 BABE TOP ”
Why, from the ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
A f^ c i °s rBe- * wh , ere Ji hey have lho Most Fashionable
at a fraction of the price of those made
nsr metal : So ? ood ls the imitation*
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
a S/V I ?®.®’ 88 follows, and note that
AND AT OLR RISK?- BENT P ° BT
Orioutal Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 11s. fld
Gen a t^ B /i c < h1 7'7 11 5 89d ’- enfi:raved ' and Plain Solitaire
per set Dk Buite8 ’ 7s ‘ 6d ’* ed » lo ® > and 12s. 6d
® a “« 88 above, only Half Suites, 35., 45., 6s. per set
luites lOs.pe“^t aQ Patent^BprlDg SoUtalro
&®°£ 8 Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
8s , Snd lte m each arf Pi “ 8 ’ 6d - 8a - *- *»•
Gei each legaDt Stal8 ’ real Bt °nes, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
Gen a t nd e i2B?6d t eac I h PaBBeS ’ Uteßt deBl<?n ®’ 8a - 10 >*
G ° D A^L7/^ Bt Amafican 18-carat roUed Gold
Brooches, beautiful patterns, 6s. to 255.
L d Bs 6d h ,T(te S ° me orlental o° ] d Alberts, 7s7fld.<
Lad^ B .’. Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 165., 205., and 25s eaoh
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 6s . 7s 6d . fla M
fS' 1 M 0, ,' n P ai r : «"V f
l-s. od. to 305., Ladies elegant Bangles. 7s tr»
T Ladie ®’ handsome Clofk
16s. to 365.; Ladies’ very best American 18-oara£
roiled gold Chatalaines, 30s. i Ladies’ ohltoe
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 4oSHanSSSS
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 165., and 20s.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Wateh. In hunting
n fla £ e< i ,v5 r 7 Btal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 0
. No. 2.
same as above, except that this watch la
patent keyless £2 10 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells .. .. £2 17 0
o v. No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 2 0
These watches are made specially to out*
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewellel
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
Go 7d d Albert *!*****'. wlth oriental
No. 6
£4 10
D S2S Jewelled, and comgen-
with Oriental Gold
£5 6
£4 10
£6 6
£3 3
sation balance.
Albert
„ .. , N 0.7. '
celebrated English Patent
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Walthamvvatoh, In hunt-
teSaSMShST?* 1 wl * h
D ort®w°G“"2K” n ” v . Ul ”“: 'T. « 15
p.rrs?^7^axiti£^ , i3Lr un, ‘'
«, 0
t... . , No. 12.
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
” ” No. 13. 6 6
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated-and
f»ll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 1Q Q
We import our watches direct from the mann-
facturerB, and give our customers the advantage
of ail the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men s profits have to be charged. Thus we oan
We w;ant to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send * '
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL
Specially Observe.— if the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack thlm It
once and send them back. If this is done Within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first unit
after receipt, and the articles are not injured P we
re , tU J n tho m ° n ®y, deducting only the trifll
D A on + PoB !^ e - Y ou ca£ keep anV2
article and return the rest, and we will return fho
“oney for the articles not Kl Eve?y U watoh
uB wI H ***«f and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. *2
be made payable to the Oriental Gold ComSSaJ.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“ Queen’s Favourite ’’ p. 8
Opera House-” Jo ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “ Fun on the Bristol ” ib.
Academy oe Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
No matter how tired we may grow of
writing up the same entertainment every week,
the public don’t seem to weary of the performances
when they are at all good. The Sydney public
evidently believes that there is no such possibility
as getting too much of a good thing; and that is
the reason, no doubt, that people keep crowding
into the Gaiety night after night to see “Fun on
the Bristol.” Wybert Reeve has been away for a
few days, land the boys he left behind—Coleman,
Hughes, and Whittington—have just been laying
themselves out to see now tightly they could paok
the place without bursting the walls. When any
uneasiness as to the ownership of reserved seats
oocurred, the ushers invariably sent the aggrieved
party to Hughes, the natty little rooster who
stands at the inside entrance. Hughes would send
them to Coleman, who stays in the office. Cole-
man, in turn, would direct them to see Whitting-
ton—“the man with a bad cold, who stands around
the front entrance.” Then Hughes and Coleman
would slip out the aide-door, give Whittington the
wink, and all three would adjourn to a neighbour-
ing pub. to wash a baked potato or two down with
a bottle of lager. By the time they got baok to
business, the “ man with a grievance ” had sold his
pass-check to somebody for a shilling, and gone
off to make a beast of himself with the proceeds.
* * *
The widow O’Brien grows more Irish, and
consequently more entertaining, as the season
progresses In that make-up, we believe, that
if Sheridan were to go anywhere near
Bt. Mary’s Cathedral, the statue of Saint
Patrick would lump from its pedestal and climb
up on the fence to look over at him. If you
were to see his mouth open every time his
elbow bends, you would be puzzled to tell what
county he came from. You would know, how-
ever, that he was plther an Irishman or else a step-
oousin to the devil—which amounts to about the
same thing—when anybody treads on the tail of
his coat. Not that we mean to insinuate that Mr.
Sheridan drinks. We don’t believe that he does.
He is so little that a “ long-sleever ” would drown
him, anyway; and, if a glass of whisky got
into his head but, there! That would be im-
possible. There wouldn’t be room for it in
that little head of his, which is about as full now
as it can be of wit and wisdom and other things
too numerous to mention. The more we see of
Sheridan’s acting the better we like it, but we
have to give him a jar occasionally to keep him
from getting too proud. We expect him to come
around after he has read this report, and give us a
jar or two—pickle jars, we mean—that will lay us
out cool as a cucumber. Come to think of it, we
are about as cool as a cucumber, anyway, and are
just as fond of a good lay-out (Eastway’s, for in-
stance,) as any free-lunch fiend in town. And this
reminds us that when we get through with a free
lunch, the carviDg knife, the skewer, and a piece
? f „ g X ee ?*t ;op 5 ed , celer y are the only things left to
tell the tale of the destruction we nave wrougrht
But if we linger over this free-lunch any longer!
we’ll never get through with the shows, and you’ll
be getting so hungry that you won’t sit them out.
* * *
E. C. Dunbar, who plays the troubadour,
and wheezes through an antiquated ice-cream
trumpet which he calls a musette, has a good
voice and is a good actor. When playing that
musette solo, he goes up to seventeen octaves in
G, and comes down hand over hand to the middle
of next week in Y. We were talking to him the
other day, when he told us that it took him twenty
years to accomplish what he has done, and we
were only sorry that he hadn’t put off being born
until after we are dead. The wail of the lost
spirit in that instrument will linger in our ears to
our dying day. We actually believe that if we
had one of them to play on in the next world, old
Nick would give us a pot of brimstone and a few
matches, and send us off somewhere to build a
little hell of our own, just to get rid of us. Dun-
bar is a big fat man. When he began playing, he
was quite thin. Now, his audiences are thin, w\iile
Dunbar is so fat that he daren’t laugh for fear of
Dursting his skin.
♦ * *
Willie Freear, who plays Thomas Cran-
bury, is one of those sweet little fellows that you
instinctively want to throw down a coal-hole the
minute you clap eyes on him. Not that he has
done you any harm, but that he is not likely to.
and you feel that you’ve nothing to fear. It’s
nice, after you’ve been bullied for half-an-hour by
to J u “ across a nice, modest,
sweet little chap like Willie. As your optics take
SJMBj .you ohuckle inwardly at the thought that
Nature has her recompense, after all, and you have
the opportunity of restoring the equilibrium of
the world right within your grasp. Then you
proceed to get even with things for making you
suffer on account of your brotherhood to man.
twenty minutes later, when you are picked out
or the gutter and taken to the hospital, where
rpwL noBe 18 . 8 et ln splints, your left ear
sewed on, and your eyes propped open with
matches to enable you to see yourself in the
ia t er e Bt In mundane affairs,
aud want to die and go to Heaven where there are
harps and palms and brotherly love, and things
that you can t get a fair share of in this wicked,
ungrateful world below. The bills say that he is
„»young man who never told his love.” We
1° n t k now what It is that he has never told his
we were over in London just now we
berinniJi her something about his Australian ex-
re?®* 8 that would make her hair stand on end
W™ 8 than a minute. But, never mind, Wiilie.
we won t give you away this time, and—anyway
and 8 6 for Honolulu bvi the last mail steamer
ne J rer , I c< ?, m ?. fo °lW around the Gaiety
sgaln to see her little mash. r
** # *
you , want t 0 & et your system completely
br7h^ d *U?’ a ? d “ e 1 pots of your being lacerated
go te u h of the French tragedy fiend,
the 9 pera H°UBc before Saturday night of
week. “Marie Antoinette” is the
S4w^o°w h Q 0 + ce ’ ? nd /.99v£ light swallow a buzz-
ed £ a , fc the rate ?J bJ.OOO revolutions a minute
Save ho ln v. Bl l e that you will before you
of t.h e o e l half through the performance. The plot
kevnhFfi 718 . iaid amldBt the scenes of the French
WhlF FhiF? -in , th °se awful times, a century ago,
ful ou^n d {. n o a 1 ty A U 1 d f uiB XVL and his beawti-
Marie Antoinette, was swept away in a
PieciW < ?L blood and flre ’ T he author of the
It iirFi 18 Pa “l Giacometti, and he must have written
ma U r nda fthe inspiration of the most horrible night-
do ever frightened a man into spasms. We
of an w f? ber 9, av 9 Been anything in the way
Wea?n a J«S U - te ° f , a »°ny as this piece, and
gethpp eenvinced that it is too heart-rending alto-
-skelL»° have a long run in a comedy-loving town
of o hrfjh 3 /’ F , rom . Btart t° finish, there is nothing
the finish ° r P'essing nature in the play (except
farce pi’ lllB *9° J «ng to be followed by a
*ho th© Cobbler (Mr. A. Rodney),
he a little fun into the hideous part
gOawpSil B s° d ? this ; and the audience has to
& a £ blowing its nose, the curtain being rung
that po.uH one °t th® most liver-distracting seenes
>noral fi ff»J2 oB 4 Blbl J b * e COQ ceived. And there is no
that anv h« alm l d at or secured; no lesson taught
I'renni?& b oy wbo has read the history of the
lonv9 b Re v ol ution is not familiar with. It is one
Bb?ver Bob from banning to end, and a cold
think oM* ? ur Bp ‘ na ! column every time we
ms ot it (the play, not the column).
Wefc ra Majeroni plays in the title role.
before fr, .99. th . e ftenora in a good deal of trouble
'VomanFf*K Ea ?. t L^ n ? e r in “Camille,” In “A
*ou p B nFwi the F 6O ? 1 ?’, &0 ;’ but we had to beg our
f w t 5 Un » <l lt to see her in “Marie
evei-owF 6, m We have done nothing but ween
* tram ®’ We haven’t felt so bad since the time
toang^/FlL°y er 99E pet bull-dog, and left his
Wth B at.-!? mal 9?. at the corner of King and E.iza-
ta Streets, while a constable chased us into a
crowd of the unemployed up at the Albert Statue
because we wouldn’t take the corpse away anc
bury it. The constable had to do It himself,
finally, and we are sure that he buried
it somewhere near a butcher’s shop, for we
tackled a saveloy two days later, and found
one of “ Grpwler’s” claws just where we weren’t
looking for it at all. We have little to criticise in
Ithe Signora s acting; but it seemed to us that her
voice had hardly the clear, strong ring it had a few
months ago, and she has somewhere acquired the
habit of gasping at the beginning of sentences
that we never noticed in her speech before. Per-
haps Marie Antoinette used to talk that way. We
don’t know. We had not the pleasure of her
acquaintance, and are mighty glad of it. Most of
her intimate friends died off rather suddenly, and
there’s not one of them alive to-day. We would
rather be a live critic than a dead courtier, anv
day. Our family are all that way. There are just
twenty-nine brothers of us, and we are all boys.
• • •
Everything about the play went off first-
chop. At least, the heads of Louis Capet and
Marie Antoinette went off that way. And now
you would like to know who played the King.
Well, it was James Carden, and he played it away
beyond anything you have seen him do for months.
In the separation ” scene (sob here), where he
takes leave of the Queen and the Dauphin and his
sister (sob here), just before going out to have his
head amputated (sob here), they are all so
deeply affected (double sob) that you want to
gret right up and bowl a hole through the
roof and run yaur soul through a mangle to
cheer you up again. Throughout this scene Car-
den s acting is really powerful, and he clutches
hold of the sympathies of the audience with a grip
that wrings the misery out of it in spite of all re-
sistance. Up to this hour he was courteous, kind,
and kingly, and yet it seerr-ed to us that his man-
ner belonged more to an English than a French
court. When we were knocking about in the
French court years ago, the bearing of the king
and queen was less stiff and stately than that
assumed by Mr. Carden and the Signora. When
we first heard that Carden was going to play Louis
XVI. we rejoiced with a holy joy. We said: “ Now
we shall glut our vengeance on him for doing
some things about half as well as he might have
done them in days that are past. We shall see him
beheaded.” But he didn’t behead worth a cent-
or, at least, we were not permitted to witness the
execution, and that was another disappointment
in the piece. However, life is full of disappoint-
ments, and it is only a courageous soul like ours
that can hope on and drink beer and suffer.
D’Orsay Ogden, as Santerre, looked like
the leader of the unemployed. Santerre, you will
remember, was the Commander of the National
Guard who led on the and played
the very dickens with the dynasty. D’Orsay
played the “ brewer ” with a good deal
of vigour, but the author painted him hardly
Bavage enough. He almost raised a laugh or two,
and for that the audience and ourselves shall always
remember him kindly. Like a young moon strug-
gling through a fog, he illumined the gloom for a
few moments, and then 'the darkness and misery
and horror set in again with increased intensity.
Even Harry Power, the clever comedian, was cast
for Vergnfaud, President of the Assembly, and
hadn t a line to speak that might relieve the woe-
stricken crowd. Mr. A. Rodney, as Simon the
Cobbler, is a hideous creation, but it.'was unreason-
ably overdrawn. He was not the kind of man who
could gam and hold the confidence of the National
Convention. In that “make-up,” he looked like
a cross between a Mormon elder and a pea-nut-
vendor that had been scared by a Queensland
alligator.
• • •
Miss Tottie Power, who played the Dau-
phin, did her work very cleverly. Madame Royale
was a little gushing at times, but that prayer at the
footlights was a stunner. We don’t know where
the poor girl could have learned it, but she got it
off just as though she knew the Lord first-rate and
what to say to please him. It struck us as being
a little too eloquent for a mere child, and then it
wasn t followed by the usual “ amens ” and pass-
ing the hat. But we have stayed long enough with
this misery out-fit, and are going up to the Min-
strels to see if they can’t cheer us up a bit. Satur-
day evening of this week Jennie Lee begins a
season of ‘Jo,” at the Opera House, and the piece
is destined for a successful run.
** * *
“ J he Queen’s Favourite,” at the Royal, of
course, is having a good time. The action is cast
in the days of Queen Anne, whose death has, we
believe, been reported with some degree of autho-
rity* The drama is an adaptation of Scribe’s “ A
Glass of Water.” This is a misnomer. “A Glass
or Toddy would have been more appropriate.
Because, you see, there’s a good deal of spirit in
it. Mr. Vernon comes out of his shell on this oc-
casmn, and a very lively sort of crustacean he shows
himself to be. In the first act, he is Henry St. John,
and dead broke. In the remaining acts he is Boling-
broke. In the last piece (“Forget Me Not”), Mr
Vernon had all the worst of it; but in the peculiar
duet carried on between Viscount Bolingbroke
arid the Duchess of Marlborough (Miss Genevieve
ward), he has got a chance for revenge, and the
way he fences with the Duchess makes us green
withbecause we’re not always “up to
snuff ’ like that. The Viscount and the Duchess
are both striving to gain the favour of their
Queen (Miss Flora Anstead), who vacillates from
one to the other until she made us think of the
mule who stood between two haystacks and
starved to death, because he didn’t know which
stack to begin on first.
* • •
Both Miss Ward and Mr. Vernon seem to
have been cut out for high-class comedy, and
neither was spoiled in the making. As a diploma-
tist, the Vlcount could give Bismarck two aces
M^ifi a r V ™ifi. m, wi fchout J a Polynesian Island to biess
himself with at the end of the game. The Duchess
wm charmingly defiant, and her sarcasm was
hotter than a nest of bumble-bees at a picnic
Every time she stuck her rapier into the Viscount
she blew cayenne pepper into the wound, and
made him yell, or want to do so, just to relievo the
* * *
Miss Flora Anetead’s Queen Anne was
rather lugubrious. She was such a giddy old
gusher that we hardly knew what to make of her.
J®? Food Queen was certainly a little unreliable,
and could be led about a bit, but Flora made her
far more absurd than ever the lines of the author
warranted But then Miss Anstead has done so
many really clever things on the Sydney stage
we ve hardly got the heart to talk cross to
* * *
* J >a^ e „? rowne made a very acceptable
Hili; but that’s nothing new for Pattie,
for she s always acceptable: but she couldn’t have
fen ll in n in£« 0f ?v, JUdg K of human nature when she
ll l, love fl uch a duffer as Eiisign Masham
(Mr. Darvell), land a very poor ensign at that
Tw™ir ? a Ve Baid thi9 ’ w , e ou Fht to tell you that
Darvell is a very young [man, and has plenty of
e ,she’ll only take pattern from
his talonted dad and study the ends of his
fingers off during the next decade or so.
i?Jis , .?. peaki h g °1 Pattie, reminds us that we
said she was pretty, the other day, and we wen-
formd«H^he wa * th ? hsvghter of Monte Browne,
formerly manager for thgnor Majeroui The little
actress got vexed at the compliment we paid her,
and wrote a letter to the editor, saving that she
Brow ue’s daughter, and that we had
no business to say she was pretty. Then the boss
the truth i her,? d ff told UB i° little closer to
hereafter, and not say anything about
3SS'-tW , o&! lke hard
** * *
What d° we find at the Minstrels ? Well,
f hard t 0 t „ e - 11 y°u. but we have any
wi nri eve f y tlme we go to the Academy
We are hard up for space this week, but if Fred
beuavcs himjelf we’ll tell you a lot next week.
Happy Hour combination open the
This briffhf- a m?io^^ my * next Monday evening.
2?P'&S , Sfe£K an? aw hSJ
p£» °UhS”pe'S t i:"'Sf Mou * M “ nrowd the
** * «
H Snn e^l^; lv ® r lectures at the Masonio
sth n and\th k TiU^ eet n 0Q tfa e evenings of the 3rd, ftb,
Flags ” On Z tIL H,S B , ubject is “ Under Fourteen
under andw<?sf 88 al^ ays enough for us to get
when w U 7 e tf UB ® d to »®t under that many
wnen anyone was shooting at it.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
pUime cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Rogans”: “Why are the clergy making
such a fuss about this religious business in State
schools?” Why, dear boy, because they find the
ground slipping from under them. We were a
teacher once, and had to stand by while a kid read
Scripture stories we didn’t believe a word of. Of
course, ’twas monstrous to make us teach as true
old Jack-and-the-Bean-Stal k fables that even
Churchmen had exploded “ William H.” : Will
see—“ W. H. L. Bailey” writes to say he has no
intention of “going” for the Cootamundra
Herald “ Artist ” : Wolff and Sons’ pencils are
equal, if not superior to any, for drawing and
offlce-w0rk....“ Tomato”: Not adapted “R.
M'Lean” : Coppin is still alive. He was a member
of the Victorian Parliament....“ J.M,” ; We have
always deprecated the introduction of the cat-o’-
nine-tails, but, since the receipt of your sketch,
feel disposed to look into the thing again. Twenty-
five. would do you no harm, at any rate
Briton”: Yes; Bismarck’s attitude has completely
knocked the sawdust out of Jamie Service’s splen-
did dream. Why should England interfere ? What
would she gain by it, but the frothy acclamations
of men and journals who would never think of
helping her out of a difficulty. Do you think that
far-seeing English statesmen [are to be taken in by
the transparent fustian of Service and Co.? Go t 0....
‘ Clcricos”: We have thus far withheld comment
on the matter you deal with, out of respect for the
innocent sufferers. We have so many proofs now
that the business is a common scandal, that we
begin to consider whether we do well in keeping
silence. If the Bishop doesn’t fire out his canon, it’s
clear somebody else will need to apply the match..
G.L. : All right; but we are aweary of little
Bailey and the teapot tempests which perpetually
rage around him. As to Paul Pry and his sorrows,
we are unmoved. It’s constitutional, we suppose.
The sorrows of St. Paul never got a tear from us.
H.M.”: Thanks. ..“M.8.” : Neat, and wel-
come...” Duplex ”: You’ve stretched your “ yarn”
too long and thin... “ Spy”: Yes, please continue...
8. S. Field : Not of any value “G.E.F.”: No
such soene as you speak of was introduced in Mel-
bourne. The parties of whom you speak had
every reason to desire the escape of the supposed
murderer, in order to distract attention from
themselves..."Redfern Subscriber”: Well meant;
but we could scarcely put in those few.


PEPPER AND SALT.
If the S.M. Herald's Paris correspondent.
“Stella,” docs not soon shift her quarters from
Murrurundi, she will get as clean a bowl out as
Alf.’s Moscow correspondent did, when, by mis-
take, he sent the wrong copy from Walcha, and it
commenced: “It is with feelings of no ordinary
gratification that we welcome again in our midst
Herr II igglebosh, the courteous and talented piano-
forte tuner.” Writing of Stuart Cumberland s
stances, “Stella” says: “Another of the guests
M. Perrin—the manager of the Francaise (sic)
Theatre —hid a pin behind a miniature; M. Ludovic
Halevy, the composer, bid a sou under a pile of
table napkins.” What does this giddy tlutterer
mean by the “ Francaise ” (we pardon her the
absence probably through ill-health of the
accent cMttle) “theatre?” Funn7, too, all the
rev. editors and religious “readers” passed this!
The Herald has a fine library, also. Perhaps,
however, the French dictionary and the
were “in hand,” being required by the party who
is “ own commissioner " to Tonquln!
A Goulburn poetess, whose sylvan fancy
It is to call herself “ Mimosa,” has once more laid
down the rolling-pin and taken up the lyre. She
has published in one of the local papers a pathetic
poem, which she calls “Sing me a song when I
die.” Who the fortunate person Is of whom she
asks this mournful favour is not revealed in the
poem. From the tender insistance of the strain,
however, and these two lines In the second v« f rse,
" Gather the bells when they blow,
Lay them to die on my tomb,”
we have a shrewd suspicion that he is the town"
bellman. There is a tone of sweetly soft pathos
running all through this little lyric. For Instance,
here is a verse :
“Ah! you will ponder and say,
* Why had the girl such an end V
You that have bent to her sway,
Brother, and lover, and friend.”
This is very pretty and touching—“ You that have
bent to her sway.” But bent to her sway of what?
The broom-handle ? Or the potato-beetle? We are
not hypercritical enough to say, as a rule, these
things should be more than shadowed out in
poetry; yet it is well, occasionally, to let your
readers know whether they are keeping abreast
of your ideas or not. However, as “ Mimosa ’’
asks someone to sing her a song when she dies, we
will contribute a couple of verses towards it, and
the grave-digger can write the rest. Here she has
4t:—
Sing you a song when you die!
Drop, too, a brick on your bier,
Hiccup above you and sigh—
How you must suffer, poor dear!
Sing you a song when you die!
Fill you with steak and with stew,
Gram you with pudding and pie—
That’s what’s the matter with you!
* * *
Bobby Byrne’s poet must have taken too
imuch water in his rum, or something—er possibly
'they have handed him, by mistake, a boarding-
-house gridiron. His theme, this time, is Jennie
Lee; and it is to these words that he thrumbs the
fceefy bars of his Parnassian griddle:—
“ A three-nights’ run they keep
To list to Sam’s gay fun;
But now, alas! we weep,
For Jennie Jee (sic) must run.
“ Heart-exciting Jennie Lee!
By her Jo she made you grieve, man:
Chirped her Granshopper with glee,
Last, she played the
Ticket-of-Leave Man."
The same stupendous bard writes a song for one
of the Pollard kids, a portion of which runs, musi-
cally, thus:—
“ Samuel cried ‘ Oh, my! ’ and he said likewise,
‘Te, he, he!’
As this butcher ran your election cries,
My dear Tom C "
This kind of thing, we should say, is calculated to
give great pleasure - very great pleasure, indeed,
to the educated—kanaka. There is too much joy
in it, however, for the prosaic white man. We
engaged a man once, on the strength of a ton of
testimonials and a College degree, and he com-
menced to write this kind of thing directly.
Twenty-four hours later the literary staff were
drinking rum out of his skull.—
Why let this poet burst in verse ?
Why give him not the venal sack ?
At least the man could drive a hearse,
And lots there are of boots to black I
Let no man gaze upon his face
To guage the size of bis small soul,
But hide him in some humid place
Where there are lots of rats—and coal.
And if he’s missed, now understand,
Much hesitation won’t be needed;
Just say he’s gone to Sydney, and
That Sladen has been superseded.
•
A oountry paper, speaking of the rain-tree,
Says it is “ especially useful from the fact that it
produces in abundance pulpy pods, which are a
very fattening fodder for stock, who eat tbam
with a relish.”—
With amazement we lift up our eyebrows,
And ask “ What’s the Relish they use ?
Is it Morton’s, Maconochle’s, Whybrows,
Or Batty’s, or Colman’s, or whose ?”
We declare nothing could be much odder
Than seeing a cow pass the sauce,
And hearing her say “ On your fodder
Just sprinkle a taste of Red Cross!
“ I myself always use it when / browse
On these most delectable pods;
And, as sensible Btock, I say ‘Why browse
Without Whybrows’ Rolish ?’ ’’-[Yegods!]
This could only have happened in Begs.
A boy down there—who will in all likelihood, grow
up to be a bloated Bega editor, if he is not hanged
-stole two fowls. The lawyer defending him
made a great hit then, by pointing out that in
Section 100 of the Act referred to,the words “or
bird’’after “animal” were omitted, and, that it
was, therefore, impossible to pronounce sentence.
The police magistrate struggled a long time with
the weighty question as to whether a fowl Avas an
animal. He concluded it was not, and dismissed
the case. That night he lost some of his own
fowls. He is now going to take the Isav into his
own hands-in the shape of a shotgun loaded Avith
rock-salt. But he haR done one good thing in his
life for the liberty of the Press. He will be re-
membered as a benefactor to journalism as long as
fOAvl-soup is necessary to the production of the
higher class of humour. The Shroud staff need
never now be without a pullet in the pot. But be-
fore leaving this pleasant and cheery item, we
should like to know if a loavl is not an anim >],
what it is. It couldn’t be a police magistrate ?
• * •
Says Bishop Neville to Parson Stanford,
“ Go to laAv, and be under my ban for't! ”
Says Parson ttanford to Bishop Neville,
“ You and your ban may go to the devil.”
* * *
The books of a Parisian pawn-shop were
overhauled a short time ago, and among the
articles pawned were found 150 jittle figures of
Christ. This reminds us of a literary Bohemian of
the s Id reckless type whom we knew in Melbourne
years ago. Ho would drink nothing but cham-
pagne cup one day, and the next day be quite as
happy with his head in a pewter. We may men-
tion he was a devout Roman Catholic, and used to
wear a small crucifix round his neck. On the third
day after the high tide of his affluence he would
be stranded on the diy shores of desnord. Then,
if one of us met him and asked him to take a
drink—which we always did, if we “ held it,” being
all poor devils together—he Avould say, with tears
in his eyes, “Tom”—or Jack, or whatever the
name might bo—“ the end's not far off ; I’ve
pawned my little Jaysus for fippcnce.” Poor
devil, he has gone to Avhere many a clever felloAv
went long ago. The grass is as green upon his
grave as upon the grave of many a Aviser man. It
is a melancholy pleasure doav to think that his
pewter was kept full to the last.
SCHOOLMASTER: “I HAVE THOROUGHLY EXPLAINED TO VOT THE USE OF A
HYPHEN: HERE'S AN EXAMPLE, NOW WHAT’S THAT?”
SMALL BOY: “FOR THE BIRD TO ROOST ON!”
“We went away without a cheer, after,
all,” says the Herald humourist who is writing
about the Coral Islands, in referring to the depar-
ture of the vessel from Auckland. We think he
should be astounded at his luck in getting away
with his life. Permit us to call your hushed atten-
tion to this passage in his second contribution:—
“Let me return to our first afternoon out-an
afternoon as fine as ever a landsman could wish,
and the water as smooth as a mill-pond. What a
gathering there was on deck, which was all too
small for the fine-weather company. What rub-
bing of elbows with each other in the press of the
favourite promenade. How glibly the talk flowed
over our afternoon tea. How the eyes of the
ladles sparkled with pleasure when they learned
that afternoon tea was to be one of the recognised
Institutions on board.” Now, we ask you calmly
what is this ? Is it a boarding-school essay or a
doll-shop advertisement in diguise? What is this
about the water being as smooth as a mill-pond ?
Had it not also a coign of ’vantage, and did it not
at once admit the soft impeachment that it gave
pleasure to all ? We consider this kind of writing
does credit to the writer’s head and heart.
Is is a pleasant proof that both are toft. Which is
turther corroborated by a long paragraph about a
baby, that might have been written by the baby it-
self with a pap-spoon dipped in corn-flour. Before
going further, we would like to know who is sup-
posed to care to know that the ladies’ eyes sparkled,
and where the person dwells who is interested in
hearing that there was no baby on boa: d. A grown
man, with a beard, we presume, and a gruff vcice,
goes several thousand miles away, to places rich in
new experiences, to tell us about afternoon tea
and a baby I At first reading, we thought this kind
of thing conld only have come from the kettle-
drum and unirie scribe, but the following sentences
enabled us to see, through his thin disguise, the
real produce reporter behind“ Ah! how pleasanj
are the memories of that afternoon. How pleasant
to remember our sharp appetites, and the zest with
which we looked forward to the ‘tocsin of the
soul, the dinner-bell!’” There Is genuine feeling
and true power in this. A man should never go
out of his element. The writer of these contri-
butions should never go outside the cook’s galley
for material. He does his best to be versatile, but
the strain is too much for him. For instance,
here is a mixture of produce reporter and soiree
scribe:—“ Meanwhile we look forward to snatch-
ing some glimpses of consolation from the contem-
plation of the beautiful between meals, and of
worshipping it at a distance.” Contemplation of
what? Worship of what at a distance? The
ladies? Pshaw I—the meals. All this time there is
little of the language of the sea. We were dis-
appointed that “yeo, heave 0,” “the good ship’’
—we forget her confounded name—“belay there,’’
“Avast,” and such other inspiriting phrases as are
common in the mouths of mariners, were not
used, bat wo were recompensed by “the cradle of
the deep ” “gliding on an even keel,” and a new
and elegant phrase—which will no doubt be en-
thusiastically adopted by all future writers on
nautical matters—“ she ” (the ship of course)
"squirmed in agonized throes.” Now, however,
for graphic gaiety; now for daring,
drollery. Clench your teeth and hold your sides
as you read this:—“ Put another one on her,’ Bald
the captain: ‘there’s worse weather coming on.’
Worse! Oh, misery! This was too much. I gro-
velled against the taffrail in despair; and when
they came to carry the stricken and remorseful
below, I was feebly exorcising the trip in some of
the words of Macbeth, ‘Avaunt, and quit my
sight! Too real mockery, hence! Why so?—
being gone I am a man again —on shore.”
Put another what on her? Another mustard
plaster or another blanket? Remember all this
is printed in the most solemn and serious journal
in the world; a journal that at one time to jest in
was worse than contempt of court. True, there is
no single separate jest in this Coral Island corres-
pondence—it is all one long hideous practical joke.
Still, to give the writer a fair show, we would
willingly have supposed that he wrote his letter
when he was sea-sick. The last line of It, how-
ever, supplies a different excuse. Says he: “Our
Sabatical decorum to-morrow will, however,
sober us.” We hope it did. As for us, wild horses
will not drag us from the bowl of oblivion after
this. And we hope that, when we are able to keep
our teeth from chattering and can manage once
more to get along without the aid of a railing, by
that time the special correspondent of the Herald
to the Coral Islands, with his hybrid humour and
his mulish merriment, will be the centre dish on
the groaning board of a Coral Island chief.
There was a Maori jury engaged at Tara-
naki lately. They tried their man, gave their ver-
dict, and sat still in the box. The judge informed
them, through an interpreter, that they might go
out into the free, glad air. But this did not move
them. They developed an intention to try the
judge, and And him guilty of something. At last,
the c’erk had presence of mind enough to whisper
“whisky” to them, at the same time pointing to
his own room. They were gone like a vision, be-
fore you could express dissatisfaction with your
eyes, if you were so inclined. Whisky is the great
civiliser, and trial by jury is its prophet.
• • •
A journal that should wrap packages in
every pawnshop is the Auckland Free Lance.
It is conducted with an eaterprne which would do
credit to any blind mondicmt, and make the flnan-
cial fame of any paralytic match-seller. On* of
its devices to gain subscribers might be copietf
with advantage by our own 11dm. It give* a prii<*
to the barmaid who gets the most votes for beauty
and popularity from its subscribers. The names
of the barmaids are published with the number of
rotes they get. The “ voting coupon,” as it is
magniloquently denominated, is published in
every paper. So that an adventitious circulation
is gained among the admirers of barmaids. Then
it gives a prize to the person who finds out a text
of Scripture which is printed in one copy out of
every issue. This is a new way of making Holy
Writ popular among the masses. But it rakes in
subscribers from the Sunday-schools. After look-
ing through this lively journal, we have come to
the conclusion that, if it were not for devices like
these, it would only be read by the mother of the
machine-boy, under the impression—which is pro-
bably a correct one—that he wrote it all himself, or
by the editor in moments of unusual gloom. And
they talk about the power of the Press! The
heading of the coupon column—“ keep this paper
for a week, it may be worth a pound ’’—strikes us
as being too ambiguous to ensnare many subscri-
bers. The paper is published—heaven knows
how!—every day. The copies for a week would
weigh a pound. Is this it? No one surely could
be weak enough to imagine that a paper published
upon shut-your-eyes-and-open-your-mouth-and-
see-what-the-Lord-will-send-you principles could
be worth more than what it fetched by weight, if
kept far a thousand years. No one, that is, but the
editor. And this is what journalism is coming to ?
We may soon expect to see editors giving away
their aunts as prizes to whoever gets the most sub-
scribers for the paper, and publishing coupons for
a raffle for their stepmothers. But there is one
thing we will never see editors of this type raffling
—their brains. Nobody would take a ticket.
* * *
Judge Docker, on being appointed to the
Forbes circuit, said, in replying to the congratu-
lations of the bar, that he could not hope to please
newspaper men. His Honor has too small an
opinion of his own abilities to please.—
You are too modest, Judge! Oh, yes
You are by far too shy 1
If you aspire to please the Press-
Why doff your wig and die l
* * *
Hooke, of the Tamwokth Observer, has
what he calls a ‘‘Lucky Barrel.” You would
naturally think this meant the office beer-barrel,
tn i that the man would be lucky who thought he
could find anything in it. So we thought, but it
appears we were wrong. It is a sort of compensa-
tion lottery for those who subscribe to the Ob-
server. What they don’t find in the Observer
they will find in the barrel—so to speak. Yet it
seems that even this ingenious scheme was doomed
to be coffined in its cradle—or rather, barrel. Says
Hooke:—“lt may be remembered that early in
the year the tickets in the Observer Lucky Barrel
were drawn. Up to date, the prize, a pair of pic-
tures valued at £5, has not been claimed. We
wish the owner of the winning ticket would claim
and take away the prize.” Sad, isn’t it ? But of
course there is only one of two conclusions to
come to—either that the pictures were painted by
Hooke himself, or that they are portraits of him.
** * *
More glory. Henniker Heaton has, In his
usual magnificent way, given an order to a Roman
sculptor for a statue of Henry Kendall. As the
sculptor will, presumably, work upon preconceived
opinions of Australians, we may expect to see a
presentment of the poet, in fine Carrara marble
—with hair like a furze bush and a mouth like a
camel, with the underlip overlapping the chin-
tattooing a song to the sunrise on his shin-bone.
Who will say that genius is neglected, after this?
m * *
John Cook, a boy, was killed at Toolong
Station in Victoria, last week. Which gives rise to
this feeble verse
We’d wager any man a quart
Of liquor raw and strong,
He’d not think life might be too short
By living at Too-long.
Kill us now, and let us have the trouble over.
Even a Bishop may become famous. Dr.
Moorhouse has discovered this. It seems his
Lordship, upon one or two unguarded occasions,
spoke tolerantly of the use of tobacco. Hardly
had his words been telegraphed as far as Stawell
(Vic.) when a tobacconist there, whose enterprise
outran his veneration, advertised a particular
species of plug tobacco as “The Bishop’s Mix-
ture.” Not content with this, he had the embla-
zoned impudence to paint, in Titanio letters on his
sign-board, “ Under the distinguished patronage
of the Right Reverend James Moorhouse, Bishop
of Melbourne.” We tremble as we give this infor-
mation. Why, think you ? Because we expect te
see, next week, half-a-dozen suburban whisky-
saloons with the sign: “Under the venerable
patronage of Bishop Barry.”
* * *
A gentle Romeo writes in the Burrowa
Times, a poem to his Juliet, with which we have
no fault to And. We only refer to it to admire.
Here is a verse we admire:—
“ Oh, darling! Kindly listen, love ?
I love you more than life,
Just answer with a flavoured kiss
For yes! And be my wife.”
Just so. We have ell been that way. It is a
beautiful, emotional error which is subsequently
corrected by the fire-shovel. Still, why a “flavour-
ed kiss?” Flavoured with what? Cheese? Onions?
But, of course—it is a Burrowa maiden of whom
the poet speaks—with whisky. Love is the reai
fiery thing in Burrowa. When a man is building
a store up there, he puts spikes in the verandah-
posts to keep off lovers. He is airaid of them set-
ting fire to the building, with their incendiary
sighs. This is the sort of love Catullus sang about.
Catullus was a fire-insurance agent.
. • «
Never bury your talent—or your tea, for
that matter. A young immigrant lady was hired
to do kitchen work in a Herberton hotel, a f©w
weeks ago. The elderly kitchen lady, who superin-
tended the dripping department, became Jealous
of her, and concocted a plan for her destruotioa "
that is to say, dismissal. But the good old lady wfli
caught in the act discovered taking tea from &
chest and burying it under a buab. Nothing w»l
A JEW-KISS.
In Adelaide, there does reside
The most demure of mipses;
She took a Jew-boy’s money,
But she wouldn’t take his kisses!
She swore that straight before the “ beak ”
Lothario should go, sirs;
Now thoughts of Ellen Wheelan are
But Ellen Wheelan woe, sirs.


gold, however, until she came to the lady of the
hotel (there are no women in Herberton) and told
her that she was being robbed by the young lady
from across the Jasper sea, and to go look at the
tea-chest. The tea had been replaced, in the mean-
time, by those who had watched the guilty deed;
and when the lady of the hotel opened the chest,
she found the contents at the usual level, and so
pointing her finger at the lady of the kitchen,
she said, as Nathan did unto David, “Thou
art the man!” That she was not the man
mattered very little then to the lady of the
lard-barrel, as she had to suddenly pack up her
hamper and depart from the place where the
gloom of her glory o’ershadowed the dough-
trotigh- Now, you will probably ask, and with
some reason, too, what the purgatorial fires all
this has to do with you. Well, it contains a moral,
and a moral Is good to anybody who can exchange
it for a matoh. The moral is when you do any-
thing which public opinion considers improper
never leave the traces behind you. Half a sus-
pender has Often been enough to hang many a pro-
mising murderer. If the respectable old lady of
this legend had, instead of burying the tea, given
It away to a swagman, or sold it to a hawker, she
would have secured for herself either a harp and
halo to the happy hereafter, or several half-crowns
<s*
/
' ,Z,
T t , /,<>*“'/ tetJ°°
J/L e V ~ 71“ ' \/o n * ,
/) st / ' Jed*
sAaff yjo Ad 7fafshciS<} ugr uc/e / n \j|
@ife ri i ?i£. on ci Ai £e. O i.ci~ C ‘-A > totff Anp
Cx.eS Ay ou.r Costumes So A exon A y'o*x ( * rlc A
y?* ixe U<S « VRy /
y +o?ker
;Ae A a ft- >r//{ At *ne >'/
<f~c rci mfeSio n_S S' sen you.? Sa.6
'>*t-a. n- >n ccst ly'eci r c< J t-W’-
/V>- /«j/ CoaS
Uncfe wi tf we **■”■*■ ft
anrf tef O// Ci. Very Very d'/na.rcffas
“The Glorious Fourth.” Lacerating, this, to Our feelings as Britons.
n the struggling present, and still kept her control
.of the cooking stove. But, as the old Persian pro-
verb says, no man knows he is dead till the devil Is
at his door.
We are line fellows, we Australians, and
more determined characters than we had any Idea
of, London Vanity Fair knows us well, and we
learn from It that “ The Australian Colonistgare
a practical folk. They have announced, unofflei"
ally, that if the French insist on sending their
criminals to the islands adjacent to Australia, and
if those criminals should land in any numbers in
Australia itself, they will seize them, put them on
board ship, and land them, not on the shores of
New Caledonia, or on any of the islands whence
they Immediately came but on the coast of
Normandy.”
Among the arguments of Henry George
not many cut deeper, or were more energetically
pooh-poohed and controverted, than his demon-
stration that when private ownership of land of *
country was permitted in few bands, the bulk of
the people of that country existed in it on suf-
ferance, and had no legal right to stand anywhere
but on the highways. Landlords and their sy mpa-
thUers sneer at such talk, and probably no one
would deny the truth of it more strenuously than
the Forfarshire Tory laird who refused a good
offer to rent a farm simply because the tenant pro-
posing to rent it was a Liberal,
lt is difficult to comprehend Mr. Glad-
stone’s ideas with respect to Egypt and the Soudan.
Alter crushing the Egyptian endeavours at national
freedom, he stated in the House of Commons, with
respect to the Soudanese, that a war against them
would be “a war of conquest against a people
struggling —rightfully struggling —to be free.”
Vanity Fair very appositely asas: “ What busi-
ness bad he, then, to sanction General Graham's
expedition? 'i he six thousand Soudanese who
were shot down by Graham's troops were right-
fully struggling for freedom. Their lives were
sacrificed for no intelligible purpose. How does
Mr. Gladstone justify the sacrifice ?”
In England E. T. Jones and J. Finney,
the celebrated swimmers, recently swam a quarter
of a mile in the lake at ltoundbay Park, near
Leeds, for £lOO. The match caused great excite-
ment in the North of England, no less than 30,000
people witnessing the match. A level start was
effected, both inen striking the water simulta-
taneously, and for the first 15 yards they kopt
close together. After this, however. Jones com-
menced to draw away, and at 230 yards was fully
20 yards in advance. The leader after this took
matters very easily, and finally won by about 25
yards in Omin. 54sec. Bolh teen have reached the
highest position in the swimming world, but for
some time past it was thought that Jones, who is
now 34 years of age, had retired on his laurels.
Money, whose memorable victory over W. Beck-
with in the last of the three exeat matches in De-
cember, 1883, must be Still fresh in the minds of
our readers, will not be 22 years of age until the
22nd of June next. W. Beckwith has now chal-
lenged Jones for £2OO.
The nation of soldiers which Colonel Sar-
good’s military scheme proposes to manufacture
(toes not command a lofty respect from Mr. D.
M. Davies. That gentleman, in his place in the
House, recently, observed that he believed the
object of the scheme was principally to please per-
sous who liked to appear in fine colours and wear
a sword. Anyone who knows or has heard on
fairly reliable authority how many confounded
fools there are to the thousand in every country,
will admit it to be very likely that the ambition
of a fine lot of the rank and file in Victoria is not
so much to blow the brains out of an enemy, as to
earn the renown of being the pretty boys of the
parapets. Still, the subject can't be kicked out
with that. Colonel Sargood can say, as indeed he
did say a few days before at Maldon, that the
amount of bullion alone in the Melbourne Banks
being never under £3,000,000, a looting expedition
becomes a probability the moment Great Britain
gets involved with a stron«| jower. The difficulty
would seem to lie in cyphering out how much a
colony should spend on procuring and maintaining
a force to stand around and protect, on a given
occasion, a given sum of money.
Sergeant Scott and Senior-constable Ma-
guire, of the Fitzroy, (Vic) police foorce, have
each been fined £5 for giving a good “ karracther”
to Mr. Potter, a shady kind ot individual who
applied for a license for a hotel in Carlton, when it
was well-known to those shining lights of the con-
stabulary that Mr. Potter combined a maximum
of the wisdom of the serpent with a minimum of
the harmlessness of the dove. At all events, his
dealings with the soiled doves of Carlton had
brought him into a kind of notoriety, so he applied
to the heads of the “foorce” in Fitzroy to white-
wash him, which they did accordingly. The usual
Star Chamber Inquiry has been held by the police
department, with the above result, and the pair of
“indefatigable officers” are still retained in the
ranks. The head and front of the notorious Sam
Nathan’s offending, in harbouring and supplying
the demi-monde at Emerald Hill, was his ill-timed
boast that he could “square the police anytime
for a £5 note.” And there is little doubt but that
it would have gone a long way towards it in most
cases. It is a well-known fact that there are a
number of hotels within a radius of one hun-
dred yards of the intersection of Bourke and
Swanston streets, that are simply the com-
mon resort of the giddiest of females and their
dissolute companions, and we have never heard a
word against the licenses of these places being
granted, though the conduct of the houses re-
ferred to was as well known (if not better) to the
police as to any person in Melbourne. Though the
sub-inspector who attends to the licenses does not
actually give the applicants in these cases “ kar-
racthers,” yet his silence implies that they are, if
not absolutely beyond suspicion, at least highly
desirable persons to hold licenses. We have re-
peatedly seen the proprietor of the Bull and Mouth
hauled up and fined for supplying a customer
with a glass of beer after hours, while the licensees
of the resorts of the giddy and frivolous wore kept
open until “all hours,” and the indefatigable
bobby would walk steadily along on the opposite
side of the street. While this sort of thing goes
on openly, and ander the eyes of the high-salaried
officials of the department, we suppose that the
underlings of Fitzroy consider themselves justified
in doing a good turn to a generous-hearted publi-
can on their own account.
Alas! for the weakness of poor frail human
nature. It is just as we feared. Granny is “on
the pot” once morel And she so young, so fair!
It may be, however, that she is only suffering from
religious manit. It Is not for us to iudge her case,
unless we are duly elected by the Church of Eng-
land Synod. The fact, however, remains that of
late the old lady’s advertising co'umns have con-
tained eommunioations which would bring a blush
to the cheek of a boiled lobster. A few weeks ngo,
the ancient reprobate announced the demise of an
imaginary Celestial who rejoiced, whilst alive, in
the possession of a remarkably high-sounding
name, and who, according to groggy old Granny's
account, was to be buried “ at 12 in the afternoon,”
the funeral to move from his late re>idence, which
was graphically described as being situated in
“ North Sydney.” Shortly after this, an announce-
ment touching the very domesticated nature of a
certain barmaid’s desires was (unintentionally, we
trus ) made public in terns which laid our giddy
maternal relative liable to be hauled up under t e
Obscene Publications Act. Last week we noticed
with pleasure that although the unfortunate old
lady’s remarks were as drunken as ever, still there
was a decided improvement as regards the r moral
tone, for example. Recently she hiccuped the
loss of a dead dlnge as follows: "Jiost, from 49
Ed ward-street North, black tanned setter dog, an-
swers to Jack. Finder rewarded.” We presume
the dog is dead, beoauseit is scarcely probable that
anyone would tan a live setter, and, this being the
case, how, in thunder, can he answer when Jaek
calls him ? Anyway, who is Jack ? Where is Jack ?
And what in the name of sulphur does he want a
tanned dog for? Being an ardent lover of pefs,
the unfortunate straying away of the deceased
setter must have sent Granny on the “.TamberoaS*
asrain, for we read: “ Itedfern Police Court. Mb.
O’Malley Clarke, 8.M., presided at the above CwirL
yesterday, and disposed of the business. Charles
Blackburn, for committing a similar offenee In
Botany-road, Botany, was lined £3, in default one
month’s imprisonment.” This is tbe saddest ease
of all, for it proves that either the old lady is re-
velling in a whooping tear again, or else there is
one law for the rich and another for the poor; be-
cause, if Mr. O'Malley Clarke was allowed to “ pre-
side, &c,” and subsequently clear otf scot free, why
should Charles Blackburn bo fined £3 for commit-
ting “a similar offence?” Eheu! And it was only
ihe other day poor Granny donned her little bit
of blue.
It is with a genuine, heart-felt thrill of
joy that we learn the satisfactory news that the
raising of double-yoked children (if we may be
allowed to coin a word) is now being carried out
on a far more satisfactory principle than it ever
was before. Not that we hanker after being the
Eroud possessors of ten or twelve youngsters
itched together in pairs, because such “ things of
beauty and joys for ever” are not suitable for
every family; but, nevertheless, there are some
enterprising parents who are evidently filled with
a praiseworthy deßiro to strike out of the old-
fashioned groove, and experimentalise for them-
selves in the almost untrodden regions of the great
lu.sus naturae. We wish these persons every suc-
cess in their new venture; in fact, we even wish
them more good luck than we could possibly wish
ourselves, if we happened to be in the same busi-
ness. This, of course, is not a verv patriotic re-
mark; but it is the truth, for all that, and, as a
certain senator says, truth should never be sacri-
flced for patriotism—unless it pays better to work
the latter. We are naturally led into this train of
thought to-day by the knowledge of the faoti that
the on -o celebrated Siamese twins have been com-
pletely laid out straight by two brothers who were
recently born at Turin of the usual number of
poor but respectable parents. These interesting
young: paregroric punishers hav<%two well-formed
heads, two pairs of arms, two throats with all in-
ternal organs, but at the level of the sixth rib they
coalesce into one body. It is a curious fact that
the right leg moves under the direction of the
right twin (Baptiste), while the other is moveable
only by the other (Jacon). They have a distinct
moral personality-one laughs while the other
cries, and so on. It was in this latter respect that
the ar. hitects of the late Messrs. Chang and Png
completely failed. Each one had a very distinct
moral personality, indeed; but where the mistake
was made was in the fact that Chang could not
only work his own end of the legs, but, being
stronger than Eng, he could perform with that
young gentleman’s locomotive apparatus also.
This used to lead up to no end of trouble. In the
case of Baptiste and Jacob, however, the physical
forces are equalized, aud one can, therefore, act aa
a brake, so to speak, on the other. Whilst we are
on this subject to-day, we may also mention that
Italy appears to be going it at present in the way
of novelties, as a man with three arms turned up
in Calabria. That's exactly the style of immigrant
that we want out here to-day. Two-armed galoots
were well enough in their way, before the intro-
duction of chaff-cutters and trains, but now that
our steam machinery is in full blast over here, a
corresponding changein the human anatomy is, of
course, most urgently needed. Mr. Stuart might
make a note of ting matter.


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
m^ hy J® 14 80 “any people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate : they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
15** but of imparting happiness to others: yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
~ _ 14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
E a i Il i ) ? ac . coulltof severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
1 was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
bur# Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you arc at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours,
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney. *^ OHN Nelly.
The originator of Wolfe’s Schnapps will
Jive as long as his splendid preparation performs
its marvellous cures and is recognised as a standard
remedy for the ailments it undertakes to treat.
that Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggist#. Moses. Moss A Co.. Sydney
General Agents. r
FUN a la PUNCH.
(BY OUR OWN DO MAURIER.)
mt? rTT7TinT FTZZLEFUNKIN, M L.A. (who has been invited by the Duchess of Darlinghurst, whose second cousin has failed in the linen-drapery line in London, and
cornc tu the colony at the suggestion of the Duchess that a Government billet might be secured for him—or, if the worst came to the worst, an interviewership on the D.T.
m,ht he had for the askinu), during a f rtissimo introduction to the sentimental song, entitled “My Grandmother’s teeth are plugged with wax," which Sir Sampleton
is about to situi for the entertainment of the brilliant company which the Duchess of Darlinghurst has brought together expressly to meet her second cousin
(the mnversat urn flagging a little onaceount of the noisy prelude), asks the following connundrum: “ What is the difference between a Mechanic who repairs
YOUR FRONT DOOR BELL, AND A PARTY WHO LETS OFF A GUN IN HADES ?
The entimanv being very select, no one will have anything to do with a conundrum with a mechanic in it, except the second cousin, who remembers that Mr. Fitzroy Fizzle-
funkin, M.L.A., has great political influence, and being in want of a Government billet very much, says: “ I give it up ! ”
The company, in a cold perspiration, await the answer. “ Because,” said Mr. Fitzroy Fizzlefunkin, M.L.A., “because, one is a bill-hanger and thb other is a
H—LL-BANGER.”
TVolsuhi lauahs excepting the second cousin, who, wan'ing a billet very badly, indeed, does laugh until he is black in the face. The Duchess faints, while Mrs. Fennimore
M'Muaains stares at the Rev Mr Staggsworthy, who seizes somebody else’s hat. and calls for a cab. Herr Pippennauser Popplcplimken, the distinguished pianist,
who has been hired at great expense, on the joke being translated to him. stuffs his piano into his pocket, and goes away in great dudgeon. Sir Josh. Robbins pulls a hand-
ful or two out of his whiskers, and throws his spectacles into the fire. Everybody present, and a good many others who were not invited, and for whom there would not
have been room in tlie above picture if they had, could have sworn that the whole thing, picture and all, was a crib from London Punch.
“A pig weighing 7211 b. has
been killed in Queanbeyan,” says the
Age, and since then our exchanges
from that quarter have been dread-
fully flat.
It is reported that, at the
earnest request of the Marchioness
of Lome, Her Majesty has struck
“The Campbells are coming” per-
manently from out the repertoire of
her private band.
They were discussing about
Parliamentary orators. “ Well,” said
one, “you must at least acknow-
ledge that M'Elhone is a man of
parts.” “Yes,” said the other, * of
foreign parts, thank God.”
“Mrs. Anna Ottendorfen, of
New Yoak, died recently, worth
£600,000, of which sum she left
£16,000 to the compositors employed
on the American Zbitung news-
paper.” Two hours alter the newß
was substantiated, every comp, in
the Zeitung office had penned an
article, whioh stated: “ Our appear-
ance In this prosperous district is
less actuated by a desire for filthy
gain than an aim to supply a lomr-
felt want.”
Just think! The Good Tem
plars of Hay have decided by one
vote that a man may belong to the
order and yet carry on the business
of a publican. At this rate, we
ourselves may soon hope to be
eligible for admission to the order;
and who knows but In time we may
be appointed to the Grand Decan-
tership, or something equally im-
portant? But-and this is a crushing
thought—what if the man who gave
the odd vote was just about to take
a pub.? If this be so. there is
nothing left for us but obscure In-
ebriety.
“What paper do you belong
to, sir ? ” said Sergeant Hyam, of the
Central, to a strange spectre that pre-
sented itself with a black eye and a
rusty bundle of curl-papers. “ I be-
long to the Vespernal Christo-
pher,” was the rum-charged reply.
Then the gallant sergeant shifted
uneasily in his seat, and, under
cover of a stentorian cry of “Soil-
ence!” surreptitiously shifted his
handkerchief from the pocket
nearest to the reporter’s-box to the
pocket nearest the bench. “It was
given to me,” he said, afterwards,
apologetically, to the Inspector.
We have seen something like
this before. Somebody asked Tyson
for £23 to put up a lightning con-
ductor to a church tower, and he
replied, “Well, gentlemen, I have
already contributed to the erection
of your church, and now you ask
me to provide it with a lightning
conductor. My answer is No, and if
God likes to destroy his own pro-
perty I can’t help It.” It has struck
us, though, as rather curious, on
passing a church tower, to see the
iron belief in the uniformity of
natural laws run up alongside the
most sacred emblem of a belief in
supernatural interference in human
affairs. The wire has struck us.
The lightning not just yet.
BRIEF MENTION.
Moderate your transports, as Australia
remarks to France.
Fourth July: Anniversary of American
Independence and —Copeland.
Tear Tack is the name of the Chinese Mis-
sionary at Tingha. He is a dangerous man to sit
upon
The Bathurst Western Independent
asks: “Is the world getting worse?” We don’t
know. How is the circulation of the Indepen-
dent ?
Since the announcement of the reorgani-
sation of the North Shore Band, you can get a
seven-roomed house at Lavender Bay for twelve
bob a week.
There is, in the township of Camden, a
place called Bud-dog Row. We should not like to
be in that row—unless we owned the bull-dog.
Poor, isn’t it ?
“ Which is the madman ? ” enquired a
si ranger, who had strolled into the Court in expec-
tation of seeing Cresswell. “They are all mad,”
was the quiet reply.
“TwoKempsey magistrates had a fight,”
says a venomous exohahge. Is it come to this,
then, that magistrates are not permitted to lay
their heads together ?
On a discussion arising as to what should
be the nature of the “dirge” in memory of the
late Dr. Bavsanti, someone suggested that Tom
Bayers should sing a comic song.
A London man recently gave 6200 guineas
for Landseer s "Monarch or tne Glen.” At that
tune, there were just 1,800,000 people withering
In disease and starvation. Eheu!
“Which is Mr. Cupid Macleay’s house?”
enquired a stranger of a baker in Macquarie-street.
“Don’t know the number; but it’s the one with
the most g )ld on it,” was the reply.
A Scotchman has invented a new life-
saving projectile. It was high time the Scotch
invented something to counteract their whisky-
such as it is. when it reaches here, we mean.
The Western Champion— a Queensland
paper—has the motto “ vitc sine Uteris mors est ”
Dife without literature is death. Under this is a
paragraph about a stray cow. Speed the quill I
‘What’s the matter?” we enquired of a
weeping reporter we met in King-street last week.
“Telegram from Melbourne,” he sobbed; “my
poor, pour old mother. Got the price of a (sob)
drink about you ?”
They are building in Coney Island an
enormous hotel the shape of an eiephaut. If they
would erect a similar one here—say, by Darling
Harbour—we shouldn't have far to look for an
appropriate landlord.
Bail up!” cried the Wagga bushrangers to
thojsolitary traveller, “who are you? ’ “I’m the
editor of the paper,” was the tremulous reply.
“ Then take this cake of tobacco and pass on,” was
the marauders’ rejoinder.
“Now, this weather ought to suit you,”
said .Tones, handing out the jug to the milkman,
who was streaming wet. “ Well, no, sir,” said the
milkman, reflecting; “you see, a man is liable to
overdo it all of a sudd’nt.”
It will be gratifying to learn that the Duke
of Manchester will probably enjoy this (his second)
trip to Australia exceedingly. Henniker Heaton
has taken care that he shouldn’t lack letters of
introduction to the best people!
The Rum opines that Goethe’s father was
probably not familiar with the rhyme by Long-
fellow,—
Peace, Temperance, and Repose
Slain the door on the doctor’s nose.”
Well, considering that Longfellow wasn’t born till
1807, and that. Goethe’s father died before the close
of the 18th ceutury, probably not.
A new sample of soap was recently shown
to the Melbourne Bulletin people. They ex-
pressed themselves much gratified to the inventor
at the sight of this weird curiosity, and when his
back was turned, began to—eat it.
The Brisbane hospital is crowded to over-
flowing. By the way, Jennie Lee has been doing a
season there, and J. P. Burnett has appeared in his
masterly creation of Bucket. No connection,
necessarily, between the two items.
The Duchess of Edinburgh has had an-
other daughter. Promotion in the Navy seems to
agree with the Duke. It’s the same way with our-
selves. Only just increase our salary, and a white
kid glove is on the knocker directly.
It is rumoured that when a certain party
was told that his marriage was illegal, because the
officiating minister had no license, a calm and
peaceful expression of resignation at once per-
vaded his features—and is there still.
Dr. Ellis, of Maitland, says that there was
a time in his life when he did not believe that
prayer was of any use. Judging by his recent,
utterances, there is nothing to prevent his be-
lieving so still—as far as he is concerned.
Seven stowaways were discovered on
board the steamship Victor when she arrived in
Wellington, N.Z. And this although a whole boat-
load was sent ashore before the ship left Ply-
mouth. More Moncure Conways, we suppose.
An exhibition of work in metals is to be
held at Nuremberg next year, and our Agent-
lieneral has been asked to suggest that New South
Wales send exhibits of local work. Surely Sir
Saul can send Henniker— as an Australian work
in brass ?
The Morpeth Times, edited by Wilton
Hack, is now brought out for a penny. The next
reduction, then, must be to nothing. From what
we can judge of the paper, under its new editor-
ship, we should say that it is fully worth that—if
not more.
One of the University prizes this year is
for a poem on “ Gordon in Khartoum.” Of course,
Sladen will get it. And then, if Gordon ever
happens to get out of Khartoum and comes across
a copy of this poem, he will wish on his knees that
he had died there.
A gentleman by the name of Stiffe sui-
cided in Melbourne the other day. The corres-
pondent of the Herald says that when his room
was entered he was found “ cold and rigid.” Why
not cold and Stiffe ? But they have no faculty for
concentration, these correspondents.
Woodyear’s Circus, now in Queensland,
boasts four educated monkeys Strange to state
precisely that number of clerks have been missing
Irom the Lands Office since Christmas. But for
the fact of the monkeys being “educated,” the
coincidence we would regard as singular.
Under the heading of “ Destitution in
Newcastle,” the Evening News records how a
poor, penniless, starving immigrant was fined for
drunkenness, the effect of meeting a few friends.
Ig would perhaps have been better for him to
have been friendless, as well as penniless.
You have heard of the little Spiritualistic
tract they call the Liberal? Well, this is one of
its latest inspired sayings:—“ Every young person
who dies is a loss to the world, every old person
who dies is a direct gain.” Yet, who would think
the Liberal would be a loss to the world ?
“ Every man should endeavour to belong
to himself.” This wise saw comes from a pam-
phlet we read the other day. If the author ol that
pamphlet took his own advice, he would find he
possessed a shocking poor property. Which re-
mark also applies to quite a lot of other men.
Friend, to Evening News banquet-re-
porter: “ Well, where are you living now?” Ban-
quet-: eporter: “In Phillip-street.” Friend (with
sarcastic reference to the old familiar phrase):
“And does the board groan there?” Banquet-
reporter (gloomily):: “No, but the boarders do.”
Groans and goes.
Additional improvements have been made,
and precautions taken at the Theatre Royal to
minimise the danger in the event of a panic oc-
curring. We suppose this is another way of say-
ing in case the “Patience” company play there
again. They will have to play behind a brick-
proof screen if they do come.
It was noticed amongst the recent arrivals
of recruits for the Harmy, that the luggage of a
captain consisted of a concertina-box and a fish-
basket, while the other (a lieutenant) boasted a
shoe-trunk and a trombone. At the end of three
years, how many vans, we wonder, will it require
to move their luggage to the steamer ? Give it up I
The Melbourne Dripping Jab states that
Count Gleichen is the husband of the Princess
Frederica of Hanover. Her husband is the Baron
von ttammigen. It will he seen by this correction
that we don’t confine our system of education
exclusively to the upper five. For in this instance
we are aware that we only instruct two cooks and
a dustman.
Cumberland, the mind-reader, is the suc-
cess of the season in Paris. There are few things
we would not give—and these do not include tram-
tickets and trouser-buttons—if we could get him
to tell us one thing. And that is, what Tom
Slattery thinks. This has been, and is, the great
trouble of our lives. But—Dy thunder!—suppose
he doesn’t think!
One of Alfred’s bards sings
“ You ask why my face is sad ?
Why my steps are heavy and slow ?”
No, we don’t, old boy. We know all about it. We
were on the paper once ourßelves before the old
man went into the halo and trump trade, and we
understand that since this the quality of the office
paste has deteriorated.
The Melbourne Footmen’s Delight, in
speaking of Miss Pigdon’s wedding, states that it
was a “ very quiet affair.” This comes of the other
“Society” chronicler collaring the turkey and
port from under the sofa, before the right man
could get down into the cloak-room and plant
them under his ulster. It don’t amount to much
only to carry away a jelly in your hat!
A contemporary says that there is a
woman in Tasmania who has one blue eye and one
brown one. This is not so much of a wonderful
t ling. There is a woman in the next yard to us
who has, frequently, a blue and a black one, and,
sometimes, both her eyes are black. But that is
only when her husband comes home unusually
late and finds that she has removed the keyhole.
Funny, this. When the blackfellows came
for their usual annual allowance of clothing to
the Grafton police station, three of them were seen
shortly after marching about the streets with
constables’ helmets on their heads. This fact is a
silent but convincing proof of the depths of de-
gradation to which the aboriginal races have
fallen. They are not even ashamed to run the
risk of being taken for policemen.
This is a cheerful horoscope. A temper
ance paper gives the career of the young men who
have learnt to drink, in these words First, a
cigarette; second, a cigar; third, a glass of beer to
cool the mouth, and throat; fourth, a glass of
whisky to settle the unsteady nerves; fifth, drunk;
sixth, a loafer; seventh, the gutter; eighth, the
srave.”5 rave.” But, what of ninth ? Ninth, a voter for
ohn Davies. Let us all resolve to die at fifth.
There are some good-sized hares in Vic-
toria. At a place called Tarnagulla—so the near-
est local paper says—the hares have been known
to chase horses. We have no doubt—if the horses
belonged to the editor. We have seen some
editorial horses, and we think if we had the choice
we would rather ride on a hare. Yet we have seen
these same horses display, at times, a courage
bordering on ferocity. This was when they got
near a hay-store.
If one were asked to define Nothing, one
might make a worse attempt than this: “ An hono-
rary captaincy, unattached, without pay in the Per-
manent Household Brigade.” Yet such is Gus’s new
dignity, with which, if his ambition be satisfied,
we should say his ambition was a feather-weight.
The only wonder is he wasn’t gazetted a Field-
Marshal ; ’twould have cost no more, and in sub-
stance been no more, while its mashing power
would have been a millionfold greater.
It is sometimes advisable not to bring a
child up too much on the bottle. This was proved
by a lady living in Tullarook (Vic.), who had occa-
sion to get drunk in Seymour lately. She took her
child—aged twelve months—with her, and hilari-
ously returned without it. Next day it was found
dead on the road. We wonder, now, if she would
have lost it if it had been a keg of rum. But per-
haps it was all for the better. The child might
have grown up and taken to drink, and disgraced
her.
They say that a ton of literature is daily
added to stock in the British Museum. Very solid
reading, we should imagine. And yet there can
hardly be any copies of the Herald there. Speak-
ing of the Herald, we heard that the first sen-
tence of the letter from the New Caledonia corres-
pondent fell out of the “ galley,” the other day,
and killed two compositors. We wonder it did not
drive them through the floor. It was heavy
enough to orush its readers afterwards, at all
events.
They were two Israelites, and they had
come down early to the market to get a bit of
cheap fish. The fish is, as you know, in heaps of
two or more, according to the size and character
of it. Glancing askance at the new-comers, the
indefatigable Seymour said, “Now, all the schnap-
ps’s gone; what shall we say for these two poor
little jews?” Next moment, the heap was
Knocked down for 3s. 6d. to “Constantinople”
while the two Hebraic strangers hurried away in
the direction of Alberto Terrace.
The paralyser about the Fijian native
policeman, who is going to get a gold medal for
swimming from a wreck with a child on each
arm and the mother on his back, is still travelling
through the country papers. We have wondered
every time we have read it what he would have
done with a third child if there had been one
Perhaps he would have put it in his mouth. But
this is improbable, as then he would most likely
have been drowned in going in to fetch it. Great-
ness in our own force runs to feet; in the Fijian it
runs to moutn.


Hop Bitters has restored to sobriety and
health perfect - wrecks from intemperance.
Peruse all.
Books ox Mining, by Mr. DeCouroy
Browne, Beresford Chambers, 52 Castlereagh-
street—The “ Misers’ Handy Book,” 2nd Edition,
relates wholly to Miners’ right claims —Is. 6d.;by
post, 2s. The “MiniDg Leaseholders’ Guide,” re-
lating wholly to Mining Leases, Mineral License
Holdings, and Mineral Conditional Purchases—
-28. 6d.; by post 3s. The “Manual of Minerals,”
commonly found in Australia ; how to dis-
tinguish, test, assay, and value them—ls. 6d.; by
post 2s. J. J. Moore and Co., 554 George-street,
Sydney.*
Don’t use stimulants, but nature’s brain
an d nerve food—Hop Bitters. See.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
lags, Carpet Bags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P O
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
F
OUR T H
1770.
0 F
1884.
JULY.
The American Citizens will celebrate the 108th An-
niversary of American Independence with a
Grand Masquerade Ball,
at the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park.
Itj B the intention to make this the grandest ball
ot its kind ever given in Sydney, no pains being
spared to ensure success.
Newest music, superb decorations and appoint-
ments, novel chromatic effects never before pro-
duced in Australia, including calcium light,
waltzes and quadrilles, grand march and pageant.
Columbia’s Reception.
Refreshments by Mr. Thomas Cripps.
tions by Messrs. Sale and Dare.
Decora-
Music—Kopff and Austin’s Celebrated Orchestra,
under the personal direction of Prolessor Kopff.
COMMITTEE:
C. Von Berein
Frank R. Kron
E. W. Clarke
A. D. Ludlow
A. Lerov
Gen. W. T. Bennett
J. T. Brown
Seaforth Proctor
J. C. Beeler
J ohn Sears
W. H. H. Lane
J. W. Butcher
M. 0. Spears
P. Cool
W. N. Tuttle
S. Genese
J. M. Fisher
C. Jones.
Double Tickets not transferable
Gentlemen do. do.
Ladies .. do. do.
Gallery .. do. do.
.10s
-Is
Bis Gd
as
To be had of members of committee, at A.
Huenerbe ns, Paling and Co’s., Lloyd and Col-
linss, John Sands’s, Turner and Henderson’s,
Tuttle and Co Sj, Anthony Hordern and Sons’, M.
Moss, and of EDWARD T. LANE, Hon. Secretary,
6, Bligh-street.
No improper person will be admitted.
COSTUMES MASKS and WIGS for ladies and
gentlemeD, including the wardrobe of the
Theatre Royal, can be had on hire, or made to
order, at 98, Elizabetb-street, first floor. A large
nnrnber of Gentlemen’s Comic and Character
Dresses just received, price from 10s.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 33rd June, 1884.
TENDERS FOR FENCING AND TAR-PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection oi
Fencing, and for Tar-paving, in connection
with the Public School at Newtown.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Fencing and
Tar-paving, Newtown Public School,’’ must bG
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on W ednesday, 9th July, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRTCKETT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 30th June, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti
culars see Government Gazette, a file of whicl
Is kent at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenden
are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before th<
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un
less the terms of the notice are strictly compliec
with.
The Government does not bind itself to acoep
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT
Political
Points
The Giraffe complains that the depart-
mental clerk, in concootin*? answers to Parlia-
mentary questions, fixes up a statement that does
not cover the whole truth. Others, lon# before
the Giraffe’s neck had reached its present altitude,
had made the same complaint. ’Tis not the clerk s
fault. Rather ’tis his virtue to be so responsive to
the essential principle of the system of which he
is a portion. The public office system is based on
procrastination, circumlocution, pigeon-holinj?,
shelving-, making the worse appear the better by
an ingeniously disingenuous use of statistics,
avoiding the point, telling half truths, memo.-mg
on turned-down folios, having-the-honour-to-be,
and so on; and a man has no more reason to wonder
that a fellow-creature who has been passed through
It should turn out a fixer-up of statements that do
not cover the whole truth, than that a girl
passed through the fashionable boarding-school
{with extras ad infinitum) should turn out a
fribble.
Five hours was a big spin for the little
man of Collingwood to lake in the Victorian
Assembly the other night. When he stood up
there was a portentous look in his eyes, and the
posture of his legs indicated rigidity of muscle
and very high heels to his boots. For a while it
seemed as if something lying on the floor of the
House had entitled itself to the favour of his
glances, but gradually he drew them off and dis-
pensed them liberally on certain quartern ot the
Speaker’s Gallery. Why, such charges of fire and
disdainful indignation should be shot thither was
at first not very plain. But it soon came to be
perceived that the orator was only practising. A
tack in the floor had curled up—an aged party in
the gallery had left with a trot—and with these
proofs before him of the flrsi>rate condition of his
withering-up faculties, the little man folded his
arms, and turning full upon the Ministerial
Denches, volleyed into the face of the Chief-
Secretary. It was for this he had been getting
ready all the time. And although the period
has not arrived in which James Mirams
can command the assent of the House to all
his opinions, his voice had a good deal of the
ring of a leader's in it when, shaking himself free
from the restraints of a sham allegiance, he de-
clared : “Liberals were led to believe that Mr.
Berry agreed with the Reform League. It turns
out that he did not. He went with the League
only to humbug the people. The exigencies of
his career rendered it necessary for him to get a
party somewhere, and as he could not humbug
the Conservatives he humbugged the Liberals.”
Almost the same words appeared in these pages in
the good old times when Major Smith and the de-
light of Collingwood were playing the game of the
two little brothers of the great man.
Whether it is due to any impetus imparted
by the lecturing tour of Henry George, or
whether merely the natural outgrowth of circum-
stances, we know not, but we perceive from
Home papers that the principles of the Scottish
Land League are taking strong hold in that coun-
try and making extensive strides. In Glasgow,
Greenock, Aberdeen, and Dundee there are
powerful centres of organization -the artizan class
being, as usual in all countries, the quickest to
comprehend the significance of a political griev-
ance and of a corrective system. From these centres
the propaganda are extending with enormous
rapidity and comprehensiveness over the rural
districts, and of course find readiest adherents
where landlords’ exac. ions have been most severely
exercised; which is generally in districts remote
from political centres and from universal observa-
tion, Thus, in Scotland the Land League is full of
vitality, especially at the nerve centres and at the
extremities. Landlords have taken the alarm,
only to intensify the trouble. In lieu of recogniz-
ing the absolute necessity of gradual submission,
they are cursed, like Pharoah, and harden their
hearts, refusing to let the people go. The conse-
quence of this attitude has been that a promising
organization, the Highland Land Law Reform As-
sociation, with a very moderate programme,
in which many men of Conservative instincts
had busied themselves, has been practically
shouldered out of the way by a much more
radical body the Scottish Land Restoration
League. This League adopts in its essentials the
programme of Henry George, and derides the
tentative proposals of the Reform Association.
Captain Campbell, one of the Highland Land Law
Reform Association deputation which waited upon
the Lord Advocate, lately, in connection with the
threatened evictions in Skye, told that gentleman
that since the advent of the Restoration League in
Skye the more moderate association which lie re-
presented had lost very much of its influence
amongst the islanders. And the same must inevit-
ably be the outcome everywhere that the land-
lords reply to demands for just concessions by
threats of cruelty, oppression, and violence. “ Land
Restoration League” is a good title. Our “brither
Scots ” are shrewd customers. While Landlordism
and Plutooracy bellow about “ Confiscation,” they
have “Restoration” for countersign. “Hey for
the Bonnets o’ Blue!” say we.
The nice quiet way in which Russia gulps
down a bit of territory here and there, whenever
the Western Powers of Europe are fully engaged
in some other direction, is quite creditable to the
diplomats of that nation. Tney steal with more
talent and dexterity and with less disturbance
than any other European nation, while at the same
time they preserve a decent front of cynical
effrontery. When France steals a province from
unlucky barbarians, she generally makes some
sort of transparently frivolous pretence of neces-
sity or affront. But she very seldom does more
than make a grimace of it, and is at no pains to
disguise that it is a mere polite concession to the
decencies of international humbug. Germany is
more matter-of-fact. When she wanted the
Schleswig-Holstein provinces, she raised up a
mystification of claims, so involve! and abstiuse
that all the Chancellories and Foreign Offices in
Europe were still puzzling and wrangling over the
questions involved, while the territory was being
invaded and firmly grabbed. The diplomatic
question, indeed, was extinguished by accom-
plished facts, betore any two experts could agree
about the rights and wrongs of the dispute. The
German method, in fact, was highly practical. It
was to begin by determining what to steal and
how to steal it, organize victory, chuck out a
protocolor so for diplomats to occupy themselves
with, and do the burglarising white the inter-
national police were deliberating whether the
enterprise was a burglary or a recovery of stolen
goods. Our own country invariably combines the
maximum of fuss with the climax of hypocrisy.
We invite all the world to observe that
we are about to befriend our poor suffering
acquaintance over the way, and when our poor
suffering acquaintance resists with desperation
our method of relieving him, which generally is
sitting upon him and scooping his pockets, we
proceed to cut his throat before the eyes of ail the
neighbourhood, protesting all the time that wlmt
we meant was to perform a sacred duty, and tba<,
if the victim hadn’t resisted our good offices, we
should not have been under the hard necessity of
shedding his blood. And then we weep, and refer
to our previous good character—although it isn’t
good—and display our celebrated moral pocket-
handkerohief, the Bible, upon a profuse fluttering
of which, on all occasions—although we never
really use the article—we chiefly base our claim to
be regarded as a clean-nosed nation. The Russians,
we commenced by remarking, have a slippy style
of stealing while all Europe is looking another
way. Their latest appropriations were got in this
fashion. Merv is one. Another is Serakhs, a
province of Persia. Upon the whole, the people of
Serakhs will probably be not much worse off as
Russian subjects than they were as vassals of His
Highness the Shah- The Shah, in fact, is an even
greater potentate than the Czar. Some years ago,
but in the present Shah’s reign, there was a famine
in one district, and he immediately taxed the bread.
There was a very mild riot of starving wretches in
consequence, whereupon he sent an order to the
officials to collect several sack-loads of eyes, which
was done, as blindness must check the most ener-
getio insurgent. He also invented a new punish-
ment for political offenders, viz., that their teeth
should be extracted one by one and hammered
into their skulls. Turcoman captives are nailed
up alive, like rats against a barn wall. About
twenty years ago, a Persian Ambassador at St.
Petersburg ordered one of his servants to be flayed
alive. The Russian authorities interfered, and
said it could not be done in Russia, whereupon the
Ambassador ordered the servant to be nailed up in
a box, and thus conveyed to Persia where it was to
be carried out.
The Sootoh crofters continue their most
inconvenient conduct. We call it inconvenient
because it has broken up the dodge of pretending
that the attitude of the Irish in relation to their
landlords was singularly monstrous, and attribut-
able to an innate savagery and brutality in the
Irish nature, and to the fact that the Irish are
mostly “ Papists.” The Skye crofters are, most
unfortunately for that theory, mostly of Scandi-
navian origin, and Presbyterians and Baptists;
and those Insolent people, English Radicals, now
pretend that the attitude of the Scotch crofters
endorses their early argument—that it was not the
race or religion of the people, but the intolerable
nature of the treatment they received, which had
stung the tenants in Ireland to the verge of
revolt; and that people of any race and re-
ligion would be just as “troublesome,” if sub-
iected to the same injustices. We learn from
jUoyd's Weekly that some exciting work is ex-
pected in Skye before loDg. The landlords, headed
OH! CERT’NLY.
MR. POOLE, WITHOUT NOTICE, ASKED THE COLONIAL SECRETARY IF HE COULD
STATE WHEN THE GOVERNMENT WOULD BE PREPARED TO INTRODUCE A BILL
TO DEAL WITH THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF GAS.
MR. SIUARI’ SAID THAT AS SOON AS THE PRESENT ALL-ENGROSSING SUBJECT WAS
DISPOSED OF, HE HOPED THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO INTRODUCE A MEASURE
PROVIDING FOR THE SUPPLY OF WHAT THEY WERE SO DEFICIENT OF.-[?]
mentary Report.
by the Duke of Argyle—who had the cheek to
publish a reply to Henry George in the Nine-
teenth Century, as though he were, like George,
a fiisintereted reasoner—have attempted to meet
remonstrance by severity, and the process, so
familiar to the Irish, of nu i erous evictions is
threatened. The Scotch peasants are no more in-
timidated by these threats, and no less exasperated,
than the Irish were. The ‘clargy” are siding
with their flocks, and at a meeting in April in a
church the insolent peasants actually arranged to
invite a Scotch member for an Irish county pre-
sumably well accustomed to resist oppressive
methods—to contest the county of Argyle against
Lord Colin Campbell, son of the Duke—God bless
him! This instance of the nefarious influence
exercised by the minions of the Scarlet Woman,
and of the blindness of our forefathers in tolerat-
ing the practices of the " whure o’ Babylon” in a
Protestant nation—but we forget: it was a Baptist
Church the meeting was held in, and the villains
were Protestants to a man. However, to resume,
there was another meeting at Stalfin Bay, in April,
when the proposed ejections were discussed, and
one speaker was applauded when he declared:
“ We are in possession, and we moan to keep pos-
session until driven out at the bayonet point ’’ This
opens up a difficult subject. Whose bayonet points
can be trusted to prick these sturdy Scotchmen ?
In Ireland, the Highland regiments co ild be em-
ployed, all right. But it seems tery dubious
whether Highlanders’ bayonets coula be trusted
against Highlanders and islanders. Scotch troops
might fraternize with Scotch peasants—their bro-
thers. Then Irish regiments would certainly he out
of the question. Ah Irishman are so schooled now
in the principles of agrarian justice, and so thor-
oughly iu sympathy with resistance to oppression
and eviction, that to set a detachment of Irishmen
to enforce a series of evictions, would be a hope-
less absurdity. Some of tne English battalions
would be required, and a pretty blunder it would
be to employ English soldiers against Scotchmen
in Scotland. Why,Scotch boys were, within our
own experience, taught the History of Scotland,
and that line of education does not tend to incul-
cate unquestioning love of the sister nation, you
cau take our worn. Boys play “ Scotch and Eng-
lish ” in Scotland, just as English boys play ” French
an I English,” and a sentiment of national jealousy
is fostered by these apparent trifles. Turn Eng-
lish troops loose on Scotch peasants, and see what
the result would be. Two-thirds; of Scotland
would flare up like gunpowder. The most
convenient dodge would be to send along
a draft of English privates from the vari-
ous Highland regiments, most of which have
a large proportion of English and Irish in their
ranks. The national dress would disguise the real
fact, and probably avert a tremendous agitation.
By and bye, even the English plebs will under-
stand that the agrarian trouble is their affair quite
as much as it is Irish or Scotch. And then there
will be no trustworthy troops to enforce evictions.
The landlord, i.e,, the governing, class will then
have to import Ghoorka battalions for these
duties, we suppose. Troops will be necessary in
Skye, we are told, because “ the people have a
thorough contempt for the police, and a corre-
spondent in the island writes that, however large
the force that might be sent, a bloody couioat will
be the result.”
• • ■
Derby doesn’t think that to give white
residents of Fiji legislative powers would promote
Fijian interests. He is right; although, at the
same time, precious little can be said for the Crown
colony system —Kosebery has obtained appoint-
ment of a committee to inquire how the efficacy
of the Lords may be promoted. Granville's idea
was life peerages, but his House wouldn’t hear of
it. Our idea is that the only way to promote their
efficacy is to wipe them out ... We thought Rose-
bery had more sense than to suggest such a pre-
posterous motion as the representation of the
colonies in the “ Lords.”
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
‘ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of them. Touoh none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or olusier of green Hops on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing m imitations or counter-
feits.


The Babes in the Wood.
Three brain-weary parties resolve to
camp out, and meet to make up a list
of provisions, &c.
All they can think of are onions and
whisky—O yes, and a tent. Almost
forgot that.
Must also have an old suit of olothes.
Wife can easily sew patches on only
pair of trousers.
Also, an old
hat. Buy a
new one, and
maltreat it.
The Start. Weather, anything but promising—never mind. '
Van-man instructed to drive them to some out-of-the-way
place.
They find a spot far from the busy haunts of man, and pitch
their tent.
Could not have found a better plaoe. A. will
fish; D. will sketch; B. will shoot. Pic-
turesque lake—plenty of fish and game
evidently.
Diagram, showing interior of tent, with arrangement
of bunks.
Having worked hard the first day, they resolve to
take the bext more easily. A walk by the sea—
i just thte thing.
B. begins his sports by
shooting at a bird of
some sort. Weather
still unpromising.
Gun rather rusty—
recoils, and drives
B. into the ground.
Bird yet to be heard
from.
A. catches a fish quite
by accident. A. and
fish, about equally
astonished.
(Weather less promising than ever.)
D. paints away with such enthusiasm
that he heeds not the rising of the
lake.
They come upon a ship that has been beached the
night before. They take pity on the captain,
whom they find in tears, and lend him a hand.
Returning from their walk, they
meet a procession of soldier ants
walking off wilh their stores.
Weather becomes boisterous, and the tent is
blown away, spite of all their combined efforts.
Consultation. “No stores, no tent.
If we remain here longer, we may
starve, and get wet. Perhaps, we
had better go home.”
Carried—(the proposition to go, not
the campers. They had to carry
everything themselves). As they
neared town, weather cleared oir
beautifully.


Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leadinsr and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the Al/t,
fIIHE Catering: and Sole Management undertaken for Balls Weddino-s Ranmiata m ’ r f
X and all kinds of demonstrations. a JS> w eadln * 8 ’ Banquets, Dinners, Luncheon
PEI/ATE EAE AND SMOKING figSffflt Coffee in the Bat nnti, „
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-fltreet, Sydney. ' icenBeo AMd General Manager.
□Tla.© E3ella/b>le 33^grg'ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. 1
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons. ’
W" BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET,
EOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGr-A.IT.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
BICYCLES! TRICYCLES! BICYCLES!
The Sparkbrook National Tricycle,
with patent differential gearing, undoubtedly the easiest hill-climber in the
Agent: C.
The Sparkbrook Bicycle,
BALL BEARINGS, PRICE FROM 10 GUINEAS.
r BAYLISS THOMAS, & CO.’S EXCELSIOR 13-GUTNFA mevero
as ridden by Mr. A. Edward from Sydney to Melbourne l^
W. BENNETT, 68 King-st., Sydney.
AVHOLEBALE IMPORTERS :
TOZER CO.,
229 CLARENCE STREET.
BT PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, off
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion J° ry customer.
Write to us,
OB
Call on us.
JAHESMAX&XIRT& COMPY
189 GEORGE STREET* BVONEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thall be glad to have this index potted up bp
tecrttaries of racing clubs and managers of
spotting events in generaL]
RACING.
Penrith July 5.
Newcastle July 5.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Townsville J.C July 10,11.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
Thargominda J.C July 18,19.
Walgett R.O July 29. 30.
Goondiwindi August 18,19.
Hawkesbury August 21, 23.
Viotoria Amateur T.C Ootober 11,18.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
COURSING.
N.B. Wales Club August 8,7, 8.
Viotoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Sackville Reach July 24.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River July 24.
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R... .August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Ulawarra Lake. .August 27.
ATHLETICS.
All-Comers Handioap, Tingha July 4.
Sir Joseph Banks Handioap (£300) September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Spring Meeting.... Sept. 6,
CYCLING.
Wanderers’ B.C. Race Meeting July 17.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
N. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Match for £5O made between C. Bray, of
Casino, and T. Noud, of Grafton, 100 yards, to be
run at Casino on 35th July.
From Albury, we learn, that two distin-
guished foreigners, Mons. Victor and Signor Pietro
di Abillis (pasS'the pewter), are to fence with foils
in about three weeks’ tim6.
The imported greyhound puppy, Lady
Hampden, the property of Corrigan, the steeple-
chase rider, was poisoned by strychnine at Essen-
don whilst at exercise. Corrigan recently refused
£l5O for her.
Poor old England ! Largan has issued a
challenge to scull any man in England over the re-
cognised ohampion course for £lOl aside. How
many men can we raise in Australia able to put
Largan through? We daresay Laycock, Beach,
Clifford, and Trickett are able to do the trick.
In last week’s issue, the name of “Mat”
Matterson by some means crept in under the por-
trait of the promising young Clarenoe Elver
sculler. Tt is scarcely necessary to inform our
readers that the portrait is that of “ Neil ” of that
ilk. However, we thought it better to put this in,
if only to put straight the papers whieh may copy
the paragraph.
The Australian Eleven pulled themselves
out of the fire by the win over the Gentlemen of
England, with 44 runs to spare. The English
papers were beginning to think W. G. Grace was
“going off,” but his play against the Australians
showed no proof of it. His highest in both in-
nings, 107 and 30, does not look as if he is going to
give up the title of champion without a struggle.
The English horse, Barcaldine, had lately
become so savage that there was a difficulty in
putting mares to him, but the removal of a decayed
molar has had the effect of reducing him to perfect
atude. The operation was performed by
er, a noted German dentist and horse tamer,
who is now resident at Newmarket. He is reported
to have had great success in dealing with horses
Buffering from bad teeth.
At Adaminaby, a rather lively scene took
place on the night of the 16th June, which rather
made up for the slow day’s horse racing. The
Cooma Express says, in connection with the race
between Ranger and Get Back, “ wagers before and
after the race, to the extent of from £3O to £5OO,
were freely offered by sports with soaroely a
scent to their names.” The italics aro ours, and
the Express man is wrong. The “sports” in
question were in very bad odour by the time they
left Adaminaby.
Says “Augur”: “The most exciting de-
monstration I ever saw made by the fair sex was
at Wagga, when Mr. Tait’s colt Melbourne won,
and it was so genuine that when a deputation of
ladies demanded Mr. Tait’s jacket and cap, and
tore them up to wear upon thoir breasts, the
veteran sportsman was so overcome that tears
rolled down his cheeks.” Thanks “Augur” for
putting us straight. Until you enlightened us, we
always imagined “ Honest John ” wept over such a
waste of good silk.
Messrs. Alcock and Co., the billiard- table
manufacturers, have offered one of their best
billiard-match tables, value 150 guineas, to be
played for during the Caulfield Cup week, in order
to test the capabilities of colonial billiardists. The
contest is to be open to all comers who have re-
sided in the colonies during the twelve months
prior to the match. Each player is to stake £5O,
and the winner is to take the sweep and table. If
more than two compete the runner-up will receive
a eup value £35 and £35 cash.
The Canterbury Park Race Club held a
most successful race meeting on Saturday last.
Weather perfect, and attendance fully 6000.
Emilius carried off the Birthday Gift by half a
length from Storm, Hvpatia third. Stella made
rather an easy thing of the Selling Race, Godiva
seoond, Hawthornden third. The Grand Stand Han-
dicap fell to Desmond, Regret second, Espelgle
third. Friendship made an easy win of the Coro-
nation Handioap from Micreme, Velox third. The
Prinoe of Wales Stakes fell to Parole, Black Bess
seoond, Lydia third; and the day’s sport concluded
with the Queen’s Prize, which was won by Bos-
cawen, Palarenda (five lengths away) second,
Godiva third.
In England, Mr. T. Gee, owner of the
phenomenal horse Peter and other cracks, died a
short time since. He was for some years butler to
a family consisting of two wealthy maiden ladies,
and, having saved up enough money, he gave
notioe that he was going to leave their service.
They were dismayed at the idea, and, having con-
sulted together, one of them said, “We very much
wish you would not go, and if you will consent to
stay, either my sister or myself will be very glad
to marry you.” Thomas thanked them kindly,
and made his selection, (in the carriage being
brought round on the wedding day to take them
to church, Thomas put the ladies in and mounted
the box. “ Where are you going, Thomas ?” the
bride enquired. “I am going to ride on tr.e box,
miss. That is my place atpresent; when we are
married I shall be proud and happy to take a seat
inside the carriage.” Mr. Gee used to frankly tell
this tale about himself.
The postponed sports of the Thistle Club
came off on Saturday, on the Agricultural Society’s
Ground. Moore Park. A. Coleman won the boys
under 15, 330 yards; C. Werry carried off the 160
yards handicap; T. Lawrence won the quarter mile;
A. Thompson won the under 16, hop-step-and-
jump, with 33ft. Bin. The adults hop-step-and-
jump fell to S. Wood’s, who covered 41ft. lOin. J.
W. Byrnes, who arrived too late to compete, for a
special prize cleared the tremendous distance of
46ft. 4in.; J. W. Byrnes made a running-high-jump
of 6ft. 10in.; Cowan carried off the Cumberland
wrestling bout; A. Larcombe and J. Byrnes both
managed to clear 9ft. Bin. in the pole vaulting
contest; J. Hickey put the heavy shot 38ft. ltn.;
W. C. Bmith threw the heavy hammer 77ft. Bin.;
8. Lewis won the two miles walk from scratch; H.
W. Thomson carried off the quarter mile obstacle
race; the mile handicap fell to T. Lawrence; and
A. Larcombe tossed the caber 33ft. lOin.
Messrs. C. H. R. Gossett and W. Nioholson
(says an English paper), both of the Temple Bicycle
Club, accomplished a wonderful performance on a
, Humber Tandem ” tricycle. They started from
I Hounslow at 8.13 a.m., and rode via Bagshot, Win-
chester, Alresford, Alton, Farnham, Guildford,
Ripley, and Kingston, to the Bay Tree atlMerton,
where they turned and retraced their steps to the
eighteenth milestone on.tbe Portsmouth road, and
then camp back to the Angel at Thames Ditton, at
which point, in order to make up the twelve hours,
they rode twice round Thames Ditton Green. The
full distance, taken from “ Paterson’s Road Book,”
is 136 miles, and but for the strong wind, at times
amounting to a gale, which met the men for nearly
half the distance, there is no doubt that they
would have easily covered 150 miles. Every care
was taken to have the performance thoroughly
authenticated, and the timing arrangements were
placed in the hands of Messrs. E. Tegetmeier and
C. H, Larrette (Bell’s Life), the first-named also
acting as starter. The performance is the more
meritorious from the fact that Mr. Gossett, who is
a cousin of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of
Commons, is upwards of 43 years of age, whilst his
companion is not what is termed a racing man.
The branoh Mercantile R.C. premises were
duly opened on Saturday. The westerly wind
proved a shade too much for the comfort of the
oarsmen who manned the boats forming the pro-
cession; but they struggled through it and arrived
at the branch before the steamers had discharged
their living freight. Both steamers were crowded
to the utmost of tbeir capaoity, and upon a land-
ing being effected the crowd wended its way up a
bit of a constitution hill to the premises above.
Alderman Playfair, who actually went without a
cigar during the whole afternoon, then formally
opened the premises with a few words; and Mr.
Harry Wilkinson, the captain of the club, fol-
lowed with a little more speechifying, in whioh he
wished for the suocess of New South Wales row-
ing in general, and his own club in particular.
Refreshments were then the order of the day,
after whioh the steamers were loaded up again
and the visitors landed at Circular Quay between
five and six o’clock. Old and present members
were invited, but it really seemed wonderful
where all the old hands of only four or five years
ago had gone to. Mr. “ Tom ” Strange, who had
so often pulled No. 3 for the honour and glory of
his olub, was there, and Messrs. Metcalfe and Ben-
son, the “demon” pair oars, and Messrs. “Jack”
Wilkinson, Lockyer. Walford, and “Sid.” Bull,
but there the list about ends. Of course Messrs.
“ Bob ” Keddie, Blachman, and “ Joe ” Smart were
there, but in the role of active members. We
might as well look for the millennium as for them
to figure in the list of “have beens.”
Fred. J. Engelhardt, who is supposed to
know a thing or two about pedestrians and pedes-
trianism. recently furnished the San Francisco
Call with some interesting matter on this subject.
Discussing long distance races, the veteran athlete
said: “None or the stories of men accomplishing
extraordinary pedestrian feats in country places
are ever verified when they are brought on
measured tracks, and it is doubtful if the famous
Indian runners and mail-carriers, of whom we
hear and read so much, could live half the dis-
tance with our trained pedestrians. The loss of
sleep is very trying, and the excessive heat pro-
duced by great exertion creates an almost in-
satiable thirst. Harriman drinks more on the
track than any other man I ever knew. I have
known him to drink four dozen bottles of ginger
ale in 24 hours 1 O’Leary and Hughes must have
champagne in large quantities, Watson drank
but little—beef tea, gruel, and tea were his chief
beverages. Rowell also combats his thirst, and
both ot the latter are good feeders on the track,
while the drinkers are not. Many think they must
eat all they can hold before starting, as they will
have no opportunity to eat at leisure during a race.
That is a fatal mistake, because the overheating of
the system and the excitement of the contest ar-
rest digestion and bring trouble. A man should
start in a race with an almost empty stomach—
with the last food taken well digested; then con-
trol his thirst, and once over the inevitable fever-
ish conditions of the first day, the appetite will
come, and, with careful nursing, those ugly crises
are easily overcome.”
“ Panem et circenses /” used to be the cry of
the Roman populace-a piece of information which
you may have heard before. And whatever bread
they got, they had plenty of circuses. Things were
different when Rome became the religious metro-
polis of the earth. Then the people had to be
satisfied with pious processions and bambino
shows, and such things, with an annual concession
to the devil during the carnival week. Now, how-
ever, things hnve changed again. The good King
Humbert has done this. He has established a
Derby Day in Italy, and it has turned out a large
sucoess. As a matter of course, Rome is filled
with English bookmakers during the race week.
We are not aware exactly at what time of the year
the race comes off, but if the date be not remote
we look forward to hear of our own Joe Thompson
laying the odds on the classic ground that Cicero
used to tread. And the gay Barney—will he not
have made conquests among the Roman coun-
tesses ? If he does not, he is no longer the Barney
of old. Imagine the Thompsons—their big breast-
pins flashing like tin plates on a far-off hillside in
the sunlight—standing in the Colosseum, where the
old patricians used to make up their books by the
thousand sesterces, and the cry of “ habet” with
the down-turned thumbs from the imperial box
sent the soul of many a Thracian gladiator to
Hades ! Yes, imagine it—and then imagine Joe
saying to Barney: “ Barney, I'll toss you for half
a couter winner shouts.” But is Barney in
Europe? We don’t know, and don’t much care.
We shall, however, expect to hear of Billy Swords
at the Roman Derby backing the Pope for a
hundred yards against all oomers.
We belong to a generation in which Beauty
alone will not make a man majestic. Since Mrs.
Timmins, with the help of a broomhandle, ex-
pounded, in the presence of her neighbours, the
Gospel of Usefulness, which exposition had a
direct bearing on the relation Mr. Timmins bore
to the on-looking universe, no man feels that his
straddle is the thing until he has let the world see
that he is useful as well as beautiful. How beauti-
ful on the sward of Old England were the feet of
our oricketersl Antecedently to Mrs. Timmins’
time, those feet, and the feats of which those feet
were the substructure, would have entitled tbe
travelled darlings to an immortality of Imperial
esteem. But the world has become innoculated
with Mrs. Timminsism, and even Murdoch and
Alexander lay themselves out to give a fillip to
their straddle. A fillip to their straddle ? Decidedly.
Are we not in receipt of the cheering; news that
the effect of our team going home “is to excite
interest in and inquiry respecting Australia among
the working classes.” Alexander declares that he
has had to employ a batch of clerks to answer tbe
innumerable letters he receives daily soliciting his
counsel as to emigration. And Murdoch holds up
for everybody’s inspection a letter sent to him by
a Yorkshire gardener wanting to know whether
Murdoch would recommend him “ to g' out there.”
Thus our cricketers desire it to be known that
they perform some of the most important func-
tions of tbe Agent-General’s office. Thus they are
not alone the beautiful creatures we have been in
the habit of considering them, but persons of
widely acknowledged use in contributing to the
population of this great young country. And
thus, with this fillip to their straddle, they fulfil
Mrs. Timmins’ conditions and are majestic men.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
The racehorse, Escamillo, died at Thorn-
borough (Q.), on June 3. Escamillo was a favourite
sire, and secured the largest number of prizes at
the Wild River Jockey Club meeting last Septem-
ber Meeting held at Goulburn to form a cours-
ing club Nanango (Q.) Racing Club races. The
results were as follow:—Hurdle Race: Mazeppal.
Sii-es’ Produce Stakes: Bracelet 1. Midwinter
Handicap: Rattrap 1. Welter Race: Elastic 1.
Flying Handicap: Kate Kearney I. Second day—
Maiden Plate: Pilgrim 1, Leader 3. Nanango Rac-
ing Club Handicap: Elastic 1, Rattrap 3. District
Plate: Signal 1, Weatherbit 3. Consolation Stakes:
Mick 1, Lynx 3. Forced Handicap: Alice Rat-
trap 3.


JjIUBNITURB SHOW BOOM 8.
H
BRADLEY MRWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,"
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
B
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c~
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
EDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Givat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atreet. "
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
piate-giass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUPI
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITORE.—Pine Tables, from 10s
6d.; Dining Tables. from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d. •
Chest of Drawers, from 40s-; Wardrobes, from 80s’.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards"
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEV
NEWTON, and LAMB.
1
x
5
V
£35
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
_ _ strong’, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAIATABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
O
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just reoeived. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Connell-strect.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
P
Pricx
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
oes, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BE 5 STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s tne pair.
ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
Jy VUUiipiO TV vi uiuonra.
NGrROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
_____ BOARD, MAHOGANY
T)'' N i! „
EARLY BnHLISH SIDEL
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
< ELF-AD JUSTIN G HAMMOCK CH AIL-
Patented.
D
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Tlie above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials tb meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ICIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
YV
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; heat make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
Mask balls have been such
Sydney of late years, that those P®F£?*neutsober
enough to be friends of members of the Deutsoher
Club enjoyed a real novelty on FHdays l **"- 150
Members and invitees together numbeied over 1A
and, as it was clearly specified that fancy dress ana
masks were essential to adnuttance (at l
up to 11 o’clock), the masquerade was no halt ana
half affair. At the same an evening claw
hammer" eould be easily con ™£ te „ d *°ed it
“ fanev ’’ by a domino cloak, which coverea it
from head to heels with f°mplete disguise; a
was astonishing how well even_tbes , id e nt?tv
strip of silk across nose and eyes hid one s identity.
The suite of club rooms are at 53 and 5,. castle
reagh-street, and, soon after 8 P.m., guests
came rapidly in; and, after a little nxUag,
or obtaining the temporary loan of a mask
from Buave Mr. Genese. soon f°u
wrv into the large ballroom at the naca.
ItTs a fine room, and has lately been well deco-
rated A nlatform, with an immense national
banner nyer it, is at one end, and the band p ££ ed
in an adjoining room. Proceedings, ofwhlch a
complete programme in English rad German aa
printed, opened by a Procession headed by Prince
Carnival and suite, and the band, and then a polo
naise march was performed, in which everyone
inin»ri tarui two Ordinary dances lonoweuj
interspersed with an address; a Tyrolese concert
aftor the style of the Saltcellar troupe; an operatic
duet of an original kind; and Count Luxembourg s
favourite dance, a performance which. convinced
Us that the Count must have had a remarkable
taste in dancing. Messrs. Arnold and Bambich.as
clowns, were the liveliest company imagma e.
Of course, maskers do not wait for introductions
to one another, and the fun that goes on be-
tween those who think they hnow one an-
other, but don’t, or vife rCr«rt.iS one of the
Chief charms of the masquerade. When one
masker fancies he has discovered another, he
takes her hand and traces on it the initials or
her name. A shake of the head convinces him he
is wrong, but, even if mistaken, the act is not
accounted as any breach of etiquette. Some
maB ks were complete cardboard faces of grotesque
aud elaborate make, and certainly the most corm-
oal was that of a caricatured German soldier who
was constantly on a th e salute, with huge goggle
eyes, and a face that was intensely natural, though
hardly handsome. Dr. Horn was a doctor of laws
in a good disguise!; Mr. John Young, an old-time
Sydney alderman ; Mr. Sussmilch, a P'' e e
Mr. Twietraeyer, a brigand ; Mr. El !® rca ™P> *
splendid make-up as "a forester
drew bow in the merry greenwood. One gentle-
man changed his dress four times, to the perpetual
mystification of his friends. Mr. Kretscbmanu
the well-known musical professor, wore a rich
velvet robe as Doge of Venice; and Mr. Von dor
Heyde, president of the club, wore an officer s uni-
form ; Mr. Lenartz was a policeman, who thought it
derogatory for a member of the forca to dance. At
half-past ten masks were removed—which was a
relief, for they were rather warm—and then there
was quite a chorus of laughing obs! as mutual
recognitions were made on oil sides. We may say
that the masquerade was thoroughly carried out,
and completely successful. Programmes, contain-
ing eight dances were then handed round, and
when these were done, as well as a few extra
waltzes, a second distribution took place at about
3 a.m., and these again were filled as before. A
very formidable- looking item on the card was the
Kheinlaender, but after looking anxiously round
for a safe place to get. from which to view the
gallant Germans struggling with the Rbeinlaender
it turned out to be a schottische. As^ a F
ing goes, the schottische and the rheinlaender
seem to be very much like Caesar and Pompey. It
was a great relief to find that the terrible-looking
thing was only our old friend, consisting of two
forward and two back and four steps round, and
exclaiming, triumphantly “ why, we can do that!
we offered ourselves, with a salaam and a crook in
our arm. to the prettiest little Fraulien that ever
did credit to the Fatherland. We are always going
to ask for a Kheinlaender in future. About mid-
night, all went upstairs, where, in various rooms
and verandahs, large tables and small, sufficient to
seat all the ladies at once, were laid out with a
splendid supper. After tnat, it seemed quite easy
to keep the ball up to six in the morning. Music
was nlaved faster than at usual balls, but the
selection of tunes was excellent. The ladles bore
their characters well, and some were exceedingly
pretty. Mrs Von der Heyde was an Elizabethan
court lady; Mrs. Spencer, Catherine of Arragon,
and her handsome daughter took the part of the
cruel beauty, Lucretia Borgia Madame Marius
was splendidly suited by a tancy dress of the Wat-
teau kind, and her vivacity showed how she en-
joyed the scene. Miss Marie St. Clair wore a sump-
tuous costume with a green satin court train, and
white wig, as the Grand Duchess of Gerplstem; and
Miss St. Clair made an enchanting Skipping Girl. A
cnaraoter showing originality was that of the
White Cat, taken by Miss Groth—all white satin
trimmed with fur, and a white fur head; around
her neck was a rod collar bearing the peculiar
wtirdiDiir! Touch not tho cst but with lu©
glove,” the motto of tbo clan Chattan, and
which was very suggestive of the scratching
propensities of—say, cat?. It is not every girl
who would be so frank in warning her admirers.
Miss Groth, number two, wore a military costume
that looked like Claudine, and which served to
s iow how nicely she could dance. Miss Sohroeder
made a dual appearance, first as a Tyrolese pea-
sant, and afterwards as Little Nell. Miss Boeke-
mann wore an exceedingly pretty velvet dress as
Minerva, the goddess of hunting, with bows and
arrows, and looked very symmetrical. A little
German sailor lass in white and navy blue was a
unarming dancer , and so was Ked Riding Hood.
One of the most admired was Miss Young s dress
as a Grecian Girl, white drapery in classic
folds Mrs. Blackman was artistically dressed
as Kegan in “King Lear.” An evening dress
that was perfectly beautiful was an otto-
man broche of most delicate pink, and lovely
lace skirt in small Bounces to match. It
was called the best in the ropm; though a pure
white satin trimmed with white jet and swans-
down, and worn by Mrs. Hurst with a white wig,
was also a splendid dress. Miss Lenartz was a
fascinating Flower Girl in ethereal white, with a
gem of a hat; and Mrs. Ezold a capital peasant
from Calabria, or somewhere. Mrs. Hamburger
wore a jockey’s attire, old gold skirt and black
sitin bodice, combination jockey cap. lo return
a moment to the gentlemen: one wore a continental
looking costume, with a hat labelled: Debra of
Luxembourg.” It may seem very ignorant of us
not to know who Debra of Luxembourg is, but
we don’t; we only know he was there because it
was advertised on nis hat. Mr. Hamburger, too,
as a French Jockey was good, as was another
loekey in scarlet silk. Mr. Kiess wore a peculiar
costume of coloured wool-work upon wmte canvas
foundation; and Mr. Blackman personated Figaro.
Among the guests were Captain PJuddemann, and
other German officers of the Albatross. Mr.
Boekemann was Cards, being covered with them.
There is no doubt that the Deutscher Clnb’s
masquerade stands out as one of the most unique
and pleasant balls of the season.
• * *
Complimentary performances are gener-
ally noDular, and the Balmain Dramatic Amateurs
h id a crowded audience at their quarterly enter-
tainment on Friday, when Taylors comedy of
“Still Waters run Deep" was given. Additional
interest was thrown over the performance by the
d&but of a well-known young lady from North
Shore in the field of drama. Many ladies, in view
°dance following, donned full dress, and the
affair went satisraetorily »U through except for
the stupid “guying" indulged in by some noisy
bnvs in the gallery, to whom manners are as yet
only a thing of the future. The parts of Mrs
Sternhold aud Mrs, Miidmay were taken by M ss
Berthr Phillips and Miss E. Granville, respectively,
with careful intelligence, and Oapt. Hawksley was
acted hy Mr. Walter Perdriau. Mr. Frank Smith
was John Mildraay. Mo9t of the applause was
earned, and fairly, by Messrs. Alf. Perry and Frank
Jones as Mr. Potter and Dunbilk. Mr. C- Hobson’s
string band enlivened the evening with musical
pieoes until half-past 10, and Mr. W. Walker acted
as stage manager. After that hour, seats were
moved, and a large proportion of the company
stayed and danced in the School of Arts till one
o’clock had gone, and with refreshments and
choice partners, an excellent three hours’ party
was enjoyed.
* * *
It was an elysian day; a day when the air
is radiant and the breeze vital, and the wavelets
danoe and dazzle under the sun; when a mantle
of glory has fallen on the earth and sea; when the
spirit is buoyant, and the eye grows bright, and
the heart keeps young. It was a day like this that
the M.R.C. had for the opening of their club-house
and cottage residence at Blandsville. There must
have been nearly 800 people on board the Alathea .
and Defiance as they steamed away from Circular
Quay and up the sparkling river soon after two.
There was everything to make the trip pleasant-
mutual acquaintance, for most of the guests had
either been before to the club’s regattas or balls,
or were going; to its annual on the 3rd July; the
soft music of a string band merged with the buzz
of the talking crowd; and on each side were the
racing boats of the various clubs, with their uni-
formed crews, who started in procession and
accompanied the two steamers to the afternoon’s
destination. One sex puffed its inevitable cigar-
ette, and the other sex was charmingly well
dressed—and that filled them with a feeling of
perfect peace. If we do not describe the pretty
toilettes that caused this holy calm to pervade the
female bosom, it is because there were too many
of them. We dare not start on such a list. But to
the sex collectively, who went up the sparkling
river on Saturday, we offer three demure little
stanzas :
There. That saves us from describing how Miss
Smythe wore a crushed cranberry dolman, and
Miss Browne took well in sky-blue. rßlandsville
was reached soon, and on debarking, the company
passed through the boathouse and up the hill to
i;he cottage, from the verandah of which Mr.
Thomas Playfair made a speech, which we didn’t
hear. Tea and coffee were served round to the
ladies, though the resources were severely taxed
to find crockery for so many, and the bracing
journey had given them more than fairy like appe-
tites. Sundry bottles circulated among the rowers
and their friends, and about an hour was spent
strolling about the hillside, which is still in its
primitive state, and in inspecting the buildings.
The chief is a comfortable wooden cottmge, with a
large general room and a large bedroom, furnished
with a spartan disregard of luxury which quite
raised the pity of some of the fair ones who were
gratified by a peep at it. Coloured pictures adorn
the walla. Attached is a kitchen, and a snug cot-
tage at the back is for the caretaker. As the sun
got low, a start was made for Sydney, where all
anded at dusk after a very pleasant afternoon.
* * *
His Excellency the Governor held the
usual Queen’s Birthday levee at Government
House on Saturday last. It is always a function of
the most solemn kind. But the idea of sacrificing
a glorious holiday afternoon to strut for one brief
hour in funereal black, to talk with bated breath
and gloomy visage, was too solemn for manv
people even to think of; hence the attend-
ance of the general public was not large.
Just 135 persons. Those who had the right
of entree were most fortunate, as they could
get away early and go picnicking or some-
thing. Among them were the judges, Ministry,
chief civil officials, ecclesiastics, members of Par-
liament and the learned professions, foreign
consuls, military and naval offioers, &c. Lord
Loftus wore bis court costume and usual courtly
smile. Before 4 o’c'ock the string of carriages
rolled away, the soldiers were relieved from their
irksome guard, and the purlieus of Government
House resumed that quiet peacefulness which is
so seldom disturbed.
• • •
The bachelors of Bathurst issued a large
number of invitations to their annual reunion for
the 27th J une, and about 120 ladies and gentlemen,
among whom were the best people of tne city and
neighbourhood and some Sydney visitors, met on
that night to dance. It was said that a better
assemble of dancers had never been seen together
at Bathurst. The hall was brilliantly lighted and
decorated, and several large coal fires were burn-
ing in the grates, though they were certainly
superfluous after tne first half hour’s dancing. To
the surprise and evident enjoyment of the ladies,
men were in the majority, so no neglected
flowers drooped their heads against the wall;
and the beautiful girls were sought and besieged,
and steered round with all the graceful solicitude
that ought always to be shown to such fairylike
creatures. At the same time, however, when a
weak young man gets hold of an indisputably
heavy fairy, he can only do his best. By courtesy,
the married ladies claim first notice, and they de-
serve more than passing mention. The drees of
Mrs. Spencer, a black, with birds of yellow
plumage perched here and there, had a most
charming effect. The dre6B of Mrs. Monro, a
yellow satin draped with black lace, and
that of Mrs. Jago Smith, a combination in
which pink was the prevailing colour, were both
costumes of great merit. An attorney’s wife, with
a decidedly pretty face, garbed in white satin,
excited much admiration; as did also a widow of
graceful mien, in a toilette of pink. In the chpice
of belle, opinions varied. Miss Kate Lee, in pink,
and Miss Dolly MTntosh, in a costume approach-
ing old gold colour, had the chief claims to that
honour, besides being excellent dancers A fair
maiden in white—it being her first ball—had no-
thing to complain of as to want of partners, all of
whom seemed to be only too anxious to ensure
her the evening’s enjoyment. The ladies from the
Bank were dressed with exquisite taste, and
danced perfectly ; Miss Smith was clad in pale
pink; and Miss M’Phillamy in a white skirt and
satin bodice, heavily ornamented with silver work
and Elizabethan collar, looked regal; Miss Ma-
chattie, in sky-blue, had a host of admirers; and
Miss Rutherford, in white, received adulation.
Programmes were completed in good time, and
the ladies left hoping that the surviving bache-
lors of next year will be as hospitable as those of
this.
* * *
Last Friday’s Social at Tattersall’s Hall,
was a good evening for the gentlemen; as ladies
being more numerous, even the poorest male per-
formers stood a chance. Even the men who always
want so much room, and the Bambini style of
fiutterers, and the men with extensive feet, all
came in for partners. The room was very warm,
and rather full in the round dances. Mr. Hottis
place as hon. sec. has been filled by Mr. F.
Dixon. Dresses were capital, and a lady from
Castiereagh-street was deemed belle in cardinal
broche, with silver band jauntily set in her hair.
An admired dress was blue satin bodice, and
flounced skirt of similar colour, worn by a
brunette. A popular vocalist wore ruby and
pink; while her sister wore a broche with fine
muslin skirt. A lady from Surry Hills was charm-
ing in velvet. A charmingly simple toilette was or
white muslin, relieved by a black; velvet band at
the waist. Music by Mr. O’Connor and assistants,
and break-up before midnight.
• * •
On Friday night, a sooial banquet was
held in the new rooms of the Builders’ and Con-
tractors’ Association, Pitt-street. Moon catered
for the hundred gay and festive housebuilders,
who were headed by Mr. Thomas Birks (President)
in the chair, supported by Messrs. Cameron and
Poole, M.’s P. Tnere was a band to cheer them on
in their attack upon the courses, and voluntary
songs were given by various members. Torning
decorated.
* * *
Mrs. Alphen’s Annual Audit took plaoe
on Wednesday last week, at Bt. John’s School,
Ashfleld, and a well selected programme was
creditably carried out. That part devoted to the
youngsters was interesting, ’'especially were the
piano duets by the smaller pupils. A rather re-
markable reading was given by an Ashfleld
gentleman on “ Black Cats. Oottschalk’s ‘ Home,
Sweet Home,” and “Meditation,” were sweetly
played by a young lady'amateur, whose name was
forgotten on the programme, and several good
songs were given. Most of the audience were
friends of the, pupils, and included many leading
suburban residents. '
* * *
In the Mudgee Telegraph a lady named
Dorothy has been “giving away” her sex in a
manner most awful. It seetps, by what we can
gather from Dorothy’s screed, that about 400 of
the local girls are in training for the belle contest,
which will ocour at the opening railway ball, and
this is how they do it. Consultations are held
before the mirror, when dainty forms pose in
graceful attitudes. Bewildering are the facial
manoeuvres; flrst, the face is wreathed in alluring
smiles, then melts into a touohing look of tender-
ness, next brightens with the glow of pride, and*
fades into the arched glance of coquetry—with a
grand finale of a glistening tear-drop, which starts
from the eyelash, and fails with a splash on the lip
below. That’s the flrst part. Then there’s the
figure, and “ beauty unadorned,” however irresis-
tible in a sylvan grove, doesn’t meet the exigen-
cies of a ball-room. And yet, and this is the worst
of it, Mudgee girls, when unadorned, don’t
score high as regards beauty of figure. So the
modiste has to—-out, really, the subject verges so
on the mysterious borderland which no man dares
invade, tnat Dorothy shocks us, and we have to
skip a few lines to come to the context itself, and
awarding of the prize. Dorothy accuses the Press
generally of shirking its duty in these delicate
matters. Either through incapacity to distinguish
genuineness, the editorial decision is vaguely in-
definite,—or else through a shrinking fear of con-
sequences which has no merit in the eyes of lovely
competitors, the responsibility of a deoision ,is
evaded altogether—and there is no belle at all.
Dorothy suggests a jury be empannelled of six
gentlemen, ages from 20 to 60, and six ladies who
will vary from girlhood to “ old ohina.” Then
shall there be no more fear and trembling in the
soul of the reporter who describes nature and art
—no more uncertainty among the girls—and justice
shall be done to the Belle of the Ball. What a pity
that a woman with a brain like Dorothy’s should bo
at Mudgee—or at large!
• • it
The Narandera ladies’ second, hop of the
season took place on 27th ult., and was a success,
about fifty couples attending. Belle honours were
awarded to Miss Primrose, a new arrival, in ruby
velvet; and Miss Crackenthorp, from Goulburn,
in blue and prune satin. Three young ladies from
Mount Ottiwell, in pink veiling, looked admirably
well, as also did two sisters from Yarrobee Park,
in fawn satin and cashmere. Miss Elworthy, in
blue llama skirt, broche grenadine polonaise, or-
namented with blue feathers and silver ivy-leaves;
Miss Devlin, in lavender ana white satin; Miss
Stinson, in scarlet satin and white cashmere; and
Miss Phillips, in pink and cardinal satin, each
looked well. Miss Bocquet, in all black, with large
fan, was decidedly aesthetic. Foremost among the
married ladies were—Mrs. Willans, in cream and
ruby Mrs. Christy,in pink satin; and Mrs. Bowes,
in white silk toilette. Creditable management by
Mrs. King, and good music by Broadhurst, of
Wagga. * * *
Tamworth had its second Winter Party
freshened by some nice new faces. Among them
was that of the belle, a dark-haired girl, simply
dressedin white and pearls. Her sister looked pretty
in blue nun’s veiling and lace, hair “ done ” high. A
vivacious little lady from Murrurundi was much
admired, and j ustly; and two sisters from A ttunga,
in pale cream and pink, looked charming, as usual.
The graceful dancing of a girl in black, trimmed
with white lace, was especially remarked. A
married lady suited her brunette fascinations with
pale pink muslin. Musio very good, all over at
naif-past two, and everybody seemingly satisfied.
• • *
The Young Australians’! of the G.U.0.0.
held a ball in their new hall, Braidwood, on 26th
June, and about 80 were present. Heart-rending
faces, bewitching smiles, and ensnaring raiment
are said by the young enthusiast who came down
to tell us about it, to have prevailed among the
ladies. The floor was so well spermed that lots of
young people lost their feet as well as their heads;
and one cavalier wrought the success of the even-
ing by shooting two ladies at once across the floor
and under the opposite seats. But Braidwood has
such a cold climate that they excuse a little extra
vigour there. Besides, so long as the young men
are somewhat active, they can't become dudes.
Cards and draughts were for the quiet section of
the guests, and a good supper was for all. Dancing
was kept up till 5, and the belle was like a summer
sky—all white and blue.
• • *
As everyone knows, to-morrow (Friday)
the Americans celebrate their Day of Indepen-
dence by a grand picnic at Botany. The leading
neoDle go to this picnic, and a better place could
not be found for it than the Sir Joseph Banks
pavilion. Carriages start from the American
Studio, George-street (near Hunter-street) at 10
e’eiook forenoon.
• • •
On the night of the 4th July there will be
two American balls—one at the new Masonic Hall,
which will be a very rccliercht affair; and one at
the Exhibition, which will be a masquerade, and,
consequently, rather a novelty. Everyone is ex-
pected to be disguised and to wear a mask. The
visitors can go disguised in anything but liquor.
The committee intend to be most rigid in keeping
it nroper. and the scene from the gallery (for which
spectators’ tickets are advertised at 3a.) will be
worth seeing. „
This night (Thursday) the long-expected
Mercantile Rowing Club ball comes off at the
Exhibition, and there is no doubt that for dancers
it will be the ball of the season. Youth and skill
always characterise most of its patrons. The
nrramrements have been most carefully made to
render the ball equal to what it has always been.
Onlv evening costume will be worn, so that the
fancy dresses can have a rest, and some ot their
ownlrs will have less chance of catching cold. The
Young Australian Band will play; dancing to
atart at 9 Guests are recommended to write their
names plainly on their pregiammes, and then, if
are dropped, they are almost sure to
&veThem returned by some friend, or put in
baskets provided for the purpose.
* * *
The Balmain Rowing Club’s third annual
Rail occurs at ’West’s Rooms on Friday, 11th July,
under the management of Mr. Alfred Perry, who
expects the black and yellow flag to wave over a
scene of particular brilliancy. Plain or fancy,
ladies. # ♦ # *
A fine concert was given a few nights ago
at Gamnbelltown, by amateurs, under the manage-
ment of Miss Woodhouse. This lady sang “ Tit for
Tab” “ (Tot the fields with Patrick,” “ The Miller
(For continuation of Social, aee next page.)
A man may admire, mayn’t he,
Anything natty and neat,
Anything pretty and dainty.
That he may chance to meet ?
There is nothing that’s strange or funny
In enjoyiDg, we should say.
Faces all sweet and sunny
And bright as a halcyon day.
Is it sin that is past forgiving
To gaze upon beauty so ?
Why! a girl’s life isn’t worth living
If she never attracts a beau!
And it seems—at least to our thinking—
That beauty is passing fair
When the sun in her eyes is blinking.
And the wanton wind in her hair;
When a shade from a fall or feather
Is thrown over speaking eyes,
That fool a man altogether,
Be he never so gravely wise;
When beauty—what fashions garb her!
With softly incessant tongue
Is atloat on “ our beautiful harbour,”
On a day when the heart is young.


Disfiguring
Humors, Humiliating Eruptions, Itching Tortures,
Scrofula, Salt Rheum, and Infantile Humors
cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood purifier,
cleanses the blood and perspiration of impurities
and poisonous elements, and thus removes the
cause.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, instantly allays
Itchfig and Inflammation, clears the Skin and
Scalp, heals Ulcers and Sores, and restores the
Hair.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Sunburn, and Greasy
Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure, and
the only infallible Blood Purifiers and Skin Beauti-
flers.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50 cents;
Soap, 35 cents; Resolvent, $l. Potter Drug and
Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
.ALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
(Incorporated under the Imperial Companies Acts
1862 to 1883.)
SHARE CAPITAL, £4,000,000 in 200,000 SHARES
Of £2O EACH.
Of which 46,000 shares have been reserved for sub-
scription in Australasia, the remainder of the share
capital having been subscribed in England.
Loc il registers will be kept in Melbourne and Syd-
ney under the provisions of the Companies (Colo-
nial Registers) Act 1883.
10s. per share is payable on application,
10s. per share is payable on allotment.
£2 Os. per share is payable on Ist August.
£2 os. per share is payable on Ist December.
£5 os.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Pascoe C. Glyn, 67 Lombard-street
Charles Churchill, Esq., 20 Clement’s-lane.
W. \V. Phipps, Esq., 19 Billlter-street.
Robert Landale, Esq , of Denlliquin, N.S.W.
I*. G. Dalgety. Esq.
If. A. Du Croz, Esq.
E. T. Doxat, Esq.
H. W. D. Saunders, Esq.
Sir J. Du Croz, Esq.
Dalgety, Du Croz, and
Co., London.
With power to add to their number.
IN MELBOURNE.
Managing Directors:
Arthur Ranken Blackwood, and
James Aitken.
Beard of Advice:
Charles Myles Officer, M.L.A.
Thomas Armstrong-, of Noorong, N.S.W.
IN SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Frederick Henry Moore, and
Thomas Forster Knox.
Board of Advice:
Hon. John Lackey, M.L.A.
George Campbell, M.L.A.,
AGENCIES in NEW ZEALAND.
Dunedin—Edwin J. Spence.
Christchurch—Hon. Edmund Parker.
BANKERS.
London—Glyn, Mills, Currie, and Co., 67 Lom-
bard-street, E.C.
In the Colonies—Union Bank of Australia,
Limited.
SOLICITORS (in Melbourne):
Messrs. Blake and RiggaU.
Messrs. A. R. Blackwood, of Melbourne, and F.
H. Moore, of Sydney, are authorised to receive
applications for the above 46,000 shares upon the
terms of subscription above stated.
The company has been formed for the purpose
of bringing under the operation ef the Limited
Liability Acts the important businesses which have
for many years been carried on in partnership
by the firms of Dalgety, Du Croz, and Co., in Lon-
don; Dalgety, Blackwood, and Co.; Dalgety,
Ibbotson, and Co.; Dalgety and Company, in Mel-
bourne, Geelong, Sydney, and Newcastle, in Aus-
tralia, and in New Zealand, and of giving to them
a corporate character affording facilities which
are more readily obtainable by a joint-stock under-
taking than in private partnerships.
The management of the company, whose opera-
tions will oomprise commission, agenoy, advance,
financial, and commercial business, is vested in the
board of directors, which includes the partners of
the London firm of Dalgety, Du Croz, and Co. The
articles of association, however, provide that those
directors who are members of the vendors’ firms
shall, as regards the company, take no part or vote
in any matter connected with or arising out of the
contract of the 30th of April, 1884, Hereinafter
mentioned; but the subscribers will be held to
have approved the appointment of those gentle-
men as directors. The board will be represented
in the colonies by the gentlemen who have hither-
to represented the firms of Dalgety, Blackwood,
and Co., Dalgety, Ibbotson, and Co., and Dalgety
and Company.
The extent of the consignments of wool to
Dalgety, Du Croz, and Co. during the last three
years, and their proportion of those of the two
prominent agency companies of Australasia, as
well as to the total import, are shown by the fol-
lowing table:—
The present position of the above two oom-
panles being as under:—
The terms of transfer to the company as from Ist
July. 1884, of the businesses above mentioned as
going concerns are—l«t, the payment, on or be-
fore the Ist December, 1884, of the amounts
standing in the books of the partnership to the
credit of the several vendors; 2nd, the payment for
the goodwill, in £120,000 4J4 per cent, irredeemable
debenture stock; 3rd, the purchase by the com-
pany at a valuation (not to exceed £60,000) of the
freehold business premises in Melbourne, Christ-
churoh, and Dunedin, as also the leasehold pre-
mises and wharf in Sydney and Newcastle, to-
gether with th« plant which at the date of the
transfer may belong to the vendors. A right is
reserved to the directors (other than those who
are members of the vendors’ firm) to elect, at any
time during one year, whether any of the ac-
counts taken over by the company on Ist July
shall be liquidated on behalf and at the risk of the
vendors; as guarantee, the company will mean-
while retain the £120,000 debenture stock.
The price fixed as payment for goodwill is, in
the opinion of the directors (other than those
directors who are members of the vendors’ firm),
a very moderate sum, having regard to the profits
realised by the vendors during recent years.
A contract (above referred to, embodying the
terms of transfer), dated 30th of April, 1884, has
been entered into with Messrs. Dalgety, Du Croz,
and Co., Dalgety, Blackwood, and Co., Dalgety,
Ibbotson, and Co., and Dalgety and Company, for
the transfer of their businesses to the company in
consideration of the payment by the company of
the sums of money previously mentioned, and
provides amongst other things that Messi-s. Dal-
Sety, F. A. Du Croz, Doxat, Saunders, and S. J. Du
roz, who are interested as vendors, shall become
directors of the company. The parties to this
oontract are Frederick Gonnerman Dalgety, Fred-
erick Augustus Du Croz, Edmund Theodore Doxat,
Henry Wilson Domain Saunders, Septimus John-
son Du Croz, Arthur Ranken Blackwood, Alfred
Charles Ibbotson, James Aitken, Frederick Henry
Moore, and Thomas Forster Knox, of the one
part, and Dalgety and Company Limited, of the
other part. This contract is scheduled to the
Articles of Association, and has been executed by
the board in accordance with the provisions of
those articles. A copy of this contract, as also the
Memorandum and Articles of Association, can be
inspected on application to Messrs. Blake and
Riggall, solicitors, 24 William-street, Melbourne;
but, inasmuch as the company take over the busi-
nesses as going concerns, subscribers will waive the
specification in this prospectus (as required by
section 38 of The Companies Act 1867) of the dates
of, and names of parties to, all other contracts
entered into.
Applications for shares must be made on the ap-
pended form, and lodged, with the deposit of 10a.
per share, at the banking-house of the Union Bank
of Australia, Limited, in Melbourne or Sydney.
Where no allotment is made, the deposit will be
returned, and if a smaller amount of shares than
applied for is allotted, the balance of deposit will
go towards the amount due on allotment.
Failure by alottees in payment at due rates of
the amounts specified in this prospectus, will
render the deposit liable to forfeiture, and the
allotment to cancellation.
Prospectuses and forms of application can be
obtained from the Union Bank of Australia,
Limited, Melbourne and Sydney, or at the offioes
of Messrs. Dalgety, Blackwood, and Co., in those
places.
The subscription will be opened on Monday, the
23rd June instant, and closed on or before Satur-
day, the 12th July next.
June 14, 1884.
LOCH-DHU V.O. Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
0 F A 1 Sported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALb at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALB, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide:
IV. H. MCLELLAND & COMPANYS
PERIODICAL
STOCK-TAKING SALE
COSTUMES, MILLINERY, EIDER-DOWN QUILTS,
MANTLES, HOSIERY, BLANKETS.
DRESSES, GLOVES, UNDERCLOTHING,
And every article in our establishment, AT LESSENED PRICES, is now taking place
||gp We are determined to dispose of our entire stock, if possible,
hence the Prices are Ridiculously Low,
94 King* Street,
BETWEEN GEORGE AND PITT STREETS.
Take the Tram to top of King Street.
CALL AND INSPECT, OR SEND EOR CATALOGUE.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
ZBriclstleld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residing In the country ean have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it Olit, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers,
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS !
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
tmd the Maid;” and She, as welt as Misses Maclean
and Young, was encored. Ms. 8. A. Davis was
wood in comic songs; and little Miss Ring, from
Parramatta, proved a clever young player. Messrs.
Booth, K. L, Samuel, Farmer, and others, also
helped. Last week, one of the best balls held in
tdelong, was given by the St. Clair Masonic Lodge,
G.i after the installation as R.W.M, of Brother
tphie —The Glebe Rowing Club polka is a little
composition of Miss Josie L. Bull, of the Glebe,
published by Elvy. It is neatly printed, with a
coloured title-page dedicating it to the club, whose
members are sure to appreciate the compliment....
At Greta, a concert was held at Harman's Hall,
when one gentleman proved himself a-Bell by
Binging nearly half the programme; and the vocali-
fitioa of two nice sisters of the numerous Doyle
Mnily was doyliclous. And Miss Lottie Brown
Was so charming that the Greta people want to
Greta again... ,'ihe chief circumstances that ren-
dered a recent entertainment at West Maitland
School of Arts interesting, were, that Dr. Ellis
Sang that beautiful hymn, Sally in our Alley,” to
ils own accompaniment; and that the hall piano
wa» but of tune—Miss Bertha Stuart, of Surry
Hills, having caught fire, rushed into the arms of a
young man, James Heather. He did not Heat-her
any more, but at once put her out. Not oat of his
arms, but put the Are out, we mean, and Bertha
wasn t hurt at all. All the Surry Hills’ girls are now
waiting to catch Are, and be put out like that—
Coolah saw an interesting wedding in June—Mr.
W. Gilmore to Miss Goddard, of the Royal Hotel.
Two sisters of each made a quartette of pretty
bridesmaids, and the church was crowded, not-
withstanding heavy rain. Wedding breakfast at
the Royal, and a ball in the Town Hall till daylight.
....There will be a big railway ball at the Mudgee
opening. ..Birmingham men intend to form a
social club in Bydney. F. Bagnall, bon. sec....
Correy, of Botany, who is shortly leaving for his
pew place at Cabramatta Point, was silver-serviced
last week by the tearful friends he is leaving
behind. He will be entertained soon at a compli-
mentary picnic First Forbes Winter Party a
tew days ago, in Vandenburg’s Rooms Hanlan
W»s present at the Brisbane Cricket Association
annual ball, and he promised to bo back in Sydney
and attend the 4th July ball Newcastle Rowing
Club’s annual ball was held in Protestant Hall last
Thursday, with a fair attendance—Meeting at
four o’clock to-day, at the Royal Hotel, to inaugu-
rate St. Vincont'B ball ...Mrs. Martin and ladies
give a complimentary goirie to Mr. Whayman, in
her Academy, Pitt-street, next Thursday, the 10th.
Sir Walter Scott Club formed in connection
with the Highland Society at Parramatta— A verv
pleasant social last Wednesday marked Arst anni-
versary of the Glebe M.I. Association ; bagatelle,
chess and draughts, batteries, pictures, refresh-
ments, and musio helped to pass the evening A
bazaar, in aid of the Sydney Lyceum was opened
on Saturday in West’s rooms. No lucky bags,
raffles, or art unions; as such things are promo-
tive of the gambling spirit, the naughty Free-
thinkers leave them to their good friends the
church-goers. Stalls were prettily arranged, and
music, &c , enlivened the evenings. A fancy dress
dance was to close the jubilee last night —Last
week, Goulburn Masons frolicked at their annual
ball. Emblems of peace, In the shape of Masonic
slgnsjand banners, were round the walla: which
were also lined with a livinar dado of lovely girls,
numbering nearly a hundred. They are some-
times emblems of peace, not always. No bold out-
sider took the bellesbip out of town, this time.
There was good music for 24 dances, and then home
through the raw air ...That sauve young orator,
R. A. Price, was presented with a handsome gold
watch by members of the School of Arts Debating
Club, for bis services as honorary secretary. Mr.
Price has a rich voice, and can use it easier than
not Albury bachelors gave a ball on the 20th
June, at the Mechanics’ Institute. About 50
couples were present, some from long distances
round, and dresses were as pretentious as the long
list of “stewards.” Grand for Albury!
On the 25th June the Normanby Bicycle and
Tricycle ball was held at Melbourne, with great
success To-morrow night the Carlton Bicyclists
celebrate their second annual jubilee by a ball—
A social club in Melbourne is called the Mutual
Imps. They have Ave rooms of their own, meet
weekly, try to promote art, music and literature,
and dumber many actors in the ranks. Every
week one afternoon performance is given, at
whioh ladies are present The proprietors of a
very large hotel at Omaha (America) tried the ex-
periment of mounting their waiters on roller-
skates. The waiters went up and down the room
very smartly. But they went down oftenest.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition) July 3.
American Ball (New Masonic Hall) July 4.
American Picnic (Botany) .July 4.
American Masquerrde Ball (Exhibition) July 4.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) July 11.
Balmaiu R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Room si.. July 11.
Sydney Thistle Club’s Annual Ball (New
Masonic Hall) July IS.
Petersham Social July 38.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....July 18.
Social of Fidelity Lodge, E.C. (Old Masonic
Hall) July 22.
Sydney Bicycle Club Annual Sports August 2.
Buffalo Ball, N.S.W.C. (West’s Rooms)....August 5.


The Singer Manufacturing Co.'s New Premises, 245 Pitt-atreet, Sydney .—(See page 7.)


Hie Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es-
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induoe suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expeoting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.
Invalids should drink Hocking’s aged
High-class Wines, Nature’s Stimulant. Offioe,l43
Pitt-street.*
WeakNemsMen
4
t r
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure t<« perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
1 Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. Thi3 treatment of
Nervous Debility and
. ■ .Physical .Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52 Castleroagh St., Sydney
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO/S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
pr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shruDk, and a perfect lit
guatanteed.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
LES.
SOLE AGENTS;
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDEERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
IST UN EQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
IW" LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
-
I*-’ |-4r*
■
'/////////////////////:V/A
’UIZV//
*=
*2
m
m
// /////'V777////////,'/
.. - —-
SIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. VW° SMOOTHNESS AND NOIBELESSNEB3 OF MOTION. J&r FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtaioed ct
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Hedfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
IBBS, BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRIBBANE, ind DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. O Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engine*,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Croitrey Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow. M .tachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Giover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrursedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The QtrrKsilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fcis an.' I'ompany, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. P.v and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cr.'.f f Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, fcc.
De Wend*. 1 and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel F encing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wam.-Scott and Mullaly, T. AUsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros*
iudera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
Sooth Australia.—w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H-. Hincks.
| ar~ INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignment*
Of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
TO THE MEMBER FOR “MUMM."
‘ Mr. Henry M'Quade, the worthy representative of
the Hawkesbury district, intends to have the approach-
ing meeting on Fairfield Estate a grand success, if
labour and expense will add to its attractiveness.”
E know, dear Harry, you are dumb ;
All eye-glass, silence, and the rest;
But we’re not sure, though it sounds
rum,
That your kind don’t get on the best.
You never say a blessed word—
You cause no legislative “ hush!”
Your fate, it ever has occurred.
Has been to entertain the “ push.”
What your opinions are, God knows!
You legislate on food an i drinks—
Or so they say—and seem to pose
A kind of legislative Sphinx.
Howe’er you do your local work,
A mystery’s to us, indeed!
Your mouth but opens for a fork,
Your eloquence but tails a feed.
We’d like to know your little views -
Come, out with them! don’t be afiaid.
We’re sick of reading in the News
“Ke3pondedto by H. M‘Quade.”
Do Bomet/iD?O-thunder!— or we’ll die!
Do what your noble confreres do:
Come, “ hif ” a Member in the eye,
y.Or fall down stairs a time or two!
The enmity of all arouse—
Yes! sneers at some pure lady poke;
Then come next day down to the House
And say it was your “little joke.”
Be quick! Do something of this kind,
Or else, “ sweet Hal,” we tell you true,
Your country will, and just you mind,
Have lost its confidence in you.
Enough for Wisdom—or, we see.
If more into this theme we wade,
We’ll not, to all eternity,
Be “entertained by H. M’Quade.”
80, down our dictum be it laid,
We say it with the hunaryrest:
That Members like the great M’Quade
Do really seem to get on best.
His praises, therefore, let us ring!
To blazes with this doggrel strain!
Please, pass along the “liver wing,”
And just a gliss of dry champagne.
This is such a sceptical age that people are
positively deriding the pretty custom of deposit-
ing a set of current coins beneath the foundation
stone of any great public edifice. Thirty-eight
years ago, the stone of Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne,
was laid, and in a small hole drilled therein, was
placed a bottle, carefully sealed, containing a
document and the usual bits of money. Now that
the bridge is being demolished, the contractors
have turned up the foundation-stone, the bottle,
and the parchment—but, alas 1 no money. A
little Yarra waler had found its way into the
bottle, and the seal had been tampered with. With-
out any reflection upon the integrity of the pri-
meval Port Phillip labourer, we are bound to
admit that, although a few drops of Yarra—un-
sweetened— might dissolve any quantity of coins
in the course of thirty-eight years, still the action
of the water could hardly be expected to change a
seal. All things considered, it would be far more
practical to distribute foundation cains among the
workmen than to go through the ridiculous cere-
mony of burying them. It only puts someone to
the trouble of digging ’em up again.
On Palm Sunday last, the Pope reoeived
the customary 120 palm-tree branches from the
Brcsca family, of San Kemo, of which Monsignor
Breica is to-day the head. The right to present
these branches was granted the Brescas in 1586. In
that year, on the luth September, the granite
obelisk which now stands in St. Peter’s Square was
bring raised by 140 horses, 35 machines, and over
1000 men. SileDce was preserved bv the presence of
the hangman, who, by order of Pope Sextus, was
ready to hang anyone who disturbed the perform-
ance. The monolith of the oi l circus of Caligula
wrs nearly erect, when the caaflng of ropes began
to give way. A powerful voice shouted, “ Acqua
a’lecorne," or ‘ Water to thoropesl” The archi-
tect caught the idea and complied with the sug-
gestion. The obelisk triumphantly rose on the
pedestal. The trespasser, one Bresct, however,
was arrested. “ Why did you disobey ?” asked the
Pope. “Because I would rather die myself than
see hundreds killed by the fall of the monolith."
“Well done!” replied the Pope: “what can i do
for you?” Bresca requested the Pooe to grant
him and his successors the privilege of supplying
palms to the Church of St. Peter for Palm Sunday,
and obtained the favour.
The Melbourne Herald has made an an-
nouncement which will throw every Australian
heart into a warm glow. It announces that copies
oi the Herald are to be despatched to "Our
Boys,” at their request, in order that they may
show the ignorant Britons the perfection to which
an evening newspaper can he brought. “They
state,” says the bashful little journal, “that there
is no evening paper in the ol i country that gives
tho news, both general and sporting, so promptly
and fully as the Herald does, and that people
seem doubtful when they tell them what this
journal does ” However, it's satisfactory to kpow
that “ copies have been sent by the mail,” so that,
in a few brief weeks our cricketers will be able to
favour English friends with extrrctsof "general
news” (the latest witticisms of the great Purves,
spicy pars, on the Social Evil, and other thrilling
items) from the Melbourne Herald then they
will no longer be “doubtful.” What effect this
will have on the circulation of such obscure
organs as tho London Evening Standard or the
Globe it is hard to siy, but we gues3 it will set the
proprietors moving. Anyway, our Melbourne
contemporary is only carrying out the mission of
every Herald— to take a trumpet and “ blow.”
Pacific Commission Des Voeux enacts, in a
regulation much longer than one’s arm, that any
British subject who shall vive, sell, barter, ex-
change, traffic, or otherwise supply, or aid, help,
assist, or otherwise lend a hand in supplying, fur-
nlshiog, or otherwise providing any native, nigger,
darkie,aboriginal, or other autochthones with arm s,
firearms, guns, cannons, pistols, or other shooting
tools, implements, instruments, or other weapons,
or with gunpowder, nitroglycerine, dynamite, gun-
cotton, blasting-powder, or any other substance
manufactured, made, fixed up, or otherwise in any
way concocted to produce a practical effect by ex-
plosion, shall, on conviction thereof, be liable to
punishment as follows: 1. Imprisonment for any
term not exceeding three months, with or without
hard labour, and with or without a fine not ex-
ceeding £lO. 2. A fine alone, not exceeding £lO,
without any imprisonment. After the prolix ver-
bosity of the clauses of prohibition, the penalty
should at least have been: 1. Death; 3. Imprison-
ment for life, in irons. To enact, proclaim, rule,
order, or otherwise declare an imperial resolution
forbidding the Britisher t > sell firearms or powder
to a Polynesian, under a £lO penalty, is tantamount
to using a 10 ton Armstrong to pot a cook-sparrow.
The thriving little township of Dalton
(wherever the fallen angel that is) has had
quite a lively time of it of late; so mueh so,
iu fact, that a young man with more time than
brains at his command, has written quite a nice
little letter to the Nooze about the frolics. The
principal item seems to be the fact that a travel-
ling tinker paid Dalton a visit, a few days ago, and
liked the place so well that he filled up his tank
With stringy, and in a few hours filled the town
with all the excitement requisite for a polling day,
and enough tinker’s dams to keep the district in
water until 1899. After this, he proceeded to
swallow the senior-constable raw, and would have
succeeded, no doubt, but for the timely assistance
of some townsmen, who tied a lamp-post across
the constable's spine, and thus prevented his total
disappearance. Apropos of the tinker episode, the
Dalton scribe draws attention to the urgent need
which exists for the immediate erection of a large
and substantial lock-up, and then, almost in the
same breath, observes: “ We have a lodge of Good
Templars here. Surely this is a matter which
ought to secure their active co-operation.” This
1« certainly the first time we ever hea'd that the
existence of a Good Templars’ lodge in a town
necessitated the erection of a lock-up; but we live
and learn. At least, some of us do, and the rest
of us write for the daily papers.
• We are fond of curious “ads.,” and during
a decade we have vainly endeavoured to solve the
mystery of the famous •* agony ” item which
appealed, off and on, for five years in the Times.
and wMch ran: “ Gobslight is melting, Snails.
Give the raboon a biscuit.” Here, now, is one
from the Herald calculated to make a man enjoy
himself even on a wet Sunday, with a serious
family singing hymns next door Wanted, a
Gentleman in the truest sense, to wait on families,
soliciting orders for groceries, bread, &c &c.; must
be a teetotaller, and highly recommended. Apply,”
&e. Well, we know that ‘gentleman in the truest
sonse ” was procured, too; for he called on us the
other day. Appalled by the sheen of his bell-
topper, the Biloelau butler incautiously allowed
him to pass; and by the time we could hurry on
a coat and shuffle down-stairs, we detected
sounds as of a practised hand manipulating the
keys (warranted ivory) of the time-payment Bord.
We paused outside the pariour-do >r (guaranteed
solid cedar by a perjured landlord), and presently
a pure tenor voice warbled the following:—
From the land of the almond-eyed,
Where the sampans fleck the sea
In a golden argosy,
Comes our eighteen-penny tea!
Here he beoame much affected. By-and-bye,
heaving a deep sigh, he continued:—
We have hearts that feel for others,
We hold selfishness a sin,
For the poor and for the lowly
Salmon, seven-pence a tinl
In a lilac scented arbour
There may be a fair maid found,
Lo! she picks our sugar, which is
Three-pence half-penny the pou^d!
Here we entered; but with his hand he waved us
off, and continued:—
A gentleman will take the orders—
What is it, now—please, quick decide!
Though I’m handsome and accomplished,
About me there’s no beastly pride.
Then he swung himself round on the music-stool
(alleged walnut), and gracefully waving his hand,
said: “How’do? Doing a little tum-ti-turn, you
see. I come of a musical family. My father—”
“Is dead,” we said, hastily; yes-saw it in the
papers. Your name is ” “Ohalker, sir; and ”
“And,” we hazarded, “ pray what are you ?” He
rose to his feet, drew himself up to his lull height,
and smiting himself on the breast, exclaimed,
•• lam a gentleman in the truest sense.” Then we
fell upon him, and beat him. and crushed in his
hat, and plucked out his “dicky” by the roots.
But, all the time we assaulted him with intent to
do grievous bojily harm, he spoke never a word.
It was only when we had hoisted him over the gate,
and he had fallen with a thud on the side-walk,
that he looked reproachfully up, and said, “Nice
treatment, this, to one who is a gentleman in the
truest sense ” Then he rose with difficulty, and
adjusting his attire to the best of his ability, the
gentleman in the truest sense put his card-board
box of samples under bis arm, and walked round
the corner to inquire of tho butcher if he knew of
a family in the neighbourhood whose tast' S assimi-
lated with tho lesthetic and the musical, and the
boss of which invariably received his visitors in
carpet slippers.


Robust and blooming health in Hop
them’Bead D ° famlly cau afford to be without
( Wells’ “ Sough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
on Corns.’ Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions, Moses,
Ktoss & Cq„ Sydney, General Agents,
As a humouri9tlof the grim description, the
prophet Job took the pastry from ad comers
during the patriarchal ages, and the Lamentations
of old Jeremiah prove that he was no slouch oi a
Joker either, but, in our humble opiuioD, there's
more of the real article even i n a bad “ fotoe ” of
Mr. Official Assignee Stephens than there was in
all the anoient Biblical Joe Millers jammed to-
gether. Here’s a sample of one of his very latest
screams. A certain well-known firm in Young,
who had proved in the estate of W. H. Funnell to
the tune of £7 13s. 7d. some time since, received a
letter from Mr. Stephens, 0.A., conveying the joy-
ful Intelligence that a dividend in the said estate
was then available for all those who thought lit to
claim it. The Young merchants were of course
delighted, and after remarking to each other tuat
A few days ago, there landed
upon our shores, a gentleman,
so rumour states, of high cul-
ture, who, bursting with a
desire for information, has
come to Sydney to extend his
knowledge of men and things.
[ Hastening past a certain corner of Circular Quay, of sur-
passing fragrance, he strolled thoughtfully up Pitt-
street, and was heard to murmur, softly, “ Ourbe-utiful
harbour.”
Arriving at the Post Office, he paused. “Ha!” heremarked, “here
we have some sculpture, no doubt, of a high order of merit,”
Adjusting his glasses, he gazed upon these godlike production’s,
when suddeuly he became deadly pale, and as the space between
his head and the pavement was becoming rapidly less,
He was tenderly supported by a diligent mem-
ber of the force (who had wandered off his
beat to avoid the impiety of being mixed up
in a free light which was going on round the
corner), and was gently led by the “scruff
of the neck ” to the nearest police station.
“Drunk and incapable, yer ‘wushup,’ ’’ said
the diligent member in answer to the magis-
trate’s question, next morning, respecting
his charge. After being fined, reprimanded,
insulted, and told to go and hear Mr. Booth’s
leotures, he found himself once more free.
He determined at once to leave Sydney. As
he wended his way sorrowfully towards the
wharf,
He saw a large crowd gathered round a statue.
“These hontst men,” he mused, “must be en-
dowed with a very strong perception for the beau-
tiful in art. See how lovingly they linger round,
and gaze lost in admiration, upon the symmetrical
form of this statue, their tnoughts, no doubt,
soaring far above such earthly tniugs as Nature’s
wants. To whisper bread and cheese to these
high souled beings, would, undoubtedly, bring
down upon the head of the .”
And it did, too!
Having negociated au exchange of his guinea umbrella for a
two and sixpenny cratch, ana got a “shplendid bargainsh,” as
the gentleman who obliged him observed, he limped slowly on
his way. Passing the Pitt-street end of the Post Office with
closed eyes, he entered the colonnade, to apply for his letters.
Fortunately, he had brought his lunch with
biro, so he was enabled to carop outside suffici-
ently loug to obtain au answer. As the shades
of evening stole gently down, the gentleman
inside deigned to notice him, and even con-
descended to tell him that there were no
letters for him,
As he paced the deck of the steamer, just
leaving for the other side of the world, he
said to himself, “Am I wiser than when I
left home?’’ and, anyone gazing upon him
would have seen wisdom stamped upon his
countenance.
Colonial Exporience.
the days of honour and chivalry had returned, a
thankful letter was forwarded and the partners.
In recommending their fellowmen to the special
protection of Providence in their prayers that
night, made speeial mention of the glorious name
of Stephens. Right here was the time for the
Senius of the Insolvency Court to boom, and boom
did In the shape of t >e following prize epistle:—
“Estate W.!H. Funnell. Gentlemen, Enclosed, I
send you a Id. stamp, being the amount of your
dividend in the above estate, for which please ac-
knowledge receipt. Yours faithfully, E. M.
Stephens, official assign* e.” Wasn't it lovely, and
another triumpn to the noble army of red-tape !
Apart from the reckless extravagance in
stationery, and the loss of valuable time, it cost
the official assignee a 3d. stamp to notify that Id.
wgf payable; 3d. to the creditor so apply for it,
ed, to the estate to send it, and as a fitting climax
to the whole, the receivers were humorously
asked to expend another 2d. In acknowledging the
roceipt of Id. This is honesty with a vengeance,
and no wonder that the prayerful firm interested
subsequently hired a civilised Chinaman for a
week to curse the whole of the Insolvency Court
back as far as the 47th generation.
A few days ago, Mr. Trickett, in answer to
a conundrum from Mr. Burdekin touching the
payment of school teachers for the cleaning* of
schools, observed that he could only distribute the
money as iat* as it would go, and he was not pre-
pared to say whether he would reconsider the
adjustment. Respecting this delicate matter, we
have a tew words to sav. Imprimis, we are in re-
ceipt of a circular signed by a party by the
name of Johnson, and from this circular we
learn that the allowance made for school cleansing
expenses runs as follows:—For a lirst-class school,
three departments, 14s. a week; second, three
ditto, 11s.; third, three ditto, 95.; fourth, two
ditto, OS. 6d.; fifth, 45.; sixth, 35.; seventh, eighth,
ninth, and tenth, Is. Furthermore, we find that
“ the above allowances are the maximum amounts,
and only the sums actually paid for cleaning
should be charged.” Or, in other words, It the
teacher of a seventh-class school can manage to
get a highly respectable, well-educated young per-
son to swab out the said school, wash the windows,
and tidy up the yard for 114 d a that teacher
has no right to charge Is. to the Government, and
Hash about in oostly garments and give fancy
dress balls, and keep 3.30 trotters and expensive
buggies on the strength of all be makes over the
sums actually paid to the cleaner, This is good,
and it betrays a jealous waltohfulness over the
public money whiob would be praiseworthy in the
extreme were it not equally ridiculous. Neither
the Minister for Education nor Heaven ever de-
signed that the teacher of a seventh-class school
should become a Vanderbilt or Rothschild in less
than five years; and, therefore, in the name of the
whole colony of New South Wales, we now beg
leave to tender a big vote of thanks to our econo-
mical Minister, and, when that’s through, we'll
throw a little one in for the party by the name of
Johnson. This, however, is notall the joy, fora
foot-note to the circular states a retrospective
policy will be adopted in the ease of the noble
army of cleaners, and all teachers who have
already been paid from Ist January last in accord-
ance with a higher scale than that given above,
the sums overpaid will be deducted from the
amounts that would to payable to them by the
now scale. Not a single chance by whijh an
avariciously-inclined teacher couid amass a for-
tune is given, but the unfortunate pedagogue is
so hemmed in by the rules and regulations issued
that in some cases ho would save money by paying
ail expenses out of bis own pocket, and making
the State a present of his salary. This much we
learn from the circular. Now we’ll take “a hand”
ourselves. First of all, it is distinctly pointed out
that the teacher in charge of a school is held re-
sponsible for its sanitary condition. Therefore, if
l he man who has Sophocles and Cicero “ by heart,”
who can tie up one leg and dance rings round old
Bishop Colenso's ghost in the intr oate mazes of
algebra, and who has forgotten more about the
English language than Lindley Murray ever kn«»
if this man, with his mighty brain andcultmSf
mind cannot find a dead-beat about his dfirtS
who is willing to earn a stray “bob” or so in
way of “chars,” he must put his gigantic inSi
lect down a hole for a time, and start Sushfng
things for the princely sum of 2d. a day, and flnl
his own brooms and buckets! The scoools of thi
colony were cleaned by their teachers for «m 2
years without any extra fee for doing so. Mr V»l y
Minister Reid procured the present teachers a
small allowance for a continuance of the wn.u
which, if the country was unable to pay. nffi
have been withdrawn, but to offer eduoaSri
and respectable ladies and gentlemen a miserahi!
pittance, at which even a knock-kneed blackfelinlj
would turn up his nose with contempt and to
hedge this pittance round with as many protecting
clauses ns if the parties interested were so many
monte-players at Itandwick, is nothin* short of a
insult, and speaks but little tor the
intelligence of a Minister who could endorse such
proceedings by countenancing the circular to
which is affixed the almighty signature of a party
by the name of Johnson.


THE
MIGNO
I tiWI '
i#
: -l!
i¥ M
THE
.Migrnon
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument over in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Migrnon
PliilTO
Is Ii on-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Eboniscd Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
"W ilmer
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY !
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
W ilmer
„ er-Illustrated catalogues of the "MIGNON,”
W ILMER, and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTON’S
pnrnS COMPLAINT positively cured by Mt/CLTON’S
ttuii I*ILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
.11 I Pji°J* l l ment B- MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
Pp-D?^ iOUSNESS ' P rev ent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
h. L.'I*’ 1 *’ P rom °t Q DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Tttp T,r LT VEH - re S ul[lt e the BOWELS, and PURIFY
BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
“own, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruiti.
uey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
LvJ
to
Cl.
to
DC
O
O
PTmTOTTUm
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ncr-
j- and General Debility, and all complaints
s-tt Wiing from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
i° ot na c he. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss 01
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
General Prostration, &c. By its tonio
soothing effects it at once removes all era vine
ror Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
2J?®. r T Powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
UJNIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
]£®_ whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
lß&ESy wl ‘® r * Bo'e Proprietors MARSHALL
rnF R sS.’ MP * 8 -' M arufactoring and consult*
n em * t8 ’ 104 and 108 Market-street near
•7£« p * r * *▼•»«** » m._au imitations illegal.
fAKB NO BUBBTITUTB.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired,
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1883 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
eutirely'bald.”
•T. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
{Ohio) Enquirer , says : “AYER’S Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sur-e cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procuretli, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. 0. A. Prescott, writing frcm 18 Elm
St., Charlestonvi, Atass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, prepared by d
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Solo by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
OXYGEN IS LIFE ! Dr. Bright’s Phos-
phodyne Remedy for Indigestion, Nervous
Debility, Liver Complaints, female Complaints,
Lassitude, Loss of Power, Mental and Physical
Depression, Decline, and all Functional Derange-
ments Thoroughly recruits and re-establishes
Health. Highly recommended by the Medical
Faculty. |SF“ CAUTION.—The indubitable prooi
of the great value of Dr. Bright’s (the only
genuine) Phosphodyne is the various worthless
imitations which are being made up. Therefore
ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne and refuse use-
less and possibly Dangerous Substitutes. Whole-
sale Agents for Sydney: Elliott Brothers.*
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL ore-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies tho hair- it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
18 , 0 f had . m a * old e? colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. t Hcr
ROWLANDS’ XALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arras, and is perfectly free fr.*m anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o
LOWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glassy and per-
manent brown or black, whicV colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
8b
First Prizes and Exhibit
lion.
MR. F. W ARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas.
<®ther Spray, Metbyline, and Chloroform,
tOLLff
BLEND
is-
[trade]
'JmXrs]!
COLLIB BLEND WHISKY.—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delloaoy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
W 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LEAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD BCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
»T MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to mutch,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthmck
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ A DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nlsbes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
to
ft
K
*
&
.it
I
INVALUABLE
\X„
TO
to
ion
$$
u
in d J
efif
Ner
you
Ge
APTED FOR T
AustralianColonies'
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
31
p
A
*7
7.
©
(Tv
m
¥lk
goSTrewsr^pp^i
OP jqfy «SOt*Tße STHPCCT
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
JRADE
*
HARK.
[.Registered.)
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
*** 2s. 6d. p-» IK,
Our TEAS am
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor ft strength |
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
«/• Henochsberg i
Manager.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS.
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
I3F" Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithing
1 lumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting ”
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PIIEVENTEKS, &o.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application. *
"Wllla^Q.ore’s Palace lilotel
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, BYDN»
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License is
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRBT-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the woiT
Known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation ibr countrv
HT. WILL-MORE, Proprlator,


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Hay market, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,-
I cheerfully add my testimony to the (rood
efiects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
casb the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend ft
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 6 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will bo paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Hal f-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S. W.
Eat and Live. —Marshall’s Tonio Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoffnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham •
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. PF" Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &e. No commission charged for
buying. £27*' Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
“We are about to celebrate our golden
wedding,” wrote a Hungarian clergyman of
seventy, “ but we assure our friends we expeot no
presents beyond, say, a ton or two of flour, some
Bavarian beer, a barrel or so of wine, and a bit of
landed freehold, We are happy enough as we are ,*
and do not wish to have our thoughts drawn off to
the pomps and vanities of this world.”
How much lower down, asks a oynio, will
the Salvation Barnum play religion ? The other
day a big cart drove about an Englisb town with
a band in it and a banner, and bills were flung
about announcing a Salvation tea of "ham, jam.
and glory, 9d a head.” Outside the place where the
ham and hallelujah went on, there was a bill ex-
hibited—" Come and see the man who was snatched
from the jaws of hell in his nightcap.”
Scene in a Life on the Ocean Wave up
North Saloon passenger, with enough lather on
hisfaoetofill a barber’s pot: “Stew-ward! Stew-
w-ward!” Culler’d pusson scoots round and
roars: "Yes, sah; dat’sme, sail.” Soapysaloonist:
“ Fetch me a towel, blarst y’, fetch me a towel,
quick.” Steward: “Why, gehominy, sah! dar'-
a towel dere right befo’ yer.” “ Yes, but oon
found you, I want a clean one.” Culler’d pusson:
'■ Well, dat’s a clean one dar, sah Sure s I live,
dere’s only me an’ de cook wots wiped on dat towel
befo’ you dis mawnin’.” Exit steward, and it
beinglthe disgusted saloonist’s last day on the boat,
he dries his face in the bed-clothes.
The Rev. C. .1. Byng is authority for the
statement that people will know each other in
heaven just as they do on earth. If a man has ten
wives below, he will have ten in heaven, only
"spiritualised.” If this news gets abroad, we
know of some men who would rather risk the kind-
liness of the flames below than venture on a celes-
tial existence. And then, too, think of the poor
devil who dies in debt—what amusement it
will be for him to be chased all over the highlands
of Eternity by half-a-dozen tailors and a landlady
or two, each with an “ itemised ” statement of the
amount duel No, Mr. Byng, I you must give us a
more comforting doctrine than that, if you want
us to knock for admittance at the pearly gates.
It may not be generally known (but it is
perfectly true for all that) that a near relative of
one of our dimmycratic Ciceros is the most reli-
able “grub” exterminator this side of the equi-
nootial line. Not long ago. this terror to free-
lunch bars—" Tommy the Wolfer,” he’s called—
was seated <»n a stool in a George-street pub. with
gome friends, when the talking turned on the gas-
tronomieal abilities of the oeiebrated Mr. Bibby.
“Yah! y’ make me sick,” exclaimed one of the
speakers, by wav of taking a “rise” out of the
“Wolfer.” “ Tell y’what I’ll do. I’llputupaten
pun’ note that Tommy here, can eat a bullock.”
" Don't be a fool, man,” whispered Tommy, ex-
citedly, into his admirer’s ear; “no ’un could eat a
bullock; but look here—make it a calf an’ I’ll try
me d dest.”
Rather a good joke in its way comes from
the Biver Macleay. It appears that at the last
show held up there, a prize was offered for the best
duck and drake, Muscovy breed, A well-known
telegraph operator sent two magnificent drakes to
compete for the honour, and his better-half pulled
the feathers out of the tail of one of the birds.
Two judges were appointed to preside over this
branch of the show—one of them being a promi-
nent solicitor, who didn’t know enough about
ducks to load a popgun with; and we may also
remark that the other expert's acquaintance with
poultry was considerably hampered by limits also.
So it oame to pass that, after careful deliberation,
the lightning dodger was awarded the prize, to the
Intense amusement of all the visitors to the show.
And now the very hens on the Macleay turn up
their noses with contempt as those worthy judges
pass by, and the people demand that in future all
duck coptests shall be decided by some approved
medicaljtaan from Sydney. Quack! quack I
One of the Churches down at South Yarra,
Melbourne, rejoices in the possession of what may
be termed (not to speak irreverently) a "piping
parson,” that is to say, a clergyman with a flrst-
class tenor voice. 80, being well aware that the
average parson's vocal organ resembles the raven’s
far more than the nightingale’s, the South Yarra
divine has recently determined to give hi? flock
the full benefit of this exceptional gift. In a riob,
oily tenor, he now warbles forth the first verses of
all the psalms and hymns, as solos, while his en-
rapturod congregation listen with a sort of we'd-
llke - to - givo - you - a - rousing - encore-only - we-
musn’t expression, truly delightful to behold.
The price of the sittings remains at the same old
figure as ever, in spite of the additional attraction,
so the clerical concerts are likely to be pretty
largely attended, when this musical treat has been
more widely advertised. According to latest
rumour, the reverend artist had “ consented ” to
sing “ Cu jus Animam,” whilejthe elders were walk-
ing around with the plate. If he could only sub-
stitute “ 1 om Bowling,” or the “ Bay of Biscay,”
what a collection they might rake in!
We are awful sorry we made such a deuce
of a mess about South Australia In a par. about the
Corporation of St. Peters some time hack. Pact
is, the holy apostles of the place have a very nice
and luxurious residence, kept up in very mock-
modest style in the neighbourhood, and its re-
moval was only desired by one of the elders much
holier than the other'goody-goodies. The remove 1
was thusiy arranged : During several weeks there
was a close watch kept on the premises, and when
the list of distinguished visitors had reached proper
proportions, there were selected one minister, two
soft-goods men, two lawyers, two hard-goods men,
and some other members of the unco Quid frater-
nity. There was no bother made about it, but each
received a very prettily-worded missive, that they
would jointly and severally be summoned to appear
at Boddome’s Hali, to prove the disorderly charac-
ter of the house, unless it was removed in a week
—not the house—but the disorderly cbaraci er. The
little matter had to be done, so the whole lot of
sprightlieg had to stump up a matter of five ten-
ners each to pay the rent and satisfy the landlord;
but the place was shut up, and this was the modus
opcrandi.
Premier Stuart has promised to make in-
quiries whether Sunday lectures in theatres are a
breach of the law, and whether or no they can be
put a stop to. The tone of his reply to the arch-
bigot Murray's queries on the subject would seem
to imply that if he can put a stop to these lectures
he will. Mr. Stuart had better proceed warily. If,
by invoking any obsolescent Caroline law, he can
gag the freethought lecturer, and does do so, he
will commit an outrage on liberty of discussion.
He should re-read his J. S. Mill: “ Ttis not the feel-
ing sure of a doctrine, be it what it may, which is
an assumption of infallibility. It is the under-
taking to decide that question for others, without
allowing them to hear what can be said on the con-
trary side. And this pretension is none the less to
be denounced if put forth on the side of the most
solemn convictions. However positive anyone's
persuasion may be, not only of the falsity, but of
the immorality and impiety of an opinion, yet, if
in pursuance of that private judgment, though
backed by the publio judgment of his country or
his contemporaries, he prevents the opinion from
being heard in its defenoe, he assumes infallibility,
. . . ‘ Deorum injur uv Diis cures.’ It remains to
be proved that society, or any of its officers, holds
a commission from on high to avenge any sup-
posed offenoe to Omnipotence, which is not also a
wrong to our fellow-creatures. The notion that it
is one man’s duty that another should be religious
was the foundation of all the religious persecu-
tions ever perpetrated, and, if admitted, would
fully justify them.” Does Mr. Stuart admit it?
Will he, Parkes-like, assume to avenge supposed
offences to Omnipotence ? Will he, astride of an
obsolete law, pose as Infallible, and play the
inquisitor ? We hope not.
Now that our church congregations are
on the decline and our clergy are forced to play to
a beggarly array of empty benches, we have much
pleasure in drawing the attention of the clergy,
and laity to the effect that quite a rousing old
hoist has been given of late to the good cause in
Nov/ England by the establishment of Hugging
Sociables” in that county for church and mis-
sionary purposes. All the huggers are charged Is.
admission to a largo hall in which teetotal
drinks are briskly peddled in one end, and on a
platform at the other a brass- band discourses
iweet mpijic.” At present, all the hugtjw are of the
female persuasion, and these march In duck file
round the hall, and the huggers having selected
their choice, plank down their cash, and step in
and have q uite a parrot-and-monkey time of it with
the happy fair ones selected. The charges are 10
cents to hug any young lady, between 15 and 20,
ten minutes; 15 cents for one between 20 and 30;
25 cents for young widows; 1 dollar to hug another
man’s wife, and 10 cents extra if the man himself
is looking. Old maids run six for a cent; female
lecturers are free and a brandy-smash to the
hugger thrown in, and all reporters are allowed
Pate blue silk and corresponding darned
net give the materials for this graceful,
though simple, evening toilette. Two box-
pleat flounces, four inches deep, border the
skirt, over which falls in front and on each,
side, the darned net tunic, taken up slightly
and headed by closely-pleated crossing scarf
Earls, buttoned to the short basque bodice
efore, and disappearing at the sides under
the folds, cut in one with back, these reach-
ing to the hem of the skirt. The neck is cut
square in front and pointed behind. A fichu
hides the close of the bodice, and plain strip
of darned net represents short sleeves.
one from each lot to enable them to write up the
business, and do justice to the subject. Not a
single iDkslinger ever misses one of these shivoos.
and it's fun for the band to watch them go through
the sampling. Some of the smarties throttle al
the fifteen to thirties and tender widows and then
make a wild attempt to skip the premises. Detec-
tion, however, means suspension of their free
ticket, and so the bulk of the pencillers tackle the
tough old chickens first and then take the taste off
their mouths with the lips of the fair flfteenn.
Two of these “swarries” would yank a hopelessly
IN SHADOWLAND.
MRS. JONES NOT ONLY PROTESTED THAT SHE WAS NOT DOING ANYTHING OF THE
KIND, BUT HAD THE EFFRONTERY TO SUGGEST THAT IF MR. JONES WOULD GO
BACK BEHIND THE SCREEN, SHE AND YOUNG SMITH WOULD PUT THEMSELVES
IN THE SAME POSITION AGAIN. ( Ultimately adjusted by Mr. Jones putting himself in Smith’s
place, and satisfying himself that Smith had not bet n putting himself in his (Jones') place).
bankrupt cathedral out o£ debt and leave enough
funds over to enable the pastor in charge to do.a
twelve months fly round on the Continong.
The London International and Colonial
Exhibition was opened at the Crystal Palace on
St. George’s Day, the only Australian exhibits
being a few symphonies in white and seven noc-
turnes in charcoal. The first-named wonders were
represented by a couple of Agent-Generals, the
inevitable Henniker Heaton, and a few other
“no-account” men, and the nocturnes consisted
of a group of the most measley lot of Queensland
niggers that ever peddled one of Her Majesty's
blankets away for a gill of rum In a ginger-beer
bottle. How ever they held body and soul together
so long is a marvel, for even wh«n they were here,
It took three of the strongest braves to make one
shadow, and it was only by packing the gins in ice
that they could be kept from drying up into dust
and being blown away. Any shortcomings on
their part at the Exhibition was, however, more
than compensated for by the hiirhly - coloured
circus-poster ads., which told in terms calculated
to freeze the blood iu the veins of a Sandhurst
<quarfcz-mine all about! “ the first introduction In
An uncommon effect is given to the
favourite double-breasted jacket body, as
shown above, by leaving t he neck part open,
And from which falls a rich frill of wide lace.
If the dress material is of fiDe navy serge,
and turned back with pale bine silk, a pure
white lace looks extremely well If, however,
the material is of a brown shade, cream lace
would be more suitable.
England of the band of seven Australian boome-
rang throwers, consisting of male and female
Queensland black trackers and ranting man-eaters,
the celebrated busbmen from the continent on the
other side. The only captive band of these fero-
cious. treacherous, uncivilised savages, with deep
scars and seams in the torture l flesh, and bones
and huge rings thrust through the nose and ears as
ornaments. Veritable bloodthirsty beasts in dis-
torted human form, with but a glimmering of
reason and gift of speech. They will be intro-
duced in their peace, war, kangaroo, emu, and
cockatoo dances, their midnight corrohorees, cast-
ing of the spear, and whirling of the boomerang.
Worth journeying a hundred miles to see these
specimens of the lowestorder of man.” “ Kanfing
man-eaters ” is good, but so far as the “ferocity of
the blood-thirsty beasts” is concerned, we’re open
to lay 6 to 4 that our hired girl and a mop could
wipe the whole tribe off the face of the earth inside
of ten seconds.
Out on the back-blocks of the Paroo, the
boys have a real good appreciation of wholesome
fun and practical joking. Just listen to how they
manage it, Amongst the sportive youths on a
station out that way was a quiet, easy-going galoot
who had a particular horror of snakes, and another
of the crowd thought what a lot of fun could be
extracted from him by flxiDg up a bogus reptile.
The unsuspecting, and we might add, guileless
young man was a right sound sleeper, and one
night, whilst he was “dreaming of home and
mother,” the joker got a large stoekwhip and care-
fully coiled it around the neck of the somnoleDt
one in the most approved snake fashion, and waitt d
with patience worthy of a better cause to see the
start it would give him. And it did give him a
start, you bet! The boys had just, gone out for a
spell when he awoke, and was fairly paralysed
with horror when he felt what he thought was a
six-foot reptile in such a terrible position. He lay
awake for some time afraid to stir, and when
his mates came in to enjoy the fun his ej e-balls
were starting from his head and his face blancned
with fright. Then they began to think that they
had cari-ied the joke too far, and gradually assured
the young fellow that the whole affair was only a
lark. “Fine fuD, indeed,” quoth the terror-
stricken party, “but it’ll be my turn someday.”
And it wa3. One day, in his wanderings through
the bush, he happened to come across a healthy
specimen of a tiger snake, so he secured it, and,
determined to pay the previous joker out lor his
trouble, he brought it to the hut, and placed it
carefully between the blxnkets in the joker’s
bunk. So, when the latter got into bed, the repti e
and he got very much mixed up together, and the
consequence was that the biter got very badly
bitten—so much so, that he stepped out for the
Golden Shore ere twelve short hours had rolled by.
Funny, wasn’t it? Anyhow, the whole affair was
hushed up; but the boys outjthero have given up
fooling with snakes.
The recent refusal of an Anglican parson
named Edwards to perform service at the luneral
of a Protestant pauper, who had died in hospital
at Townsville (Q.), has had the effect of eliciting
the views of the Bishop of Northern Queensland
on the observance of the order of the butial of the
dead, and the duties of Anglican clergymen to-
wards “stiffs” awaiting burial. His Lordship's
views are singularly “ mixed,” some of his opinions
being as reasonable as others are absurd and un-
charitable. when Dr. Stanton tells us that the
Anglican burial service is in no sense prayers for
the dead, and that a clergyman can be more use-
fully employed in tending the living than in spend-
ing a lot of time at the grave of a man dead and
gone to clay, waiting for and reading the burial
servioe in the presence of an indifferent under-
taker and his assistants, though we may think his
Right Reverence is singularly devoid of kindly
feeling, yet we cannot deny his ideas on the sub-
ject to bo practical. When, however, he goes on
to point out that it is a waste of time for a
clergyman to read the burial service over the
grave of a poor man uho has no friends, we
begin to see what the Bishop is aiming at. It is
evidently a mere £ s d. question. As this tho-
roughly business-like Father in God puts it, the
paramount and primary duty of a clergymen is to
those who pay hi n. There you are. From a
pauper “stiff” you can no more extract a burial
fee than you can blood from a stone, ergo ’twould
be a perfect farce to say a prayer over him.
When, however, your cold “stiff” has warm
friends, and it is possible to make his eternal part-
ing from the world and its vanities the occasion of
their temporal parting with some of its dross, then
there is virtue in the burial service—at least, such
is the Gospel according to Stanton. A bishop of
to-day has no more likeness to an early apostle
than a cauliflower is like any spontaneous pro-
duction of the held. It has taken some eighteen
centuries to develop the modern prelate, the
secret of the cultivation employed bring this—
liberal application of the manure of Mammon.
Apropos of “Chinese” Gordon’s religion,
this is the style in which he hits out at things:—
“ Any conversation with so cal.ed religious people
on religious subjects is wiih me at an end forever.
I say the Christian tharisees deny Christ; they
ignore Him, or at most throw Him in as a make-
weight. I see no resemblance to Him in them. A
hai-d, cruel s'.t they ere, from high to low. You
can form some idea or what Christ was like. Do
you know any single one of Chxist's pretended
successors clergymen or Ditsenteis—who is like
Him ? lam sick of your burut-offeiin s and your
prayer-meetings. My soul bateth them; they are
a trouble to me; lam weary of them.” Gordon,
by the way, belie ves in the pre-existence of souls.
“ I thick,” he writes, ” that this lile is only one of
a series of lives which our incarnate part has lived.
I have little doubt of our having pre-existed, and
also, that in the time of our pie-existence, we were
actively employed.” He is also addicted to the
fatalistic creed, singular to relate, as shown
by his expressed sympathy with Mahommedanism.
Of the Mussulman hesajs : “I And him quite as
good a Christian as many a Christian. Allot us are
more or less pagans. I like the Mussulman : he is
not ashamed of his God. His life is a fairly puxe
one ; certainly, he gives himself a good margin in
the wife line ; but, at any i-ate, he never poaches
on others. Can our Christian people say the
same ?” All of which, we reckon, wives the pious
nineteenth century Christian, and pretty often
his pastor, too, a nasty jar. Wiring into “ Con-
ventional Christianity,” more e ; pecialiy as prac-
tised by those so-called chosen of the LorJ, the
English, he writes, “ Act up to your religion, and
then you will CDjoy it. Ihe Christianity of the
masses is a vapid, tasteless thing, and of no use t<»
any one. The people of England care more for
their dinners than toey do for anything el°e.”
After this, it wouldn't be a bad idea for the ortho-
dox to send a few missionaries out Khartoum way
to convert this very straight tongued person. The
notions he has picked up among the Chinese and
Mussulmans are far too advanced and Christian-
like to run the gauhtlet of modern orthodoxy.


p URE COUNTRY MILK.
!P BE MILS; SUPPLIED BY THE
Food & Ice Co., Limited,
be relied upon as being
always pure,
B fr?i^ lled f r otti the country districts, as
ttom city contaminations.
, Butters
IT manufactured at their own depot
e m dairydStric beGt buttei>mak ' 3i ' s in the
M- lc 8 ’
This
iuv - twice daily, —.
morning delivery is tnadfe. Butter by
• mty, daily; suburbs, throe times
hesh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
SAHBOUB street.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
; Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
. Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. KeTwiiwi neatly axe-
an tad
4
o
c
Or
.o
«S
RU.RA
TRADt
Or
V:
SO
N
<2
a
N r| g°o^
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the clearneM
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crtide beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
nrnflt reDresent the common beers referred to
as equal P in S quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO, Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
PEAPES and SHAW
"Em
RESPECTFULLY INVITE INSPECTION OF THEIR
’S GQOIIS
SEASO
W/'e,
} as follows
s and Children s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows :
f rom
•CUT
and TAILOR-MAD a ULSTERS,
Haiflg. a J " S ' 6<i * to t guineas
Children’s Ulsters, from ss. 6d. to 30s.
r °.‘® an ' s haped Ulsters, New Cloths
Rl Ali g UT JACKETS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
LADIES?’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH 'CAPES
and ULSTERS from 12s. (id. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
SHAW have now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
*l% insn. HEADY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
section of the various classes of goods enumerated below.
OVERCOATS, cut long,
428 - 45? rH ITA ' LIA - N CLOTH, 255., 303.,
5C0% 423 ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 305.,
IC/Ofl TlK'i »)s.
fr tT 'veed FR °CK OVERCOATS, 635.
V . eili nir Melton Overcoats, suitable for
jr.'ST AN nVi? ver a Dress Suit. 425.. 505., 555.
hn&IVXr ” TWEED ;SAC SUITS are
f or CUT, FIT, STYLE, and
aua otbe' Surpass n d lor Good I * onest Value
„ T 328,^ RI CES ARE AS FOLLOWS
•' 435., 50g., 03s. the SUIT.
C°at and Vest, 503.
|fog- r °ats (West of England Broadcloth),
„Tr n o ul® st - off good-Black Doeskin, 255., 30s.
well shrunk and well made,
vHs.6d? Us ers,’ ■,
||}te Plan 0 lB s. 6d.
C 4ori a aael|ro Coats ’ 21s< each
d.per
§s§[| ~~ ' JKL,TIC JACKETS, '2ss.
GOWNS, in Felt,
a > frotn i¥w 5 ann «l, Scotch Knicker, Quilted
’ Ir °tn Bqi
's. to 84s.
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof) Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS) and
SHBETIN&
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d.
“ STANDARD ” JUVENtLE CLOTHING. ,
Bdys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk) 10s. 6d,; the
Suffolk) 12s. 8d
Beys' Jersey Mati-o*-War Stilts, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits* 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Yotiths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHftISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BCACK GRAB ftnd BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES. 7s. 6d„ Bs. 6d.
9s. 6d., 10s. Bd., 11s. (Id., 12s. 6d.
French Felt, Plhsb, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Oaps
Solid aiid Basil Portmanteaus, m every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
and SHAW,
GEORGE street.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
"Wolff Sz, Soel’s
a( i from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
A.ie 2nTo-w Oipean..
%
CCLEERY’S HOTEL,
C °iner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
i>H tv UcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
Te b ar up-stairs.
■$
o 00\
o
ssseiis
i-
•»!
to
The ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
-,D oo^° s stand PIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Conqueror ’ Bir Ro & er (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
.—CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
‘ lm °°rter« of Pipes Cisrnrs, and all Tobacconists' Sundries.
TOEACOO JVOIiKS. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
SOHO BAZAAR ,
362 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort;
iflent of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOOBS ANB TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
352 George Street
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHKKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading-
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
*l* Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists iO6MAR k ETST e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hofei,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
“CT -n. d.ext silver,
84 HVNTEB Sc PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO. .
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by '
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
IR.BURGIS
ms
...
Mi-ISiCT
I
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRKET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for admeasuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund ....£i33,500
Directors i
The Hon, Sir John H ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S, Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales : -
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyng-an, and Bourke.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
JM Ip
-r.-- — -~.XiZ£i32SS&mBS&I
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
tW C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. Ariell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds— Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings*
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J4,and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGUAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAT. KING STREET, SYDNEY.
-^y-ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an I
wringer, M lO
*
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wautut
Wood,
<tc. dec. &a
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.,
i 116 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
ArTCfl CEFOKE
Copyrighted.
8 pi't». m
each, 3 for ii
l rrs
MOUSTACHE and WHI3SE2S.-
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thi*,and
will do it on cither bald fiend or
bare face. Jfoi cta heavy Motts-
taehc in from 12 to 4 weeks and never
fails, U'jUOQ young men already
wear full beards, having lifted 1 to
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
to. lid., post paid, sent under cover, free
ink Dongliis, *S ole Agent, Box 730, G.t’.O
from observation*
~ Sydney,#.B. )V~
EEFoni akteh
Copiirighled.
Packets 1« ft*.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OE PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and thd
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Lining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able. in price. Inspection solicited.
W. mTwallace;
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, GEORGE 8T„ 498 SYD^Bf


OrOlcL CT ©■w©ll©3-3^
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
ism ran j
LATEST FASHIONS.'
, Sc.,
■WATCHES, PEOH COs. 3S^-C2S-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually atten^^^
si
4*
Pr
ii in
TT’HAT IS
doct^
ASK YOUR
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
"8 NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
_ Mr. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
J. J.
THE PEOPLE'S CLOTHIER, , t ,fA
m aKftfi® ‘ ”1
WHITES and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. j pB ,
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. afncK id ,»
%3T Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and Inspectthe * y to cb
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDN* v B gCPl pTi
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVER ,
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hay«*£ r
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and
“An ordinary Cun contains
s m nrn
o#.tko"onHna Tvp«-ini»rtifiH of Malt than a nint of the best ale
Sydney
T t nT/Trim
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
Th l LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
Bmo ke a deeent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK BTREET. SYDNEY.
T. J ON E Sand GO.,
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
ANO
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
\
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
5 lock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYD.NET.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’o Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
aualitv, and superior to any imported.
” TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
3W George-street, Sydney.
BEST ENGLISH LEVERS.
T
[HE LIVERPOOL & LONDON
Watch. Company
k have REMOVED to those most
'A extensive premises at Corner of
Ifcoyal Arca.de,
296 Pitt-st. Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES
. Reduced to £3 10s.
Sent to all parts of the colony Free of Charge.
Each watch warranted for live years, and .kept
in repair free of charge-
C. SIMMAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note the above Address.
MASON BROTHERS,
%
14 and 1© Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, ANB SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MiSJjV SONS’
Edinbrngn Pale die.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late' IVilliam Long),
t W WINE AN D SPIRIT MERCHANT.
531 GE( )RGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders ) •eoeivo prompt at‘anti on.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
iionrts
Bft&vi
Ml iSsgS
ttLiSND
Mm
aiii
'&eea&tk.
It is of the utmost Importance, that contents of
each bottle should he carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON7AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HIGarKPS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.;
LAKE’S 1
STEAM P" 01
H. P.
17
(lb
PITT sTB C
SYDNEY V* s
ARE SOLE AGENTS F °
and have Jn Stocfc aD
FIRE PUMPS ?
BOILER-FEED PUMP S pl^ F
TANK OR LIGHT S® B jj
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & cIBC
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINK1 NG
Lb
SEND FOR PRICES AND A F
catalogues FOB
y
PAINTS.
OILS.
4
Office: 330
stores:
yfg~ N.R-
-patte r o"
jin' l
ft tl o '
LATE HOWLANDS & LEWIS, , y ggo
Manufacturer of all kinds of AEr aied Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor 0
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND fl 3 HUNTED STKEET, SYDNEY. . ueurs , B W rS '
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Mi tdal far /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Licj u
&C>
