

1884=. surtcL T77“HnT'TEIK_ ±SS4=.
my nouns & sms,
UITrVEEaaX, fSSOTrXBSSS-
paIace ieils^oxsxtj'zliL;
OZVIIY.
/ w
- - - • » H»
A •■
In every one of our -
THIBTT-SIZ EDE^^KTIvZIGILTT’S
L WE HAVE BEEN
Special Preparations
I FOR THE AUTUMN AND WINTER TRADE.
HORDERN
SONS
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
9
Hundred Cases of CHOICE and SEASONABLE ililO
m \fS :
■> J u
k
BANKETS ! BLANKETS ! BLANKETS ! for which the Palace Emporium is justly celebrated.
Mantles, MANTLES, MANTLES. The Latest Parisian Easliions, in very great variety.
DRESSES, DRESSESy DRESSES. New Patterns. New Materials. New Styles.
CLOTHING, CLOTHING, CLOTHING. The Best Cut. The Best Made. The Best Wear.
{ BOOTS, BQOTS, BOOTS. Acknowledged to be the Best and Cheapest in the colony.
fcsOTtsirseiref of WtiiveS, Beautiful* asid Useful, carefully collected from all the
market® of the world.
HORDERN AND SONS,
Paiaee Emporium* Raymarket, Only*
EROVXDEKS.
UNITEKSAIi PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin
NEW SERES


Corner of and MARE
Kir*
Z>Ot
®Z3CS
SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES .
m
TE
BO
PA LAC
Si
S
afii
JOHN
H U N TER
•sis?asui
n
mm
IK
iSSi
1
Branches: —Rundle*st., Adelaide, S.A.
Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn.
Wholesale Stores: 57 York-st, Sydney*
JBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, %nd DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited) —Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portablo Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Engine l ?.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
■Rpd Cross Preserving* Company, Victoria —Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, <fcc.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c. _ . , , _ . , ~
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunk—Port V me.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
' COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. „ „
New South Wales. —Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
"^Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
kb r INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
'S Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
arior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
A- ’omiortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
' ■ v ' teleg-ams from all parts of the colony posted up.
a111f.... _ =*
f4a/i Francisco Palace of Art,
Up
a?
The natrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
" the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,(MX) in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from wpicli copies may be hgd on application by sending name and address.
W, T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES &
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just
co:
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Oepf^
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines ®
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore c V* 6
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to^H
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Mennessy’s V .0. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 6 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. ..56
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 6 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 3 6
Half-flasks • • • • -.16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martcll’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2 0
Better .. 2 6
Still Better 3 0
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 5 0
No. 2, „ „ .... 4 6
No. 3, „ „ ..4 0
No. 4, „ ~ 38 and 3 6
piasks ~ . • Is 9d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALE.
Very Finest .. -
Red Heart
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks
2s 6d and
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2
Ettainogah, red „ 2
„ Muscat „ 2
„ Reisling „ 2
Fallon’s Shiraz „ 2
„ „ ■ .. .. pints 1
PORT
40-year old, Gilbey’s •• ,
Celebrated Four Diamond'- o id)
Quality—No. 1 (very supei
No. ***** grape
No. **** „ '' "
No. *** „ ', •'
No. ** „ "
No. * ...
Draught Port Wine, P© r
imp'
en l
g H ERR^
40-year old, Gilbey’s •••
Very Finest Amontillado 1 -
Fine Amontillado ••• . qtico-
Celebrated Four Diamond
0
Common Sherry.,
Draught Sherry Wine, P er
JUIP'
BRITISH
Wih 0
I#
WH* !
V 1
James Heddle’s Ginger
Orange Wine
IRISH
Jameson’B *** ...
Old Dublin Whisky (***) D °
Kinahan’s unrivalled L D , ,
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky f >
Jameson’s ••• ja jfl u
Dunville’s ••• 9
Kinahan’s Draught, per „ ~,
Jameson’s „ „■ ,
Flasks ••• .Mtv ,
scotch f 1; ■
Walker’s 7-year old, in h ll <( ,
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend ... ... V
Lome Highland... ... ..y^
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imk
Flasks •••
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal gj.y if„ ii
Celebrated Key Brand, * e tl
bottle containing ..
Flasks Key Gin ...
Wedding- and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best d ,v i ( !f
allowed for. S 0&" Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, an
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. t 0 l
•eeeiF - I
P R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On 1
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart BVp«p
U Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart bV r
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay’
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
oW
> &
# c l '
Kindly Note the Address-
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale
George and Gipps Sts., Haymark®
¥ ft J)
ie & Retail Wine & Spirit Me 1 * gyi
inns ftfc


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 45.—New Series
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1884.
Prioe—6cL
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1884.
The cloture is a detestable expedient. Its
influence for good and useful purposes is
altogether inadequate to compensate for
for the opportunities it affords to the
euemies of popular liberties. Those are no
true friends of free Parliamentary institu-
tions who resort to the cloture as a means of
venting personal antipathies or party dis-
like. Parliamentary proceedings have been
conducted successfully enough until the last
few years without operation of the “gag.”
Possibly the freedom from obstruction has
5>
°S
THE ROYAL MARRIAGE.
been in part due to the fact that until
recently there prevailed in the British House
of Commons forms of pressure and restraint
quite equivalent to those recently imported.
The direct influence of the Crown and the
power of the aotual Government used to be
actually formidable. These powers have
waned, and it is alleged that disorder has
grown. We doubt, however, whether a
historical review would support that allega-
tion. Meanwhile the power of silencing
obstructive members has been assumed by
Parliamentary Chambers in the mother
country and in these colonies, and amajority
has been invested with a power whioh, to
our mind, may be so perverted as to strike
at the root of real representation, and
to throw absolute and tyrannical power
into the hands of an unscrupulous and over-
bearing faction. There is, however, one
enemy to free legislative functions, almost
equally culpable with the wielders of the
cloture, and that is the man who so abuses
his rights as to make the introduction of the
gag pleasing to the community, and thus
lead to an insidious growth of the practice
of repression. If the terms and the tone of
the S.M. Herald’s report of the proceedings
and deportment of Mr. A. G. Taylor be
accepted without reserve, the senior member
for Mudgee would certainly appear to have
done his country the deep wrong of abso-
lutely inviting the introduction of the
deplorable procedure referred to. It may
be that the hon. gentleman did so comport
himself, but that he did so with a design to
which his subsequent proceedings seem to
point—the design of testing the power of
the Assembly to silence, even temporarily,
one of the elect of the people—then, instead,
of hastily judging, it will be well to respice
finem —to look to the end. In any case,
however, present material for forming an
opinion as to the merits of the conflict
between Mr. Taylor and the majority is
insufficient. There is animus sticking out of
the Herald’s report. It is stated therein that
Mr. Taylor “read some irrelevant matter
from a printed report with reference to the
Permanent Artillery.’’ The “irrelevance”
of the matter is a matter of opinion. Mr.
Taylor would doubtless traverse the
Herald’s view, and declare that the matter
was not irrelevant. And considering that
the subject before the Committee was a vote
for the staff of the Permanent and Volun-
teer Forces, it would seemingly have needed
some ingenuity on Mr. Taylor’s part to find
irrelevant matter in a printed report having
reference to the Permanent Force. In fact,
it is difficult to know whether Mr. Taylor
badgered and obstructed the majority, or
whether the majority badgered and ob-
structed Mr. Taylor into the condition of
downright mutiny against the chairman,
the majority, and the Speaker, to which he
seems to have wrought himself, or to have
been wrought.
* * *
Admitting that Mr. Taylor was indiscreet
and unmanageable, the essence of his ob-
struction seemed to have a flavour of genu-
ineness. His lengthy indietment against
the Ministerial military policy, tb® pertinent
query—“ What return do we get for our
expenditure?” should not have been met
from the Treasury benches by a mere “ Shut
up! or we’ll gag you.” What return do we
get for our large military expenditure?
Surely a most pertinent question and
one not to be blandly answered by
references to what a Royal Commission
thought a year or so ago, or to the honied
words of “ distinguished ” visitors at a mess
luncheon. It doesn’t require much military
experience to understand that Easter en-
campments, such as were held this year, oan-
not possibly have been of any real educa-
tional value—i.e., in the way in which they
are at present conducted. If the troops
were volunteers, it would be ungenerous,
perhaps, to grudge them an Easter picnic,
and to debar their officers from doing the
grand in their show tents. But since the
troops are very handsomely paid, it becomes
of the first importance, if the country is to
get value for its money, that the annual en-
campment should have appreciable training
value, and that the work done at it should
be thoroughly done under the closest super-
vision of competent judges, the deficiencies
being scrupulously pointed out, not cap-
tiously, but in a kindly suggestive manner*
Instead of criticism, meaningless “melted
butter” is ladled out in Brigade orders.
After an encampment, at whioh a consider-
able number of very serious blunders were
made, the pionicers, before being dismissed,
are gushingly informed that they are per-
fection-information that, to the majority
of the men who are really anxious to learn
their duty, is an insult because a lie. An
exhaustive critical report on the operations
performed would be of more value than a
flattering false Brigade order, and would be
far more appreciated by the better stamp of
soldier.
No doubt it must have been tremendously
provoking to the War Minister, fresh from
the mess lunoheon at which Commissary-
General Strickland and Colonel Legge had
deolared that the New South Wales Defence
Force was the grandest body of colonial
troops they had ever seen, and Colonel
Richardlon had modestly accepted the
outrageous compliment as one that his
troops actually deserved, to hear Mr.
Taylor from his place in the Assembly
denouncing the foroe, in language the exact
converse of that whioh had been employed
by Messieurs. Richardson, Strickland and
Leg«e. Mr. Stuart seems to have felt that
he had a right to be angry, and aoting upon
that feeling waxed very angry indeed. Tet
neither his anger nor his fatuous trust in
the postprandial deliverances of the dis-
tinguished visitors at the military banquet


üBL I C
notice
MG, El, & co:s
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORTT WHISKY is bonded for so vera
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU W HISKY, when well matured
py a f?e» 18 carefully bottled under supervision of
tne officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY,
sumers will find this brand
Australian coa-
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, 'it. great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
vnrrvrF HISKY, manufactured by
CO* ‘as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BOMJ WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
O rS% AN p BORTJ ™SKY was never exhibited,
and ther&fore'cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast.
WHISKY 8 " ' owners of BRIAN BORU
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO,,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
/SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Gtreafell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
IHB Beat Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
I WT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
Bs. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS'
Single Sof.lt Diprtiut,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY.
GO TO
G. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ed.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET -STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d, per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Ss. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. dd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Jiarket Street, Sydney.
can alter the simple fact that the encamp-
ment was, from a scientific standpoint, a
failure, a failure so considerable, so palpaple
to all save those who would not see, as to
have afforded Mr. A. G. Taylor a thoroughly
good excuse if not a complete justification
for his hammering away with what Mr.
Cameron thought such damnable iteration
at the monstrous extravagence of a great
annual expenditure to maintain a consider-
able force in a state of inefficiency.
• • *
Mr. Stuart, as War Minister, dwells with
great complacency on the fact that “ great
authorities” have approved of our system
■of local defence. The most reliable of those
authorities have merely endorsed the theory
of our defence system as jotted down on
paper. Now, on paper, the theory doesn’t
read so badly. For instance, we have in
theory a Permanent Artillery Force, resem-
bling on paper an equal force of British
Artillery. British Artillery, however, is
officered by men who are professional ex-
perts—men who must have graduated at
Woolwich with credit; while our Artillery
Force is mainly officered by men who
can’t pass the “ littlest ” of “ little-goes.”
This one difference in quality of officers
between the New South Wales and the
Imperial artillery is a most material one.
Were the local artillery really well officered,
eaoh commissioned gunner being a thorough
expert, it would be what it appears to be on
paper, the nuoleus of a formidable defence
force. As it is, it cannot maintain its own
prestige, much less serve as an exemplar to
militia bodies. Again, on paper, we have a
paid militia. Great authorities reading this
statement (in connection with that about
our having a Permanent Artillery Force)
might reasonably say “Good!” naturally
thinking that we got good work—our
money’s worth—-out of our paid militia. Yet
they might, perchance, substitute another
word for “good,” were they to learn that
just as our Artillery Force is weak
through lack of expert officers, our paid
militia never get any proper training, the
annual encampment being allowed to
degenerate into a mere jollification outing.
• • •
Where would our defence force be if an
enemy landed? To ask this question, it is
urged by not a few fools, is to disparage the
valour of our troops. The question, in
reality, is not one about valour, but about
efficiency. We suppose that, man for man,
the men of New South Wales are as brave
as those of any other country. We leave it
to idiotio Podsnaps to suppose that they are
braver. The point is, are our paid troops as
professionally expert as those which might
be landed here with hostile intentions, were
the Empire to be engaged in war with any of
the Great Powers ? It doesn’t need a great au-
thority to say “No” to that query. Our troops
fire neither one thing nor the other, neither
trained volunteers, nor thoroughly well-
officered regulars. Hence, to rely upon it is
to rely upon a broken reed, without any
disparagement of its members’ individual
pluck.
• * *
We certainly cannot see how members of
the Assembly, who profess to be Liberals,
can consistently endorse the votes for the
military establishment, seeing that, small as
it yet is, numerically, it embodies all the
worst faults of the British aristocratie
military system, without any of the
latter’s excellences. There is still a good
deal of jobbery in the British service,
but of late years there has been as a rule an
anxiety shown at the War Offloe (if not at the
Horse Guards) to seoure competent officers
when any business of particular emergency
is on hand. In the management of the
New South Wales Defenoe Force successive
have jobbed, even more than
their English prototypes, without having dis-
played the least desire to secure oompetent
or to dismiss incompetent offloers. Worse,
even, than this, when in the discussion of
the Estimates the military votes are called
On—when, in a word, the proper time has
arrived to contest the military policy that
is saddled on the country, the Government
shut up the impugner of it, not by answer-
ing nor even attempting to answer the matter
of his criticism, but by taking exception to
his manner of presenting it. Mr. Taylor
pressed his indiotment in bad form
and at too great length, but it was
a true bill, and by the temper displayed by
the Ministerial majority it is pretty clear
that what “fetched ” Mr. Stuart and made
him so anxious to carry on his “naming”
process a step further, was not so muoh Mr.
Taylor’s tactics of obstruction as the essen-
tial truth of his remarks. Of one thing,
however, the War Minister may rest assured’
and that is though he may have “ shut up ”
Mr. Taylor for a week, he has not closured
public opinion, not stayed for a single hour
the process of intrinsic dissolution which is
at work in the body of our rotten defence
System.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sweeps and Lotteries.
brtitf the other day, the promoter of a racing
sweep, advertised as a consultation, waslprosecuted
In accordance with the spirit of the laws which
poudemn and treat as misdemeanours all enter*
prizes which tend to foster the gambling spirit,
A racing sweep is a lottery, and lotteries are
illegal. But.'Art Unions are not illegal, ana, conse-
quently, the most pure-minded and high-principled
legislators, while debarred by their elevated char-
acter and by the sense of the onerous duties they
hold from countenancing in any way lotteries, may,
without detracting from the estimation in which
they are held, advance the cause of art oulture by
promoting distributions of objects of vertu, the
creations of genius. Such is the case, no doubt, in
connection with the Distribution of Australian
Freehold Property, conducted under the auspices
—we quote the advertisement—“ of the following
members of Parliament:—H. Taylor, Esq., M.P.,
S. Smith, Esq., M.P., J. Sutherland, Esq., M.P.»
W. Proctor, Esq., M.P., W. Targett, Esq., M.P.,
S. Burdekin, Esq., M.P., W. Teech, A. G. Taylor,
Esq., M.P., M. Chapman, Esq., M.P., John See,
Esq., M.P., Harry Levien, Esq., M.P.; and with
the ex-Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
as legal adviser. Under the auspices of these
gentlemen, it is announced that £15,000 worth of
property will be “ given away,” and this generosity
would no doubt be worthy of and would obtain
‘‘the patronage” (we quote again) “alikeof the
merchant prince or of the humble labourer ” were
it not that the trilling condition is appended that
each patron shall pay £1 for the privilege of
patronising. The objects of art “ comprise a large
number of villa residences, and also of those noble
creations of the artist’s genius, “ blocks of land.”
But enough of raillery! This thing is an
impudent rascality. It is a lottery of the most
llagrant kind, perpetrated by, or under the aus-
pices of, men whose position requires of them that
they should be the last to dodge the spirit, and, in
fact, treat with contempt the very letter of the
laws which it is their function to make and their
duty to uphold. Had Tom, Dick, or Harry, plain
men without parliamentary influence or connec-
tions, attempted to raffle their “blocksof land”
thus, they would have been prosecuted, beyond
a doubt. If the Atttorney-General has given
his sanction to this thing, he has prostituted
his office. If a block of land and a villa be legiti-
mate objects for distribution under “art union,”
so is a station with a oomfortablo residence and
valuable improvements, or a well found, and
copper-fastened brig, or a coal mine, or, in fact
anything whatever, except cash. If this thing be
permitted to be accomplished, it will be necessary
to oonclude that in future the right to get
up lotteries is to be a patent privilege secured
to legislators and their friends, as against the
vulgar common people. We have yet, thank
heavens, upright and patriotic members of Par-
liament to denounce and check such monstrous
pretensions. Wo have the choice of the Demo-
cratic Alliance—the poor man’s friend, Mr. Burde-
kin. We have the active and scrutinizing A. G.
Taylor, he whoso voice is never still from ex-
posing wrongs. We have “ honest ” John Suther-
land; we have—but, Good Heavens I all these
patriots are “init 1” Are all the members of the
Assembly in a conspiracy against the public ?
♦
Cultured Flunkey dom.
“Great and manifold were the blessings, most
dread Sovereign, which AlmigbTY Q-od, the
Father of all mercies, bestowed upou us, the
people of England, when first He sent your
Majesty’s Royal Person to rule and reign over us.”
(By the Translators of the Bible,) “ with Grace
Mercy, and Peace, through Jesus Christ our
Lord.” (Comment of H. Spencer: “Such a dedi-
cation, of such a book, to such a man.”)
“ Revered, beloved—O, you that hold
A nobler office upon earth
Than arms, or power of brain, or birth
Could give the warrior Kings of old.
“ Take, madam, this poor book of song,
“ And leave us rulers of your blood
As noble till the latest day I”
In Memoriam.
(Baron TENNYSON-crying over Arthur Hallam.
Comment of ourselves: “Let’s see, now—where’s
a good market for these tears ?”)
And, just here, so that we shall not lap
ourselves in the soft notion that we have
got beyond all that, is a clipping from
the London correspondent of the D. T. It
refers to the famous picture of the “ Roll Call ” by
Miss Thomson. After the Prince op Wales’
laudation, the crowd at the Royal Academy be-
came so great that the picture had to be railed in.
After what wo have done with Roseberys &0.,
we are humble enough to believe this, and keep
very quiet. After all, it seems that the idea of a
king being the father of his people and half divine
is not by any means extinct. We have long ago
lost the notion that to bo a king is to be some sort
of hero ; but we are evidently not yet clear that a
man who is born in a palace has not some sort of
“ divinity ” to/* hedge ” him in matters of know-
ledge. How else can wo account for it that
a man upon whom we cannot impose in selling
a basket of fish, and who can give a javelin
thrust through and through a lot of old dogmas
that our fathers thought solid rook, can yet go
down, Tartar fashion, on all fours, and crawl up
to a throne licking the dust all the way ? It is an
insult to modern manhood to see these lick-spittle
gentry crawling, and did wo not know, from ex.
amples, in re bishops and titled nobodics nearer
home, that this ridiculous cringing is still all too
universal, we should ascribe it to a bitter and con-
temptuous cynicism. But it is not that. There is
a class of people who will crawl and cringe before
power or wealth simply because it is power
and wealth. And the humiliating thing about
it is that this crawling is not contlned to
the ignorant, but is followed by people who
know, or ought to know, that a prince is ne
more than a wealthy young gentleman, born
In better circumstances than we are, by chance
and our own convenience representing our nation,
and by choice and free will worthy or not worthy
to be spoken of as our King. But to set him up as
a judge of art, or of coach-building*, or anything
else, and to snigger when he smiles, and weep and
pray when he gets a fever or sprains his ankle, is
to be Faugh 1 There’s no Plain English for it.
The Sydney Morning Herald says:—“Obvi-
ously It will be most absurd to say that no aliena-
tion of the foreshores of Port JacksoD hould take
place.” It seems to us that the boot is on the
other leg, the obvious absurdity being the enunci-
ation of so conservative a proposition. Not an
inch of foreshore should ever have been alienated
For legitimate bona fide trade purposes certain
foreshores might be leased under reasonable con-
ditions, but the State should make its face flint
against the present practice of private persons
running the fences of their private estates down
to the water’s edge, thereby preventing a suitable
breadth of the foreshores being one continuous
public reserve. As to those cases where private
fences have been run down to the water’s edge
without such an authority as an alienation of a
portion of the foreshore confers, the law should
be set in motion against the offenders without
scruple or hesitation.
♦
Mr. Thomas Garrett maintains (not that he is
an authority) that if the Legislative Assembly
raise the salary of their Speaker, they must also
assent to the raising of the salary of the President
of the Legislative Council, since they must regard
the two positions as being equal with each other.
This allegment that it is necessary to regard the
two positions as equal is sheer “rot.” The two
positions are not equal. The Speaker of the
Assembly has at least three times as much work
to do as the President of the Legislative Council;
and, besides, his Iwork is of a far more arduous
character, entailing ;a far greater strain both on
the physical and intellectual capacities. A real
smart man ought to preside in the Representative
Chamber, whereas any old woman, who is not an
absolute idiot, is equal to the task of filling
the chair of our “ Lords.” As for the comparative
dignity of the two billets, nsthing need be said
about that, since dignitylis an article there’s no
necessity to pay for. What the State is willing to
pay for is capable work; and, of two officials, the
one who does the more work should get the more
pay. It should be remembered (not that we attach
peculiar importance to British precedents) that to
the most dignified position in the English Cabinet,
the office of Lord Chancellor excepted, viz., that
of Lord President of the Council, the lowest
ministerial salary is attached, for the reason that
the post is almost a sinecure. As for the difference
between the “screws” of the Speaker of the
English Commons (£5000), and the Speaker of the
Lords (£10,000) it is to be noted that the last-named
official is Lord Chancellor, with important legal
functions to discharge over and above the duties
of his speakership.
WnETnER the tram - conductor, Martin, was
dealing with his own property, or acting as jackall
for his superintendent in raffling diamond studs
among his fellows, he was guilty of a gross error
of judgment. He should not have “gone alone.”
Considering that he secured 73 subscribers at half-
a-sovereign each, for studs which cost £lf, there
was an ample margin to work on. He should have
dubbed his little speculatien a “grand distribu.
tion” ora “Tontine;” he should have announced
that the studs would be given away, and he
should have secured a number of members
of Parliament as a “committee.” In this
way his margin of profit might have been
reduoed, but he should have found no difficulty in
having the consent of the Attorney-General pro-
cured to his enterprise as an Art Union, and, in
lieu of being liable to a prosecution, he would
have been able to figure in excellent company as
an encourager of the Fine Arts. It is only a differ-
ence of name, truly. The lottery and the plunder
would have been quite as real, but it is distinctly
something to be associated with patriot members
of Parliament and prominent patrons of the Young
Men’s Christian Association, under the sanction of
the authorities, instead of being liable to prosecu-
tion.
Thh Kates or Subscription to iuju Kulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 12s. 6d.
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Kates are 6s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance oan bo made on advertise
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
he made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony ma bo sent, if more convenient.
Lager beer, which, 30 years ago, was prac-
tically unkuown in America, is now made by 2500
immense establishments, with over £30,000,000
° f thiS productioa each year
There’s a story going the rounds of the
papers just now touching a piece of smart work
on the part of the police in Nevada, and in all
probability the tale is a lie, or it wouldn’t be
caught on to quite so readily; but the following
tells of a still smarter job and has the merit of be-
ing perfectly true as well. The story is that on a
certain day in 1853, a highway robbery was com-
mitted across the border at 6 a.m.; the robbers
were captured, and, as the Court happened to be
then sitting, they were tried at 9 a.m. and sent-
enced to two years’ imprisonment. At 1 p.m. thev
were lodged in the Beechworth gaol; at 3 p.m.
they escaped, and at 6 p.m. they carefully stuck-
up the gold escort in the most tradesman-like
manner possible. Bight there, however, the
smartness ended, but it is satisfactory, (to a certain
extent) to know that the police firmly believe to
this day that, they have a clue as to the where-
abouts of the robbers.
“Lend ’s your umbrella am innit, old ’un,”
said Jones, as he rushed in during the wet spell on
Cup Day. Wo laid our gold-tipt pen on the walnut
table, put our gold-rimmed glasses up, and, looking
at Jones, asked if he would stay and sign a mort-
gag M Wh y- 1 OD ‘y wanted
We still looked at Jones, as he moved to-
wards our portable property, and gently removing
it beyond his reach, we observed, ** Ifou only want
to run across the street. Yes, we know. YouDg
n*??’ .that's what they all say. Man warns but
little here below, but when he wants his umbrella
he w-ants it. Our umbrella is not an article of
great value ; it is gingham, and it is green, but
when the rains descend and the winds blow we
want it up on deck all the time. We have known
people who have listened to the song of the siren
who came to borrow umbrellas, until they have
been transformed into a people without an urn-
mella between them and the storms of heaven,
were not that kind of green sapling. Will you
sign a mortgage ?” Jones drew back his eager
hand, and walked across our velvet pile carpet
and down our marble steps into the inclement
outwardness.


Denominational
DROPS
Fancy Reuter taking the trouble to wire
along from England that the BUhop-elect of
Biverina is on the cadge for his new diocese 1
Celava &c’
There is a rumour amongst the Roman
Catholics across the border that the Rev. Lord
Archbishop Douglas, brother of the giddy little
Lady Florence Dixie, is likely to be appointed
coadjutor Bishop to Archbishop Goold. All we
pant for now is to hear that Florrie herself has
been appointed Mother Superior of a convent.
Shade of the Abbess in Tambour Major! wouldn’t
things go high if that eventuated.
Why on earth should a copy of the Queen’s
mandate to the Archbishop of Canterbury, em-
powering him to consecrate as a bishop her trusty
Dalli-ance!
And woli-beloved Sydney Linton, be published in
the N.S.W. Government Gazette !? Detween the
Government of this colony and the Established
Church of England there is no connection what-
ever, and what Her Majesty does in the old coun-
try as Head of the Church has no official significa-
tion out here, neither should it receive official
recognition.
“It is rumoured.” says the Rum, “ that the
Bishop desires to sell or let Bishopthorpe, and to
live in the city, so that he may be in the midst of
the people whom he desires to serve. very
neatly nut, O Rum, and certainly deserving of
many an Anglican advt.; but Dr. Barry is bishop
(exclusive of his metropolitan and prim atial
powers) of other souls than those who tenant
bodies resident in the city of Sydney. To be in
the midst of his people, he should be somewhere
about Camden. His own convenience in doing
the work is the real reason why he wants to live ia
the city. That’s what’s the matter- and also to be
near the Rum office 1
Westminster Abbey is in a gruesome state
of decay, and there are no capitu'ar funds where-
with to restore it, revenue which should have been
devoted to the purpose of repairs haying been for
years past scandalously misappropriated. Quite
lately, the Dean and Chapter wasted some
£lO,OOO in building perfectly useless houses for two
of the Canons in the College garden, and also a
house in the cloisters for sinecunst J°hn Thynne .
the Receiver. Six ltesidentiaries at the Abbey
have £lOOO a year each and a capital house; and
there are, moreover, six Minor Canons, each of
whom also enjoys a free house. The two largest
and best Canons’ houses actually stand closed and
empty during ten months in the year, as Canon 3
Prothero and Duckworth aro never to be seen at
Westminster except during the two months of
their residence. It is needless to state that the
canonical houses are in the very best repair-
In the posthnmous volume of “Essays by
‘ George Eliot’” (just published) occurs the sub-
joined bit of trenchaut satire on the “ evangelical”
parson:—“ Given a man with moderate intellect, a
moral standard not higher than the average, some
rhetorical affluence and great glibness of speech,
what is the career in which, without the aid of
birth or money, he may most easily obtain power
and reputation in English society ? Where is that
Goshen of mediocrity in which a smattering of
science and learning will pass for profound instruc-
tions, where platitudes will be accepted as wisdom,
bigoted narrowness as holy zeal, unctuous egoism
as God-given pietv ? Let such a man become an
Evangelical preacher. . . . Let him fish for
souls, not with the bait of inconvenient singular-
ity, but with the drag-net of comfortable con-
formity. Let him be hard and literal in his in-
terpretation only when he wants to hurl texts at
the heads of unbelievers and adversaries, but,
when the letter of the Scriptures presses too close-
ly on the genteel Christianity of the nineteenth
century, let him use his spiritualising alembic and
disperse it into impalpable ether. . . The clergy
are, practically, the most irresponsible of all
talkers.”
A meeting was held the other day to take
into consideration the case oi Rice, who is under
sentence of death. Amongst others who were pre-
sent was the Venerable The Archdeaoon of Cum-
berland, who, in the course of his remarks, de-
clared that he wished it to be understood that he
could not take «ny part in any action which might
be taken by the meeting, since, for many years
past, he had considered it to be his duty to keep
clear of interference with the laws in cases of that
kind. Why, then, in the name of goodness, did
the venerable party go to that meeting ? And,
only fancy a professing Minister of the Divine
Compassion considering it his dutv, in such a case,
to keep clear of interference with the laws, as
though it were not rather a duty of a servant of
Christ to strive, even to the uttermost, with the
administrators of cruel statutes, if, preadventure,
he may wrest an unfortunate from the jaws of
destruction. We have it, though—Mr. Archdeacon
is on the “Ecclesiastical Establishment” ( vide
Blue Book) for £2OO a year, hence there’s prudence
in his “keeping clear of interference with the
laws in cases of that kind.” If it were to admin-
ister spiritual comfort, now. to a poor devil about
to be turned off, we don’t doubt but what the
Archdeaeon would, Parson-Bedford-like, be all
there.
Bishop Barry in his Good Friday preach-
ment made the following remark “Do we ask
—How could this atonement be needed? We dare
not seek to answer. When men have done so.
even the deep insight of a St. Augustine saved
him not from answers which sinned against the
conscience of man and against the love of God.
No. my brethren, we seek not to answer ” Now
doesn’t that remind one of the good Father in
Saint-Evremond’s “Conversation du Marechal
d’Hocqaincourt avec le Pore Canaye ? ” AVhen the
Marshal said he would go to the stake for religion
without knowing why, the father said “ in a tone
slightly nasal but very devout”:—“‘l don’t
know why.’ What beautiful words 1 They ought
to be written in letters of gold 1 That is true
religion, that is. How gracious Providence has
been to you 1” Beliefs built on a “we dare not
seek to answer” or an “I don’t know why ” make
the sceptic sing—
“ The garment of faith on a body of doubt
May be pretty, but truth bids me go without I ”
Congregational parson Forsaith just re-
turned from doing a two years’ tour in Europe;
met with a Simla loss to that sustained by Bishop
Barry, his sermons, curios, notes of travels, &c.,
being now at the bottom of the English Channel.
Possibly a judgment on—dry sermons.
From careful calculations, it is estimated
that the revenue of the Church of England, is
nearly £10,000,000 per annum. The larger portion
of this enormous sum is manipulated by the Ec-
clesiastical and Church-rates Commission, the
offices of whioh are in Whitehall. This Commis-
sion pays the prelates t.heir incomes, which range
from £15,000 a year to the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, to £2OOO, to the Bishop of Sodor and Man.
There are two archbishops and thirty-two bishops.
Of these, twenty-four have seats in the House of
Lords, Then come thirty deans, who have in-
comes ranging from £3OOO to £7OO, the average
being £1450 each. Of course, if the Church of
England were the Church of the English people,
no objection could be taken to it as an institution;
the people in that case would be simply paying for
what they wanted; but it has been found that less
than ten per cent, of the English people patronise
the State Church. The Church of England Avas
founded by the nobility, for the benefit of the
nobility, and this being so, who are the English
clergy? For the most part, the dunces of the
families of the “ swells.” In most of these families
it is the custom for one son to suoceed his father;
a second to secure a snug berth in the civil service;
a third to go into the army; and the one who is
incompetent for any lay occupation, is generally
found a fat living in the Church. This is no mere
assertion. It can be verified by anyone who is
curious enough, by comparing the names in the
books of the Peerage, nobility, and gentry, with
those in the Clergy List receiving the highest
salaries.
Anglican Primate Barry gazetted last
Thursday as registered for the celebration of
marriages —Dean Dwyer, 0.5.8. dead. A Bun-
gendore native. For many years engaged at
Lyndhurst College.
We have been challenged to a duel. Before
the genius whom we employ as reader has done
misplacing the commas, and mixing together the
“ d's ” and “ g’s ” in this light-hearted par, we may
have fought one, and the other man be wearing
th® customary woolen suit of black; but it’s not
our fault. The facts are brief. Just f our weeks
ago we saw it stated in an exchange that a north-
ern editor had seen a three-legged chicken. We
innocently remarked in our next issue that when-
ever we heard of a northern editor seeing three-
legged chickens we knew exactly what was the
matter. We had almost forgotten these circum-
stances till two days ago, when a gaunt-looking
man, with a terra-cotta coloured nose, and a voice
like a foghorn, called. We were out, so the religi-
ous editor saw him. He said he was the man who
had seen that three-legged chicken, and he wanted
to wipe out the imputation cast upon his social
habits. The “ wipe ” was to include us. He ex-
plained that he was prepared to start, straight
away, on our granting him the briefest interview.
AVe were out; and we kept out. But when our
religious editor had politely bowed the three 1 !)
legged chicken-seer down the marble steps, w©
thought it only courteous to answer his challenge
We wrote!—Deaf Slf,—ltt polite acknowledge*
meat of your card of honour, we cannot express
our regret at missing you. Are you really in
earnest ? If so, this three-legged chicken business
will get you Into trouble. In the name of
humanity, we hesitate to accept your challenge,
for our hands have been too often imbrued with
the blood of our fellow men. You might not be
aware, sir, that we have filled countless gilgai
holes and dry gullies with the whitening bones of
such rash chaps as you. If we fought you, we
should insist on doing so in your native town of
Mudgeryboo, as a matter of convenience to your
afflicted wife, and economy to the family in your
funeral expenses. If we fought you. next sum-
mer the withered grasses would droop o’er your
grave, and the dry leaves would drift with every
gust of the mournful breeze that sighs your sad
requiem. If we fought you, the curlews would
scream above your lonely resting place by the
dank gum swamp; and as the bereaved family sat
round their incomplete supper-table your little
Tommy would plaintively ask : “ Mammy, why
don’t Dad come home; is he drunk again ?” No,
sir, we will not fight you, even if you paid our
expenses up to Mudgeryboo. Our humanity for-
bids the deed. But we may take this opportunity
of explaining that it was an editor in the southern
part of the colony to whose ridiculous statement,
that he saw a three-legged chicken, our article re-
ferred. We have not heard since from the gaunt
man with the terra-ootta ooloured nose; but we
are writing our leading articles up in the top flat
for a while.


Persoanl Itmes
Mrs. G. E. Millais (a relative of the cele-
brated painter) was to accompany Mrs. Langtry
on her now discarded professional tour through-
out the colonies. As Miss Minnie Bell, this lady was
well and favourably known on both sides of the
Atlantic.
For their work in the Soudan (including
that heroic offer of a price upon their worthy foe-
man’s head)|Graham and Hewitt are to be G.C.8.-ed,
and Redvers Buller, John Davis, and Herbert Stew-
art 1t.C.8.-ed. There is to be no medal for El Teb—
Wolseley wasn’t there, d’ye see.
The Japanese commander-in-chief sent his
Bon, some year or two since, to be a student at
Wilbraham Academy, U.B.A. Much to his chagrin
he received a letter a few months ago to tell him
his son had become a Wesleyan Methodist. By
return of post the Japanese warrior disinherited
his boy.
Simon Slabbs, of Townsville (Q.), believes
that when contractor Btehford pans out in this
field and accosts Bt. Peter at the gates of heaven,
his first utterance will be, “ Come Inside, and have
a wet, old man.” Simon, when he believed that,
had Just returned from the turning of the first sod
of the Cooktown railway, on the occasion of which
there had been a very high old time generally, with
Bashford well In the van.
According to a rural rag, when Gundagai
Bailey proposed In “ a very thin house ” that
Bruce Smith shonld be asked to throw up the
Mponge at once, one of the audience suggested that
flie occasion was hardly opportune, whereupon
the chairman, amidst other naughty language
roared “ You shut up, or I’ll knock your head
against the wall.” We’d like to hang out at Gun-
dagi for a season, if only for the sake of raking up
a few pious pars, for some of the religious papers.
One of Mark Twain’s latest jokes is that
which he perpetrated at a dinner to which he was
but a short time back invited. He had been noti-
The Butcher Shops to be Closed on Sundays!
fled that his health would be drunk during the
evening, and it was. But Mark was armed and
equipped. He drew from his pocket a large roll of
manuscript, and proceeded to read to his
astonished auditors, that he was entirely taken by
Surprise, was wholly unprepared to reply, and so
on, as is customery with after-dinner speakers.
Hoars of laughter followed the hit.
The British Divoroe Court holla that Lord
Huston’s marriage with Kitty Cooke was legal and
Valid, on the ground that though Cooke, her
alleged first husband (Euston is tho third), is still
alive, he had a wife living when he led Kate to the
altar. Euston must console himself with the re-
flection thak no fsmalo depravltv can possibly
reach a lower depth than that attained by his an-
cestress, Barbara, the false wife of Palmer, the
still falser mistress of the “mutton-eating” king,
the mother, by Charles or the L ml knows who, of
Grafton’s first duke.
Walter Francis, sth Duke of Buocleugh
and Queensbury, Marquis of Dumfriesshire. Earl
of Drumlanrig, etc., in Scotland, and Earl of Don-
rer in England, has gone to his own place, aged
He was the largest landowner In Scotland,
and had besides a pretty good slice in England.
He built the deep harbour and port of Granton ;
and when the Patronage Abolition Act of ’74 was
passod ho waived all claims to compensation al-
though the ohief patron of Scotoh livings. He
was g. g. g. grandson of Buccleugh, by Monmouth,
Charles IPs bastard out of Lucy Walters.
A oertain Bryce, who was formerly tutor
In a school where Lord Cairns was Instructed in
the three Rte, is vexed that any newspaper should
have darerf to suggest that Lord Cairn’s grand-
father was a tradesman. “ Every one,” he had
thought, “ knew that his grandfather was a gentlo-
man, living on his fortune,” and the indignant
\Bryoe has moved that all such newspapers should
be excluded from some society for the promotion
of knowledge which owns him as a member,
because “ their information respecting the upper
Classes is misleading.” Bryce is patently a snob of
the very first water.
•Jack the Barber,” of Malmsbury (Vio.),
taowed many a man in his time, and now the old
reaper has slouched along and mowed Jack. In
better days, Jack was known as Professor J.
Woodmansey, tonsorial artist, Richmond, and was
ni a fair way to fortune. Whilst there, he stood
for Parliament against the late J. G. Francis, and
■o great was his popularity that he was only beaten
by three votes. Years after, ho came down to the
level of Mr. Woodmansey, hair-cutter; then a
Btill lower Avernus was gradually reached till, as
plain “ Jack the Barber,” he handed in his checks
8t the Kyneton Hospital last Friday week. He
ial half-an-hour after admission, and so King
Alcohol swrdd another win.
A member of the Dominion Legislature
says, anent Lord Lansdowne“ He is the best
Governor we’ve had for a long while. He is the
first one that's talked to me in many years. Lome
used to’talk at a person, not to him, and you always
felt that the conversation was on a formal basis.
Dufferin talked with \ ou instead of to you. He
always seemed to be saying to himself, ‘Ain’t I
doing this nicely ? Here I am, a lord and a great
genius, and I am actually indulging in a free-and-
easy chat with a plebeian.’ But Lord Lansdowne
talked to me frankly, pleasantly, and with an
evident interest in what I told him.”
Architect Rowe, in his speech in reply to
the toast of his same at the banquet accorded him
the other day, sought to disarm post-mortem criti-
cism of his oppressive style by anticipatorily re-
marking that •* he would be satisfied with this
epitaph (we quote the Noozk) ‘Lie on him heavily
earth, for many a load he has laid on thee.’ ” The
epitaph that Rowe had in his mind was, of course,
Dr. Evans’ couplet on Vanbrugh:—
“Lieheavy on him, earth, for he
Laid many a heavy load on thee.”
But why did he misquote it ? or was the Nooze in
fault? Anyway, the correct version will suit
Rowe to a T, for of his heaviness there isn’t a
doubt.
The literary nature is not always made of
poroelain. Now and then, indeed, it is hardly
human. Byron had “no genius for friendship.”
Pope was irritable and malignant. Gray was a
prig. Fielding was something worse. Burns was
a compound of “dirt and deity.” Milton had but
one friend-a gloomy Quaker with a taste for
Greek. His first wife ran away from him before
the honeymoon was over, disgusted with “ his
spare diet and hard study.” Young, with all his
sentiment, was a false friend and a harsh father.
Sterne only grew sentimental when he took up a
pen. Madame de Stael was a bore of the first
water. Erskine and Coleridge were Intolerable
when they got upon “Trial by Jury” or meta-
physics. Curran was quite as much of a buffoon
as a wit; and even Grattan now and then was apt
to become very much like a “ sentimental
harlequin.”
Here’s the very latest treasonable utter-
ance against our “Mr. Wales.” Scene: fashion-
able costumier’s emporium. Prince: “No, I
don’t; want a King Charles, or Louis XIV. cos-
tume this time. I want a Poor Joe suit.” Cos-
tumier: “Oh, I see—private theatricals on. It’s
for a lady, I presume? ’ “ No; I want it for my-
self.” “Granessgoodehiousl For yourself, my
liege ? And are you going to play Poor Jo ?”
“No, I am not going to play anything“ Pa-
rdon me, then, your Highness, but I really cannot
get up a fancy costume unless 1 know what it's
for”- “Well, keep it dark; but fact is, Alex-
andra won’t let me go to seo Mary Anderson any
more, but I notice in the papers that Mary—the
divine Mary—is going to personally attend a dinner
to destitute boys, and to pour out their tea with
her own dear, lily-white, alabaster hands. Hast
thou noticed that?” “Yes; I saw that in the
Times.” “ Well, I want to go as one of those des-
titute boys. Oh, sweet Maryl Oh, Anderson the
angelic I Exit Mr. Wales to lay the foundation
stone of a foundling hospital.
This is downright mean. Old Earl Cairns
is evidently trying to pull a poor mouth already,
and plead poverty as a fishy setoff against the
just claims of the Finney one. Anyway, the
Argonaut says: “ Earl Cairns, who is hot by any
means rich, and owes most of the wealth he pos-
sesses to the gift of his brother-in-law. Robert
M Calmont, recently deceased, can ill afford the
one hundred thousand dollars which he will cer-
tainly, by settlement or by verdict, be compelled
to pay for his son's indefensible conduct to Miss
ForteBcue.” And we say to the Argonaut, Ah,
go not on with any more similar rubbish! Many a
better man than the Earl has had to part with more
than he could well afford. By the way, the old
Earl himself, when poor and struggling in early
lito, was jilted by an heires*, and felt it keenly.
This looks as if Nemesis dealt out punishment first
and then let the crime follow on at its- leisure.
Earl Cairns is about as popular as the small-pox in
his native Belfast, to whose adoption as a Parlia-
mentary pet when young he chietiy owed his quick
advar cement. Since obtaining the full measure of
his ambition, he has never visited the foundation
of his fortunes, but resides wholly at Bournemouth
and in Scotland. However, the Earl(y) bird has
got the worm this time.
The late Dr. Jenkins was a great favourite
with the employes of Callandoou station (O.), in
which property he owned a large interest. Their
appreciation and admiration of the Dr. culmi-
nated when, in persuanco of a promise, made on
the occasion of one of his yearly visits - to make to
all thoso boundary-riders and shepherds who
should have their paddocks and flocks in good
order, a handsome Christmas present he re-
deemed his pledge in the following- eminently
satisfactory manner. Inspection day came and so
did the Dr. and a spring-cart, laden, to the excited
imagination of the bucolics, with all manner of
nice things. Nor were they disappointed. The
worthy Doc., remembering the sacred season of
thanksgiving and good cheer, had managed admir-
ably to provide for the wants, spiritual and tem-
poral, or his faithful and attached servants, to
each of whom he presented, accompanied by an
appropriate address, a brand new oopy of the
Holy Soriptilres, together with a tin baking dish,
also perfectly new, and of the latest pattern,
some of the happy recipients were affected almost
to tears at the sight of so much benevolence
and forethoughi, whilst others, seemingly unable
to fully express their sense of such liberality,
stood as in a trance, whilst with a fervent “ God
bless ye all,” the good man drove away.
Tawhiao is the “ first kingly wearer of the
emblematic blue ribbon,” or so, at least, Mr. Tem-
perance Glover styled the Maori; monarch, when
he called to offer him his watery congratulations,
at Williamstown. Considering that Tawhiao still
wears a shark's tooth as a pendant to his right ear,
we can’t help thinking that the “ bit of blue ”
must be rather a heathen badge; but no matter,
it’s going to accomplish great things for the Maori
i race, “who, through the example of their king,
will have a powerful claim on the sympathy and
the prayers of the whole world, and especially of
Christian England.” Now, to take th« blue ribbon
and have the whole world start praying for you,
looks like very goed business, so it’s not to be
wondered at that one of Tawhiao’s chiefs, who
had hitherto been deaf to the voice of the charmer,
“knocked under” at this Williamstown interview,
and permitted Mr. Glover to pin the ribbon to his
coat. This visit of Mr. G.’s was rather a Provi-
dential affair, we fancy, because, later in the day,
all the dusky converts were taken to the Exhibi-
tion, where, in due course, “ a select company ad-
journed to the board room, and a cake and wine
banquet was provided.” We never, ourselves,
attended a banquet consisting solely of cake and
wine, but should imagine that it offered terrible
inducements to indulge—especially to a Maori
king, just fresh from looking at a lot of machinery
and pictures. However, such was the still power-
ful influence of Glover’s oratory, that Tawhiao
hardened his heart against the juice of the grape,
and “contented himself with a glass of lemon-
ade.” After that he attended a concert under the
dome, and (vide paper) “seemed much impressed
with Miss Howard’s rendering of ‘ Let me dream
again.’” Poor fellow! he, too, was dreaming,
doubtless, of old times—and “fire-water.”
Dr. Segol, who was champagned from
Inverell t’other day, en route to la belle France, was
a clever, though at times rather crotchety, medico.
But he will be greatly missed in the district, for his
professional charity was boundless. Indifference
—to put it mildly—to person and dress, with some-
thing more than a mere penchant for Bukkulla
“red and white,” were failings, certainly, but
trifles light as air when weighed in the balance
with the many acts of unostentatious benevolence
to the poorer classes. For the last few years the
doctor’s eyesight has been failing, and his memory
has ceased to be retentive as of yore. Still, having
had a large and pretty lucrative practice, he
should, and doubtless has, “ pulled it in ” to an
extent sufficient to enable him to end his days in
comfort and retirement. Dr. Segol has, in common
with many others, a most inveterate hatred of
goats’ flesh, often affirming that he would sooner
starve than partake thereof. But on one occasion,
having prescribed for a poor patient’s diet “ a
tender chop of mutton,” the man’s wife anxiously
enquired whether a chop of goat would not do as
well, mutton being scarce at the time. In the
most utter disgust, old Segol shrugged up his
shoulders, and emphatically turned up his nose,
exclaiming “Pah! Goatl No, no. Dam! it would
keel heem at once.” However, it was goat or
nothing; and, next day, the doctor entering the
house sniffed hungrily round the camp-oven, and
at last, as it was near dinner time, demanded to
know the contents—“ for it does smell goode.”
After making a hearty meal off the much-despised
“ nanny,” he enquired where the delicious " mou-
ton ” came from, averring that he had tasted no-
thing like it for many a day. Then it came out.
“Veil, veil!” said the old doc., “and so dat is de
goat, eh? Ah, veil, it la ve-ry goode.” Then,
seizing a piece of paper, he carefully wrapped up
the remainder, remarking to the astonished hostess
“ Yes, it is ver-y goode, and I sail take dis home to
my vife.”
A Royal Commission was lately appointed
by the Imperial Government to inquire into the
grievances of the Scotch crofters, and pursued its
investigations in—among other places—the Orkney
Islands. The likelihood of the inquiry eliciting
full and acourate information may be understood
by one incident. When the Commission was sit-
ting in Kirkwall, an Orkney landlord, Major-
General Burroughs, manfully refused to undertake
that crofters on his estate who might give evidence
before the Commission would suffer no ill conse-
quences. In spite of this frank declaration, a
couple of crofters, quite as straightforward as
their landlord, gave testimony. Major-General
Burroughs thereupon promptly evicted them
without compensation from houses which they
had built at their own expense or with their
own labour. This is a very good specimen
case. General Burroughs is neither a sneak
nor a coward. He is simply what land-
lordism and irresponsible power over tenantry
make of a determined man. When we first saw
him is so long ago that we don’t remember what
he was like. He was then a guest in the house
where he is now master, and was doing some shoot-
ing on contingent lands owned by a relative. The
next time we saw him he had commenced his
military career as Ensign in the 93rd Highlanders.
He had driven out to show himself in his new
uniform, and a dapper little figure he was. At
that time Ensign Burroughs was the smallest
oificer in the British army. But he was full of
pluok, as his subsequent career proved. Distin-
guished himself at Sebastopol, and notably in the
Indian Mutiny, where he received a C. 8., and, we
think, also a V.C. He rose to the command of his
famous regiment, and ultimately succeeded to the
estate of Witness, in the Island of Rousay, as the
heir by will of a connection who had nearer
relatives who bore his own name. General Bur-
roughs can’t even claim right of descent for the
heavy hand which he presses upon his tenantry.
Charles Reade, novelist and dramatist,
died the other day. He was was born in ’l4, a son
of Jack Reade of Ipsden, a jolly Oxfordshire
squire. Educated.'at home, he entered Magdalen
College, Oxon, graduated 3rd class in classics in
’B6, obtained a college fellowship and after-
wards the Vinerian Fellowship. In 1843 he was
called to the bar but he never practised. His first
novels were “Christie Johnstone” and “Peg
Woffington” (1853). Then came “It’s never too
late to mend ” ( 56). “ The course of True Love ”
and “White Lies” (’57). “Cream” containing
“Jack of all Trades and “Autobiography of a
Thief” (’5B). "Love me little, love me long”
(59). "The eighth commandment ”(60). “Cloister
and Hearth ” fei). “Hard cash” (63). “Griffith
Gaunt”(’66). “Foul Play” (68). “Put yourself
in his place ” (’7O). “ A Terrible Temptation ” (’7l)
“A Simpleton” (’73). “The Wandering Heir”
(’75). “A hero and martyr” (’76). “A Woman
hater” (’77). Intensely egotistic and eccentric,
Reade as a novelist was terse, epigrammatic
direct, fresh, dramatic. His plots were well-knit
stirring, possible. His power and skill in deline-
ating character were great. Several of his novels
were written with a purpose ex. gr. “ Hard Cash ” to
expose the ill-working of private lunatic asylums,
and “Never too late to mend” that of convict
Srisons, Those that had no such aim, though, are
is best. Burnand has admirably hit off Reade’s
chief faults in that admirable skit, “A Treble
Temptation ” by the great, the unique Juff, with
its appropriate finish, “ So let us end with a couplet
of one of England’s greatest writers
* Where is the man of truest stuff,
The best, the greatest . . It is Juff.’ ”
As a dramatist Reade also won considerable fame
He wrote “ Gold ” (’5O) ; “ Two Loves and a Life ’*
(’54); “The Wandering Heir” (’75); “The Scuttled
Ship’ (’77); and adapted Zola’s “L’Assommoir”under
the nume of " Drink.” With Tom Taylor, he wrote
‘The King's Rival” (’54); and “Masks and Faces’
(’54) ; and with Henry Petitt “Love and Money ”
Although Reade never dropped into poetry he
may not inaptly be called the English Victor
Hugo, since, like that great Frenchman, he pos-
sessed a superb imaginative gift, and excelled in
dramatic power, analysis of character and auda-
cious effect.
it is astonishing (writes to us a correspon-
dent from Paris) what a number of Australians
one rubs against in Paris, though they hardly take
as kindly to the gay city as do Americans. Hardly
a day passes but I see some well-known face from
Sydney or Melbourne on the boulevards. We are
expecting two distinguished arrivals in;the persons
of Messrs. Joe and Barney Thompson, who have
been feted no end by their sporting friends in
London. They are to be entertained here, I
believe, by one of the Leviathans of the ring.
They will find racing here to their hearts’ content.
It is wonderful how the French have taken to the
Isthmian games. Every day in the week almoft
there is racing at some place within half an hour
of Paris, for in addition to Longchamps and
Auteuii (where steeplechasing is now in full swing)
we have Vincennes, Enghien, Maison-Lafltte, fat.
Germain, Vesinet, and St. Ouen, besides the small
meetings at Fontainbleau. There is quite an epi-
demic of duelling just now. In most of the cases,
words being the weapons used, little harm is done;
but last week the meeting between Mons. Lepel-
letier. Editor of the Reveil, and Visrdot, the
well-known violinist, was muoh more serious. The
cause of quarrel is not known, but ‘ lovely woman’
is again suspected—be this as it may, the chosen
weapons were pistols, and the distance 25 paces,
with the right of advancing five, making the actual
distance, 15, rather uncomfortably close quarters.
The first shot resulted in a miss to each, but on tie
pistols being reloaded, Mons. Lepelletier fired thu
quicker of the two, and hit Viardot in the region
of the heart, but a rib fortunately diverted the
ball—the latter (who did not fire immediately) was
about to fire in the air, when his adversary called
upon him to aim at him, which invitation he ac-
cepted, and shot poor Lepelletier in the groin. He
is in a bad way, as the surgeons cannot extract the
ball, and it is feared he will die. In one of the late
bulletins I read a paragraph concerning Cora
Pearl. I saw her yesterday in the street, looking,
oh! such a hag. She is awfully hard up, and has
been trying itonwithPlon Plon again, but with-
out avail—the old boy prefers something more
juvenile. Baroness von Haeckel, whose boudoir
was paved with gold coins, is dead, and I hear that
the Baron is about to pull down her hotel in the
Avenue des Champs Elysees, and is going to build
it, stone for stone, in Germany—quite a romance.”
The Earl of Aylesford on his ranche in
Western Texas, seems to have so successfully
adapted himself to his new style of life as to have
earned the goodwill of his somewhat turbulent
neighbours, “ the cow-boys.” Every one at Big
Springs knows who “The Judge ” is (for it is as
The Judge” the Earl is known), and since he
first appeared on the Staked Plains last August, in
charge of one of Jay Gould's agents, he has man-
aged to make himself thoroughly at home. “The
Judge ” is content with a plain, unpainted frame-
house with but seven rooms in it, though the
interior, for a ranchman's, is handsomely decor-
ated. His household consists of five servants,
twenty horses, and twelve dogs; but though hia
ranche comprises 26,000 acres, the Earl has not yet
bought any cattle. His brother Daniel shares his
exile at present, and the pair spend their time in


Tla.© Reliable Biigrgries
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES*
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
J. a. Harborow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Valetta, 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades j
a Large Consignment of Ladies* and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS*
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOW BRS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—Tn all qualities.
STRAWS —In all new shapes.
{3?" Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
above line. A large stork of FANCY GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Stkeet, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
H. L. SUMMER FIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
XX. L. SUMMEKFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
336 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE*; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
<Sc SBI7CS
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
187 PITT ST., (Opposite Compagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Em Finis, Snitl Organs, and In Music.
Note the New Address—NEAß KING STREET.
THE SPECIAL GLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead of all
Competitors.
OUITbICYCLES have tha
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion every Customer.
Write to us,
on
Call on us.
Js
mm.
389 GEORGS STREET, STDNEV (Opposite Royal Hotel).
ririlntr. hunting, and having fun with tho “ cow-
who, call their new chum “The Judge,
IT brother being known as “The Kid.” Tbe
rarely sit down to a meal at which some of
Rthnbovs” are not present, and it is well known
for miles round Big springs that a fresh bottle of
ohampagn© is opened for every guest who drops
m n'or coolness, ingenuity, and grim humour,
nnp Mr Mawsonof “Wild Duck," Bendigo, holds
champion belt. It appears that this Mawson s
v,. other was recently discovered lying dead in a
wiserabl9 hovel, and upwards of £ISOO, in cash and
itefioSit receipts* were found stowed about the
The indueSt proved that the miser had
hifid froth heart disease, arid his brother, Who up
fo the hresfent has been a Sdrt Of a l,
IriddenlV began to take ,3 wanna interest in the
than,, and aldo in the £150??, which will pro-
bnblv f'aiiHo tlie said brother. No sooner had the
nolice nailed up the hut do* ttiart the life Mr.
Sfawson crawled (lown the chimney, and taking
tm old shot-gun out of a corner he fixed it at full
nock m the hapds of tpe dead Mr. jMawsqn, and
nointod the muzzle at tlnf door. This ,was done to
nrevent anyfeloniously inclineid persons from in-
truding on the dead man’s privacy. When, al}ve,
ho never cared for company, and his considerate
hrotber was determined he wouldn’t be troubled
in death either. The corpse did not actually say
ho wished to be alone, but he looked like a man
who did, and the live Mr. Mawson is by no means
slow at taking a gentle bint- Soon after this, the
magistrate, doctor, and constable of the dis-
trict arrived for the purpose of holding an
inauiry, and the constable had just re-
moved the door fastenings and observed it was
lucky the weather was cool as the beggar inside
had been dead three days, when ho suddenly dis-
covered the corpse was propped up in bed and had
him carefully covered with a gun. Two seconds
after, that constable was fully half a mile from
the seat of war, having first taken the precaution
to capsize the coroner and doctor and dash across
their prostrate bodies, “The man’s mad,’said
the medico as he picked the mud off the magis-
trate’s head and sat him up on a stump. 111 go
in myself.” So he did. And he also came out
again, at a pace that beat the policeman’s record
all to pieces. Subsequently, the coroner took a
siaht. and the time he did his mile in has never
vet been equalled. In all probability the dead
Mr Mawson would have been left “on the shoot
till the day of judgment if the live Mr. Ma; son
hadn’t turned up and explained his little joke,
and introduced the magisterial company. It was
then found the corpse’s finger was so firmly fixed
round the trigger that it was with the greatest
difficulty that it could be removed. A tumbler,
and a half-emptied bottle of brandy stood beside
the bed and the brother explained their presence
by saying he drank his brother's health before
starting off to lay an information.
Jamei Campbell, the Victorian Postmaster-
General, is a wealthy young Ballarat man. and the
son of an Iron merchant. He is about 30, a good
cricketer, debater, and scholar, and about the
worst-dressed man in Australia. Before he went
into politics he read up and travellet for some
years in England and on the Continent. He was
beaten two or three times in Ballarat West, be-
cause he wouldn’t be dictated to by Bateman of
the Courier, Major Smith, R. T. Vale, and the
other wire-pullers of the Berry party who con-
trolled all tbe electorates within fifty miles of
Ballarat. He got in last year for the Upper House,
and Mr. Service, in selecting him for his present
post, has been guided by a desire to have a young
man with plenty of go as well as plenty of steadi-
ness. He is great in Sunday-school work amongst
the Wesleyans, but, strange to say, won’t preach.
It is, indeed, a subject of anxious doubt amongst
many of the brethren who boriow money from
him whether ho was over properly and soundly
converted, or whether he is not unde- that
subtle delusion of Satan which is ruining so
many of our souls, Vta., that a good moral life
will lead.usto the happy land where congregations
ne’er break up, and where the collection box may
be filled from chips off the kerbstone. Certain it
Is, he contrives to be superintendent of the finest
Sunday-school in Australia, gets it decorated, and
fitted with vases and flowers, and has musical
services where people who ting through their
noses are told Very firmly to shut up, and ail this
with theological notions which, if written out,
would make John Wesley kick off the top of his
coffin, go down to the beaeh, plunge in and swim
round the Cape of Good Hope, steer steadily on,
crawl out at Hobson’s Bay, just shake himself, put
on a dry shirt, tramp up via Bacchus Marsh and
Gordon, rest in an abandoned shaft ou the Eureka,
ask a Chinaman when Sunday was, and what in
thunder was meant by hanging up wirts on tall
posts, and running carriages without horses, and
then crawl around to that Sunday-3chool as a
visitor, and lie quiet till Campbell stood up
to give out a hvrnn. He would then re-
mark—" Brother Campbel,, will you do me
the favour to look me in the eye and tell
me whether you believe in hell.” And Camp
bell would leave his threepenny with a brother
worshipper to be paid into the box at the right
time, and leap through the window and down the
Bacchus Marsh road following the old man’s
tracks, plunge in a header from Sandridge pier,
and the cable men at the Cape light house would
report him off the coast still swimming strong and
hearing due north with westerly breezes, and a
mouthful of raw albatross and no measles aboard.
Just after passing the Eddyston light-house he
would a point or two so as to dodge a chop-
ping sea and avoid running his head against an
immigrant ship bringing out Sydney labourers
at the expense of the Queensland. Government.
In the meantime, Wesley, having examined the
teachers, and referred to the shocking Jatitudi-
narianism of John Osborne, would pronounce the
benediction, pull out his watch, empty the sea
water out of it, pour in a drop of kerosene to
prevent rust, and start back once more to the
grave. Arrived at the spot he will have a little
tiff because the sexton isn’t Quick at taking off the
stone, and jump in. Should he meet Campbell be
would turn to the question of hell, point to the
collected edition of his works in forty volumes,
and starting to read at vol. 1, be interrupted by tbe
question or how ong he would be. John would
reply that it will be necessary, in approaching this
subject, to read through the whole forty volumes,
as he was not exactly clear about his own doetrine,
not having looked into his works for about seventy
years. But, whatever his views were in 1776, they
were quite unchanged now. He was certain, how-
ever, tha t there either was a hell or a hades, or
something or other, and the volumes must all be
gone through. And then Campbell would strikefor
ome, with—” Well, if I’ve got to do that, I’ll take
your word for it—there is a hell.” (It will be seen
from this that we intended to say Campbell is a
fine fellow, and have wandered slightly).—[Yes,
slightly.— Ed.]
Professor Russell, of Goulburn, died on
Thursday last, another sacrifice immolated at the
shrine of Morphia. “ Suicide in Goulburn.— \
hairdresser poisoned himself,” is, of course, the
way the Evening News puts it. Russell was
in the habit of taking the drug, and he took more
than usual, perhaps to induce sleep—not death.
He was a nervous subjoct, and had been sued the
day before by the municipality for sticking his
advertisements where they had no business. And
then Mrs. Russell came home from Sydney, and
perhaps got telling him about the way Hanlau
•feathers,” and the winter things Farmer and Co.
are showing, and the state of the betting market
in reference to the Gundagai election. Anyhow,
he got out of bed, took three pills, and died. He
was a divine barber, and a professor of dentistry
and all manner of little things, and a regular Hollo-
way at advertising. Not a fence or wall for miles
around Goulburn but eloquently spoke of him. His
myrmidons permeated everywhere. ’Twas said
that no discreet matron would have her linen
abroad o’ nights, lest she should find “ Try Pro-
fessor Russell ” indelibly marked thereon by some
paste-and-poster miscreant.” It was also said that
a patriarenial ’possum was taken in the pass of
Tarlo, bearing the earmark “Anodyne.” The
trouble seems to have been that the “Pro-
lessor ” had next day to appear at court to answer
to a charge of making a false declaration, and
preferred to transfer the hearing to the hightest
tribunal. Professor Russell was once well-known
m Brisbane, where he had a meteoric career,
which concluded in a large stone’.building on Petiie
Terfacfe. OUe of his Bfrisbane vagaries was to
stick bi§ Register of birth In his shop window
among si'dhteft ffoap, and tooth-brushes, and
memoranda of ltfG lateift odds; According to the
document he was son’ of ft Melbourne Tide-waiter.
He did a great shaving and uettiiig business, and
blossomed into all the splendour of a tandem team
and dog-cart, in which he used to attend the faces.
“Uncle ” Morwitch, however, “backed ’ him with
the usual result. For many yeare, subsequent to
to the Professor’s retirement, Uncle Mortwitch
cut a great figure in a buggy drawn by the rattling
grey cob, which used to be leader in the Pro-
fessor’s sparkling tandem. However, for him,
life’s fitful fever is over, so let us give
him—who loved advertising passing well—a send-
off, which we flatter ourselves will attract some
attention on the other shore, and possibly put
something on his plate:—
Not below the light men saw burn—
With a roae-red radiencc shine—
Shall he, In the street called Auburn,
EVer ottore sell Anodyne;
Not below the Gfoulburrr gaslight,
Large With promise ol eclipse,
Sfrall his polfehed faZor pass light-
Lf tfer bearded chins and lips.
Not in rbgib'h# whtfe fftale onions
In the markets tkitft Ihe aif,
Shall he deal with 1 Coins and btmions,
Who could pare beyond CbhVfflSfP.
No—in rea’ms above the solar,
And all that thereto belongs,
Shall he grub around the molar
With celestial forceps’ prongs.
Who may say ? Perhaps expressly
He was called to draw a tooth
That roked up the ghost of Wesley,
Or extract a corn from Ruth.
(Ruth affected eorn, you know, as
Well as we. the fact that she
Once extracted it from Boaz
With much sweet simplicity).
Who can say, if in the ghostly
World beyond all human ken,
Are the maladies that mostly
Lop away the lives of men.
If it is so—if they can there
Reaoh—we solemnly assure
The sad ghosts they’ve now a man there
Who can fix ’em up a cure.
If the “jerks” take Ananias,
Or the “fantods” Pharaoh s hosts,
Oil his drugs they can rely as
Sure to soothe their jumping ghosts.
If a bunion William Tell has,
Or a far ingrown toe-nail—
If her new divine prunellas
Pinch the llb’ral feet of Jael;
If in combat Martin Luther
Plugs some holy Pontiff s nose
(Though up there things should run smoother
Than down here) till claret flows;
If, on high, displays of muscle
Are as popular as here,
That the late Pro fessor Russell
Is “their Moses” seems quite clear.
If Ring Solomon wants blisters,
Or King Oophetua pills—
If Cordelia’s loving sisters
Are afflicted with the chills;
If the late John Brown still suffers
From the chafing of his kilt,
And at medicine they’re duffers,
Hell be “ in it ” to the hilt.
If Goliath has the staggers
Yet, from David’s iittle blows,
If the holes the Roman daggers
Made through Ctesar’s Sunday clothes
Still show blood—if poor Joe Bradv
Still feels pain from what they call
"Chokes,” or Adam’s late good lady
Yet feels bad from that old fall;
If the ills (and they were various)
That beset him here below
Still afflict St. Januarius,
If old Edipus’ blind woo
Still holds out-if all the evils
That made Job lie down and yelp
Have him still, and the blue devils
Place him past the angel’s help;
If the gout stirs up old Pindar,
Or King Bill the Third-but he
Is by this, of course, a cinder
From all care and sorrow free;
If Diogenes is troubled
With the Murrumbidgee jumps,
Or Jack Falstaff’s bulk is doubled,
They’ll And Russell’s system trumps.
If sad Bonnivard’s thin wrist is
Still from Chillon's fetters black,
Or big Samson Agonistes’
Hair again grown down his back ;
If the baldness so proverbial
In St. Paul pursues him yet—
Russell’s scissors, or his herbal
Cures, will fix them all, we’ll bet.
He can lurch a fang out, while a
Soul chews “ Raven ” unaware,
He can decimate Delilah
In the way of cutting hair;
He can, in a single tussle,
Rid each ghost of his complaints—
Oh! with joy Professor Russell
Should be welcomed by the saints.
The Maori King Tawhaio wouldn’t go over
Darlinghurst Gaol on the ground that he was
ashamed to see people in trouble Herbert
Spencer likely to visit Australia.. We hope
Chine-e Gordon won’t wrong go in making ror the
Congo in a bee-line from Khartoum, as tis said he
proposes Thus runs a recent, reliable Reuter :
“In accordance with arrangements previously an-
nounced, Queen Victoria started for Darmstadt on
the 16th instant, to attend the wedding of Prince
Louis of Battenburg.” “Thrift, thrift, Horatio!
the funeral bak’d meats did coldly furnish forth
the marriage tables.”
* * *
Laboucliere speaking of Lord Hampden
(ex-Speaker Brand) says “For a short man,
with not very majestic features, the late Speaker
was the most dignified man I ever saw. As he
walked up to the table before prayers he even
managed to look ta11... .The Empress of Austria
has purchased a fount of type and a press in order
that she may print her own writings..... Mr. Speaker
Peel wears a beard, to the horror of the tradition-
alists.... A. T. F. Fraser, of Abertarff, who
died in March, aged 84, was a great-grand-
son of Simon, Lord Lovat, who was executed
on Tower Hill for sending his eldest son to join
the Pretender in “the ’4s.”—Mr. John Hullah,
obit, was a musical composer who will be chiefly
remembered as the writer of Three Fishers and
“The Storm”(music only) and as the first introducer
of Gounod's music into England The Queen of
Tahiti has arrived in Paris, accompanied by her
suite. She is a lady of considerable personal
attractions, dresses with good taste, and smokes
from fifty to eighty cigarettes a day 1.... The old
story. Lieutenant Waghorn’s sister died in direst
poverty, and her remains were scarcely saved from
a pauper’s funeral. And now England is going to
erect a £3OOO monument over the dead lieutenant.
... .Charles Stuart Calverley, obit, was one of the
brightest and most ingenious of English rhyme-
sters, his verse being a model of exactness, quaint-
ness, and culture Barnum’s will covers 703
pages The Duchess of Edinburgh was in the
** cage ” at the House of Commons one dull night,
and having heard that Irish members sometimes
made things lively, she sent her desire that one of
them should get up and make a speech. Alexan-
drovna learned that she was no longer in Russia,
speaking to the Czar’s subjects. The non. mem-
bers declined to gratify her wishes.... The shortest
love poem was written by a Parramatta girl. Her
lover dropped a note asking whether he should
call around that evening. She wrote—
“ Yes, come,
Nyuro, Nyurn!”


PE B A
HOUSE.
O
Lessee ... . W. J. Wilson.
Sub-lessee and Manager J. B Polk.
Stage Manager M. W. Emmet.
Genuine Success. Crowded Houses.
Farewell Season of the celebrated Comedian
Mr. POLK,
assisted by his accomplished wife,
Mrs. JOLT A A. POLK,
and his Unrivalled Comedy Company.
TO-NIGHT.
For a Limited Number of Nights
Last Nights of the world-famed Farcial Comedy,
“ written and acted just for fun,” entitled the
STRATEGIST.
PUBLIC VERDICT: Two hours and a half up-
roarious fun.
Prices of Admission.—Dress circle, 55.; stalls, 3s.
PIT-ONLY ONE SHILLING.
Reserved Seats at Hue n erbein’s. Tickets at
Roberts’, adjoining theatre.
S. GENESE, Business Manager.
&AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee and Manager . Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Positively last two Nights of Wybert Reeve's
Great Australian Play,
PASSION.
Important Announcement, Grand Double Bill,
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 26.
First production in Sydney, and on a scale of
magnificence, with all the original business, Inci-
dental music as produced at St. James’s Theatre,
London, for upwards of Hundreds of Nights,
Pinero’s Great London Success,
THE SQUIRE,
with new and Beautiful Scenery by Kinchela;
also augmented company.
Mr. Wybert Reeve as “Thorndyke.”
Miss Maggie Knight, as The “ Squire,”
to be followed by the Screaming Farce,
COOL AS A CUCUMBER.
Mr. Wybert Reeve, as “Plumper.”
Box Plan at Paling’s.—Orchestra Chairs, 55.;
Stalls, 35.; Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is.
Business Agent, Mr. G. A. COLEMAN.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner. & Musgrov*.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
, IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
T w;a hours at ham e.”
PROTESTANT HALL.
TEN NIGHTS ONLY,
Commencing
THURSDAY, Ist MAY.
KENNEDY’S
Final Farewell.
Mr. Kennedy and family return to Scotland almost
immediately.
Change of Programme each evening. Com-
mence at 8.
Admission, 35., 25., 1.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Fashionable and Select Nightly Lounge !
The Home of Amusement!
THIRD WEEK OF
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and
SPECIALTY UNION,
including the MARVELLOUS GIRARDS.
Every Evening at 8. Prices-45., 35., 25., Is.
Plan] at Paling’s Music Warehouse, where seats
may be reserved.
ME. itIBUSTDS BLOTEE,
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
THEATRE ROFAL, BRISBANE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
I For future engagements, Managers _
politely requested to address as above, till further
notioe.
SHORE ROWING CLUB
Third Annual Ball,
will take place at
NEED’S ROOMS (NITHSDALE),
On THURSDAY, JUNE 5
TICKETS :
Ladles’, 12s. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 215.; Double, 303.
May be had from F. W. B. Love, W) Bathurst-
street; J. S. Davis, 438 Georgc-screet: W. T.
Robertson, 409 George-street; E. E. Brice, Railway
Department; anyot the leading shops; or from
HARRY H. ROBEY,
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HANLAN, Champion Sculler of
the World, has signified his intention of being
present.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
WILL TAKE PLACE
at the
BYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, the I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARKE, Hon. Treas.
(care F. Lassetek and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 Goorge-stroet.
(JLEBE ROWING CLUB.
FIFTH ANNUAL
Plain & Fancy Dress Ball.
FRIDAY, MAY 30tb, 1881.
PROFESSOR WEST’S NEW ROOMS,
Castlereagh-street.
mln°s ke £^• :D tn^^L e ’^, i Lad y’s. 12s. (id.; Gentle-
eommlttee! t 0 be had from any member of the
R. BHUTE, Hon. Sec..
48 Philjip-Btreet.
deBires to convey his eineerf
thanks to the many lrit-nds who expressed
SvKont , r i i h K him 0,1 rhe occasion of hii
April, y iBB4 * ® d b ! B *Wv©in»mT.4-Windsor, 21sl
A
N
C
I
D
N G .
PROF- WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday evenings.
Advanced Classes and Visitors on Wednesdays.
Private Lessons, day and evening.
The suite of rooms (8), largest, coolest, most
elegant in Australia, to rent for Balls, Weddings,
or Assemblies. Apply Academy,
251 CASTLEREAGH-ST. (near Bathurst-street).
GOULBURN GRAND ART UNIOIZI,
No. 1.
£16,875. £16,875.
16,815 Subscribers at £1 each.
ONE PRIZE FOR NEARLY EVERY 80 TICKETS.
l?t Prize, £3OOO ; 2nd, £3OlO ; 3rd, £2OCO ; 4th’
£1870; sth, £lOOO. 214 prizes from £5OO to £l3los.
For tickets, apply to
A. W. BULLEN,
P O. Box 51, Goulburn, N.S.W.
N B.—Add exchango and 6tamp for reply. Full
lirtieulars in ‘‘Town and Country Journal” of
12th April.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 15, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the foU
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Lease of Refreshment-room at
Werrls Creek Railway Station
Erections of Additions, &0.,
Police Barracks, Walgett
Bridge over Leicester Creek,
Lismore
Eereetion of Post and Telegraph
Office, Kempsey.
Providing and Fixing Bell, Cal-
lan Park Asylum.
Supply of Iron Girders, Darling-
hurst Gaol.
Bridge over Tanban Creek, Nam-
bucoa Road
Stables, Post and Telegraph
Office, Windsor.
Erection of Gatekeepers’ Cot-
tages. Section 2, Great North-
ern Railway Extension
Fencing, &c., Police Station,
Albury
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office Paddington
Erecting Platform Walls, Harris
Park, Parramatta
Constructing Foundations and
Pits for Workshops, Eveleigh
Pl™ ' Laying, Hunter River
Water Supply
Additions, &0., Lockup, Morpeth
Construction of Timber Ovel>~
shot Dam Trial Bay Prison
Erection of Brick Boundary
Wall 1a Lock-up Gaol, Bourke
Addittions Courthouse, Menin-
die
Locomotive Running Shed,
Goulburn
Construction of a Line of Rail-
way Bungendore to Michelago I
Manufacture and Supply of
160,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Dates to which
Tenders can bt
received a t
this office.
Tuesday,
29th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
6th May,
at 11 o’clock.
13th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
20th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
27th May,
at 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Bavarian
Hop Bitters
B
BH
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
USE NO OTHER.
A PERFECTLY PURE STIMULANT.
CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND LIVER COMPLAINTS.
READ
MEDICAL TESTIMONY AND
ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
THE ONLY
HOP BITTERS THE DOCTORS
RECOMMEND.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS
AMD CROCERS.
a
9H
Bavarian
- Hop Bitters
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
f PIJRK T0 B BACC§ all tbe aBrreeable Qualities
Brand Registered to prerent imitation. Manu-
factured by
H. W. NORRIE.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’B SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, nary, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG ft CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTia.<a.erta,ls:ex,
84 HUNTEB PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th April, 1884.
TENOERS FOR ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS arc invited for Additions and Repairs’
&c , at the Balmain West Public School.
Plans and Specification may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for; Additions and
Repairs Balmain West Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, the 12th May, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
sJSs
The Autophone!
The oriental golb-company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
Tho Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitehed for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &c., can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing.
The AUTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
TRY THE
Ml Mori Puli!
ONCE TRIED WILL BE USED ALWaYS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ALLT&C
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
A (rents for—
Messrs. TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO.,
Brewers, Rurton-on-Trent:
.. JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee;
Messrs. A. C. MEUKOW & CO,
„ E. & J. DU RF\E 3
Cognac;
“JListbt SparKiinfir Tiep' A e :
Messrs. M UNZER & SPANN,
_ ... Bordeaux, < /arots;
The Duo cl j Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France
The Onarer.to Vineyard Proprietors, Charente.
Agents; Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chamoeis, Wormwood-street, E.C.


7
6s. 6d.
7s. 6(1.
6«, «d. per palp
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 #*»orgre«
street, opposite the Central Entrance i o the
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring: beauty*
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, bo dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses. _
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot he
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Some of the goods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemista
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in Are and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT—EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
Impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time.
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Bing.
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. 6d. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Sen Bing.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb Freneh Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladles’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch,
Ladles’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s ASsthetio Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At 4J2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper. , ~ .
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, jperfeot Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albeat
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold AJbert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain. _ „ , -
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases. , . , .
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
Combination Parcel, comprising any selflo-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
A parcbls by post, on approval.
Specially Observe—lf the artioles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and wo will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by US will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal-*/The Silver Ring . P 8
Apera Hottse— I“Strategist 1 “Strategist . “>•
flaiettThbatUli— “Passion ::...aD.
Protestant Hall — “Tiva Hours at Hame ■ ] o.
AdADEMY of MusiC— Federal Minstrfels iti.
Ttie “Strategist” is stili running at tile
rtnera House. On Saturday the (as the announce-
ments call it) “ grand; spectacular, romantic, mili-
tary comedy-drama of • Eastward-Ho will be
m-esented for the first time to a discriminating
Australian public.” In the “Strategist cast a
sliirht alteration took place on Saturday night,
n’Orsav Ogden taking up Emmetts running in
Maior Howard. As Terrence (sic) O’Fiam, Harry
PoiVer still Succeeds iii shbwing the deep insight
into Celtic human nature possessed by comic
writers. And this reminds us that Harry has pub-
lished a book of “ Leaves from the Life of an Aus-
tralian Comedian.” He is the comedian, and the
leaves—we are told, for we have not seen them—
have to do with adventures in which he was the
central figure. Ever since we were seduced into
reading the twaddle contained in the “ Leaves from
our Diary in the Highlands ” we have been suspi-
cious about personal anecdotes under this heading.
When true, they are maddeningly uninteresting;
afld when piquant, they are usually stories.
* * *
Arid you want to know why Ogden shunts
Emmett ? Of course you do, and that's just what
not going to tell you. “Pray, madam,
imagine them,” said the Italian matron when the
latter asked about the duties of a cavaliereservant#.
And a good, all round Major, Ogden is—the sort of
officer that makes you regret you were not in his
company. You feel that some ramrods would go
his way when the troops were practising with
blank-cartridge. As Sergeant Grumbleton, Lester
shows what a command of our rugged language
can be acquired by an ordinarily intelligent Ger-
man We have said so much of the Polks them-
selves and of Mr. Bryer that wo can remember
nothing particular to add to what has gone before.
]n other hands the “ Strategist ” could be made as
aggravatingly stupid as a circus clown’s jokes: in
theirs it is laughably improbable all through.
• • •
for Saturday’s “grand spectacular drama”
many names appear which had no place in the
" Strategist ’’—among others, Jessie Grey; Ruth
Grey, Messrs. Jones, Cob, and RuSsell.
•* * *
We have been to see “Passion” again, and
the piece has drawn better than we had hoped.
We are not “ passionately fond ” of “ Passion,” as
the Yankees say—in fact, we haven’t any passion
for it at all. But, what is better, we have com-
passion, and our compassion is the thing most
sought after by play-wrights and other people of
sensitive and responsive natures. And we like
Wybert Reeve—at least, we think we like him.
We have never seen him, but we must like him
because genius is right in our line, and Wybert is
a genius—a left-handed genius, as it were. We
wish he would send us the manuscript of that
play. There is a certain spot in this office
for which it is exactly suited. And it would
have company, spring poetry, and the like, which
is a great desideratum, for misery loves company,
and “Passion’ must pine for suitable compan-
ionship. We suspect that Wybert wrote the play
on board the steamer coming out from home. At
any rate, it is awfully sea-sick in places; in other
place 3 it is as wild and picturesque as a Shanghai
rooster on a ricketty hen coop, calmly floating
down the peaceful stream of time.
¥ T
The plot of the piece is excellent; at least
we imagine it is excellent, because Mr. Reeve has
left it clear out of the play. A little more plot, a
good deal less soliloquy, and a heap more crisp
dialogue is what “ Passion ” wants to rectify ite
system. We don’t remem berreading Mrs. Campbell
Praed’s original story from which “Passion’ has
been dramatised. We didn’t know, in fact, that
she had Praed upon the public at all. But enough
of nonsense. We’ll say something bad about Pas-
sion ” if we don’t look out. Mr. Edwin Palmer, as
Tom Bungie, has an up-hill part to play. We know
Mr. Palmer’s abilities as an actor, and would like
to see him cast for a better role. The long soliloquy
in the first scene is not only hard to sustain, but it
is hard to endure. We would like to know where
Edwin got that nose. It isn’t a bit like his own.
In the matter of noses, Mr. Palmer is versatile.
A short time we saw him in Pantomime at
the Biiou in Melbourne, and he had a beak on him
then long enough to pick flies out of a molasses
lug Now he has a pug-nose that he must have got
to examine his liver with. At any rate, the pug is
so awfully marked that he can t look at it without
seeing down his own throat.
* * •
Of course, Maggie Knight, as the Premier’s
daughter, appropriates the pastry. Maggie is great
on pastrv; she always gets more than her share.
But we don’t like the way she talks to the pirati-
cal-looking Send she calls father—on the stage, we
mean. In the first place, she won’t give up her
own sweetheart, and, in the next place, she
wants to rob her old father of his. Of
course, this is more than the old man s sys-
tem can tolerate, and he rebels against the
tyranny of bis own child. This is one of the
beauties of “Passion” that we had almost for-
gotten to point out. At last she goes back on her
first lover, throws him over the fence and takes
up with an explorer named Maddox Dyson. Dyson
(Wvbert Reeve) knows a lot about exploring a
new country, but when it comes to making love
hi doesn ? t know half as much as the Widow Dunn.
On this (Saturday) evening Mr. Reeve intends to
bring out the great London drama entitled The
Squire.” * * * *
“The Silver King” continues to be the
leading theatrical attraction. It draws, in fact,
like a poor-man’s plaster on a marble monument.
We don’t know when the managers are going to
give us something new to write about, but we
would like to know. They appear to be
running their concern for our benefit. This is
ungrateful, and the first thing they know we
will charter a mule to do some kicking for us.
* * *
There are several people we like in the
“ Silver King.” We like Cripps (Mr. Eeake) for
instance, and would like him still better if he
would divide the plunder with us a little more
evenly. When we were young and used to
read blood-and-thunder stories until our hair
stood on end like an inverted bramble bush,
we used to dream of pirates and robbers
and the like, and som« way or other our
ideal cut-throat always looked like Cripps. So
you see, he is sort of an old acquaintance, which is
one reason why we like him. And then he makes
us laugh, audit isn’t everybody that can do that.
We like Coombe (Mr. Redwood), too. We like him
for his downright villainy. In that make-up he is
as picturesque as a French hen, and might pass for
a pirate, or the pilot of a Presbyterian meeting-
house. Of course, Harry Leston is tunny. We
don’t think he could look at himself without
laughing. Where he gets that particular brand is
a full-grown mystery. We have sampled all the
neighbouring pubs., but it don't effect us that
way; and we had an obituary to write, too, the
other day. # #
Hans Phillips is a rising young actor. If
he wasn’t, we’d take a rise out of him, Just for
fun. But we like to encourage genius. That s
one reason why we are kind "to ourself. Mr.
Phillips, however, has a good deal to learn about
comedy, but we forget what it is just now. It
will come to our inind on another occasion, per-
haps, and then we'll call his attention to it. The
Spider (Mr. Ireland) looks as though he had been
cut out for cool, determined knavery. His part
is a thankless one, and the audience go away
weeping because they can t see him. banged.
Tabitha Durhen (Miss Kingsley) is a designing
female who has hurried three husbands and is ripe
for another. She isn’t particular as to age either,
so she goes for Jaikes, the old butler (Mr. Phillip
Day), and very nearly kidnaps him before he dis-
covers, her intentions. Jaikes, of course, has better
sense than to join a procession that has ended so
disastrously to the' front part of it. It looks too
milch like CoPrting death* Of like a joke in the
Shadow of the gallows. JaikeS’ moral back-bone
asserts itself presently, and he repels the advances
o'f the designing wido’w. Only for this it Were
“all Day with Phillip.”
** * *
The federal Minstrels cctatimle td crowd
the Academy of Music. Carroll, the doilble-
voiced vocalist, is still warbling rip amongst the
clouds, and anon delving into the deeper regions of
song. One Would nattirally suppose that ft would
hurt a voice, to fall so far, but it doesn’t. The
thing is so elastic that it rebounds uninjured.
It would be a good voice to sell fish, or
to drink beer with in Chinese. We once
heard of a woman who lost an excellent
soprano voice, while trying to teach a blind
hen to crow. Perhaps this is the one that Carroll
found. May be he ate,the hen that stole it, or laid
it, or something. Beaumont .Read is another
warbler. Mr. Read says that rife ie , nearly two
stone heavier that he was a year ago, arid that our
suggestion that he should tie a string around ha!
neck and feed his face for a while, was bitter
irony. It was not so intended. We don’t believe
in irony. In fact we never iron. We mangle.
• * •
Horace Bent has got a mouth big enough
for a corn bin. He might put a ham in and pull
out the bone and still have mouth enough left for
dress occasions, In order to make it any larger
yori would Hate to Set back his ears. We like to
near Hotace in d stump speech; He is one of the
very few people whd ate really Witty io that line.
The Girards are too’ fuiin£ to tsiik afcfottt.
Miss Melville, too, is getting to be qfuite a Gtrafd.
There are gome people who don’t know what a
Girard is. Neither do we; but we know what Alf.
Moynhem and Sam Keenan are. They are the two
jolliest, rollieking high-kickers that we have ever
seen. ’Tis said that diet has a good deal to do
with such matters. We knew a man over in
America who moved from the Eastern States
away out into Kansas. This was the year when
the grasshoppers were so bad. He said that as he
drove along the road he saw them sitting upon a
fence looking over at the sprouting grain, and sing-
ing “In this wheat bye-and-bye.” When he got
onto his fanche he let loose a half-dozen turkeys
he’d bfought along in a coop. These turkeys
gorged themselves with grasshoppers, and the
next mornirig When the than, got up he Saw his
turkey’s toeing a scfatCh and jumping. Some of
them had eaten so nlany gtass-hoppers that they
could jump 33 feet without weights. We don t
know what the Girards have beeri eating, but it
must have been something like a compound of
Grasshopper sausage, India Rubber soup and ilea
powder, lliscocks has been in Melbourne all
week, but under the stage management of Mr.
Lou Braham the show runs along as though
nothing had called the genial Fred. away.
** * *
Messrs. Thomas Moser and Hector Mac-
lean have constructed a comic opera which they
have christened “Populaire,” and a rehearsal of
the work was given in camera at Paling s music
warehouse on Saturday afternoon last to a small
coterie, including representatives of certain
impresarios who desired an opportunity of judgmg
respecting its suitableness for theatrical represen-
tation. The pieee is an avowed parody on Pa-
tience *’-a burlesque on an opera bouffe, in fact,
and Mr. Moser has succeeded in constructing an
ingenious string of situations, in which the
satire, which in “Patience” is directed against
{esthetics, is diverted against the craze for
athletics. The libretto has as much merit as it is
usual to find in the language of opera bquffe, and
the generally trilling treatment is relieved by
some really felicitous verses in a sentimental
strain. The music, composed by Mr. Maclean, is
in keeping with the structure of the story. In
the main, it is light to frothiness, and full of bustle
and catchiness, but here and there movements of
real merit occur, and several of the songs are
of more than ephemeral value. The orches-
tration, although slightly crude, is, on the
whole, effective, and the ensemble produces
an effect which has every essential quality
for catching hold of popular favour. In
many of the airs, familiar recollections crop up,
but the same is true of all Sullivan s music, in his
most successful light operas; and some of Mr.
Maclean's songs are really very graceful and
melodious, and, withal, of a catching quality,
which should ensure their being whistled as uni-
versally as Grosvenor’s airs in “Patience, or
the correspondingly popular morceaux in the
“Pirates.” There was a general expression of
pleased surprise at the quality of the work among
the hearers, on Saturday, and although the public
taste is an unaccountable thing, there seems no
reason why “Populaire’ should not win favour,
if produced in good style.
*# * •
The Marionettes are still running at the
old Masonic Hall in York-street, and are playing
to good business. We would like to say something
nleasant about the little chaps, but refrain from
the fact that they are like Granny; they cant
appreciate wit nor detect the absence of it.
** * *
“The Squire” is to be produced on Satur-
day next by Wybert Reeve, with Maggie Knight
in the title role, and Wybert as Thorndyke.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
“Rough on Rats.” —Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks. Jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggist*. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
A Fact Worth Knowing.— Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boscheo’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to it.
Druggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for (id. Large size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doßes will relieve any caso. Try it.
THE DESERTER'S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Full Hashed the blue electrie-light
Upon a face all ghastly white—
A face whose every feature bore
Some trace of anguish written o’er;
A haunted face that seemed to show
A record of dark years of woe—
The face of one whose life might tell
Of torture deep, and strange as Hell.
Beside us, in the train he sat;
His eyes, now shaded by a hat
Devised upon no earthly law—
Such hat as Hopkins loves to draw—
Now blazing out, dilate with fear,
As guard or ticket-sharp drew near.
Quick angry forms moved to and fro
At Bedfern, ’neath that large light’s glow;
Excursionists came thronging there,
And time-smit virgins tore their hair:
And big bad men were heard to swear
O’er trunks and bandboxes misplaced,
And all was turbulence and haste.
A shriek—a shock—and so, at last,
Away into the night we passed;
Into the country, far and dim,
Alone, as in a cell, with him!
So fled we on, and on, and on,
Past Homebush, Granville, and anon
We felt the night winds soft and cool.
And knew the smell of Liverpool;
So startled we the solemn hush
Of many an inky league of bush,
And heeded not, but tore along
Past Picton Lakes— past Mittagong.
’Twas then the stranger—in atone
As sad as is the dying moan
That lifelong cattle-duffers give
Who have not left an hour to live—
Said: “Friend, before I tell my tale,
(You’ve doubtless travelled oft by rail)
Tell me-oh, tell me, if in all „
Your journeyings, it did befall
'That once a railway train did start
Upon its way (be still, my hear;/
Be still—a little while be calm)
An intercepting telegram
Withheld it from its onward course,
Until some monster of the Force
Secured some passenger, and bore
Him to a cell for evermore ?”
'We said, “ We think so—now you ask
We're sure it did; but here’s our flask,
Drink deep of this, and, by and bye,
Tell us your trouble." No reply
He made, but raised the flask on high,
And breathed not till it was dry.
Then cried: “ Kind comrade, what you are
I know not, but your stuff’s Three Star,
And in my breast I feel its glow
Replace the chill of utter woe.
And ir you havd ft wish to know
What I have been, and how I fell
On bitter ways, my tale I’ll tell.
I’m better now—that fiery qualm_
Bids me for naught to give ad— i
Off, all disguise!—avaunt, all fear I
I am—or was, a Volunteer!
“ An uneventful youth was mine—
My father sold colonial wine
Upon a far-off country road,
And I Was early trained to goad
The bony steer to shift his load;
Ah! happy, happy tkres they were,
Unshaded by the wing of cafe,
With naught to do but prod and sWSwr-*-
Would I had been content; but I
Had hope of being something high—
Of gold and glory by and bye
I dreamed: of that red coat that charms
Soft hearts; I dreamed of shining arms.
1 fled my father's shanty (which,
I may remark, has made him rich),
I sought a town, and at a pub.,
AS “joey,” earned precarious grub;
Hut little reeked I Fortune’s frown —
Eof Why ? There was in that same town
The thing that I had craved for years—
A bhading corps of Volunteers!
And oftetl in the moonlit night
I stole to gloat tipoH the sight
These heroes were, performing drfll,
And with me stole the barman, Bill.
And when at length we both returned,
Such martial thirst within us burned,
We suffered no time to elapse,
But stole a case of Schiedam Schnapps;
And in our little room up stairs
We formed from it twelve hollow squares!
“ I joined ’em, and was duly rigged
In garments such as may be twigged
At any Fire Brigade display—
What frantic joy was mine that day I
What joy that fleetly would have flown,
Could I have of this night foreknown.
OUr Captain noted from the first
My bearing showed a separate thirst
For blood—a hankering after gore
Beyond aught he had known before;
And said, in case of War, I would
Wade armpit-deep in fooman’s blood;
But little dreamed, as me he drilled.
That his would be the first I spilled.
“ O, glad were we, when came at length
The day that was to show our strength,
When striving with a coward foe
At Windsor, we should lay him low;
How to the railway marched we then,
A tearless line of gallant men;
How dauntlessly our swords we clanged,
And told the porters to be hanged!
How gaily did we, in the train,
Shout many a warlike bold refrain,
With much ex-train-eous matter queer
That I refrain from quoting here.
“ So came the night, the awful night
That ushered in that fatal fight;
I slept, and dreamed of Gore, and saw
In dream a thousand rebels draw
Their swords to hew me limb from limb:
I woke—like choir of Seraphim
I heard the outpost rifles sound.
At last for slaughter! With a bound
I reached, and donned my uniform,
And rushed into the dreadful storm;
A roar of sound, a blare of light
Along the line from left to right,
A hideous glare on hill and glen,
A tangled horde of fighting men.
A furious struggle hand to hand,
Hoarse shouts of onslaught and command—
I plunged into the midmost fray,
And frantically blazed away.
I sought the battle’s wildest brunt,
And leaped before the advancing front;
I stood high in that deadly van
And yelled, * Observe me—l’m the man
To lead you on to death or Fame,
Come on with me, whoever’s game I
But here the Captain’s voice rang out,
And counselled me to wheel about,
And back again to camp repair
As being much more useful there.
Fool—mad, blind fool, who knew before
My speciality was Gore;
Fool —weak, vain fool, to taunt me there,
When Blood was in the very airl
I clubbed my rifle—on his head;
The swift butt fell, and he fell dead,
And I—l must admit—l fled.
“ In that fierce hour none saw the deed,
Or, seeing it, took little heed;
For men were falling there amain,
And I had reached my tent again,
And changed War’s uniform—ah, me I
For these disguising rags you see;
And far from that sad place had flown
Before the Captain’s fate was known.
All day I crouched in places dark.
Lest men should see my face, and mark
Upon it Crime’s red brand of Cain,
And, after dark, hid in this train.
What hope or help is for me now
With that dire mark upon my brow ?
I know not-this alone I know.
Far from all teeming towns I’ll go;
And pass the balance of my years
In urging on reluctant steers,
And selling navvies ‘ long-sleeve beers
That line may suit me bettor, for
I’m far too blood-thirsty for War.
Enough, though—at next station I
Get out, so now I say good-bye,
Mine was a happy lot before
I knew the woe of shedding Gore-
Mine is a blasted being hence
Wrapped in that crime’s dark consequence.
Oars was a Waltham, just before
The porter let him out the door;
Ours now in neither watch nor purse,
That stranger holds them- and our curse.


PEPPER AND SALT.
This is a true tale about a “dawg,” and it is
gravely told in the London Spectator by the
unfortunate dawg’s owner, who seems to be ex-
tremely anxious to let the whole world know that
the race of fools is not quite extinct at present.
This drivelling divine it appears had a favourite
and intelligent dawg that could read a tract, or
whisk a leg of mutton out of a butcher’s shop and
wrap himself round the feed inside of 2,20, and one
Sawbath morn he committed a “ very grevious
fault.” The nature of the fault Is not stated, but
It must have been “ very grevious ” indeed as the
rector’s study smelt of Oondy’s disinfectant for a
week after. His master on returning from church
“ did not beat him, we are told, but took hold of
him and talked to him most bitterly, and severely.
He talked on and on for a long time, in the same
The Turf Spider,
serious and reproachful strain, and the dog was
so deeply impressed with his own total depravity
that he refused all feed, and died in the
course of a day or two.” Wo don’t doubt
it. He died raving mad alternately foaming at
the mouth and spitting fire. At one moment he
would be bucking round the yard as if he had just
accidentally swallowed an active hedge-hog, and
the next would find him jobbing his head into a
sand bank, or filling his ears with mud, in order, as
It would seem, to deaden the fearful sounds of his
clerical master’s blood curdling reproaches. What
seemed to trouble him most, however, was the
knowledge that he had no one to blame for his
“ total depravity ” but himself, and it is said that,
at times, certain people fancied his demented
howling sounded like the words “It was all
through the oussld drink.” He finally died the
most agonising of all deaths-talked to death by a
parson. How many thousands of the human race
aonuaUfr with the same t«w(kto fate ?
Six persons have been trampled to death
whilst attempting to escape from a church in
London. The exact reason of the stampede is
not known, but it is supposed the congregation
were afraid’of being preached to death by a wild
curate. This remiHds us that we have just had
the pleasure of inspecting a new style of pulpit,
which has been invented by an ingenious cuss in
this city, to fill a long-felt want. This pulpit is of
the ordinary kind, with the exception that its
interior is full of clockwork vilry, and at the
right-hand side there stands «. colossal figure of
St. Peter, armed with a 14-lb. club. The maohinery
is so arranged that a preacher oan safely stand in
the pulpit and howl for 20 minutes, but directly
the time is up the floor gives a gentle buck
and St. Peter slews round, spits on his
hands, and takes a fresh grip of his wea-
pon. That’s the signal for the aspiring Spur-
geon in the box to “ get,” and to get deuced
quickly, too. If he doesn’t shift, but goes on with
his chat, the floor suddenly gives another mighty
throb that sends Spurgeon up in the air like a lawn
tennis ball, and just as he drops, Peter swings his
club and knocks him clean over the choir-loft
fence for 5. Dr. Barry should order a few thou-
sand of these useful articles, because he has an
earnest desire to reform the preaching in his
Ghurohes, and we are willing to stake our immor-
tal soul that this new back action side-delivery
pulpit wiU either do that, or it will club the
preaoher so flat that you can pass his body under-
neath a closed door without disarranging one of
his waistcoat buttons. As a slogger, this pulpit
Peter, could bust Sullivan up into lodging-house
hash in one round.
* * *
He was, or rather is, a police magistrate;
to his inferiors an arbitrary tyrant, to his superiors
a fawning sycophant. Sometime ago, he had
an addition made to bis residence. In due course
it was finished, but lacked a couple of coats of
paint. “ Oh, my good fellow,” remarked the P.M.
to his carpenter, “you may as well—ah—procure
the necessary paint, and—ah—finish it yourself. Of
course you can—ah —include it in your account at
settling.” Four months elapsed, and that white-
lead, turps, and oil were still in the limbo of bad
debts, when the same mechanic appeared before
his Worship summoned for the amount of £3l2s.
6d. (the exact money owing by the P.M., bar 6d)
Well, the man couldn’t pay, and had to take it out
in “ jug ’ —three weeks.
“ He was so proud, that should he meet
The twelve Apostles in the street,
He’d turn his nose up at them all,
And shove his Saviour from the wall.
He was so mean (Meanness and Pride
Still go together side by side)
That he would cringe, and creep, be civil,
And hold a stirrup for the Devil.”
“The good shepherd lays down his life for
his flock.” That, we believe, was the popular
style of shepherding 1900 years ago, but the average
shepherd of to-day wouldn’t lay down his shirt to
save the most promising member of hisfold, unless
he saw his way clear to make it a profitable specu-
lation. All of which reminds us that the “ Rev.
Dr. Hawkes, when elected Bishop of Rhode Island,
declined the appointment on account of the
meagre salary. One of his friends reminded him
of the promise made in Scripture that ‘ God would
feed the young ravens.’ ” To which this gentle
shepherd replied, as he playfully tapped his nose
with the first finger of his left hand: “ That may
be so, but I can nowhere read that God has prom-
isee to feed the young Hawkes.” The Dr. evident-
ly doesn’t bet much on his own teaching.
* * *
“Fair Play” sends along four dog-forms
covered with correspondence which tends to prove
that Ernest Morrison really did tramp across the
continent. We never said he didn’t. All we re-
marked was that we did not see him do it Thi.
we still adhere to. “Fair Play” declares “any
fool could do the same journey if he knew how-”
and he then proceeds to tell of a party named
Peter Grimes, who travelled 300 miles across 1
Paroo desert, during the recent drought, when not
a blade of grass could be seen on any side. Grimes
was a month in training for the task. First of all
he reduced a quantity of rich, black soil into a
paste, after the style of Liebig’s essence 0 ?
beef so that one pound of this paste eon
tamed as much nutritious land as a whole
acre of the original Boil. Then he laid In
stock of cabbage, carrot, turnip, potato, lettuce
radish, pumpkin, strawberry, and water-melon
seeds, which he treated in a similar manner and
then he commenced operations by eating 3lb of
his land extract every day for a fortnight- at "the
| end of which time his stomach held exactly forty-
two acres of garden ground, the like of which has
never yet been equalled. Then Grimes put in
another fortnight eating his condensed seeds-
after which he drank a few gallons of water, and
started on his journey. Every seed took root and
grew in the soil he had swallowed; and, of course
he had nothing to do then, as he tramped along the
desert waste, but whistle “ Nancy Lee ” and digest
fresh vegetables.
* * *
Down on your knees boys, and admit that
two and two are eight and a half, before its too
late. Says Monday’s D. T. man on the eagle wing
of alertness The late Mr. Frank Dixon, for
many years a staunch Freethinker, before dying,
confessed that he had been following the wrong
track, and died a believer in Christian faith, urging
the Rev. Mr. Preston, who visited him, to call his
friends together that they might profit by his
example,” We await a visit from tbe rev. Preston,


for at our age we feel that another fifty years
must tell a tale, and we want to avoid a deathbed
repentance. But this thing is beyond joking. If
Mr. Frank Dixon, now consigned to earth, was for
many years a staunch Freethinker, and then when
the cold shades oame around he found himself
altogether wrong, and in a day or two sends out
to us who still dwell “ this stranger world among ”
a word of advice and a wail of recantation, then
Mr. Frank Dixon was not a Freethinker, he was a
no-thinker, and one of the class of heedless
brawlers who believe not in their own unbelief.
A man who deliberately makes up his mind in
health that much of the current religion is worse
than baseless is not going to be waited on by
Almighty God in his last hours and set straight by
a divine whisper. This is the old Tom Paine-
Voltaire-horrible-death yarn. A belief that a
man may hold and live righteously with, will tide
him through. A sham-belief or sham-unbelief
provides a coward’s deathbed.
• 9 *
Scene. The tented field at Middle Head.
Time— visitor’s hour. Group of warriors brave
Bitting on their baggage drinking toasts, and ap-
parently very much at peace with all mankind.
Little Napoleon Hannibal Nutta, haying a dim
recollection that the last speeoh had reference to
“bull’s eyes,” rises to propose “woman’s eyes,”
and has just made the startling announcement
that the girls doat on the military, and the soldier
finds a sweetheart where’er he goes, when Mrs.
Nutts, who turns the scale at 210 lb., and has ar-
rived at the camp unexpectedly, draws the tent
door aside and witheringly observes, “Go on, Mr.
Nutts —pray proceed, Mr. Nutts. This is what you
call * inuring yourself to the hardships and stern
realities of the battle field,’ I presume, Mr. Nutt*.
But-wait-till-you-come-home-Mr.-Nutts, and then
m inure you to something a trifle sterner. Good
day, Mr. Nutts. Pray proceed, sir. (Gradually
raising her voice.) Insult your poor, inoffensive
wife before your der-runken, dissipated compan-
ions, Mr. Nutts ; but Ooh-h-h! wait till you come
home. Good day, Mr. Nutts.” It was remarked
that private Nutts was never known to smile dur-
ing the remainder of the encamwneht,
BRIEF MENTION.
The Princess of Wales happily draws the
line at Crino-line.
Sourbones says that if Mr. Dibbs wishes
to whip up a falling revenue he might project a
a poll tax on new bishops.
At the advance to El Tib “ some marines
acted as mounted infantry.” Horse marines on
actual service. What next ?
Three of theS.M. Herald editorial writers
and two on the Daily Telegraph are ex-parsons.
Tet they all deny that they began life as preaohers.
They allege that they started as infants.
A heartless Sydney boarder sent his land-
lady the other day a pretty hair-ring, which, he
cruelly informed her, was made from stray hairs
picked out of the soup during the previous month.
He boards somewhere else now.
Mr. Fremlin thinks there is a vast amount
of sentimentality in connection with blaoks, with
whioh he has no sympathy. We opine there are a
good many poor “whites 1 * in the same case, as far
as the honorable member is ooncerned.
, n r° ,k
/4e ijpe/ £%*£, J//, c C >y,u S*rr A*
JLST&4.- ,_
7*Ae Jboet 'ey*
ro/’f/n.G 'a s you Ae-rce/r* *~St " /u&~
clash'd o/f o tWe *- c ° r *' CY
Cren i rtp * i
'and Sends U-* <*/ c >~ *“-9-
p q o? if o
rC mon ‘bear* #ij S /*
fohJby "
„ n i
«£■
18. 'Rjrfy l^^ lo f foA>s7/I.P
IB CM dff>« rlTnt * at on ,
r «epoTl-
a* taco
■’m.t«/hT o* yro'*x.ci.ui6
frm*r'C*K^ rv t e
, e (T ° n -reed.S’r
f6 r i / f .()O iv
r i*° K o’ e ’
W *
Ox-V* 0 s
v < 0 ' 0
O p person
*~<* k
"any Jubje*
, >\ >. "
r . \ ' 7,1 « .
g/tiT,ny ret**
<•></". y° u
• .»<« "la., mthaqta*' bu ' k “
' '.a-. «»> « „ OJU .. (••
k<w«, Blot
°"nca „ , ME «*<! I <« m "
Th. t fat*.*
u/o - o rr** t, * k:> t
ou>'C n, z r
» f £
,
jA i . fr ,» a
\ rii *** JW
“Our Troubles.”
Father Hayes’ sermon on Auricular Con-
fession is printed in the D,T. He argues that it
eases the soul to ponr out one’s sorrow into a
friendly ear. We agree, but there’s a difference.
A hook-nosed gentleman has just whispered in
our ear, €i To account rendered. ’
A municipal gem. By-law 158, as framed
by the Lindley Murrays of the Goulburn Munici-
pal Council, starts off “ Every person who per-
mits empty cases containing paper shavings or
other inflammable material, Ac.’ Sir Boyle Roche
never beat that, even in his palmiest days.
Roger Oarey, under arrest for sbeep-steal-
Ing at Gundagai, shammed a fit on the road to the
lock-up, and while the good-naturedpeeler ran to
a creek for water, Roger made trfohs, and has not
been heard of sinoe. And now that policeman
longs to give Roger “ fits instead of curing him
of them.
Will you have cafe noir or cafe au lait ,
Mrs. Fitz-Hooligan ?” asked her hostess, the other
night And Mrs. Fitz-Hooligan, haying lately re-
turned from a “ Continong ” trip, lpguidly re-
plied, “Oi don’t think I’ll take naythur av thim-
yer Frlnch puddens is so awful flllln , y know, an
falx, Oi feel fit t’ bust alriddy.”
Modest, this. In the Fijian almanac, issued
by the Wesleyan Mission, Her Majesty is styled
“Na Ranadini Vitl Kei Prltania”—or “The Queen
of Fiji and Great Britain.” Reminds us of Her
Majesty’s “ Me and Beatrice, and Churchill.” When
the almanac builders happen to count mules they
should always count themselves first.
The members of Parliament privileged
lottery racket is in full swing. If the laws against
lotteries are bad let them be repealed. But don’t
keep lottery business among yourselves, gentle-
men. We too have a work of art we want to
raffle. It is a brown terrier dog and answers to
the name of Ponte, our work of art does.
With that modesty wbioh is the chief
characteristic of the natives of the Banana-
land, Ipswich is dubbed the “Modern Athens.”
Our opinion, however, is that Waruiic/c would be
the most appropriate site, as it has at least one
just claim to the proud position. The latter half
of the name is generally found in the middle of
Greece.
There are a lot of things we would like to
know—among others (we are on the Brisbane
Courier libel case now), how much of Mr. Justice
Harding’s sudden regard for the Liberty of the
Press is due to a conscientious belief that the
Press should possess liberty, and how much to a
desire on His Honor’s part to have a dig at
Griffith and his truoulent majority l
Thus the Darling Downs Gazette, in a
clipping from the Northern Standard The
Edith May sobooner in in port at present under
somewhat peculiar circumstances. This vessel it
was that coaled at (sic) cariccolo, (sic) the Indian
man-of-war that visited this port not long ago.
Shade of d’Amezaga ! Oh editor Leigh 1 Oh happy
Toowoombaites to possess such a treasure.
It has just leaked out that, at the last bom-
bardment of a village in Madagascar, two French
men-of-war pour©d shot and sholl into it for two
successive days, and that, when all was over, the
Hova flag was still flying, the casualties being one
pig killed and a pet monkey slightly wounded.
This looks as if some of our volunteer artillery-
men were engaged as gunners in the French
service.
On the tented field at Windsor.—Officer to
drummer : “ Now then, boy, what th’ devil d’ye
moan? Why don’t you beat that drum?” Boy,
80tto wee: “Ef y’ please, sir, I have got two
bottles of whiskey inside of it for your tent, sir.”
Officer (loud and stern): “Oh ! you’re sick, are
you? Why the devil didn’t you say so before,
then ? Leave your drum in my tent, and send me
another boy immediately.”
Significant, this. At the last regular
monthly ranting of th® Narrabri Hospital com-
mittee, it was found, on looking over the little
bills handed in for the past quarter, that the com-
bined accounts of the butcher, the baker, and the
vegetable maker were only 10s. lid. in excess of
the one claim sent in by the local undertaker!
This looks as if it costs as much to bury the Narra-
bri dead as it does to keep the living.
Mr. A. G. Taylor is of opinion that his
“Amalgamation Bill” will bind both classes of the
legal profession more closely together than ever,
and, in fact, that it will do away with all petty
squabbling, and elevate the profession to tt e ideal
of Mr. Dailey’s. This will be bad for the general
public, for, ir lawyers don’t fall out occasionally,
how, in thunder, can honest m?n ever hope to get
[Better break off here till the weather cools a
trifle.— Ed. B 1
The metropolitan Stipendiaries, following
the suit of their Honors the Supreme Court Judge?,
are cutting it rather fat rc pressure of work, appli-
cations forjperiodslof relaxation, and so n n. Cohen
may bet his number nines that if he gives an inch
they’ll take an ell. Were we Cohen we’d give them
ell, and let ’em know pretty plainly that if they’re
not equal to at lea it eight hours a day they’d better
resign and make ro">tn for men that are. This
pressure of work racket is really now quite toe
thin.
“ Madame,” said a metropolitan teacher to
a fond mother, as the school “ broke up "at Easter;
“ Madame, your son possesses in an extraordinary
degree the two qualities which are most calculated
to make him a ruler amongst men in this, his
native city.” “ Indeed,” replied the fond mother;
“ and, pray, what may these qualities be ?” “ Mar-
vellous stupidity and unbounded cheek,” said the
schoolmaster, as be dodged the lady’s gingham,
and skipped the premises.
He was a wandering holy-howler, and to
show his gratitude for the settlers’ hospitality
he next morning summoned all hands to join with
him in remonstrating with the Creator for His
cruelty in withholding the much-needed rain from
His suffering people in the N.W. districts. For a
whole hour the bushwhacking dervish by turns
exhorted and promised the Master, whose name he
used with a sickening familiarity and frequency,
till the perspiration rained from every pore, when
suddenly a few heavy drops rattled down on to the
galvanised-iron roof. At this, his exertions were
redoubled: he groaned, made uncouth noises, and
nearly wore a hole in the flooring-boards in his
excitement. Just at this moment a godless
jackeroo, who had been looking out of the win-
dow, exclaimed “All right, Mr. : you can ease
off a bit now. It’s all over, again. Only gammon,
as usual.”


Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches,.in is
bed-bug's, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbit s, c»caied
put by “Bough on Bats.” Moses, Moss as 10,.
Sydney, General Agents.
£5OO will be paid for any case that Hop
Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not. See. P
Live.—lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen edjre of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonio
Once again the bride waits for the bride
groom but he cometh not. And a Jamm’d gooc
reason, too. He’s dead. Francis Ochiltiee, o
Dunedin, was to have been married on the 4th, bu
shot himself on the 3rd. Of the two evils he ehos
the lesser. This kind of game is getting popula
and if not speedily stopped by an Act of Parlia
ment, is apt to check the population of the worl
in a style that will go miles beyond the fondes
dreams of either Annie Besant or old man Malthus
How’s this for a punning epitaph ? Itwa
taken word for word from a tombstone in th
churchyard of Llandinabo, in Herefordshire:—
“Templum, Belium, Spelunca,
De Terra in Arcd.”
The “jaynial” one might crack it, but it would
prove a pretty tough nut for hi m. Here it is :
11 Church—war—den
Of Hand—in—a—bo.”
The late Nick Paget Bayly, of’lHavilah
made his own will, and bungled it—hence attorney
•10m chuckled some; the inference it wishes to bo
drawn from its chuckle being, that if a man won’t
employ a lawyer to draw his testament, a mess is
the inevitable consequence. Attorneydom forgets
however, that lawyer-drawn wills are continually
being contested in the courts, and that in severa
instances eminent lawyers have left wills that no
legal fellow or anyone else could possibly under-
stand.
Head stockman to squatter, who has jusl
returned from doing Europe and the East:—
“Good day, sir, glad to see you back agin.” S.
“ Thank you, John. Not sorry to get back, either,
if the country only looked a little better. I’ve
been a long way since you saw me last.” H.S.:
“S’pose so, sir. Was ye down about the Martha-
guy, nt all ?” S.: “No, John, but I was at Samaria
and Jerusalem.” H.S. (respectfully) : “A-h
them’s further out back, I thinks. Any grass out
that way, sir ? ”
“Pure milk,” said one of Sydney’s dairy-
men to Inspector Seymour, “is bilious,” There’s
a ring of clerical philosophy about that shrewd
milk-vendor’s observation. Pure milk is bilious!
Quite so! Truth, also, is bilious, and wants dilut-
ing with a flood of wishy-wa'hy goody-goodyism
Christ’s words per se are bilious-they must be
fixed up with theoiogic Christianity. “ Pure milk
is bilious’’—why, O milkman! hadst thou been a
bishop, thou could’st not have formulated any-
thing neater or discreeter.
The Mudgee Marvel in His Great Double Act.
Straining at a Gnat.
Swallowing 1 a Camel.
A recent overhaul of the books of the
Parisian Monte de Pi<st6 showed that amongst
other articles “ popped” were 65,000 wedding rings,
2021 musioal instruments, principally clarionets,
5500 opera glasses, 400 cases of mathematical instru-
ments. 150 paint boxes. 425 new prayer-books, 4000
glove-boxes or coffers in lacca-ware, 550 fans, 70
pipes, and 150 little Christs! Touching the latter
item, we always thought King Herod was bad
enough in his blood-thirsty designs, but the
Parisians out-Herod Herod,
Thi y were new to the manner thereof, and
kept fossicking about with cap, fuse, cartridge,
and primer, till things began to get a bit mixed
with the man at the bottom of the shaft. Pre-
sently his mate from the top, who was hard at
work spelling out Nobel’s instructions (loq.): “ Oh,
you thickhead! Stick the cap on the end of
the fuse fust of all ” “ Damn the cap! ” was the
reply: “it’s full o’ muck.” “Scrape it out with
yer knife,” yelled the other. The bottom man did
so, and in a couple of seconds wanted to know who
the h had hit him, and who owned the Ungers
that lay promiscuously around.
Here’s a little romance of the road. The
release of the notorious bushranger Power, from
Pent.ridge, was brought about through the inter-
cession of a well-connected lady in Melbourne, who
has for years taken a great interest in the old
hoary-headed highwayman. Now for the romance.
One day during the rouse-about times when Power
ruled the road, ho bailed up a coach in the North-
Eastern Distriot, and on finding only two ladies as
occupants, he immediately raised his hat, apologised
for his conduct, and rode off. The lady who has
now undertaken to provide Power with a home
was one of the passengers in that eoach.
Just as the train was about leaving the
Toolamba station a few nights ago, a man who
had evidently been “where the corn was gentJy
waving,” mistook the space between two carriages
for the doorway, and. jumping forward, fell over
the oouplings and rolled across the line. Fortu-
nately, however, the train was stopped, and, as the
tired passenger was hauled out, he turned on the
guard who had rescued him and fiercely demanded,
“ Washer devil y’ mean by pullin’ them ere stheps
away jush as f ier gettin’ in fur, hey?” *fter
which he took his seat with a firm promise to
“ gesh M’Elhone to bring sish conduct fore (hie)
Parl’ment.”
“Ginger for pluck” is an old saying, and
it now appears that “ ginger for talent ” will soon
be quite as proverbial also. Old man Cato’s hair
was so red that his Missus used to toast the fatpily
mulliUß by holding them over his head while he
read th® evening papers, and from that day to this
the brick-top ” fraternity have been well to the
a i learned professions. Why we think
or this to-day is from the fact that the recent
winners of the two bursaries at St. Patrick’s
College, Goulburn, this year, are red-headed boys,
and, strange to say, the winners of the same prizes
iast year were similarly decorated. After this, let
all amber-topped youths forswear the dye-pot.
A. Tasmanian coroner has committed sui-
cide. It’s awfully sad, but—on the principle of
like begetting like —’tis easily to be understood.
Doctors, whose speciality is diseases of the brain,
are very apt to become insane, ex-policemen are
very fond of committing crimes, and actors de-
bein K' “ vllllans ” in real life—why
sbouldn t coroners enjoy the privilege of being
sat upon? ®
He d “sat ” upon so many fellow creatures—
Directed verdicts in so many “ cases ”
Gazed down upon so many swollen features—
And studied death in such uncanny phases,
That, maybe, he was seized with morbid whim
To let another “crowner ” sit on him.
A short while ago, several railway exten-
sion contractors werejinundating the Engineer-in-
Chiet s office with complaints (temperately worded,
but obviously bona fide complaints) that they were
being put to great inconvenience by delay in the
delivery of rails. These complaints coming in due
routine to Goodchap, he “ inquires into the matter
very carefully, and finds that though there have
been occasional delays, they have not been of
great importance, nor have they put the contractors
to serious inconvenience.” Isn't that rich ? It re-
minds one of the bootmaker in Moliere’s “Bour-
geois Gentilhomme,” who, to M. Jourdain’s asser-
tion that his shoes pinch him terribly, blandly re-
plies, * Point du tout, monsieur, vous vous ima-
ginezcela!”
Archibald Forbes has furnished the South
Australian Chronicle with an account of the
Kuston marriage, and we are positive that a more
loathsome lot of snobbishness was never exhibited
than by this flunkey war correspondent in his
laboured attempt to excite sympathy for an
embryo Duke who made a fool of himseif with his
eyes wide open. Forbes speaks of Lord Euston’s
failure to obtain a divorce as “the melancholy
issue; talks of Lady Euston’s antecedents as being
deplorably bad,” as though that had anything
to do with the matter, seeing that Euston knew all
about them when (as Mr. Fitzroy) he wooed and
wo 3 ar *d refers to the regular marriage that
made Kate and her Fitzroy one as a “ sad entangle-
m°nt —and all this, not out of any regard for the
sanotity of marriage, or of any horror for Immo-
rality, but out of a Jeames' dread lest the mna
bleu of the most noble bar-sinlstrous House of
Fitzroy should be oontaminated by an alliance
deliberately made by its “hope” with a “ prettv
horsebreaker.’’ J
A girl named Delia Johnson, 14, has been
sent to the Shaftesbury Reformatory for two
years for some little larceny. Her mistress, Mrs.
Bryant, stated that she had frequently given the
girl shelter, for she said she would rather sleep In
the street than return home, as her mother ill-used
her. And this appears to be true, so the poor girl,
instead of having the opening years of her woman-
hood directed by a mother’s care, must take the
place down near the South Head, and be “re-
formed.” What “ reforming ” by State manage-
ment means, nobody needs be told. We should
suggest that when a child prefers to sleep in the
street rather than face “ home,” somebody older
wouldn’t be the worse for the South Head breezes.
We say|this ever so gently.
Let us hear no more about the “ Beautiful
Snow.” Floegel, a Bwiss scientist, has just dis-
covered, in some freshly-fallen snow, living infu-
soria, and algre, bacilli and micrococci, mites, dia-
toms, spores of fungi (in immense numbers), also
fibres of wood, mouse hairs, pieces of butterlly
wings, skin of the larvae of insects, cotton fibres,
pieces of grass, epidermi, pollen grains, rye and
potato Hour, grains of quartz, minute pieces of
rooting tile-, with bits of iron and coal. And the
next account will probably be that the scientific
beggar opposite has also found traces of cigar
stumps, sewing machine agents. Holloway’s pills,
liver pads, Buchanan’s missmg boots, Skuthorpe’s
relics, gas stoves, and Nubian blacking amongst
the same delicate material.
Imagine this scene if you can. Is is mid-
night in Woolloomooloo. ’Tis frequently thus in
that classic district. Lying in a doorway is an
elderly party of the female persuasion who is
apparently very tired, and at her feet lies a square
bottle which at one time held about a pint.
Silence reigns around, and the old duchess sleeps
the sleep of the just and righteous. Presently, an
ancient goat of the masouline species strolls up,
and, after surveying the situation, mutters, “Now
i d° wn to rest,” and then snoozes up be-
side the lady. The warm breath of William seemed
to arouse the old dame, and, stretching forth her
hand, she catches hold of her bedfellow and
exclaims: G’lang wid ye now, Sargint . Shure
I know it s ye by that dhirty owld carroty beard
av yez.
Good again. 930 carcases of meat which
recently reached London per Garonne have been
condemned as unfit for food. And in Sydney beef
is 6d per lb. with an upward tendency. A few
more successful “Garonne’s” will end in something
like the following prospectus being issued here :
Grand Australian Meat Prize Union.” £lO,OOO
worth of prizes to be distributed. This associa-
tion is called into existence by the present pro-
hibitory price of meat, and is conducted upon the
same principle as an Art Union. Subscribers of
£1 each are guaranteed a chop, and they have also
a ohance of winning one of the large prizes which
consist of joints, calve’s heads, ox-tails, bullock’s
livers, &c. A feed for £l. Be in time. Only a
few more tickets left. Apply at once, Bull, Lamb
and Co., Pork-street, Sydney.
For a goody-goody Holy Joey city, Bath-
urst takes the bun from all-comers. A few days
ago a “two-headed ” girl was brought before the
sapient Binch, and charged with being an “inde-
cent exhibit.” The Barnum who ran the show was
sentenced to three days’ imprisonment, and the
exhibit would have been confiscated only it was
doubtful if the State could support a girl with
two mouths. The P.M. said he was surprised that
the Sydney police nad allowed such an exhibition
to pollute the metropolis. Bough on Fosbery,
that. Oh, and by the way, conceive, if you can,
the bliss in store for the man who marries the girl
with two heads. Especially when he comes home
with a saveloy in one hand and his boots in the
other, at 3 a.m., and the two mouths open fire upon
him. 0.L.!
Wesleyan Parson Hughes wouldn’t attend
the banquet recently given by the Kiama men to
the travelled Dymock, because (to use his own
words), “ I look upon * toasting,’ which appears to
be inseparable from banquets as now conducted,
as, in itself, a time-honoured folly ; and because I
consider that the use of strong drink in connection
therewith is, generally speaking, fully overlapped
with dissipation, if not with drunkenness and
other offences.” The reverend one is to a certain
extent right, though he hardly draws sufficient dis-
tinction between the hughes and abhughes ( cicl!
E. 8.) of toasting. One or two toasts at a banquet
may be made the means of imparting information
in a genial pleasant fashion; whereas nine
or tea are to all a certain nuisance, and to
many a very possible temptation. When a
fellow has toasted (with ne’er a heeltap)
the Queen, the Prince of Wales, etc., the Gover-
nor, Our Guest, the Parliament, the Ministry, the
Visitors, the Agricultural Interests, the Pastoral
Interests, the Commercial Interests, the Ladies,
the Press, the Chairman, the Vice-chairman and
the Caterer, he s had more than is good for him ;
for it is not given to every man to go through a
big lot of toasts (as did tho Rev. J. Wilson at the
Dymock banquet) and then be able to declare (as
Wflson did) “I am temperate still.” Wilson in
thinking that temperance consists in not showing
the slightest sign of intoxication is as far out of it
as is Hughes in indiscriminately denouneing a
eustom that, rightly observed, is net without its
advantages.
A bust (by Brook, A.R.A.,) has been
erected in Westminster Abbey to the memory of
Longfellow. Society (London) remarks, inaccur-
ately:— For the first time Westminster Abbey
has admitted among England’s most illustrious
sons a memorial of one who was not a native of
the soil. Just to mention one foreigner to whom
a memorial has been placed in the Abbey, we name
Saint Evremond, whose bust and tablet are in
Poets Corner,” to the right of Mat. Prior’s
monument, and above that of Sharp. A London
paper should not require correction on such a
point by an Australian scribe.
The Sultan of Turkey Is rather an expense
to his unlucky subjects. This bankrupt sovereign
manages to spend £2,400.000 per annum on himself
and the eunuchs, sultanas, and courtiers that re-
side in his palace. He has three hundred cooks,
two hundred attendants to carry food from the
kitchen to tho table, ten table-makers to arrange
the service, and ten stewards to draw up the daily
menus. There are ten employes to unfold the
carpet on which he prays, ten coffee-roasters to
make his coffee, ten servants to clean his pipes,
twenty valets to look after his clothes, eight per-
sons to light his chandeliers, eight others to at-
tend to his aviaries, one hundred boatmen to row
his "oat on the Bosphorus, five armourers, two
hairdressers, and two hundred and fifty grooms.
Altogether, four thousand persons live at the cost
ot the impoverished people of the Turkish Em-
pire, doing nothing except ministering to the vices
ol '„ tt i e J uxury of this depraved Fraud. If you
called hi in a depraved Fraud, in a Turkish news-
paper, you would get the soles of your feet beaten
in, and then would be strangled. Whenever h s
name is mentioned, everyone is expected to make
a genuflexion.
for 32 years the actions of plain Mr*
h itzroy troubled nobody; It is true that, enjoying
a distant heirship to a dukedom, a few far-seeing
mothers kept him in view, but this inheritance
was tor many years far too remote to tender
worth while any distinct matrimonial schemes tb
ensnare the estimable young 1 man. It was when*
however, he actually became Earl of Huston, and
eldest son of the wealthy Duke of Grafton, and
nis lather had taken possession of the Euston
©states and his seat on the ducal bench in the
Rouse of Lords, the young man became quite a
horse of another colour. He was then aD unques-
tioned eligible, and his name went down on the
lists of more daughter-hampered mammas than
would fill a column with their names. But, ales!
no sooner had the pieans of joy begun to swell into
a harmonious strain, and every debutante of the
season begun to hope her name might some day be
Dady Euston, than unpleasant whispers began to
an< ? 800 a the cat was out of the bag,
tnat the prize had been already captured over ten
years before by a woman whose associates were
pick-pockets and street-walkers, of whom she her-
self was a shining light, and her habitat the
purlieus of the Seven Dials or the slums of Chelsea.
Imagine the shock! fancy the disappointment!
Instead of Lady Ethel this, Lady Beatrice that,
Lady Gwendolin What’s-her-name, on the Hon.
Muriel Thingumbob, the proud coronet of the
house of Fitzroy would encircle the vice-seamed
temples and tangled tresses of the abandoned and
profligate adulteress and drunkard, Kate Cross.
Disappointment at the loss of the earl and pro-
spective duke soon gave way to dismay at the
possible chance of the introduction to high
society of the new-made countess in the
enforced rdle of a reformed sister. All the
Vere de Veres said it was too dreadful for
anything. There was only one possible thing to
be done; and that was, to get rid of this very dis-
agreeable lady, who had already borne him several
children, one of them, a son, having on his father’s
elevation become Viscount Thetford. But how ?
Numerous and flagrant as were the grounds for
claiming a divorce with which Mr. Fitzroy’s wife
had furnished him while in Australia, and when
he remained without a handle to his name; just so
soon as he became the Earl of Euston she dis-
played the cunning not only of her sex, but of her
class; and the Strand, Leicester Square, the Hav-
market, and the doorway of the Criterion at night
she knew no more, and never was she guilty of
even the semblance of an unchaste act. Could ho
have louDd but one trifling loophole since his last
condonement, it would have sufficed. But he
couldn’t. In these desperate straits, my lord re-
membered that when, in the first flush of hia
fatuation for the gay Kate, he had asked her out
v!P r nr I > antipodes to be his beacon star
«?■ }dol, the queen of his heart, and so on the
beautiful and irregular young lady had a husband
flying. Ihe trifling circumstance had almost
tlia/'thntP m ° r V ’’ And ke also remembered
that the gentleman s name was “Smith.” So th«
antipodal Smith was fetched to London, and as the
prospects of & successful divorce bocamp no mnf
hearts of the daughter-hampered mamafbeai
hii?h, for tho Earl would pood bo atrain avaiinhip
ala » Their hopes are dashld * The Divorce
was clelr h Mr d S C mlth g h« r ? m the - ® vid u enc e that it
c ,l ea . r iVI /' Smith had married the irregular
Miss Kate, has also found that at that precise
period of his eventful career he had another
young woman attached to him in the capacity of
wife, so that, although Miss Cross (alias Cooke)
H OMr ’iS rnit a’ she did not become Mrs.
Smith. Not being Mrs. Smith, she is of course the
Countess of Euston, and, provided all goel well
smoothly, and no more of her previous hus-
bands turn up, she will, to the horror of a virtuous
anstocr’cy, duly become Duchess of Grafton. A
U ia 6—a duchess 1 Not that even this, startling
a 8 is * lB anything very novel in the history of this
noble family, for the mother of Mr. Fitzroy’s ances 8
tor, the first Duke of Grafton, was a woman whose
notorious profligacy was considered too utterly
i ? J e ?i! n th P abandoned court of Charle* IL
She was (like the other interesting she who has iust
flaunted the claim of the eager Smith) already a
Mrs. when His Majesty Charlvs graciously looked
upon her charms; but such a trifle was not allowed
L er& wittl th . e royal pleasure, and her
amiability was rewarded with tho title of Duchess
of Cleveland. Her roral lover coraDlaisantiv
cepted the paternity of seve?ll chu“ren wh"ch the'
Duchess presented—we might say.
to the British nation, which has been a father to
£ e “ 0 H Ve A Sl T 6 ’. in , t . he way of pocket money—
-5™ mu?b“soa. 1,a3 bBen PUbUclr kWr "' U


Woman Items.
A newlv-married victim states that his
wife is “ at home ” in everything and everywhere,
except—at home. . ,
Mrs. Dr. Potts has introduced into Vic-
toria the American “notion ” of ladies taking the
privilege of asking the gents, for the pleasure of
a dance.” The lassie, by this plan, s-Potts the par-
ticular partner she is eager to “ mash.” The right
r!f noDDing the Question in all seasons will be the
next invasion of hapless males’ privileges.
One who professes to understand how to
■win a Woman’s affections, says: “ Don’t talk about
i D a to work ’to win the affections of a woman;
it can’t be done in that way. The more you go to
work the more she won’t like you. Push her into
a water-hole and pull her out by the hair. If you
«re afraid to do this, jump in yourself, and let her
null vou out. Lend her money ; borrow some
from her, Make her believe she has deeply
wronged you, and then forgive her. Deeply
wrong her and don’t ask to be forgiven. In short,
contrive to lay her under a lasting obligation to
vnu or to lay vourself under a lasting obligation
to her It does not matter a headless pin which,
so far as the result is concerned.”
The managing editor of an American paper
la a Jvoung lady, and when a man comes into the
nffice to whip the editor, and is shown into the
room of the responsible party, and meets the young
ladv it takes the anger out of him, and he feels
like apologising. It is not hard to imagine the
sensation of a person, frothing at the mouth, and
thirsting for revenge, upon being introduced into
the presence of a shy young girl, whose fair cheeks
nre covered with timid blushes, and in whose
startled eyes comes the look of a frightened fawn.
The murderous man collapses in a chair, and his
Taylor’s Tactics.
(Very awkward tack-tics to sit upon, too.)
No doubt many people have wondered, as
wo have whv it always takes a woman three times
S liS tolet into or out of a car fit takes a man.
Well ifcrht dawns on our nuzzled intellect. A
fashion cage (never meant for our eye) tells us
that °”the devices in hoisery are more exquisite
than ever- linen underskirts have embroidery,
insertion, and trimmings of
it is true thev seem almost wasted in tneir con
SSmmt 6 , butlhey add to the rick effect
when the wind plays merrily with a lady s attire,
or when the swift sweep of the hand on angnimv
srwsffiMtag-gHs
“wasted in concealment,” she 11 unn tne swiu,
awonn nf the hand unnecessary to bring them into
B pTay* P andsaveenough time to enable her to step
from the car in one act.
Patti has visited the San Franciscans, with
her marvellons 1 voL and her■ wonderful diamonds
fcj> t‘/eo ln rffi. 8 «
men and women, blocking the Passages, crushed
fir hours in a standing press .to sec and hear her
La diva treated the house to a view of as many or
her diamonds as sh* could carry
hrmiirht in on trestles. In the first set sne wore a
with a narure of brooches of huge turquoises ui
most perfect blue, set In diamonds. But in the
ball-mom scene all the famous diamonds came to
the fore. The wonderful necklace, with its long
rivieres of huge sparklers; the groat.
shoulder-brooch with its long trail of diamonds
running across the breast; a Tong shoulder-clasp,
and another pair of matchless bracts dm-
mond pins to stay the draperies ofl her dress
diamonds, diamonds everywhere! Men fought to
pay 20 dollars a seat to hear her on the opening
night. For 20 years, adjectives have been ex
hausted to describe Patti’s voice, yet otte critic
bolmy says, “ she screams her upper notes.
With most people, a “model” is an ex-
tremely improper young person, who spends her
time standing on a pedestal without any clothes,
while two or three rakish artists chip images of
her out of bits of marble, and occasionally stop to
enjoy the naughty sight. It wouldn’t do for all
of us to know everything. But this particular
idea is quite an imaginative one. Some models
only pose for the face, others for the hands; it is,
comparitively, very few artists who study from
the nude; and when they do they don’t think of
a woman that way. Often a model has merely to
sit in her ordinary dress and read a book, or lean
over a frame, for hours. The worst posing is for a
draped figure; then the naked body is covered
with a largo wet sheet, so as to cling to the out-
lines and show the figure; a girl wants a good con-
stitution to stand that, and extra pay is given.
We once asked a handsome model if she didn’t
feel ashamed sometimes. She said; “Well, I did
at first, naturally, and only got over it by degrees;
but after a bit one takes no notice. You don't feel
uncomfortable before a lot of artists, because
you know they don’t think of you as a
woman, but only as a thing to be sketched,
a kind of animated lay figure.” And she
told us how an ardent young artist, who
had caught a glimpse of her ankles, had fol-
lowed her in the street one night with an enthu-
siastic admiration, which was terribly damped
when he discovered that she was the model he had
been copying, quite nude, about an hour before,
without taking any notice of her charms. “ But,”
she added, “though I don’t mind artists looking at
me, yet if a stranger comes into the studio, I hide
in no time. Just the same way, if you happen to
surprise a woman with the smallest part of her
neck accidentally exposed, she will cover herself
up to the chin, and yet, perhaps, the same evening
go to a ball in a dress open down to the middle of
er back.” Those who think of soft dalliance
going on, are in error; and a model would soon be
out of employment who indulged in anything of
the kind. Face models are scarcer than others,
because the face is invariably wanted very pretty;
at the same time, many artists can sketch faces
from memory or imagination, who yet must have
a model to get the body correct. The pay of a
good female model averages, in French or English
studios, about eighteenpence cr two shillings an
hour.
“ Lookee here, Mister,” he growled, “ I
wants this ’ere tush out, to onct, It’s bin a
givin’ me partickler fits this larst week.” The
speaker was a huge “buck ” navvy, and the little
chemist who extracted the molars of Drought-
opolis looked up at him in distrust, as he fell with
all his weight into a convincing chair. “Is it a-a
very big one?” asked the little man, timidly.
“ Big!” (scornfully) “ Ib’lleveyer. Rutherl Why,
I got a plug o’ terbacker and ’arf a stick o’ dynam-
ite in her now, an’ there’s gobs o’ room yet fur a
box o’ matches, she's that holler.” “ I’m afraid,
remarked the ohemist, who didn’t half care about
the job, “ that it will be dangerous-might fracture
the jaw, eh?” “Fracture be- —I” was the reply;
“come, get to work; she's got to come, an’ I shan’t
kick more’n I can ’elp.” Gazing with a shudder at
the pair of iron-olai torpedo-boats to which the
last words referred, the little z an hurriedly called
in assistance in the shape of the “ foorce,” the editor
of the local bill-stamp, and the nearest publican-
The three surveyed their subject, and didn’t like
h''s looks a bit, so they sent for a belly-band off the
publican’s dray, which, after some pet suasion, they
succeeded in passiug round the • mud-shifter s
waist and under the arms of the chair. Then, the
“ foorce” hanging to one leg, the press to the other,
and the lightning-disseminator grabbing the back
of his head, the operator began to grope amongst
the ivories to the evident dissatisfaction of the
object of all this care, who kept making savage
«naps at the foreceps, attempting to ‘ shin tho
law and literature, and otherwise misconducting
himself, greatly to the delight of Droughtopolis,
which by this time filled the street and overflowed
into the shop. Presently, however, the little
chemist got a good “ holt ” somewhere, and with
the first twist the fun began. With a roar that
would have done honour to M'Elhone, the navi-
gator sent his leg-holders, one into the show case,
the other into the window, scalping the poison-
retaiier with the back edge of the chair, as he
whirled around, trying in vain to tree himself of
it; and the operator, who still hung on. twisting,
pulling 1 , and wrenching with all his might. The
belly-band had now somehow slipped on to his
shoulders, so, with the chair on his back, and
holding, so to speak, nine stone of chemist in his
mouth, the sufferer fairly ran a muck through the
crowd. Game to the last, the “extractor’ bung
on for a good hundred yards, till a lucky kick
lrom one of the excavator’s ironclads sent him
living, whilst that worthy made hasty tracks tor
the camp, chair and all. Negotiations have been
entered into with a view to the recovery of the
latter article, but so far without effect, it'being
“Navvy” Jack’s delight of an evening to Joil
therein, whilst describing to an admiring audience
how the “ blank wretches down in the blanked
township there tried to blank well double-bank a
blank man.” How about the tooth? Ob. Galatea
Bill, the ganger, rigged up a Spanish windlass, and,
as “Jack” complacently remarked, twisted her
out clean’s a whistle, without enny blarsted
’ummin’ and ’awin’ over it.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor notn-dc-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Horace W.” (Darlinghurst): Why, the
method of raising: the wind by means of sending:
through the post sound advice on domestic or
personal matters is as old as the Pyramids. Just a
“stamped and directed envelope.” Bless youl
We’ve been had that way scores of times. Ine
amount of useful information that isn't supplied
by the acute person who pockets your stamps is
very large “R. Boyd’’: The principle ot
“ buoyancy’,’ as applied towards machines for
navigating the air, is fundamentally wrong. The
difficulty is not in “rising” in the atmosphere.
Gasses of less specific gravity than the surround-
ing air will enable you to do that. It is in direct-
ing your course when you get up that the hitch
comes in, and anyone acquainted with the remark-
able adaptations of structure and wing which
enable a bird to fly could show you in a tew
minutes that all attempts on the “balloon” prin-
ciple must necessarily fail. It is through being
immensely heavier than the air that a bird is
enabled to fly against the wind or. indeed, to fly at j
all. Hydrogen gas is fourteen and a half times |
lighter than air “Freethinker”: Received—
“ Paris”: No, we have neither received Le Matin
nor Figaro “Good” (St. George, 2): Not crisp |
enough . ..“J. N. S. ”: Good. But what about the
originality ? Tackle a local subject just to remove
our well, yes, our doubts —“C.D.” (Sub-
»criber): Hardly worthwhile, now “Tout au
rien”: Your announcement as it stands is too
vague to be ot use. But we shall be glad to have
an acoount alter the event—“R.M.G.”: We pre-
fer not to mix in sectarian differences : especially
when not personally acquainted with the facts
“G.D.L.” (Brewarrina): No, we can’t tell you
whether the individual you name is a relation of
the Hon. John Lucas. We know several things
relative to Compensation John, but the party
mentioned is not among them. D’ye think we
study the genealogy of prominent politicians ? At
any rate, you can’t expect us to publish such
scandalous matters “Constant Reader ”: It de-
pends entirely upon the terms of the policy. The
Australian Mutual Provident have a distinct pro-
viso that they will not pay the insurance on a sui-
cide, sane or insane. This is not universal, however,
and some companies pay suicide’s policies and still
manage to maintain a fair number of live custo-
mers. We are unluckily, insured, in the A.M.P.
ourselves and have to live and endure generation
after generation of Spring and Winter poets. If it
were not for that confounded clause about sane
or insane ” we’d have got at the Society long ago,
when peculiarly aggravating poets had tried us
bevond endurance with things about the moon,
anil “ niarht’B noon.” and her eyes and Judsons
dyes. We would have killed ourselves and claimed
the money on the unimpeachable ground that the
poets had made us mad Old Hiram : Thanks.
Too late for action this week ... John Stolel .
What would you give to know ? But we discover
that what you have asked about is not the only
thing you don’t know. You don t know, for in-
stance. that you ought to be courteous enough to
seed your right name along with a communication
such as yours. We could answer your question if
we liked, but we don’t like. See ?
Whenever we require sound moral in-
struction (which, entre nous, we hardly ever do),
we turn to the pages of the religious weeklies or
Temperance monthlies, and derive much benefit
therefrom. When our heart was made glad by the
intelligence that Booth, the intemperate temper-
ance man from London, would prosecute his
“Mission” in Sydney we felt like looking up
something from the publications referred to, and
were happy i n falling across the very thiDg to
suit, instead of going baldheaded for cold water,
and giDger-beor, and donning the blue ribbon, w 0
intend to slack off a bit and join the V lolet Ribbon
Army. The soldiers, who enlist under its banner,
only drink in moderation —a toothful now and
again as it were. And we are indebteu to a Scotch
Divine for the proper meaning of the word
moderation. That pious and worthy gentle-
man, when preaching a sermon
intemperance launches out thusly . what-
ever you do brethern. do it in moderation ,
and aboon a’ be moderate in dram drinking. When
ye wet up. indeed, ye may take a dram, and anither
just before breakfast, and, perhaps anither after;
but dinna ye always be dram-drinking. If ye are
out in the mornin’ ye may just brace yersel wi
anither dram, and take anither in the forenoon,
but dinna be always dram-dramming. Naebody
can scrupple for ane just before dinner, arid the
dessert is brought in, and it s taken awa; and per-
haps ane or it may be twa. in the coorse o the
afternoon just to keep ye trae drowseyness and
snoozingly, but dinna be aye drinking. Afore
tea, and after tea, and between tea and supper,
and before and after supper, it is no more than
riuht and gude; and l©t me caution ye, brethern,
not to be always dram-dramming. Justwhenyou re
giun to bed,'and when ye’re ready to pop mto’t,
and perhaps when ye wake in the night, to take a
drop or two is no more than a Christian may law-
fully do: but, brethern, let me caution ye not to
drink more than I've mentioned, or maybe ye
mav pass the boonds of moderation.” Yes, we ve
decided upon joining the violet ribbonere. and our
entire staff, barring the Religious Editor, have sig-
nified a hankering for the same colour. Our
theological chief cannot bear restrictions.
A few more Loughlans, and Coolie immi-
gration into Victoria will have lost its fragrance
for the noses of Flindors-laue agents. Messrs.
Saunders and Co. listened to Mr. W. H. Loughlan’s
tale of culinary distress, and made an effort to put
him on the right road of having a hash when he
wanted one. For £2B 7s. 6d. down, they engaged
to bring him a male Bridget from India, and after
all Bent and Bosisto told about that great country,
Mr. Loughlan cashed out the money and lay back
smacking his lips in anticipation of the hashes that
wero in store. In time the Coolie came. He
trotted out and took a long, deliberate look at the
fine frenzy of the rising colonial’s appetite. He
retreated in search of ingredients. After a while
he communicated the fact that he had a dish
ready, and if his master would only partake freely
of it. such a thing as sorrow over bad victuals
would come to him n<’ more. It is not certain how
much saw-dust, shoe-blacking, and back hair were
in the compound, but when the sybarite snuffed it
he danced, and when he examined it he went out-
side. He went round to the agents and demanded
his money back. The affair had to go before
Judge Cope, and His Honor, after hearing about
that dish, ordered the firm of Saunders and Co. to
hand back the change, and to fork out £9 12s. 0d
as costs.
Things have been exceedingly lively in
Tungumah of late. know where Tungumah
is eh? AVell. there's solid ignorance if you like.
Why, they (the farmers, of course) grow bags of
wheat there, and they've got a railway somewhere
about, and the township consists of a waterhole, a
dissenting chapel of the Methody build, a fair
supply of whisky-mills, a lock-up, a couple of
stores, and a pound. Tungumah is situated be-
tween Benalla and nowhere (Vic.), and until about
a year ago the simple-minded inhabitants of that
region lived and toiled in an unobtrusive, quiet
way, in peace and harmony with all men. They
were comparatively happy and contented, and in
all probability would have remained in that bliss-
ful condition to this day had not the poundkeeper
in an unguarded moment, sent the thrilling in-
telligence to the Government Gazette that a
wall-eyed, roan horse, with the "fryingpau
brand*’ on the near 6ide, and the off-shoulder ar-
tistically illustrated with a door-key and a triangle;
an evil-scented he-goat, and a pair of unbroken
steers, were under his charge, and he further added
that if the miscellaneous collection were not re-
leased by a certain date they would be sold to de-
fray expenses. Then it Avasltbat a Numurkah man
“ saw millions in in it,” and without delay dumped
down a double-demi press, a varied collection of
job-type, and an editor, at the front door, so to
speak, of those Tungumahsters, and proceeded
to supply “a long-felt want.” Filled with a
like desire to amuse and instruct the agri-
culturists and traders of that *‘ flourishing
centre,” Tom Hunt, the elect of Kilmore in the
Victorian Legislature, packed off a superannuated
printing plant, accompanied by a flre-eating editor
of the Thaddeus O’Kane stamp, to contest the field
of public patronage in Tungumah. And these
rival journals made things hum before many
moons had waxed and waned. When the Living-
stone Express played out its best snake yarn, toe
Hunt Independent trumped it with the prize
cabbage story, and vice verm when the Express
got the bulge on its contemporary with a thrilling
account of the marvellous escape of the auc-
tioneer’s aunt from being gored to death by an
infuriated bull, the Independent man would
come out with a blood-curdling narrative of a
local bush-fire that devastated a stubble paddock,
burned four chains of a “dog-leg” fence, and
literally roasted two small pigs ere the '* devouring
element ” was checked by the almost superhuman
exertions of the neighbours. But even such
seasoned pabulum became stale after a while, and
higher flights of journalism were essayed. The
editor of the Independent is a hot-headed jintle-
man named O’Shea, whose surname indicates his
nationality, for, as Dr. Watts pathetically sings—
“ By Mao and O you’ll surely know
True Irishmen alway;
But if they lack the O or Mac,
No Irishmen are they.”
The O’Shea got mad over an advertisement or
something, and sat down on the gin-case that
does duty for the editorial chair of the Indepen-
dent, steeped his pen in gall, and wrote a scathing
article on a “ respectable citizen,” in which it was
insinuated that the aforesaid respectable citizen
was a horse-thief or something, and that perdition
would not be properly populated until that citizen
filled a niche in one of its sulphurous galleries.
Then came the citizen’s turn. He girt up his
loins, grabbed his ten-foot stock-whip, and, after
trying its capabilities by playfully flicking a few
pieces of hide from a dead bullock, he sallied forth
and met tho Editor. Those privileged few who
have seen Mr. Upjohn, the Victorian flagellator-
in-chief, wield the dreaded “cat,” can imagine
hov the respectable,! but now wrathful citizen
used the cowhide on the carcase of the O’bhea,
who squirmed like a speared eel under the lash.
And theD, to add injury to gross insult, a meeting
of the business people of the hamlet was held
when it was decided to withdraw all their ads.
from the offending journal. The local contem-
porary of the Independent in commenting on
the affair is mildly joyous, and thinks that the
proprietor, Hunt, M.L.A., will have to defend an
action for libel brought a gainst him by the respect-
able llagellator of his enterprising Editor,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
IWe shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. l
RACING.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrumbidgee J.C. May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May 15,1«.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Rich mond J.C May 29.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
Clarenoe River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
ATHLETICS.
Windsor Grammar School Sports April 26.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.O.Sports. May 17.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 20,21.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Royston College Sports. May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handioap May 26.
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 24
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
During a billiard tournament at Liverpool
(Bng), Roberta, jun., made a break of 692.
At the Sportsman's Exhibition, at the
London Agricultural Hall, no leas than 1000 Cycling
Machines were shown.
Next month Sir Thomas Elder’s Stud of
Yearlings, two-year-olds, and Stallions, will be
brought under the hammer at Adelaide.
The large sum of £650 was recently offered
and refused for The Andes, a horse that has been
sweeping the country meetings in Victoria.
Reub<*n Williams’s wife beat him at
draughts, at Jersey City, U. 8., so he tried another
sort of draught—Laudanum—and expired shortly.
The Wagga Wagga crioketers are now the
holders of the Mandelsen Cup, they having at
Adelong defeated the local eleven with five
wickets to spare.
At Warnambool (Vio.), a forty-flve-mil©
bicyolo road race on Easter Monday, was won by
Hugh Crawley, who oovered the distance in three
hours 41 minutes.
A Mr. M’Guire olaims £2OO damages from
the TJlladulla Agricultural Association for not
being allowed to put his throughbred stallion in
competition with the gentlemen’s haoks at the late
show,
Donald Dinnie, in reply to Victor’s chal-
lenge, states he is willing to wrestle Gneco-Roman
or any other style, and will stake £5O to £25 that
the Frenchman cannot gain the best of seven or
five fails.
“Ned ” Bmitb, who was for mjwards of
forty years on the staff of London Bell’s Life,
has been compelled to retire through ill health.
At latest the “ old timers ” were getting up a testi-
monial for him.
Murdooh was clean bowled first ball in each
of the three last innings he played prior to his
departure for the old country. But for his 279,
not out, at Melbourne, this would have played Old
Harry with his average.
Mr. White’s fickleness in the matter of
jockeys was still further exemplified last week.
H 4r rte /4, th 2 u ?it Bl *U al| y failed to get any more
out of Martini than Hales had done-perhaps the
self-willed steed resents his frequent change of
pilots.
At the Melton (Vic.) races on Saturday last
King Sol won the Handicap Railway Btakes,
Springfield the Handicap Hurdle race, Plausible
the Melton Handicap. Knowledge the Selling Race.
Polly the Oxford Plate, and l’etrel carried off the
Trial flutter.
Mick Rush is as pleased as a school-boy
hat the prophecy he made about Beach, has been
verified. The first time he saw the Dapto man row,
he said he would one day become Champion of
Australia, but we don’t suppose Rush thought it
would prove true in such a short time.
It seems “ The winner to meet Hanlan ”
business is not confined to Australia, as Lee and
Petersen raced at ’Frisco on 16th March with the
above object in view, Petersen winning by 20
lengths. The winner is stated to be a mere boy
and (naturally) one of the coming men.
For a life-time it has been asserted, and
gone unchallenged, th«t the pugilistic hero, Jem
Ward, was born on Boxing-day. “Pendragon”
recently stated so in the Referee, when old Jem,
who is still worth half-a-dozon dead-’uns, wrote
him that he first saw the light on December 14th.
1800. ’
A man named Seeley has turned up in
’Frisoo, who bids fair to outdo Hanlan in the
Mountebank business, if he can’t “ put him
through ” at bona fide sculling. Seeley, amongst
other tricks, stands on his head in the boat and
propels the craft with a twelve-inch scull in each
hand.
Both the Sydney Amateur Sailing and the
Amateur Canvas Dingy Clubs held their closing
evolutions on Saturday, after which they landed
for refreshments and speechifying, the former at
Berry’s Bay, and the latter at Cremorne. Mr.
Elliott said he meant to show out next season with
a new flyer.
The MiHer-Dinnie wrestle in Melbourne
on Saturday last resultod in a draw. Dinnie won
two Scotch style and Miller threw his opponent
the three Grteoo Roman bouts, in the final of
which he broke a small bone in his leg and was
unable to go on with the remaining round in the
Scotch style.
The Double Bay Sailing Club is booming
along, as it is sure to do in tne hands of such ener-
getic officers. We have received a copy of
their rules and regulations, from which we see
they had not the pluok to tackle the much vexed
definition of an amateur, over wh<ch the 8.A.8.C.
have had so much trouble.
Professor Cavill’s acDourned swimming
matches at the Lavender Bav baths on Saturday
list, left nothing to Cavil at. The open 500 yards
was won by E. Oavill; the little wonder, J. Hel-
llngs, won the boys’ under nine race; the other
races were well contested, and a polo match fin-
ished the afternoon's sport.
On 16th and 17th of April the New South
Wales eleven v. fifteen of Queensland return
cricket match was played at Brisbane, and resulted
in an easy win for Bananaland by one innings and
17 runs. The eleven a side match then followed on,
the locals making 58 runs in their first innings,
and the visitors 162 for eight wickets (Powell 45
Callachor 27, Downes 21), when the match was
drawn.
The amateur sculling race between Brett
of Sydney and Woods of Melbourne, which
was fixed for the 3rd May. has been altered to the
10th May, to prevent clashing with the Solomon-
Guilford race. When the pair raced in Melbourne,
Brett won it as he liked, and the Sydney man must
have deteriorated very much or the Melbourne
improved wonderfully, to make the contest at all
interesting.
The most interesting event at the N.S.W.
Bicycle Union Bports on 24th May will be the five
mile Champion Bicycle Race, which should go for
® certainty, to Mr. A. Lee, of the Wanderers, if
performances go for anything and the one mile
champion is up to his last season's form. Mr. F.
M. Bladon, who has filled the office of Hon. Sec. to
5P G Union from its formation, has resigned, and
Mr. G. M. Moore takes his piece.
Says an English Magazine:— “Australians
hold catches with a far greater amount of cer-
tainty than most English playors. This quality is
due partly to the si*e of their hands.” Just so.
And the British cricketers we have then out here
are just as remafkable for the siae of their feet,
and the hold they must get of their native heath.
If the average Britisher died standing, it woiild
take a team of bullocks to ptlil him down.
Forbes races, on the 15th and ldth ot April,
with the following results Maiden Plate fell to
Pinkie 5 Chance won the Members’ Cup : Juniufc,
the Town Plate ; Society, the Sires’ ; '
Dosey, the Trotting Handicap ; and Chiniquy, the 1
Prince of Wales* Stakes. Fille de l’Air opened
the second day’s sport by winning the Hurdle
Raee f Examiner carried off the Derby ; Student,
the J.C. Handicap ; Biddy, the Flying Handicap :
and Pinkie won cho Forced Handicap.
The Victorian shootists, last week, put the
New South Wales through their facings, at Botany,
by a score of 70 to 64. Nine birds were allowed
each man. and the following were the individual
Vlotorla: p - M‘Evoy 8, W. Woolicott, 7.
S u n 7 ’J' °„ I ?, gl A 8 8 ’ R Glenister 7, A. Wilson
6, G. N. Buckley 6, B. G. Brownlow 7, A. W. Pear-
*°D AA o R. Inglis 8. New South Wales: H. M.
Faithfui 3. J. Hamilton 7. George Hill 8, V. Hough-
M®/ Scott fi, F. Weston 7, WTC.
Hill 8, 0. Friend 0, F. Gannon 8.
Unveiled!
Some time since, the English correspon-
dent of an American paper predicted that the
name of Charles Wood, one of the most successful
of English mid Ale-weight jockeys of modern days,
would not appear in the first list of licensed jock-
eys, and sure enough, the said list has appeared,
Charles Wood’s name being conspicuous by its
absence. The omission is one which can be
remedied at any moment, but after the inuendos
that have been going the rounds of the press for
some time past it looks very signifleent.
Says the Old Lady last week: —“ An
athletic contest is advertised to take place at Har-
court’s gymnasium on Thursday, between Atkin-
son, of Victoria, and Dooley, of Sydney;” which
is Granny for the fact that the worthies in ques-
tion were billed to fight with gloves for a £5O trophy
and the championship—do we ever have a match
now that is not for some chamoionship—on the
bssement floor of a church in Liverpool-street.
However, the men proposed but the “ Beaks ”
disposed, and the fight did not eventuate.
Clarence Whistler, the Yankee wrestler,
has sent a challenge through the Melbourne
Sportsman, offering to wrestle Miller or any other
man in Australia, Grnsco-Roman or catch-as-
catch-can, for £2OO, either in America or Australia;
and states he will give or take £lOO expenses. At
latest, Whistler and Muldoon were to have another
bout. The last time they met, Muldoon threw
Whistler and dislocated his shoulder, which may
tell against him in any future matches.
Le Grand held Martini cheap from start to
finish in the Leger, and when the time came cut
him down like a steam-Baw going through a boiled
carrot. The luck of the “blue and white” is out
j.ist now, and this reminds us that not one of
our sporting' writers had wit enough to tell us that
the man turned white with rage, when he found
he had blued his money on that son of a gun, the
colt by Musket. Such a golden opportunity for a
goak, would not have been missed by Alfred,
m what he is pleased to term his early journalistic
days.”
After all, the .great mystery of horse-
rabing is Something like that of a fiitute life. All
that thb smartest of ils know is that we know no-
thing. It *ould be hafd to find an astuter stable
than Soldier Boy s; and yet his smart party backed
him for the Anniversary Handicap, , and sent
Here’s Luck td make the running for him. This
the iight weight did ijt such A determined style
that neither the Soldier nor anything eJSe in the
race could get within cooey of him. At Canter-
bury, however, Here’s Luck carried the pot, and
then Soldier Boy walked out and trounced the
held. The poet was right after all; “There’s no-
thing true but heaven,”—Archie Forbes, and the
Nooze of course excepted.
A. A. O’Donnell is astonishing tbe natives
of Maoriland widh his bicycling tricks. Amongst
other shows, O’Donnell vaulted to the saddle with
the pedals at all angles and from either the side or
baok of the machine; sat sideways, and vaulted
from one side to the other while the maohine was
going, propelled himself with one foot on the step
a i4uil e othe r OI J_ a pedal; sprang to the saddle,
alighting on his knees or feet, and Sent the bioycle
along without touching the pedals, by the motion
of his knees or feet. With two machines, he
balanoed himself between them while in motion-
vaulted from one saddle to the other, and stood
on his head on one of the saddles after bringing
the maohines to rest. Several difficult feats were
performed with three machines.
All things are under olouds at present,
aye, even foot-racing is now suspected. In the
heats for the recent Sneffleld Handicap at Bathurst
a protest was lodged against a maiden named
Wright, of Young, who, it was said, was formerly
well-known to pedestrian fame as a Mr. Hyde, and
another against Buckingham, of Goulburn, who,
it was alleged, was a good performer, and was
also sailing under false colours These competitors
asserttd the charges were untrue, but upon being
asked by the committee to make statutory de-
clarations to that effect, they both refused, and
were, of course, disqualified. This looks as if the
peds. bad conscientious objections as to taking an
oath, or, perhaps—but no matter.
Edwards has gone over to the States at
the worst time he could have picked upon for
many years past, as the sawdust agony appears to
be just about played out. Big efforts were made
to bring off a six-days-go-as-you-please at Madison
Bquare Garden, New York, but without suocess,
Powell and Fitzgerald being the only pair to enter
for the £lOO sweepstakes, and as their backers
never intended to allow them to go alone, the
affair fell through. The interest b«n died out in
these matches, as the best men at i game must
be getting into the sere and yellow ; nuu us no new
men come forward, it is far from probable that
George Hazael’s wonderful score of a fraction
over six hundred miles will ever be repeated.
Nichols, of Shoalhaven, who is looked
upon as the sculling champion of the South Coast,
was, on Friday last, matohod against a nineteen
r^ I< L G^ fton i? an ’ a Protege of Mick Rush,
PA’S®® Mattison, the race to come off in light
skiffs. Some difficulty was found in obtaining
equal boats, as Nichols had secured Messenger's
flyer, which is far and away faster than any boat
of her class in the harbour, and on Friday night,
when the parties met at Trickett’s Hotel, it looked
as if the match would fall through, but Messenger
dropped in Just in the nick of time, when the Mat*
tiBon party gave him an order for a new bout.
Messenger guaranteeing to have the craft finished
in ten days. Mattison, though so youfag; is stated
to be no pick-up.
John Gasstng,n Won the amdt£ur,chdmtl;Qfi
50-mile foot-race at hew York; on February 22:
Peter Golden Started, against him, but .left the
track after covering 111 milqs. Gassmau continued
for 3o miles, when he was declared the, winner, the
times from the 18th to the 36th mile; which we
give, being best on record for an American ama-
r:7ulBt,o’ s ® mlD - 4l8 *o.: 19th, 2h. smin. 49see. {
20th, 2h. 13min. sseo ; 21st, 2h. 20min. Bsee.; 22ndl
2h. 27min. 365e0.; 23rd, 2b. 35min. 43sec.; 24th, 2h!
Bgeo.; 26th, ah. 62min. 24sec.: 26th, Sh.OmiD.
i mh, 3h. Bmin. 69sec.; 28th, Fh. 17min.3osec.;
29th, 3h. 26min. 28sec.; 30th, 3h. 36min. 3J4sec.; 31st,
3h. 44min. 555e0.; 3Jnd, 3h. 52min. 36sec.; 33rd, 4h,
2min. 45sec.; 34th, 4h. 12min.31sec.: 35th, 4h.22min.
43860. In England, the late R. Manks, a profes-
sional. covered the distance in 4h. Bmin„ in the
year 53.
Hughey Burns, the American gentleman
whom Mr. Pendergast recently guaranteed to
knock out ‘in four rounds, is not quite a Mac-
leay Cupid. A writer in an American paper says
Hughey is the ugliest man he has ever seen. His
face is positively awful. Strong men have been
known to weep at the sight of him. He looks like a
caricature of one of Dora's demons. All of his teeth
have been knocked out at various times, his jaw-
bone broken twice, one of his eyes gouged and the
other turned astray from its natural course, and
his nose has been pounded in so many diverse
directions at various times that it has apparently
become confused and compromised by spreading
in every possible direction at once. It is only
palled a nose by courtesy. Hughey’s head is shaped
like a Flat- head Indian s, and his ears are large and
canopy. 8
Now is the period when the far-seeing
footballer hands over his guernsey to his girl to
have the moth holes darned, and lays in a stock of
sticking plaster and arnica, before the run comes
on it. The Newtowners meeting on 3rd instant,
showed the member’s roll numbered 70: and the
Club cap of honour was allotted to A. Gerard. The
Waratahs held their annual on 16th April, when
the following officers were elected President
Mr. N. Griffiths, M.L.A, re-elected; vlce-presi-
dents, Messrs. R. R. Macnattie, Sydney Burdekin
M 5.L.A.,0. VV. Beal, W. C. Marshall; secrltery ami
treasurer, Mr. W. C. Hinwood, re-elected; com-
mittee, Messrs. Lee, Hand, Murray, Mitchell, Mac-
goveney, and Goslett; selection committee.
Messrs. Lee, Hand, and Hinwood; delegates to the
New South Wales Association, Messrs. Hand, Hin-
wood, and Chosterman.
At Theatre Royal, Melb. last Thursday after-
noon, “ Professor ” Miller and Edward Blaokburn.
of Eaglehawk, Vic., wrestled a catch-as-catch-can
match, best three out of five falls, for £lOO, in the
presence of some six hundred spectators. Miller
scaled some 15 st., but Blackburn, who went 124 st
looked in the better trim. Miller gained the flrs£
fall in 4 min., Blaekburn the second in 74 min •
the third fell to Blackburn in 9 min., and the Eaglet
hawk man gained the fourth fall and the match.
It is only fair to the “Professor” to state that his
particular forte is the Groeco-Roman style, at
whioh game no man in Australia seems able to
up®nd him. Blackburn looks small alongside
Miller, but he shows a fine physique, and a 124 st.
man !was considered by such a judge as Captain
Barclay to be big enough to fight or wrestle anv
weight that could be put before him.
The much-written-of bout between Sulli-
van and Robinson, the Pacific Slope amateur cham-
pion, came off on the 6th March at the Mechanics’
Pavilion, ’Frisco, in the presence of upwards of
twelve thousand spectators, Robinson getting one-
third of the gate-money for his part of the per-
formance. The amateur made a sorry show with
the champion slogger. He dropped fifty-seven
times in three rounds, and, had he played his hand
a bit better, he might have lasted out the fourth-
but after going to grass, or, rather, the boards’
eight times, Sullivan feinted, when the umpire
gave the fight against, him, as he fell without a
blow being struck. Robinson stated after the
fight that he went into the ring prepared to carry
out for a oouple of rounds the tactics he followed
as his friends had backed him largely to stand two
rounds. After that he wanted to stand up before
the champion and give and fake, but his seconds
positively refused to allow him to do so.
The Suburban Bicycle Club have issued
their programme, in which we notice there are
two so-cailed “champion” races, confined to
members of the club. The term “champion ” is a
misnomer in a case of this sort, and “champion of
the club” should certainly take its place. No
doubt the suburbans are not singular in finding it
“ hard to part,” but if they left these races open to
outside competition, they would be the gainers, as
the increased gate would more than compensate
for the loss of the prises. But it is not likely the
suburban racing men can see it in this light. And
while on the bicyole racket, we notice that the
Sydney Club have, after a deal of sparring, seceded
from the Union, at least, that is how they put it.
but the other side says they only escaped expul-
sion by the skin of their teeth and a teohnical
point, and that after allowing the trouble to settle
down for a few months, they resigned. In the
meantime the Union held a race meeting, at which
they dropped upwards of a “century,” of which the
Sydneys refused to pay their share unless they are
allowed to audit the Union’s accounts, whioh offer
has been refused.
In England, the feature of the afternoon’s
talk over Mr. George Anderson’s bill for the
abolition of pigeon shooting was Colonel Totten-
ham's attack upon Sir F. A. Milbank, the great
North Yorks grouse-driver and battue-shooter.
He is supposed to have shot more game in one
day, more in one week, more in one month, and
more in one season, than was ever shot in the
same individual and collective periods by anv
other perspn. Sir F. A. Milbank was one time an
enthusiastic pigeon shooter, but about the time
Wales was converted, and a little before the
t me Sir F. A. became Sir F. A., he took a sudden
turn against the sport, and at the time of Mr.
Anderson’s bill coming on was one of the principal
supporters of it. Colonel Tottenham said that
“he found in 1882 the hon. baronet was the prin-
cipal actor in the slaughter of no less than 4,833
grouse on his own moors in Yorkshire, 1,161 birds
falling to his own gun.” On the occasion when
the largest slaughter of birds took place, 123 birds
were picked up the next day—(laughter and
cheers)—and these were birds which the hon.
baronet said he had killed. Would he seriously
tell the House that there was not more suffering
inflicted by himself upon any one of those days
than by the whole assembly in any one of those
pigeon matches ?” Taking into consideration the
butchery of driving grouse right up to the guns,
whioh are fired as fast as they can be loaded-
leaded, not by the shooters themselves, but by
servants employed specially for the purpose—
sometimes with the effect of blowing the game all
to pieces, it seems wonderful how Bir F. A. could
have had the “front” to talk at length on the
horrors of pigeon shooting. The bill was talked
out without a division and, as it appears, Mr.
Anderson bad a poor show of gettiog another
afternoon, the trap shooters regarded them-
se'ves safe for another twelve months.
Since Martini-Henry’s defeat in the St.
Leger, it’s awfully amusing to note the way in
whioh certain “ sporting ” writers dispose of his
pretensions with a stroke of the pen. A Melbourne
paper, for instance, says : “With a light weight
up, aDd nothing to catch him, Martini-Henry was
an idol. Now he takes a second place on the list as
a three-year-old, but will go down another step
when Off Colour is well enough to meet him.” What
utter bosh I When Martini won the Victorian
Derby in the quickest time on record—beatiDg Off
Colour many lengths—he carried exactly the same
weight as in the Leger. and considerably more
than his Impost in the Champion Stakes. ‘But to


THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the A.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICB, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES BUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP- INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, General UTanager.
Palace lE3lotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 1
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Reoognizing the p culiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
W. W. CATEE, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Sbno
ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor—
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continental
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciation.
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
Prices cmaranteed the Lowest in the Oitv.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 20 Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquecaire style, 8 Buttons length,
4s. 6d.
KID GLOVE 3, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLoVEd, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4 >. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6j.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, ss.
per pair
KID GLOVE?, second quality, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVEB, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d per
pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen, walking, 4g. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen evening:, 4s. od. and
per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s.
per pair
KlO GLOVES for Ladies, Gauntlets, velvet tops
KID GLOVES, fur tops. Gauntlets, lined
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Giticura
A? '
l iUa T*
i
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
5s
So
'x l
Scrofula on neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
neum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
interna ly, and Cuticura and CtmctJßA Soap
externally.
Ba l Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organß,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pyremia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseasts arising from
an Impure,or 1m poverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
uuliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skif Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautlfler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautlflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
•druggists throughout the colonies. Price
Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 26 cents; Cuticura Shaving
;Soap, 15 cents; Cutiguma Rksouvent, $l.OO pe r
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
iriok a horse when he’s down has ever been the way
with sporting scribes, and “what’s last is best’
with them. Even as, a lew weeks ago, it was
rank heresy to suggest the possibility of Mr. i
White’s horse being defeated at level weights, by
another horse of his own age, so now we suppose
it would be equally heretical to refer to the poor
form shown by Le Grand, on more occasions than
one. That Le Grand is a good ’un—areal good 'un
—it would be absurd to deny—but that Martini is,
lust now, in anything like his old form, cannot
for a moment be maintained. Temper, perhaps,
has a go"d deal to do with his recent displays, and
when once a horse turns “thief," of course, there’s
no dependence to be placed in him ; but fit and
well and in an amiable mood, it’s quite possible
that the “ fallen idol ” will again demonstrate his
ability to show a clean pair of heels to the best of
them—not even excepting the mighty Le Grand.
THE FALLEN IDOL.
How are the mighty fallen t Poor Martini—
The joy of backers, and the dread of “sheeny’
Had but to know the meaning of defeat.
And (in the language of the turf) get “ beat,”
When friends, who’d o’er his triumphs waxed
elated,
At once declared him “sadly overated.”
The Nooze had a big thing on last Thurs-
day over the death of the unfortunate man Agar,
killed by the darkie Lawson in a Prize-fight that
eame off behind Hand wick Racecourse, at 8 o’clock
in the morning. The Alfred brought into requi-
sition some of its big caps for a heading of “ Fatal
Fight—a White Man Killed by a Nigger,” beneath
which it gave the best part of a column of hash
about the manner in which Agar had the life
nunched out of him. But what a different com-
Eiexion would have been put upon the affair if
awson had won the fight without a fatal termina-
tion after a severe combat lasting over an hour or
two Then the Nooze reporter would have made
a big race with the O.T. man for first interview
and bucket of stringy with “the nigger”; and in
niace of the brutal exhibition par. we should no
doubt have b ien edified with a detailed account of
the fight, roui.d for round. It is remarkable how
f«w men have been killed or permanently in-
jured in the history of boxiana, and the fatal
affair of Thursday last may be looked upon
in the light of an accident as much as a
fatal fall in a Grreco-Koman wrestling match
or the football field. If our memory serves
us aright the Nooze gave a big account of the
Hiokna-Foley fight and rather did a “ skite about
the victory of the New South Welshman, after
which it scarcely seems consistent to make such a
fuss over last Thursday’s unfortunate affair, at
which from all accounts, the punishment was not
rreat on either side, the fatal blow being in all
nrobability a clmnoe hit. The greatest brutality
about the fight was in not taking Agar away when
if was seen he was overmatched and beaten, and
ihepity is be had not a better field to show his
bravery in. Pugili't and Rough though he might
have been, he died like a “ white man,” smiling and
Zhting an up-hill battle to the bitter end. How
nfanv of the snuflle busters who now write about
him will do likewise when their time comes.
The second (Cup) day of the A.J.C.
Autumn meeting turned out damp and miserable,
f nd the general depression was not lightened, ex-
cept for bookmakers, when the Hon. James
White’s pair of cracks cam* to grief in the Cup.
The sport opened with the Flying Handicap, which
proved an easy thing for Lord Exeter by two
lengths from Kathleen, Privateer third; the
Maiden States proved a match between Salvo and
Cairngorm, which resulted in rather an easy win
for Safvo During the running for the Cup Martini-
Henry fell at the back of the course, when his
stable companion, Morpeth, tumbled over him and
hrnke his leg in two places. Favo led into the
straight, closely attended bv Le Grand, but the
favourite died away when called upon, and though
Empress and Sardonyx made gallant efforts at tne
distance, Favo won with plenty in hand by a
couple of lengths from Empress, Sardonyx, a
length away, third; For the Sires’ Produce
Stakes Garfield just managed to defeat Bargo by
a short head, Kathleen third; Paul won the Selling
Plate bv a neck from Snaveller, Allander third;
"sSapling Stakes fell to Sirocco, three-
quartars ?f a length from Venetia, Bolero third.
Friday turned out another miserable day, but the
racing proved first-class. Regret took command
at tho distance, and won the Two-year-old Plate
hva good length from Bolero, Liberta third; the
% Stakes fell to Brown and Rose, a length
a half away from Kathleen, lolanthe third;
ItaDid won the Welter Handicap, after a great
struggle with Alm.Se, Raven third; Garfield made
an easv victory of the First Foal fctakes from
Hrmpvdew Salvo third; Le Grand defeated
Marti nh-Hen r y by half a length for the Cumber-
land Stakes, the consistent Sardonyx, as usual,
running Into a place ; and Little Sister made a
Sait win of the City Handicap from Jessie,
Stock dale third. The weather on Saturday, the con-
cluding day, was showery, but a big improvement
on Wednesday and Friday. Regulator defeated
Archie by half a head for the Rous Handicap,
third' Empress won the Place Handicap by
alengthanda haft from Hypatia, Glencoe thW;
Lord Exeter and • r> )anthe rau a dead heat for the
Nursery Handicap, Lord Exeter proving too much
for the flllv in the run off, which eventuated after
the Free Handicap; Euchre won the Steepleohase
comfortably from Uhlan by three lengths, fcatunga
third; Le Grand won the A.J.C, Plate by alength
from the gallant little Sardonyx, Sweet William
third; and the unthought-of Mirabeau defeated
King of the Vale for the Free Handicap, Stookdale
third.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Auokland (N.Z.) Weekly says :
"The smallest pony In the world is the pet ot
Baroness Burdett-Coutts-Bartlett, the richest wo-
man in England. The pony stands opiy thlrteen
Inches high, and is five years old. The yarn
appears taller than the P°°JL-• a j!: ecea *L
meeting at Helensville (N.Z.) a Jockey named
Farrell swept the board by winning the whole of
the nine races lor which he started.... The whole
of P. Lillis’ Kenilworth stud is to be brought
under the hammer at Brisbane (Q.) next month.
Amongst the brood mares is Legerdemain
(sistor to Le Grand), in foal to Molbou.rne.....
The Yass cricketers recently defeated the Goul-
burn ditto by an Innings and any number of runs
to spare. R. Jenkins, t\e crack shot, scored 65 for
the Yassites. And the Sydney Orientals defeated
the Yass eleven in a one-innings match by 162 to
111. Luland, a Sydney man, scored 101n0t.0ut....
Subscriptions have been rolling in to the Mary-
borough (Q.) Turf Club, and it Is expected the new
course, grandstand, and offices will be ready for
the annual meet, which eventuates next July....
Clarendon T.C. races, April 15th:— Aureolda won
the Clarendon Handicap; Dick, the Faster Gift,
and Messenger appropriated the Consolation
Stakes....Bowna, a pretty little snot some ten
miles out of Albury, held its annual races on 16th
April. Bijou carried off the Maiden Plato, Coup
d’Etatwon the Bowna Handicap: Azatea won
"he Welter Handicap: Wild Oa& appropriated
the Flying ditto; and Dawn finished the sport
with a win in the Consolation Stakes.. ...
At Wangaratta, the J ocals ,be at the Corowa-Wah-
gunyah Spoffs by 144 to 100. For the winners, C,
Hutton made 74, not out... . Mr. Hughey Taylor s
trophy in connection with the Rose Hill Howling
club was won by Harry Fullagar. .. ■ T *i e
New England Athletic Club mustered some 1400
spectators at their sports on Easter Monday, h .
Fielder won the Cup and T. Stuart the Mem-
bers* race Beeton defeated Wootton in a
footrace at Taree, lor a tenner aside.....
Dunn defeated Joblin at Wallsend in 100 yards
flutter for £5O. Tne winner received two yards
start and won by three—The Bathurst foot-
bailers have elected their officers for the ensuing
season, and presented caps of honour to R.
Jacob and P. P. C. Maokay... At Hainilton, Yio.,
the horses The Andes and tar have been matched
to race two miles for £5OO a side, up. • • •
Vanguard won the Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn
Handicap, Hippodramia second, Lady Emma third.
* * *
At a reoent twenty-six hours’ bioyolerace,
at ’Frisco, Higham cowered 280 miles ; Prince, 282 ;
and Armaindo, 268 ...The first hiickeoed-gtove
sparring match on record was that which took
place between Joe Coburn and Bill Clark at Mozart
Hall, New York, January 28, 1863. It was decided
by faco-hits, and 19 rounds were contested in half
an hour. It was a very close thing, the men being
a tie on ten hits, and after a line display Coburn
was awarded the deciding hit James Hamill,
once champion sculler of America, probably
averaged more strokes to the minute than any
other oarsman or crew. He used to go well above
50 while spurting —The Charters Towers J.C.
mean biz at their July meet. £lOOO added money,
and £4O Members’ Cup Mr. F. A. Boyd’s Volup-
tuary. who won the Liverpool Grand National
Steeplechase, on the 28th March last, was not even
quoted in the betting market. The books had a
rare throw in over that big flutter h issee and
Kellogg played a friendly game of “ poker ” at
Gunnison, U. 8.; each held three of a kind, each
reached for the stakes, each pulled a pistol because
the other reached, both fired and both fell dead.
On the London Stock Exchange one day
in February last a firm received a letter from one
of their customers, announcing that he was
ooming up to town that day, and would call upon
them and take awav a parcel of valuable securities
lying in their hands. In the afternoon the cus-
tomer arrived. Said one partner to the other,
* Blank, will you lend me your key of this safe, to
get out this gentlempn's securities ? I broke mine
yesterday." “ I never had a key of that safe," re-
plied tho junior partner. “Hadn’t you? I thought
you had. Well, I suppose there is nothing for it
but to send for a couple of smiths and have it
broken open.” But here the customer interposed.
“Don’t have it broken open, you can send me the
securities; I daresay they will travel quite sately.”
Before the considerate gentleman left the office the
senior partner invited him to dine with him at his
club that evening. In the course of the meal the
guest said: “Now, you have often promised to
run down and see my place, and you've never
done it. Will you come on Saturday?" “Yes, I
will,” answered the stockbroker; “and I can bring
those securities of yours with me. That will be
safer than sending them by the rail or by post.”
“All right; that will do nicely." But before the
Saturday arrived tho stockbroker, with the securi-
ties in nis portmanteau, had departed, like the
Magi, another way.
The London Figaro absolutely boasts of
being almost the first journal to advocate the
restoration of Baker Pasha to his former position
in the Imperial Army. And yet perhaps a Figaro
is merely playing his proper role when doing such
dirty work as only a pimp and a go-between would
willingly undertake. We have spoken on more
than one occasion pretty plainly about the mon-
strous proposal to restore Baker, and pointed out
that any one in New -outh Wales committing the
olfenee, for which h© was most righteously ex-
pelled Her Majesty’s service, would be flogged.
As for the precise purgatorial value of Baker’s
recent experiences as a Turkish or an Egyptian
mercenary, it may be roughly, yet tolerably accu-
rately, gauged in this way Would it be deemed
sufficient by the clique who are clamouring for
his restoration had his offence been cheating at
cards ? The idea of putting such a question I the
dlqueists will cry. And yet the offence he was
found guilty of was evei-y whit as blackguardly,
while a great deal more cowardly. We don’t
mean to say Baker should be trampled upon be-
cause he is down. As a rule, wo generally side
with the under dog in the fight, but in this
case our contention is that a man with a very
foul stain on his record—the stain, of a crime,
not “of cursed ill-luck,” as the London
Punch euphuistically puts it in Baker’s ease-
ls not the man to entrust with military command,
however sincere his penitence may be. Baker s
restoration would be a most disastrous precedent,
specially in an army the morale of which is not a
bit too nigh, knelling as it would most assuredly
do the death of the wholesome theory that at least
E resumes an officer to bo a gentleman. Ituskin,
eneath whose exaggerative quaintness runs ever
a vein of practical and sound philosophy, says—
speaking to the soldier,—“ So the first thing
you have to see in becoming soldiers is that you
make yourselves wholly true. . . . And re-
member before all things that the highest law of
knightly truth is that under whioh it is vowed to
woman. Whomsoever else you deceive, whom-
soever you injure, whomsoever you leave
unaided, you must not deceive, nor injure,
nor leave unaided according to your power,
any woman of whatever rank. Believe me,
every virtue of the higher phases of
manly character begins in this; in truth and
modesty before the face of all maidens ; in truth
and pity, a truth and reverence, to ail woman-
hood. This may be a high standard ; but it is one
that a nation which professes to be chivalrous
shall not deliberately permit its military autho-
rities to lower, by readmitting to it# ranks one cast
forth for an unmanly attack on a defenceless girl.
Williams’ Yeast .Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Mashkrb.—The best and lightest are made by
Gfford, Hatter, 662 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
No one can be siok if the stomach, blood,
liver and kidneys are well. Hop Bitters keep
them well. Notioe.
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Henewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses. Moss & 00., Sydney.
General Agents.
Thirty years have elapsed sinoe Wolfe’s
Schnapps was given to the world, and by common
oonsent of the people t now is the only med o ited
stimulant which effectually tones the .tomacu and
the nerves.
Misery is a mild word to desoribe the
mischief to bouy and mind caused by habitual con-
stipation. The regular use of Ayer's Cathartic
Pills, in mild doses, will resioro the torpid visoeia
to healthy activity. Try them and be cured.
The perfume of freshly-culled flowers is
agreeable to everyone, and so it is with thedelighi-
ful fragrance of Murray and Lanman s Florida
Water. None reject it, none dislike it. Fmiu
the tropics to the lrigid zone, it is the unlveisd
favorite on the handeichief, at the toilet, wnu u
the bath.
If this should meet the eye of any one
suffering from Bronchitiß, Consumption, ■‘stimiH
or any Pu.monary Affection, we would refer them
to Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, which will In ail
cases, afford speedy relief, and in most, t fleet a
speedy cure. To be had of alt Druggists uud
btorefieepers, and wholesale by Elliott, Bros.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mr. DBOotJRor Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New -outh
Wales', Mining auepert, Adv ser and Mining Titles.
Agent, also, Free Selectors' and General LaLd
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydnej,
Mining and Laud Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class ef Land auo Mining Business
In the Public Department undertaken. I’itieb a
speciality.— Ann.
After War, Pestilence and Intemper-
ance, Colds lead to the greatest destruction of
human life, mainly in consequence of there being
systematically neglected, “ ielt to go as the
came,”—until a simple, curable affection is con-
verted into a serious and generally fatal disease,
it is better to take care of a Cougn or Col f
its incipiency, by using promptly Dr. JavmSs,
Expectorant, a remedy thoioughly adapted to re-
move these complaints, and equally iff.ctive in
the primary stages of Consumption, Asihrna. and
Bronchitis. To be had olali o. uggistsand Store-
keepers, and >, uoiesalß by Lhioit l rjs„ Piit-bti,.et,
Sydn .
a.itNOLD’B BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
> viugn, Bronchitis, Astnma, Lessor Volt e, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, u s this
Ualsah. Excellent for children. Vs.j sate and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dlseolving the ooegeuied
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives rebel;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold's
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.


F URNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL~FURNITURE; HATSTANDS, Pnd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
H
L lJ^V^£ D FU S NITURE > CENTRE and SIDE
* TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
kbADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRA WING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
SI .v BTh ror Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEG ANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
URNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THECOLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
iaaMß, O Connell-Btreet.
Marble-top tables, on strong HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking 1 rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
T7l IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
JLU Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 80s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers. from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
r F ?l n lClothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oW fJtJ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
elegantly finished
Plush, &c.
in
JPIHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
justi received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
Easy OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
T\RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DREBSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
TVINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
JLJ DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
early English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’B and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
D
8
sfc
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting: to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Hie above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-snore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BEADLEY, NEWTON
and LAME (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment ia Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
XTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JH TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, ana
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowect rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Com
sell-street.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAkB.
IRDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment: best make, low est prices.
LEY,
SOCIAL
For years past, the fine black broadcloth
has been gentlemen’s only wear tor eveoing
parties. Which has led to the frequent remark
that “you can’t tell which are the gentlemen, and
which are the waiters.” llut with a little experi-
ence you soon get able to tell. The waiters are
always sober. There is, however, some prospect
of a change which will do away with this dreadful
similarity. The perfectly plain broadclotn is not
now a necessity for gentlemen, and many dress
suits have been made of diagonal, or basket
pattern in black: coat, waistcoat, and trousers all
from the same piece. There are silk linings, and
narrow braid edging on cuffs, collar, &e. The
elasticity of diagonals and the development of the
tailor’s art enable the coats to be cut closer to the
figure thau of old, and yet give greater ease
to the motions of the body. White vests are still
correct for those who prefer them.
* * *
A curious business lately sprung up in
large cities of the Old World is that of Agencies
which provide society young men to those who
give parties—or, as they are often called, “ func-
tions.” It seems significant of the disastrous
spread of Fitznoodlism in modern drawing-rooms
that hostesses, who desire to have their guests
entertained in a polite and rational way, arc
obliged to hire men to do it. Yet it is a face that
these Agencies do a very large business. There is
less and less tendency on the part of the Fitznoodle
of the day to make himself generally agreeable.
THE FITZNOODLE.
Talk, he cannot. Dance, he positively will not do.
as a rule: but when he does, it is, in defiance of
etiquette, with the one favoured partner all the
evening, regardless of the neglected fair ones who
sit with their backs to the wall. It is outside of
his ideas of duty to make anyone happy but
himself. The hostesses of London parties
have but one cry, “ the men won’t dance.”
And yet the girls must have partners. In
the hired society man, agreeable manners and
power of entertaining are essential. When he ap-
plies for employment at the Agency,he is examined,
and will probably be requested to give an example
of his musical and conversational powers, and to
show how he waltzes, ff he is good at these, can
play whist, lawn tennis, &c., and his a fair appear-
ance, constant employment is a certainty. One
evening perhaps he is called upon to attend a whist
party, when he is expected to be a thoroughly
good player, and yet he must be careful not to
win too often. Next day, possibly, there is a lawn
party, or a lively spirit is wanted for a picnic or
boating excursion. He must know all the games,
be oheerful. self possessed, polite, and never tired.
The career of another employe will be specially in
the direction of musical evenings. But the great-
est demand is for dancing young men. It might
be supposed that hired guests cf this kind would
get to be known, and shunned by ladies and
gentlemen. They are very seldom known ; their
engagement, 1s kept strictly secret between them-
selves and the Agent, and for her own sake, the
hostess, to whom they are really valuable, is care-
ful not to divulge the arrangement. Some rely
wholly on their evenings’ employment for a
living ; others are men in town situations, who
find the life not unplejsant, as well as being
profitable.
* * *
The Queens of Sons have been .making a
sublime triumph *n San Francisco—we mean Patti
and Gerster. At her hotel, Patti patted round with
the glee of a child, wearing a short white dress of
nun’s veiling, simple, but irresistibly well made,
and a lace scarf that Hashed like a lighthouse every
movement she made—for that scarf carried her
celebrated, and almost priceless, diamonds. Sper-
anza conducted tho band which serenaded her.
Patti leaned over tho rail as fierce, discordant
shrieks arose from tho orchestr i, and waved her
handkerchief ecstatically, as though she had never
heard such music before. Probably she never had.
Speranza meanl, well, of course, and God will for-
give him because he perpetrated it in a spirit of
patriotism, the purest and most exalted of motives.
ADELINA PATTI.
As she moved about, she was attended by an
Italian on each side, while Nicolini brought up the
rear; but the crowd pressed so that, in spite of their
efforts, the little woman had not the room to move
that nature had intended her to have intheroheme
of space. Qerster is little less famous than Patti,
and when she sang-, her audience declared a more
glorious burst of mt*dc never came from the
throat of a cantatrice. Some men listened in in-
tensest feeling, and many more grew red with
excitement. They huzzahed themselves out of all
dignity, and grinned like baboons with simple
pleasure. A grin under such circumstances be-
comes ennobled. The women smiled placid,
fishy, beautiful things that they are. They did not
grin. They were sitting there in serried ranks,
clutching huge bouquets of hot-house flowers, In
the excess of their emotion; but sang she never so
sweetly, they continued to clutch. Only one in all
the house flung a flower to the prima donna—a
modest little twenty-ttve-cent. wad of violets. The
other thousands marched out, a long procession of
beautiful, well-draped, hair-dressed women, with
their b uquets safe in hand, unwilted by the
■warmth of their throbbing, rapturous breasts.
And a nice, long, mean, oold, selfish, stingy pro-
cession they made I
In America there are many girls who are
either very beautiful or very rich, or both. Of
late it has been quite therage among' these charm-
ing girls (daughters, mark you, of such a very
democratic country) to expect titled young Eng-
lishmen as husbands. The theory is that the im-
poverished scions of noble houses are not at all
averse to recuperating their lowered fortunes by
alliances with the daughters of the millionaire
railway kings, silver kings, cattle kings, and other
kings, in which that republican country is so pro-
lific. According to what we hear, it is with the
greatest difficulty Mary Anderson keeps clear of
the coronets and crowns and fortunes that are
showered at her feet; and it is well-known that
nothing but the fact of the Prince of Wales being
married prevented Florrie Chamberlayne walking
him off long ago. Lady Mandeville actually did
capture a British nobleman. Well, in case the
American girls should get; too much oppressed
with the idea of their own irresistibleness,
a Kind Englishman has written them a cheerful
letter. It appeared in a Frisco paper. We give
quotations for what they are worth “ The doors
of the first society of England do not open to mere
wealth, no matter how pertinacious and pushing.
Many of that society’s most brilliant and respected
members are poor; yet no shoddy millionaire
could get an in Ration to a Belgravia or Mayfair
drawingroom unless by an accident. American
women are delighted about their own beauty?
Well, look at them. I will be bound not one of
them has the clear eye, the rosy complexion, the
sound, firm, white teeth, that betoken perfect
health. Look at them when thirty more years
have passed over their heads, and compare them
with the same number of English men and women
of the same age,and see which makes the best show-
ing. About their enormous social success ? I deny
this ‘ enormous success,’ Americau newspapers to
the contrary notwithstanding. She has to take a
back seat in Europe unless chaperoned by some
one whose social standing is unquestioned, and
then she will find it difficult enough to hold her
own. lam aware there is one beautiful American
girl who mat ried the heir of a dukedom, but he
had gone to the dogs anyway, and he would have
found some difficulty in marrying any stunning
beauty in England. Let me give one word of
advice to wealthy girls who are ambitious of
marrying a title, and to wealthy parents who are
scheming to bring about such an alliance, and
that word of advice is‘Don’t.’ You make your-
selves and your daughters ridiculous in the
effort, and then fail most probably; but
should you succeed, you have put your
daughter in a position she is in no ways
fitted to fill. This may be cynical, but it is
true, for the topmost plane of English society re-
presents seven hundred years of culture and
breeding, and to-day it is the most aristocratic,
the most exclusive, and the most elegant in the
world. They all bear the stamp of high breeding
It is born in them and grows up with them, and
was not put on as a garment after their fathers
made a fortune in cotton, or pork, or oil, or mines,
or railroads. It is a fact not generally known that
a man with an American wife is seriously handi-
capped in England. She is rather looked down
upon. I have in mind a Pacific Coast heiress wbo
married a titlG, and she is frequently spoken of,
rather irreverently and ungallantly, as the ‘mus-
tang.’ Therefore, if American girls are wise they
will not go to England for a h„o.tand.” If the man
who wrote this kind letter is still alive, it is pro-
bably because he is not still in America, or in any
place where the rich and beautiful American girls
can get at him.
• ■ 9
On Friday night, the second of a series
of fortnightly socials occurred in Tattersall’s
Hall, which looked bright and pretty. It is in-
tended to have twelve during the winter, and a
special one as a finale in September. Dancing was
announced to commence at half-past seven, but
the members, with the lightheartedness of youth,
treated this announcement with joculardisregard.
This is a free country, so they started to dance
when they were ready, which was soon after eight
o’clock. About 70 present left plenty of room,
and as Shapter and Herman played, the music for
the pattering feet was almost ideally rhythmical,
and 10 items were comfortably managed before
midnight, Mr. A. Pearce being a good M.C. Light
refreshments were handed round, and these trifles
are always appreciated at dancing parties, no
matter how early they break up.
• • *
The Glebe Rowing Club’s fifth annual ball
is to take place on Friday, 30th May, in West's
Rooms. The fact that it has always been sup-
ported by the local people is the best proof of its
caret ul management, und this year the utmost care
will be taken to make it agreeable. The committee
have determined to dispose of the tickets person-
ally, and are confident of having a larger attend-
ance than any yet. Mr. R. Shute is hon. sec.
At the Presbyterian Church, Glebe, on
Tuesday morning, the Revs. A. Gardner aud Kin
ross performed the rites of marriage whic.i joined
one of their colleagues in the cloth—Rev. Robert
Kay, of Glen Innes—to Miss Chris. Elphinston,
daughter of Mr. J. D. Elphinston, of “ Inverness-
ville,” Woolley-street, Globe. On the charming
bride, who was attired in a wory corded silk,
trimmed with Florence lace, with delicate veil,
&c., nine bridesmaids attended, viz.: Misses A.
Elphinston and L. Elphinston, in blue i-ilk ;
Miss Dunlop (Woolloomooloo), Miss Macintosh
(liarlir g Point), Miss Spalding (Glebe), all in pink
silk ; and Misses Minnie Elphinston, McMaster,
Harvey and Morris in cream; and a delicious
spectacle they looked, with happy faces, and no
doubt pleasant anticipatory visions flitting
through their minds. Eighty guests, including
clergymen, sat down to a dainty breakfast, spread
by Correy, in the Nithsdaie Rooms, when the
usual felicitous speeches were made, after which,
the happy pair started for Mount Victoria.
* * *
The Palmerston Musical and Dramatic
Society (Q.) gave a performance recently, which
netted £25. A fair prologue was written by the
local laureate, Mr. H. F. Galbraith, and its recital
gave the audience an opportunity to walk around
looking for good seats, and to shift their chairs
about till they got comfortable. Then “ Caught
by the Cuff” and “Bombastes Furioso ’ were
given, followed by a concert, which would have
been pretty good if some of the performers had
been able to sing. One song was especially tear-
ful; it was called “Wrap him up in his tarpaulin
jacket.” We must remember it’s comparatively
a new country up there.
• • »
A gross outrage was recently perpetrated
at the Haymarket Theatre, London. Prominent
sportsmen obscure solicitors, county magnates,
grave-looking barristers, mashers of the first
water, and many mea whose bloom of youth has
fled, all wended their way from all parts of the
country to the Haymarket in response to the fol-
lowing Invitation, in a lady’s handwriting “The
writer of this is anxious to have the pleasure of
meeting you. She will be at the Haymarket
Theatre on Tuesday. If you will be in the stalls
you will not fail to recognise her ; hut to show
that this meeting is agreeable, will you wear a
button-hole of violets and lilies of the valley, and
she will wear scarlet geraniums ?” Some fifty or
sixty men, decorated with lilies and violets, mus-
tered in the stalls—only to hurriedly depart, mur-
muring to themselves in strong language. The
only person in the theatre who wore scarlet gera-
niums was an ancient lady of uncertain age, who
was very much astonished at the notice she
attracted.
* * *
The clever hostess of Cosheston House
gave a brilliant evening party on the 18th to her
numerous young friends. Dancing commenced
at nine, at twelve they sat down to a substantial
as well as rec'icrcM champagne supper, after which
dancing was resumed with renewed vigour, until
past three. We are interdicted from writing
up the many and varied costumes, but at the
risk of reproof, we must mention a pink and a
blue bell, who wore the belles of the room.
* * *
Last Thursday, the ball given by the Hon.
James and Mrs. White took place in the Exhibition
Building. Some 500 ladle? and gentlemen accepted
Invitations, and the building- was in fine order.
For some time previously it'had been undergoing
renovation. The fountain no longer sheds its dia-
mond spray-drops into the dingy-looking basin,
around whose edge a dangling fringe of sym
metrical ankles has so often charmed the gaze of
the interested beholder. It has been removed,
leaving a clear dancing area, where the enthu-
siasm of the “emphaticdancer” will have room
to develop itself—where, on Thursday night, the
strong-limbed men, and stately women “ with
feathers crowned and gay embroidery dressed,”
had nothing to stop them as they pursued their
mazy way. The whole floor space has been
planed, and the benefit was greatly appreciated by
the dancers. It was enclosed by hangings of white
and blue, with opening lace curtains which led
through into a promenade on one side, and on the
other into a card and smoking room, and a vast
drawing-room studded with sofas, lounges, and
chairs. Sale and Dare decorated the whole build-
ing in a way seldom seen, and with several ingeni-
ous novelties in the arrangements. There were
the usual lomr festoons of fresh twisted leaves and
foliage; behind the gas globes were star ferns, and
beneath each one a large mirror; while flowers,
crowns, wreaths, and armorial bearings were dis-
posed around in all directions. At the Redfern
end, was the supper table, where all the luxuries
were purveyed by Compagnoni, and champagne's
amber light reflected the bright liquidity of
beauty’s sparkling eyes. The band played on the
dais, which has been newly fitted up with thin
sounding boards, and was ornamented with rows
of pot plants, flowers, and shrubs. Under the
galleries was the only flaw in the place, and there
the new asphalting had not set, being somewhat
soft and sticky, so that it had to be covered. A
special porch was erected outside the entrance
door, and special arrangements made by the tran-
sit officers for vehicles. Among the company, a
deal of colour was displayed, the military red and
navy blue uniforms, resplendent with gold lace
and all the other glorious embellishments, which—
in the feminine idea, at any rate, are always
associated with vast capacities for heroism
in the devoted defenders of the country,
making the leading sex unusually gay. In
such a field of action, their arms were only
required for peaceful purposes. Ladies were pre-
eminent as ever for costliness and beauty of
apparel, which is, anyhow, absolutely insignificant
compared with their own charms. All the must
modish shades and shapes were seen, but light
dresses were most favoured—
“lllustrious robes of satin and of silk,
And wanton lawns more soft and white than
milk,”
as the poet sings. We don’t understand how a robe
can be softer than milk. It isn't milk that the poet
drinks as a rule, and perhaps he’d forgotten what
it's like. But tbat is what he said, and we give in
that poets know more about ladies than we do.
And, by the way, we have noticed that poets often
say things about ladies that an ordinary man would
be kicked for. But re these toilets: some of them
were remarkable fora free independence of outline
which stood out with bold effect as they swirled
In ever-winding circles, and the floor was not
crowded. Blue and white were worn in several
cases, aonned no doubt in honour of the toast ;
and Mrs. White, of course, wore her husband’s
colours, combined in a beautiful dress. The bodice
was white velvet and satin, long train, the gown
itself of blue ottoman satin veiled in lace, pearls
on neck and hair, and blue gloves. The pro-
grammes were prettily conceited by Turner and
Henderson, exactly representing a pair of blue
steel horseshoes filled in with white ; on one
cover was the date embossed, and on the
other a racehorse. A double leaf was Inside,
making six pages. The waltzes were Venetia,
Thine Alone, Blue Danube, Casino Tanze, Phie
D'Or, Dragoon Guards, Dream Faces, The Col-
onel, Love Songs, Souvenir, Gloire de Dijon, and
Ruby, other dances totalling up to 20. Being given
at race time, when visitors to town are plentiful,
there was an element of manhood more observable
than is usual at metropolitan balls. The sturdy
tread of the solid squatter, the bold faces browned
on th<> shadeless plains of the great thirsty West,
were in strong contrast to the lighter city phy-
sique, and to the clear complexions which enable
the usual ball-infesting young gentleman of the
city to compare with even the ladies themselves in
alabaster purity of skin. Many ladies were from
country parts, too, and in no way behind their
brilliant city sisters in style and fashion. All alike
appreciated the delicious conservatory that was
built in a quiet corner behind the dais, if one
might judge from the numerous couples A deux
who unostentatiously strolled into its cool recesses,
where the ferns tempered both light and sight
from being too intrueivo We think the race ball
will long be a memory with some of those who sat
among the ferns, where, from above, the little
swinging Cupids looked appropriately down on
the telling of the sweet old story, that was told in
Eden, will be told for ever, and keeps our little
world agoing.
The Eureka Ball takes place on Tuesday
week, fith May, in Tattersall’s Hall, and the artis-
tic tickets are now out. As they are a reasonable
price, the hall is spacious and convenient, and
either plain or fancy dress may be worn, w« can’t
see why everyone shouldn’t go, who cares to spend
a tow shining hours pleasantly.
* * *
Last Saturday, the Sydney Amateur Can-
vas Dingy Cluu closed their first season by evolu-
tions in Farm Cove, and a luncheon at Cremorne.
This club, though young, is flourishing—formed
only in May, 1883, with 10 members and three boats,
it now comprises over 50 members and 30 boats.
They have been successful in numerous races
siDce September last, and prizes (some of which
were shown in Paling’s last week) have been
chiefly, and in a creditable spirit of liberality,
given by senior officers of the club. About 3
o’clock the Mascotte steamed away with visitors,
who had a fine view of the evolutions performed
by about a dozen boats, the signal boat being the
Olivette, under Commodore George Snow, and on
conclusion, the whole flotilla bore off to Cremorne,
where Dr. F. Milford and party joined from his
yacht. The group was photographed by Baylis, and
then all sat down to a cheery luncheon provided by
W.H.Moon in good style. It vanished quickly before
the “ peckish ” crews of the canvas yachtlets, and
toasts followed. Dr. Milford proposed the Queen;
Mr. Breckcurig, Our Gests; Mr. E. Wangenheim,
the Senior Officers, to which Mr. Vicepresident
Herbert Underwood replied. The other Officers
were then proposed by Mr. Jas Snow, and Mr.
George Snow in reply gave a brief history of the
Club and its doings, and hoped all members would
be present at the annual election of officers next
May. The toast of Other Sailing Clubs was given
by Mr. George Hellings, who pointed out that
amateur sailors were free from the suspicion
which now-a-days has left its taint on almost every
other sport—the taint of dishonesty. They be-
lieved in fair “sailing,” not in “selling” races.
After Messrs. Milson, Milford and Underwood had
acknowledged, Mr. J. R. Druitt gave “The Sydney
Amateur Canvas Dingy Club,” responded to by
Mr. Herbert Downs, non. sec. Then the Ladies
were proposed by Mr. H. Harding; the Press by
Mr. F. Eichler, and amid vociferous cheering the
Honorary Secretary by Mr. Helling. Dr. Milford’s
health was honoured, and then a rush was made
for the boats, the Daisy getting away first, and the
steamer load landing again at Circular Quay ab»ut
6 o’clock, after a most agreeable outing. It should
be said that the S.A.O.D. Club invited a number of
visitors from other clubs, there being about 80 in
all at the table, and they also provided handy pro-
grammes of the day’s proceedings.
•* # *
The wedding of one of the fairest belles
of the Cathedral Fayre will be noticedjnext week..
On the 17th inst., Lady Allen gave a picnic to the
children of the church in Toxteth Park, many
parents and friends also attending. Long tressle
tables upon the sward were spread with the things
with which children like to stuff their little rosy
mouths ; and games, sports, and toys of all kinds
were provided, including a steam merry-go-
round. Special tables were spread for a large
number of fashionable Toxteth Park visitors....
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


F
INES r CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARB
VANITY - FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. 8. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U.S.A.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature dec«y
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
ACCUW'UUV4* muusii ULRllll
and vliforodß iimnhood id
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Kervon* j)sblilty and
, >T Physical Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute til or.
onahneas. Full information and Treatise free,
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 62CaEtlefoagh St., SydMy
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STUCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
C. B. MODINI,:
Gun Maker & Cutler.
BF- TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (tbe only award*)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barreHed Bi jech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, Ac. All Foods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Soie Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chab. Osborne ; also Angela Bor-
doni, of Bresoia, Italy,
Son of a George-street bank manager weds, next
month, a daughter of a late Northern cleric—
Petersham Social was held last Friday in the Town
Hall there We are told the Randwick Socials
a [® t f h ® }ir ®f n W ]n!te e Western squatter’whose wffi
eidest son of a late Western squatter, whose will
v U T asi 1 \v>dnesdav (16Ui)
frem fhe
To!aw“ ThSStoy, a 5S fan-
cheon (at which ladies will be present) will he given
t 0 h e*ivf u s ica? Urdoif of Toowoo afve' its
: f la fpiv 11 wifhTffnnifarnirimmp
and°Mrß t Nesbitt Misses Jeffries and Hart-
Mr. andJA r \r, Ne iTurHa hoimr
mann, an< Harris being chief among the
singers... .It came out in a recent Supreme Couit
could divorce. Though
?° » a h bl l Hermhißbeat ™Njeenusso^nsT* 1 C An inter*
he had done his best. Nice pmsons!._.. An inter-
estmg wedding at St. Paul s Cathedral, Welling-
ton. N Z., was that of Dr. George Goode, for years
ft eli-knoWII rGSidGDt Ol C/ftmpb©lltiOWni JN.d.VV.
His bride, f nrr? damJhter^of' U the’ late
Miss Harriet Riddiford, dlaughter o t e a e
Daniel.Riddiford,of Woburn, Hutt, Wellington,
and she had five bridesmaids in
coral silk and *nuahn. The wedding partjr in-
eluded several clergymen, M. sH.lt., professional
men, and a number of fashionables... Goulb urn
has started a Skating Rink, and Inverell a Gymna-
sium....Glen lanes
day.. There will be all kinds of festivities at the
opemng of the railway to that town.... Mr W
Pritchard, late Mayor of Leichhardt, to be
banqueted at Compagnoni s Rooms next Monday,
Apni2Bth...C o mmander Pearson of the ILS. Navy
has fallen mto luck. A few weeks ago, ho was mar-
ned to MisSjLeslio Ayer, daughter ot the late Dr.
J, C. Ayer, the cherry pectoral man. is band-
some, with bronze brown hair which she bangs on
her pensive brow, and, with a fortune of two-
million pounds, was regarded as the greatest
catch in New York. A good many of the dudes
had had bad luck before Commander Pierson
landed the young ayer-ess.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Luncheon to Bishop Barry (new Masonic
Hall) April 24.
Public Ball (new Masonic Hall) April 25.
Captain Cook C.C. Excursion (Fern Bay... April 30.
University Commemoration April 26.
S.A.A.C. Sports May 3.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tattersall s
Hall) ....May6.
Plumbers’ and Gasfltters’ Picnic (Botany).. .May 6.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
Randwick Races May 24.
Glebe R.C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms)....May 30.
Nortti Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale).. June 5.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall) June 12.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—Everybody says we are having
regular English April weather. Well, if we are,
I, for my part, don’t like it. It’s full of deceit:
raining one hour, and sun shining the next. If we
go out, wo must either cover our finery with ul-
sters or carry the cumbersome necessaries, or else
run the risk of returning home reduced to a pulp.
There is one thing to be said in favour of the
rubber waterproofs, and that is, although they
look very ugly, they will squeeze into a much
smaller parcel than the thick tweeds. We were
on our way to th« matinee, last Wednesday, when
down came the rain; and one of our party, who
thought more of her comfort than her personal
appearance, donned her macintosh, hood and ali,
and looked exactly like a Laplander. She was re-
paid for her courage by arriving at the Hall as dry
as a bone, and could afford to smile at our draggled
feathers and limp hair.
For such a miserable afternoon ;the attendance
at the matinee was very encouraging, and augurs
well for the success of the undertaking. Miss
Thompson and Mr. Maclean opened the concert,
with Beethoven’s Septett arranged as a duet for
piano, which is one of those classical compositions
that “take” at a first hearing. Madame Marius
took one or two liberties with the cavatina from
“II Trovatore ” which were hardly justifiable.
I have often noticed a propensity in some singers
to dwell on and make much of any pet note
they may possess, but this can hardly be done
with impunity in the case of such well-known
solos as Madame Marius essayed on Wednesday
night. In “Esmeralda,” however, she was very
spirited, and won an encore. Miss Thompsou sang
a very pretty song, “What shall I sry then,” by
Lohr, and her voice, though not over-powerful,
was in this very pleasing. Lohr has written several
nice songs, but this one in question is one of the
prettiest, and will, I think, become popular. I
don’t remember ever hearing Signor Beneferi’s
voice to better advantage than in “ Cedi ah Cedi.”
Though not of the purest quality, his organ is
powerful and well managed. A tiny girl in a red
silk frock and cream muslin pinafore surprised us
by a very clever violin solo. The little mite was
evidently nervous, for whilst her master, Herr
Kretchmann, was tuning her violin, her hands
shook so much that we felt certain of a break
dowu. But not so; her solo wasjbravely played,
although, for so young a child, it was far from easy.
Herr Kretchmann reminds me of our old music-
master, dear, in this, that he gives his pupils
pieces which are rather beyond them, so that
simpler ones will be a kind of rest, and practised
with pleasure; but he makes a mistake, I think, in
allowing his pupils to exb’bit their full capacity in
public; it is much in \e comfortable to the
audience to feel that there is some reserve power
in the performer. Herr ICetchmann is peculiarly
fortunate in possessing so many prodigies amongst
his pupils, and I hope we shall have an opportunity
of hearing young Smith again soon. Miss Thomp-
son showed great presence of mind as Mr. Mac-
lean, who accompanied, also did, in the duet
“O. Would that the Love,” when Madame Marius
accidentally skipped a page. By continuing, as if
nothing had happened, they managed to pick
Madame up, but the item wasn’t one of their suc-
cesses. I was sorry Miss Thompson did not play
more than one solo, and am certain we would
gladly have dispensed with one of the vocal items
to make room for another exhibition of her fine
playing.
The hall looked very pretty, being tastefully
■decorated with ilowers and shrubs, and scattered
here and there were little round tables, which
gave it quite a sociable appearance. Added to
this, we had a cup of Quong Tart’s refreshing
tea, handed round during the interval. Miss
Thompson wore a deepish blue satin skirt, with
short basque of blue and pink brocaded satin.
Madame Marius, in black cashmere and silk, with
a tasteful black bonnet with amber chsuille
wreath, looked extremely well. Amongst the
Audience there was a pale lavauder broehd aud an
electric blue cashmere, but the dubious weather,
no doubt, was answerable for the scarcity of gay
attire.
For the sake of old times, we went to see Webb’s
Marionettes one night last week. I remember
when we were children we were tilled with wonder
and admiration with these same Marionettes, but
the children of to-day are altogether too sharp. I
heard one exclaim contemptuously : “ Why, ma, I
can see quite well how they do it-look at the
strings I Why, I am sure I could do it just as
good,” and so on. But, at the same time, however
patent the mechanism might have been to this
young eight-year-old, he had to laugh at the per-
formance, and heartily, too. To impatient chil-
dren the ten minutes interval seems as if it were
at least half an hour, and it was amusing
the other night to observe their different devices
to while away the time. Some spelt the pro-
gramme over afresh, others would have a game at
hands over,” and I heard two setting eacn other
“initial letters” which was best of all. “I give
youK” said a little fairy to her juvenile beau,
“ and it is for a bird.” After a lot of pressing it
was given up when the little lady said with a sup-
erior air, “ Why Iianary, you goose.” After some
more guessing ar, birds they decided they were
“too easy ” and said the initial might be for any-
thing in the whole world.” whereupon my little
gentlemau gave “ O.” Casting her eyes upward
in deep thought his partner pondered for a moment
and suddenly exclaimed “Oliver Cromwell.”
“Not quite, but you’re near it, oh, you’re awfully
near it.” " Is it a person then ?” lispingly ques-
tioned the child. “ Well, no, not exactly, but
you’ll soon guess it, why I just thought you were
going to say it that time.” The little maid re-
knitted her brows and puzzled her pretty head to
find the word, but it was all in vain, it had to be
“ gWen up.” “ Quick, quick tell me, the curtain is
just going up.” *■ Well then listen— Orange Peel.
We are full of curiosity about “Populaire” so
went to Palings rooms on Saturday afternoon and
had quite a comfortable time. We sat up in the
gallery as it’s far the best place if you want to hear
well. I think 1 can truthfully °ay that the pretty
little opera pleased us all, and indeed some were
quite enthusiastic about it. We have been hum-
ming “ Blossoms of Springtide” and “Who shall
be winner ” ever since, and as the former song has
been published separately I will post it to you, for
I know you will like it. I do hope Messrs Moser
and Maclean will see their joint work well pro-
duced in Sydney at no distant date. Mrs. Dobbie
(ne6 Miss Foxall) sang the principal soprano solos,
and, as is usual with her, put her heart and soul
into her work. Miss Chizlett also took one solo
and was much applauded. I was glad to see Mr.
Morgan mixing in musical circles again, but ho has
hardly recovered ki3 voice after his long
illness. Mr. Hallewell helped not a little to give
the bass solos a good show. I saw Miss Josephine
Deakin sitting near the orchestra, and thought it
so nice of her to help in the choruses. It showed
a truly amiable and generous disposition. By the
way did you ever receive that book I sent you
“ The Parsonage Girl?" It is by the same author
as the libretto of “ Populaire,” Mr. Thomas Moser,
so I should like to know what you think of it.
The illustrations are, as I have no doubt you
have found out before now, oy Livingstone Hop-
kins (we never Mr. great men, you know, dear) and
altogether, it’s a tidy little book, and a credit to
Sydney, I think.
Do you know, dear, it irritates me fearfully to
see blind men standing, day after day, doing noth-
ing but holding their idle palms out to passers-by
for money, and looking so strong and hearty the
while ? It isn’t nice, I know, to say hard things
about these afflicted creatures, but I never can
believe that they could not train their fingers to
some sort of industry, were it ever so trivial. And
how awfully monotonous it must be for them to
go through the same programme every day! But
they never look the least bit weary, quite the re-
verse, indeed.
Fancy, I saw a lady to-day in a bronze and gold
granite stripe dress, made with a plain tucked skirt
just gathered on to the waistband, which was
joined on to the body. It looked so quaint; but
none but a stylish lady could have worn It, as it
was almost severe in its plainness. A bizarre cos-
tume was a fawn cashmere with ruby plush pointed
panels, and on each point was a large chenille
pompom—ruby soft felt hat with no trimming save
a bird of same coloured plumage fastened on the
left side. I have seen, lately, several dark green
and blue cloth costumes trimmed with gold or
silver braid, and they are about the most effective
and useful for ordinary winter dresses that I
know of. Those bunches of silk-worm chenille
which you admire so much are not only for hat
ornaments, but are also worn in the hair by ladies
who have seen their most youthful days. A new
stylo of evening glove Is made with armlets of
lace, which reach to the elbow. I fancy these are
made for the reason that kid does not cling well to
the »rm, and the lace does. And I think that is all
this time. Ever yours, _
MAB.
The bicycle race which was to have taken
place on the Agricultural Society’s Ground on
the sth April, between Chapman, of Sydney, and
Rolfe, of Melbourne, Champion of Australia, was
postponed owing to the ground being damaged by
the recent heavy rains, and will come off on the
Association Cricket Ground on the sth of May.
Both men are in good condition, and each confi-
dent of success; but Rolfe is generally looked
upon as being the probable winner. Rolfe has
Birch, of Melbourne, to look after him, while
Chapman has the services of his old trainer,
Barney Crookes.
Some sixty years since John Blackham, of
London, provided conversationalists for parties.
He had six hundred on his books, warranted, like
“ the miller Grindoff, To talk a dog’s leg the hind
off." They had eaeh a valise ready packed, and
were prepared to start in any direction at any
moment. In this army of talkers were three
Scotch peers and seven Irish noblemen, fifteen
baronets, and a wbole regiment of officers, whilst
the fair sex was represented by one hundred and
eighty-seven unappreciated blessings of unim-
peachable virtue and limited means. “All of
these,” said Blackham. “play at cards greatly to the
advantage of their partners ” Four meals per
diem were to be provided for these guests, “and
claret if one of them is a Scotch or an Irish
peer.”
At a meeting of the Salvation Army, the
other day, there rose up, among "sundry sinners
who wished to confess tbeir misdemeanours in
public, a Dutchman, who proceeded to harangue
the congregation as follows :—“ Mein friends, I
wish to let you all know how I found Yesus ! At
von time I vas sailor mit a ship called a deep
vaterma". I was not long on de sea pel’ore I learn
to schwear most awful. De men all schwear, so I
schwear too for Dere was no thought
of de vickedness of me came into my mind, i n' I
schwear more petter as any ma" in de ship. Yell,
mein friends, von day it come on to plow terrible,
de vind roared and de sea shumped and tore, ana
we was nearly all go to de bottom. Den de order
come for to furl de mainsail, and we go aloft an’
I dakes de post of danger—de wedder yard
arm, mein freinds. Yell, we try and we try,
and de mainsa 1 would not furl and de ship
give a roll an’ dip de wedder yard - arm
mit me into the raging sea. Ven dot come
I tink of Jonah what svallowed de vhale,
and I say to myself ‘ Shon, you mus schvear
no more.’ So I vent in mit de schlings. an’ I kneel
down in de truck, and pray and pray to the Lord
Yesus for the storm to cease. After dot, I schvear
bo more, for de vind went down and de shtorm vas
passed. An’ so I found Yesus, mein friends.” At
this point, a man-o'-war’s man in the crowd
ohipped in with " And where the was the
mate all this time, you lop-eared son of a ?”
causing a shout of laughter, during which the
Dutchman w»s hustled off the platform, and
another penitent started his reminiscences. Fsr
the information of those who are not “up” in
nautical science, it may be mentioned that the
“ post of danger” referred to by the convert is the
easiest plic& in the ship, where the boys areusually
sent.
Political
Points
Connaught will pass the summer at Nus-
sowri (a pleasant hill station) instead of at Meerut,
the centre of his command. This in complete
bouleversement of ordinary regulation. Some-
how we think a Nussowri (anglice nursery) quite
the Tight place for Arthur. Besides, why should
a prince of blood royal be expected to stick to the
mere rut of regulation ?
The report of Commissioner A. O. Mori-
arty on Conditional Purchases contains, in addition
to a lot of figures, a most flattering account of
A. O. Moriarty’s zeal, intelligence, and industry,
and an equally buttery testimony to the efficiency,
freedom from bias, &c.. of the inquiry courts
commissioners. That the country newspapers
teem with complaints against the circumlocution,
and worse of Moriarty’s branch, of course, goes
for nothing, for does not Moriarity himself report
“ All’s well.”
The Albury Banner complains that sev-
eral conditional purchasers down that way on ap-
plying for their certificates have been referred to
land agents who, in their turn, expect payment
for delivery. Why doesn’t the Banner publish
the names of the selectors, land agents and officials
concerned, and so help to bring the matter to a
focus ? On all sides there are rumours afloat
tending to show that the Lands Department is a
hundred-fold worse ministered by Farnell than
ever it was by Garrett—which is saying a lot!
There are two legislative candidates for
Gundagai, and their names are Want and Watson.
Should Mr. Watson fail of being elected “ Want
will be his master,” as was the case with the boy
who didn’t get the pudding. Should Want be de-
feated his first inquiry will doubtless be:— I “Watson
a name ? ” In any case the result will plainly indi-
cate what the people of Gundagai want, and what
they do not, If they want Want they won’t
want Watson, and Watson, will want Want to
want the office with a much greater want than
he has ever wanted it. So—(this correspondence
must now cease.— Ed. B.)
The Nooze says that Taylor’s “Amalga-
mation” Bill would, if passed, be “a rascally
fraud upon private rights.’’ No doubt the Giraffe s
proposal might be made more comprehensive, bn*
even as it is, whose private rights does it invade ?
Those of the barrister, cries the Nooze. But
barristers, as barristers, have no private rights.
Michie, Q.C., who is a shrewd, long-headed old fel-
low, and an authority on points of this kind,
maintains that the legal profession has no legiti-
mate vested interests, and that the question of
compensation is not, one that can honestly arise
out of any legislative interference with the traj
ditional privileges of either barrister or attorney.
The Chinese have many customs well
worthy of imitation by nations who pretend to view
the Celestial with contempt. And possibly none of
their customs is more deserving of being followed
than that of attaching a real meaning to the thing
that we call “responsibility.” Wltn us, when a
responsible minister makes a disastrous blunder,
he is simply kicked out of office; with the Chinese,
he would in all likelihood be publicly degraded, if
not decapitated. Of course, the custom is one
that could be carried to extremes, yet still there’s
such a lot of common sense about it that we beg
to suggest to the Giraffe the propriety of at once
introducing an Incapable Minister’s Decapitation
Bill. Were such a measure to become Jaw, the
portfolio for—oh, a lot of portfolios—would pre-
cious soon be vacant.
Nobody under the rank of a Field Officer
is eligible to be appointed to the Gentlemen-at-
Arms. Such the regulation. Lord Edward
Somerset, however, has just been gazetted to that
Corps, though he is not a Field Officer. SaysLabby
with, and in, Truth:— “lt is really monstrous
that scores of old and distinguished officers, whose
claims are old and manifold, should be quietly
passed over in order to provide for a young man
whose sole recommendation is his connection with
a ducal family, the members of which have ab-
sorbed £540,000 of the public money during the
last thirty years.” The Gentlemen-at-Arms prior
to 1834 were called Gentlemen Pensioners (estab-
lised 1509.) The Corps consists of a Captain (Lord
Carington) ; a Lieutenant (Lt. Col. Sir G. Hume) ;
a Standard bearer (Major Taylor); a clerk of the
cheque (Major Tillbrook); a sub-officer (Col.
Sandeman), and 40 members.
“Silver Pen” is the nom deplume of the
San Francisco correspondent ot the Auckland
Weekly News. We don’t know “Silver Pen’s”
other name, but we do know that she has the
longest noso for scandal of any woman who over
undertook to write for the press. There is nothing
rotten in American society that "Silver Pen”
doesn’t soent out and make haste to shovel into
the columns ot her paper; and there is nothing
good in the social or political life of our Ameri-
can cousins that ever catches the eye of this
scandal-loving female. There is, perhaps, a
very good reason for this in the fact that the
person’s social status does not bring her in
contact with much that is refined or desirable.
To any one who has lived in the States, or has
travelled through them, there is nothing whicb
seems more unfair than the manner in which cor-
respondents write to Antipodean and continental
papers concerning American affairs. Nearly every
last mother's son or daughter of them seems to
wallow about in the back slums of the great cities,
and are never able to get their noses high enough
in the social scale to catch a pure breeze from any
quarter. “ Silver Pen’s ” latest sweeping assertion
is:—“ The Americans are very smart in more ways
than one. In fact, too smart for honesty, and they
will get the best ol their nearest and dearest—l
believe they would go back on their mother for
£4.” We are quite of the conviction that this
slanderous female could make money by selling
her interest in heaven for a much less sum than
that.
Thus the Fortnightly The fact can-
not be ignored that the submission of the Merv
Turcomans to the Czar coincides with the newly-
established understanding between Russia and
Germany. The chance of a Franco-Russian offen-
sive alliance, and of the hegemony over the
Southern Slavs, was lost, partly by the aversion of
Servians and Bulgarians to Panslavism. Russia
found on her way to Constantinople, not only
Austria, but the small nations she had liberated
from the Turks, and, wisely or unwisely, she gave
up the struggle for Constantinople, and betook
herself to seek the “ key to the sea” somewhere
else. This explains the sudden change in her atti-
tude towards Germany, the removal of Russian
troops from the German frontier, and the recast-
ing of Russian representatives in the three western
capitals. The mere transfer of Prince Orloff from
Paris to Berlin implies a revolution in Russian
politics. There is no other diplomatist in the
Russian chanceilerie whose person alone indicates
as friendly an attitude towards the power he is
officially accredited to as that of Prince Orloff. He
is the counterpart of Ignatieff. As the latter w.ll
always be the evil spirit of the State where he
represents Russia, so Orloff will ever prove her
guardian angel. Ignatieff would be chosen to
deliver a declaration of war; Orloff to offer a
treaty of alliance. As long as France presenteu
tne possibility of a future Uussiau ally, Orloff was
in his place at the Russian embassy in the Rue St.
Dominique; as soon as this possibility was gone,
Orloff’s occupation in Paris was gone also.”
Sir Henry Parkes is once more on the war-
path; (writes from Paris, under date March 13th, an
old friend). He seems to be dividing his tirnebe-
tweeu the vain search for financial “ flats *’ in
London, and airing his political opinions His
latest move is in connection with the New Hebrides
question; and by the last Messageries packet I
sent you a copy of Le Matin, a smart little paper
published here, giving the details of a conversa-
tion which its London correspondent had with the
Australian Jeremy Diddlcr, and which would bo
amusing were it not that the opinions of a man
who pompously describes himself as the late Chief
Minister of New South Wales, and who averts
that hi 3 visit to Europe is specially in connection
with this question, are apt to be considered
important by those who do not know that Sir
Henry Parkes is not entrusted with any political
mission whatever, and that he has no authority
to speak on behalf of the colonists of Aus-
tralia. The particulars of this interview have not
impressed people here greatly with his political
sagacity. The puerile threat of closing the Aus-
tralian ports to French trade, and of “ boycotting”
the Messageries Maritimes steamers, is unworthy
of a man who poses as a statesman, and can only
bring ridicule upon the movement he is trying to
support. Such a thing could never be permitted
by i ither the English or French Governments. As
to the question itself, you may rest quite assured
that the French will have the New Hebrides when-
ever they are required, in spite of all that the
Australian Convention may do ; and beyond per-
haps, a very mild protest, England will not at-
tempt to prevent it. The lriendiy relations be-
tween the two countries are already shown
sufficiently by the Egyptian question, to say
nothing of the Madagascar business and other
little matters, to allow of any conflict about an
affair which in no way effects England directly.
The French are very touchy about the honour of
their country, and a check-mate, even in so small
a matter as the annexation of a few islands in the
South Sea, might cause the downfall of the
Ministry. Unless lam misinformed, there is, at
the present moment, in New Caledonia, a gentle-
man who was sent out on a special mission In cot-
neotion with this question, and who carries in his
pocket full authority to hoist the "tricolour”
upon any of the Islands. If the Australians wish
to be beforehand they must act without delay, and
induce the British Government to send a ship of
war to unfurl the Union Jack.
Bruce Smith and Pigott resigned their
seats in the Assembly. Two lawyers the less of it,
thank God Attorney General (Q.) Rutledge is
sorry he went for the Courier: he should have
been sorry before he went.
* * *
The London Municipal Reform Bill pro-
vides for extending the jurisdiction of the city, so
as to embrace the entire area of the metropolis
under one authority. The office of Lord Mayor to
be retained, that of alderman abolished. Turtle-
dom moved to its very centre—Said ‘ Pam” to
an Orange deputation over a quarter of a century
ago “The very foundation on which the Orange
Society rests casts a reflection on the institutions
of the Empire.” The British taxpayer is to have
the proud privilege of paying the fees and charges
incidental to Albert Victor's investiture as a
Knight of the Gartar. When the Duke of Cam-
bridge was created a Knight of the Thistle, about
two years ago, the country paid £341 for fees, and
at the same time £250 was paid for the charges on
Prince Leopold's patents of creation to three
peerages. These are the little things that
make life worth living to the masses
Parnell nays he will be able to count upon 90 votes
If the Francise Bill passes Bradlaugh while
lecturing at Bridgwater (Eng.) on March 13,
against perpetual pensions was driven from the plat-
form by roughs. Present holders of perpetual
pensions evidently trying to ride “ rough "-shod
over truth, justice and proper national economy.
Roughs, as Roughs, can have no possible down on
objectors to pensioners ; but pensioners as pen-
sioners have a direct interest in putting down
radicalism ; ergo, the pensioners hired the roughs.
Q.E.D.


THAT IT
Thoroughly satisfied
CONQUERS PAIN.
P&laoe Emporium,
Hay market, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
efleets derlveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated In my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wlfo suffered severely from
pains in her head. Bhe applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since reoommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, In which
case the result was equally beneflciaL It has been
used by members of my family, and its astion has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend ft
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
.... DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 6 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that oolossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited looal representatives In various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strietly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.B.W.
Died from it
J. W. Adams, Newark, Ohio, says: “Cutioura
Remedies are the greatest medicines on earth.
Had the worst case of Salt Rheum in this country.
My mother had it twenty years, and in fact died
from it. I believe Cuticuba would have saved
her life. My arms, breast, and head were covered
for three years, which nothing relieved or cured
until I used the Cuticura Resolvent (blood
purifier) Internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura
Soap (the great skin cures) externally.” Every
species of Itching and scaly Skin Diseases cured by
the Cuticura Remedies, the only infalliable Skin
Cures, Blood Purifiers, and Skin Beautiflers.
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICTTIiABIiY RECOMMENDED FOR
dyspepsia, headache, indigestion,
mental and physical exhaustion,
impaired vitality, nervous diseases
hysteria, wakefulness, sea-sickness ,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &o.
No Danger can Attend its Us*.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Crowing Chil-
dren.
yu * Sandusky, 0., May 81,1880,
I have used your Add Phosphate ana can pro-
nounoe It a very valuable addition. I find It use-
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head. It is of uudoubted value. Fast grow-
ing ohlldren require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Ltver and Kidney Derangements.
, „ Boston, Maas.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used It very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it In dyspepsia and In all cases where there
Is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
0. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Oarmikter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford’s Aoid Phosphate Is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed It for my patients, when suffering
from Indigestion or Innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a rood nerve tonlo, and in some oases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, In my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by tbe most Sensitive
Stomachs.
_ Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford s Add Phosphate, In elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in Indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as suoh
will furnish a refreshing xirink for the sick.
A. L. HALL M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or stloky substance, bu
GLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained oords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headaohe, Soiatioa,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lama Baok, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neok or Baok.
As an Internal remedy it tones and oerrects the
Stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colie,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp.
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’B PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for Immediate use in
ease of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Boggles and Carrlagas
Are the best Imported Into this oountry, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand*
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway Iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, ell, and varnishes are
used in their iinigh
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in Am erica,
and specially constructed for the Australia*
climate
And because aH who use them say that aba tba
bast.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNTAHJ) BQUAKE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM A 00„
tele 4sfnt*
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Professor Russell died in Goulburn. Over-
dose of Morphia. The “ Professor ” acquired
fame in William-street some years or so ago in
connection with cheap gas and gay ladies Sir
Alfred Stephen to act as governor during the
absence of Lord A. Loftus on his visit to Norfolk.
I. An unnecessary arrangement One Morris is
wanted by the Newcastle (Eog ) police for taking
in undertakers. We should like to grasp that
fellow by the hand. A man who does an under-
taker is no sneaking fraud but a hero pioneer in
that war of revenge which it is the duty of the
race to wage a Voutrance against its worst and
most offensively objectionable bugbear VVar-
nambool experience is thatspinlfex graispossesses
admirable sand - binding qualities Constable
Pountney of Quirindi in wiving evidence the other
day in a rape case deposed as under : I brought
the doctor to examine the girl, but he was not iu
a fit state to do so ; he was drunk ; he came to the
Courthouse on the Monday to examine her but fell
down quite drunk and the agistrate ordered him
to be put out” We are continually reading this
sort of thing. Such drunken blackguards Bnould
be removed from the list of the duly qualified
New track from Katoomba to Fish River Caves.
24 miles. Down the Megalong Cleft, across the
River Cox and the Little River, along the Black
Range over the “Devil’s Coachhouse,’ 4 and thence
down 1000 ft. (in a mile of travel) to the Caves
Rabbits not on the decrease despite Bruce's cir-
culars. Perhaps a proclamation lavishly posted up
all about the infested districts might have a good
effect. Their increaso may bo fairly called a Bruce
auction Heavy falls reported last week. On <
Tuesday, Mrs. Elizabeth Grimes, aged 35, toppled
over the cliffs at South Head; and on Wednesday
night, an old man, name unknown, alighted from
the down train at Parramatta, and, being pressed
for time, swarmed over what he thought was the
r illway fenoe, but which turned out to be the rail-
way bridge. He dropped 60 feet, and died soon
afterwards. £l5 found on him Mick Riordan
indecently assaulted thelittledaughter of Boniface
Taylor, of Adelaide. Taylor, on hearing of it,
blackened the brute’s eyes and then had him run
in. The girl Is a shingle short. When Alf. heard
this story, ho pondered deeply for an hour or
more, and then came out with these lines—head-
lines—all out of his own head, you know:—
** Alleged Horrible Crime. Adelaide again in dis-
tress. An idiotic child criminally assaulted. The
ravisher thrashed.” The Dean of Melbourne
prescribes early marriages as an antidote to im-
moralists. But statistics show that these .pro-
duce by far the most divorce eases, a fact
which quite Dean-ies the Dean's allegation
Patriok Kingsley, publican at Eaglehawk, kissed
wife and children and said he was going away.
Went. Suicide....Myrllcford people angry because
Sostal authorities took away post office and put it
own at railway station But why doesn’t Myrtle-
ford itself go down “agin” the railway? What's
the use of a town staying out in the bush where
nobody goes, or has gone, since the making of the
world ?...,NiohollB, or Ballarat, topped the poll at
election of teachers’ classifier. Old Nick will
eough now —L. L. Smith lectured at Melbourne
Exhibition. Subject—champagne. Object-sharn-
poohl —both principals or the Ladies’ Gymna-
sium in Melbourne injured in the Little River
catastrophe. Jumping suspended... A luminous
writer down South is of opinion that “the univer-
sal abandonment of intoxicating drinks will banish
drunkenness." There’s wisdom well expressed J...
Water 20s. a bucket at Lake Cudgellieo. Whisky
will soon be the national liquid Judge Faucett
thinks police "0.K.” ateverythihg except “speak-
lngaudibly.” We always thought bis “tongue”
was the strongest point about every “mimberav
the force.”—Rang Chee, a Chinese Mandarin, has
been doing New South Wales, gathering informa-
tion for his Government. Wish arrangements
could be made by which he could take baok, as
curios for the Pekin Museum, M’Elhone, Davies
C.M.G., the snorting Judge, Plummer, and either
Wbitton, or Goodcnap Victorian railway ;em-
K> anxious to start a paper, but Commissioner
jht has put his foot down on it.... An alleged
eoußln ‘of Charles Dickens, the novelist, died the
other day at Lindeuow, Victoria. Famous men
seem to have a legion of relations in Australia
The weather for a “study in brownt” Queen’s
weather....At the County Court, Melbourne, it
baa been lately held that a cheque is not invalid if
the amount is omitted from the body of the cheque
as long as the figures at the usual bottom corner
are all correct. The omission of the figures and
the insertion of the amount in the body of the
cheque will doubtless now also hold good. ...
Wooden-leg imposition on again. Peopleshouldn’t
subscribe for that too artificial limb. We wouldn’t.
~,,School Inspector John Saunders Jones, Sydney
district, died suddenly. Angina pectoris.., Murray
<Bmith banquets the Governor elect of Viotoria on
May J. When, we presume, there’ll be an inter-
esting ease of postprandial Loch-jaw.... The guard
trooped for the first time at N.S.W. Easter en-
campment on the 12th.... English mail by Orient
liner Liguria delivered in Sydney on 34th day from
London. Smartest record yet Secretary for
Mail ways, Vernon, visits England on a six months’
furlough 10960 pupils in the R.C. primary
schools of the archdiocese of Sydney Last week
old King's Collegians (London) resident in N.S.W.
“addressed ” Primate Barry... William Neill to be
recognised as Consul for the Argentine Republic
ft Sydney—Trinity College (Mel.) men played
’iautus's “Rudens” (with its “blue” bits elimi-
nated) last week. .. Here’s a sound loyalist’s com-
plaint “ Her Majesty’s black subjects who have
been introduced into this colony (Victoria) are
worse treated than Italians or Chinamen.” Mrs.
Hampson notifies that she will give all the old
places another turn. And she is sure to find
all the old sinners carrying on in the
same old way. Ah, men I “I don’t in-
tend to take any evidence except such as
will, enable the man to get buried,” said Coroner
Youl at the inquest on poor Hutchinson, blown
up at Sunbury. The autnorities might want
to bury the unfortunate fireman, but
ft w*s late in the day to set about “enabling” the
flremau to do anything.... Frederick E. Givan
gave a valueless cheque for a Masonio apron in
Melbourne, Was run in. Hard to say which was
the more valueless, the apron or the cheque. Why
did he not go round with the cheque spread over
his front?—Upjohn, hangman, drunk as usual,
was kicked brutally in Little Bourke-streef.
Vengeance is sweet. Only way to take it out of
jjpjohn was beforehand Too late when he had
hung them ...A lady, French by birth, parentage,
and training, appeared in a Gallic partin Opeia
lately. Critics unanimous in condeming her
French accept. Took her for a Yankee and, of
course, perceived the strain to produce French
effects ...Doctors in South Jaw Government for
partiality. If a railway accident happens one or
two men get all the bones to mend. Not fair.
When man breaks bis fingers, Government should
set ten medicos to work—one at every finger
Alberton, a place in Gippsland, is maa. Used to
have a Court of Petty Sessions. Chief work-
playing poker with clerk. Court shifted five miles
off to Varram. Poker-players frantin at having to
go five mfies for a game ... Melbourne Trades
Hall wire; “ *>■ e condole with Her Majesty and the
?uchess of Albany. Signed. Ben. Douglas.”
um, yum. There s a Big Ben , and, of course,
there must be another—a little one.
• • <
The Paris Temps urges a French oocupa-
t|/>B of Canton. Uncle sam and Bismarck may
pave something to say should Ferry bo mad enougu
to entertain the idea Franco goes in for a uni-
versal three years’ military service France and
Madagascar more than ever attwo. Former means
jin annex of g slice of the latter’s N.W. coast.. .
The Mahdi has, it Is said, scandalised the faithful
by taking fourtien more wives than the Koran
permits Hamilton Alda’s latest novel, “Intro-
duced to Society,” has for heroine an Australian
mlUlon-beiress, one Catherine Johnstone, who is u
remarkably lrtsb, outspoken, jolly girl It bat
been suggested that the proposed memorial to
Dickens should take the shape of a hospital, to be
called “ Tmy Tim’s Hospital for Crippled Children.”
Proposed new London Club—” The National
Independentto uphold “the privileges of the
Throne, the ascendency of the United Kingdom,
the home and colonial trading interests,” Ac.; to
support the election to Parliament of members
who are national candidates; branoh clubs in Edin-
burgh and Dublin to be opened; and a gazette
started to circulate election and political news
among members... Buccleugh’s Duke dead. Great
Scott!. .The idea of numbering the hours from one
to twenty-four is still prevalent in southern Italy,
and was known in France over three hundred
years ago. A prominent clook company has for
some years made small nickel and gilt clocks for
China, which show twenty-four hours on the dial.
The whole European population of India, ex-
clusive of the army, numbers 68,000, no less than
25,403 of whom hold Government posts, for which
they draw nearly thirteen millions yearly. In the
native population of 200.000,000 there are only 11,231
persons drawing over £lOO a year from the revenue
of their own country, and these have only two and
a third millions distributed among them The
French have seize 1 Amoy, according to Fortune
*' the dirtiest city in the world.” Population
350,000. Amoy was one of tho five ports
opened by the Nankin treaty, 1841 Ex-
Bailie Greenlees and wife, of Campbelltown,
Scotland, celebrated their “ aiamend” wedding in
February l ist. They had been 60 years one. Old
Lewis of Sardhurst and his wife beat them two
years ago—had been 65 years tied Those who
have been members of the Parisian Rue Royale
club for a certain time have an open credit of
20,000 f. on which they can draw. The member
whose malpractises have recently been brought to
lia-ht, having exhausted his 20,000 f., borrowed the
credits of two other members. He lost these and
then borrowed money of a card-waiter. Thi
supply being lost, the waiter proposed to him to
accept him as a partner. The waiter's money fol-
lowed that of the member’s. Hence the use of
the marked cards The conveyance per steam-
packet of the Dukes and Duchesses of Edinburgh
and Connaught, is invariably charged t« the pub-
lic, who during the last few years have also paid
several times for the journeys of the King and
Queen of Greece, for the Crown Princess of
Germany, and for the Grand-Duchess of Mecklen-
burg-Strelitz. The only members of the Royal
Family who invariabl y pay their own expenses are
Prince and Princess Christian, the Duke of Hesse
and his daughters, and Princess Frederica
The annual report for 1883 of the Peabody
Trustees showed over £25‘GOO interest on the
capital invested. Peabody left half-a-million, but
the sum has increased itself by nearly half since.
The Peabody houses have at present 18,000 tenants
....At Sandhurst Military College the young idea
is taught to run down Lord wolseley, to cry up
Moltke, to sneer at short service, and to despise
civilians—When Admiral Hewett received orders
to interfere at Souakim, he found that his ships
were useless, because they were not supplied with
the electric light. Fortunately, however, there
were some French war vessels close by better
supplied. The French Admiral loaned what was
needed and thus, with the aid of the French ap-
paratus, the English fleet was able to watch day
and night the movements of the rebels in the
vicinity of Souakim... .The Board of Green Cloth
has given notice from Buckingham valace that
under the Trade Marks Act a penalty of £2O is in-
curred by any persons who, without authority,
assume the Royal Arms with a view to load persons
to believe that they are employed under the Royal
household. The Board of Green Cloth is in
the Department of the Lord Steward of
the Itoyal Household ; prior to 1849 it in-
cluded a court with jurisdlc ion of all offences
committed within the verge of the court
Clelia Garibaldi, the Liberator's youngest daughter,
married Professor Grazaidei, on the 26th February.
... The Empress Regent of China, has sent Prinoe
Kung aid four of his colleages to the right about,
for their dilatory policy re French action in Ton-
quin.. ..The name of the ss. “ Daphne,’ at whose
launch in the Clyde so many lives were lost, was
altered to the Rose. Under that appellation she
sank to the bottom of Portrusti harbour. Rose
again went ashore on the Farlane Point, in Karnes
Bay, Millport An attempt was then made to float
tho stranded vessel, but it was of no use. When
the tide came in she sank at the stern, and her
decks burst with a loud noise. Is it necessary to
add that her keel was a Friday? ...Henry
James Byron, litterateur and actor, dead. He
wrote “Our Boys,” “Married in Haste,” “Cyril's
Success,” “ Paid in Full,” and countless burlesques
and clever jeux desprit; edited Fun and Mirth:
and was a passably good actor. “ Our Boys ” was
pun uninterruptedly at the London Vaudeville for
three years, was going on in fact as he said ad
infl-2m)th-niglit-um.
VANITY FAIR.
By the sad sea waves.—She: “ Ah, tell me,
Augustus, why are they called sad.” He: Can’t say,
my love, ’oept It Is they are always touched with
the “blues.”....A New York divorce lawyer's
shingle bears the following notice “ Hymeneal
incompatibilities, as a speciality, carefully ad-
justed. ’Tis slavery to detain the hand after the
heart has fled.”—ln Wtirtemburg nobody under
sixteen to be allowed to dance in places of public
amusement, save in the case of Wedding fites, and
then only when the social position of the givers of
the dance offers “a moral guarantee.” Hence-
forth, in Saxony, no female singer under twenty-
one years of age, and no actress or dancer (whether
native or foreigner) under seventeen, will be al-
lowed to appear in any place of amusement....
The prettiest Leapyear proposal we have yet
heard of was the present sent by a New York girl.
It was a floral device, costing £3O, reprasenting
half the globe, or as much as the eye can see of a
sphere, the sky being made of light purple violets,
with yellow stars dotted about. And across the
sky,.worked in flowered letters, was his name. The
only thing in the universe she saw or cared for
In Paris, a dog-modiste drives a large trade. Every
fine day numbers of pugs and terriers arrive at
her salon to have their paletots fitted. As they
have to wait their turn, small mats are placed on
the polished floor for them. These dogs, with their
precious mistresses, change their toilet according
to the time of day. Some wear dark-blue or red
cloth suits, with monograms on. Others have
sealskin paletots with handsome buttons, and
silver mountings on their fur collar. A pug dog
has beon seen to be quite humiliated because he
was not dressed in the newest fashion. Which
shows that pug dogs and fashionable women are
very much alike—“l don’t care so much what
my ooat, s made of,” saida customer, “all I want
is, to look like a gentleman.” " I assure you, sir,”
replied the tailor, “ I’ll do my very best for
y0u.”.... Mopklns married a girl twelve months
ago because she struck his fancy. She’s not
particular where she strikes him now. When
that word “obey” is taken out of the marriage
service, perhaps husbands may get their wives to
do something- But not while she has to do it; no
sir. Never!....High colour is rather popular now
at high weddings. Lately, a fashionable girl’s
satellites at the altar consisted of a page in peaoook
blue plush, slashed with satin, and a blue King
Charles hat; and six bridesmaids, all in electric
blue cashmere and velvet, bordered with ostrich
leathers; hats to match bearing crimson feathers
. .The dressmaker’s bill for Bernhardt’s toilettes in'
“ Dame aux Camellias,” was £560. But an expert
was appointed to tax it....A girl never whistles
when she s with her young man. Every time she
gets her lips in a proper position for whistling
something else always oocurs A hotel visi-
tor went into the wrong room accidentallv
A man raising his head from the pillow an-
grily exclaimed, “This is my room. My name
is Johnson, sir.” Then the intruder saw a rather
£re tty face also glaring at him over the sheets
iftlng his hat, ho politely said, “ Mrs. Johnson I
presume-and hope.” Then he left the room
Pleasantly Mappin, the great cutler, left
£BO,OOO worth of pictures to the Town Council of
Sheffield The British Government was not re-
presented by any of its members at the funeral of
the late Times editor, Mr. Chenery....At an ama-
teur circus performance at Pau, the chief female
1 ir» r a p , ai t ™ aH taken by a youth dressed in short
stiffened skirts.. It is interesting to know that
tnough Scotland is noiorious for the rigidity of its
religion, the Scotch lads and lassies enjoy what
Burns calls the " sweet fruit of mony a merrv
dint ” to a degree that leaves naughty, atheistic
Paris Quit© behind. X)urin# th© lust Quarter of
MB3, the illegitimate births in Wigton countv
were 30 per cent.; in one Nairnshire parish they
wore 24 per cent, of the total babes: while In a
Parish of Aberdeenshire (a cold, chill climate, loo),
the eaterprising lassies made special efforts, and
raised their average to 60 per cent.... We commend
these lines to “ fayre ” ladies who go in at the
bidding of avid vicars for the ways of the
daughters of Moab:—
Too long has Society, parlously kind,
Let Folly and Nonsenso do just as they’ve
pleased,
If only they aide! “ The Indigent Blind,”
Or, may be, the pangs of paralysis eased.
Toolong has it winked at extravagant scenes,
Where women, forgetting their sex and their
sense,
Have eagerly tried the employment of means
To name even which might be fraught with
offence.
Too long has it shared in the common mistake
That all is permitted—for Charity’s Sake!
....At a fancy ball (calico) recently given in Lon-
don, The lelegraph ” and “Flame” were thus
represented The Telegraph” skirts of blue
sateen, lower one of a deeper shade than the upper,
iorked lightnings played over it, represented by
strips of something resembling gold tinsel, similar
forks on the pointed bodice. Upper skirt gathered
in pretty folds, and ornamented with a few tele-
graphic despatches. Brown pooket, like those worn
by telegraph-boys aoross their shoulders, slung
across the hips, one of those alarming yellow enve-
lopes protruding slightly from it. A coronet of blue
velvet, with the word “Telegraph ” in gold letters,
was worn in the hair: and behind it was an
electric bell, fastened by wires to the shoulders.
Bven on the shoes played harmless forked llght-
“■g. “ Flame.” Skirt soarlet, with tongues of
gold flame rising from the edge of it in various
points and curves and flickers. Over this a light,
cloudy tunic of smoke-coloured tarlatan, dotted
with golden sparks. Bodice trimmed with ton-
gues of flame on scarlet ground. Deep, wide tabs
edged with gold fringe. Little scarlet cap, of the
most intensely coquettish order, with gold flames
rising from the edges. Very long red gloves, and
rod boots with gold bars, through which peeped
red stockings.
Easter Monday oomes but once a year
(a matter which both publicans and sin—we mean
parsons—should at once see about reforming);
and it was probably a knowledge of this sad fact
that caused Mr. Peter Jenkins, a one-legged Bana-
naland beggar, to do the convivial, and invite a
few strangers into a friendly pub. for the purpose
of having a gay old hosanna time of it. when
Pbter oame to,” behold he was minus £4 12s. od.,
and lifting up his voioe he began to give the
summons clerk trouble and to curse his com-
Skis is, to say the least, ungrateful.* 1 F Peter
gone on the “tear” out Waterloo way, the
talent would have not only removed his cash
but they would have relieved him of his crutches
also.
LOOK ON THIS PICTURE, AND ON THIS.
Wright.
“As far as I can
judge, the whole of the
lines are in fair working
order, and well found
with all necessary ap-
pliances for the efficient
conduct of traffic. I was
much pleased with the
cheerfulness and intelli-
gence of the staff, and
feel convinced we have
both the men and mate-
rial to enable us to con-
duct a largely increased
trafflo with perfect con-
trol, and with a due re-
gard to the convenience,
oomfort, and safety of
the travelling public,
while at the same time
every reasonable facility
is afforded for the
prompt and rapid transit
of goods. ’—Minister of
Works to Commissioner
Ooodchap.
Wrong.
“A train had just
started from Homebush
when Theodore Le
Barbe attempted to en-
ter one of the carriages,
but in stepping on to
the platform slipped and
fell between the car-
riages and the station
platform. For want of
proper appllanoes the
poor fellow was placed
upon an advertising
board. Only a few weeks
have elapsed sinoe the
delivery of a course of
lectures by Dr. Wood-
ward specially Intended
to instruct railway em-
ployes as to the best
means to be adopted in
dealing with persons
who have met with an
accident. This is the
first serious accident
that has happened on the
line sinoe the delivery of
the leotures referred to,
and it would appear that
the Department has
failed in a most lament-
able manner in furnish-
ing the means whereby
the instruction given
could be turned to prac-
tical account. It was
stated by the Commis-
sioner and others who
attended the leotures
that each station on the
line, and even the
guard’s van of each
train, either was or was
to be provided with ne-
cessary appliances in
case or accident, so that
Homebush must have
been completely over-
looked in the matter.
Dr. Woodward, it may
be stated, certainly re-
commended far better
improvised methods of
carrying the siok and
wounded than that of
filaoing a man with his
ife’s blood dripping
from him upon a hard
advertising board.”—S.
M. Herald.


PALING
PIANOS, ORGANS, NIUSIG, ETC.
V
*V
alii?*
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
to Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
in, mum, ud mm meek,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers* Tools, Pounders* Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
BNCWNEI
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed..
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKINC MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Jotters’ and Mortieing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers,
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Mach
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corruga'
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO .
887 Saovga Street, Sydney.
WRIGHT, HEATON ft CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Fass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Hook
Guloalm
Cowaboe
Narandar
Hulong
Carratfiool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyng&n
Forbe*
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourse
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Oambooy*
Central Line:
Capella
Comet
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenawood Junction
Agenti in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CTTLLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
•ar* Agencies in all parts of the world.
Champagne
Heidsleck & Co's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsleck & Co., Reims.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERS ALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
BTREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehioles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
earraiges.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
4
s>
c
o
MARK
IRAOI
Qr
<>*
&
-O
N
T»
CROSS
*CS
o
o
N
D
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping q'ualltbs of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
nroflt represent the ctmmon beers referred to
asequal iii quality to BULL-DOG. CATTRLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
MASON BROTHERS,
I
mm
.Lii'Pfi IliL
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALTER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELV SONS’
Edinlnugn Pale & ie.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
BASS PALE AT^F-
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE j
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
W.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Silversmith.
f"AB JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
*44 BEORtIE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery.
G £ L ?v^2_, BILVEK WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
W 544 GEORGE STREET.
DOBERT BUTCHER A CO.
(Late William Long),
B r WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoelve prompt attention.
HALL
d
%
\
O
7^
fA
m
mmss
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brana
of Stout selected with great care from the
oest of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
excelled. To be procured everywhore.
OATTKLL & GO.. Sole Arents.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
Toue and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywnere.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,
M.P.S., Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
Hvrf»u>v. vt*_.aii imitations illegal,
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.


JjIMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calas, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, <&o., caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Bolls, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventitive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and eertain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Bpanish, and Ge*-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medieine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING a mcket. Whole-
sale Depot for New South Wales — ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
FAULTLESS FIRE BRIGADES AND
BLAMELESS BRASS BANDS.
Here it is from a Geelong paper, and in
the form of an advertisement: “ Letter of thanks.
I, the undersigned, beg to state that I am ,r ery
much pleased with the manner in which the visi-
tors belonging to the following fire brigades and
band conducted themselves while staying in my
house: Beechworth No. 1 Fire Brigade, Ruther-
glen Fire Brigade, Border City Brass Band
(Albury).—A. Just, Pension Suisse, James-street.
This is what we have dreaded would happen for
years. It is apparently genuine, and the record of
a real experience. It is not “ evolved from the
depths of an Internal consciousness,” and it shows
no sign of being produced as the price of personal
safety. No one can read the stately letter of M.
Just, and suppose that it was put together, bit by
bit, by the conjoined intellect of the two
fire brigades in question, and finally passed
through a third reading by the brass band,
before It was submitted for signature to the
trembling landlord of the Pension Suisse. No one
has any reason to think that the brigades formed
a hollow oblong around the doomed man, with
levelled hose, while the bombardon commanded
him behind, and the saxhorns in front; while the
trombone at one earhole and the deadly eupho-
nium at the other, menaced him with the opening
bars of the “Albury Schottische” if he showed
the least sign of hesitation. Nothing of that sort.
The conclusion is forced on the reader that they
did stay at M. Just’s hash academy, and acted,
while so staying, so much like ordinary people,
that he recognised a phenomenal occurrence, and
heard a voice like that which came to John in
Patmos, saying “ Write.” Alas I Alas ! these new.
strange days of ours are levelling all things, and
even fire brigades and brass bands are losing their
individuality. We remember when things were
different. We were in a fire brigade once, and no
landlord voluntarily came forward to state that he
was pleased with the manner in whioh we con-
ducted ourselves. When we offered to confer the
honour of our patronage on any hotel it was
always overcrowded—really had no room at all to
spare—but could recommend us to a good, quiet
place, &e., &c. And what struck us as peculiar
was that tho place recommended was generally
four miles away, and when we went there it was
too full and we were recommended to another place
four miles from it. But, when we once got into
any of these places, were their larders fatted with
fifty oxen our great revenge had stomachs for
them all. We loft desolate kitchens, pale,
hopeless, famine-pinched faces, and a tumult of
Eicked bones. Ah I those were the days. We wore
elmets and hose-practice medals, and swore
awfully, and strode abroad with the step
of Hannibals, and made nurse girls who
happened to be orphans and minors ter-
remble. Eheu! We would have been captain,
too, but for a bandit called Mick Connelly. There
were strained relations between us and the other
fire brigade, and it was felt that the next lire must
decide who was to be boss. So we waited, and
waited, all through the long, sad summer, and at
last came our reward. A fire broke out in the
main street in mid-day. It had boon sworn that
whatever each member of our brigade was en-
gaged upon should be abandoned (even at the risk
of the sack from his employer) to make a big
muster at this, the deciding fire. When the bell
rang out its warning note, we flung the cleaver
down on the block, and rushed off in our blue,
blood - stained blouse to the scene of action.
Fortune favoured us. The other brigade—our
thrlce-accursed enemies—had arrived first, and
were playing effectively on the burning
building. We fell upon them, with the fury
of a Cnadean lion. We upended the engine
and chopped the hose into two-foot lengths;
and when the Mayor, who was present, remon-
s(rated.5 (rated. we buried the hatchet we always carry, in
its skull, and spurned his quivering carcase from
UB with our foot. This deed was wildly applauded,
and our captainship was looked upon as a moral.
But then Mick Connelly of “ ours ” turned up and
wveeted away our laurels. There was a loug
ladder reared against the upper storey of the
flaming house, and on the top rung of this the
captain of the other fellows appeared, bearing In
his arms a singed and half-dead infant. Mick
promptly agitated the ladder at its base, and the
captain fell, a gory bulk of unrecognisable pulp,
at This feet. This was going one better than us, but
we gained on him a little by taking the child, which
yet breathed, and dashing its head In against the
wheel of a water-cart. We were about level again,
when Mick’B eye unfortunately fell upon the deaf
and dumb mother of the late Captain, standing at
her door across the way. To rush across, seize her in
his giant arms, hurry up tho ladder, and cast her
headlong Into the flames, was the work of a
moment; and as he came down among the people
again, the roar of voices that went up to the sun,
told us that wo were out of it. But these dear old
memories are apt to carry one away. We were
going to tell you something about this Border City
brass band, which has been singled out by M. Just
for immortality. We were at its inception—we
conceived the idea of its existence—we nursed it
tenderly in its infancy—and we learn with pride
that it has left the colony and gone to Geelong. In
our days —when Luke Gulson wasn’t Mayor,
and not ono of the family sported a stove-
pipe hat (we have too Bincere a regard for his finer
feelings as a Mayor to say black tile we worked
In a brewery in Albury. It has been our fate for a
considerable part of our life to be Intimately con-
nected with the manufacture of the cup that
cheers, but, we are happy to say, does inebriate.
We wash the bottles and that sort of thing. Well,
our coadjutor (who used to scrape the tinfoil off
and wash the outsides) was musical, and had done
service at the horn of the Currawongboggalew
mail once a month. The waggoner had in his
youth been third emergency triangle to a fife and
drum band down Whitechapel way, and the cooper
could sing “Die Wacht am Rhein” standing on
his head. Added to this, we were literary and of
an interesting appearance, our boss was champion
compiex-double-action whistler of the universe,
the town drayman had a known ear—for blas-
phemy, and the oellarman could talk Latin,
andwaa supposed to be good enough for anything.
Out of this crude material we formed the splendid
organization that has just surprised Just. Our
dart was to be treasurer. We called a meeting at
the dread hour of midnight, and attended at tho
men s hut down tho yard, wearing masks, the
better to conceal our identity, for we had a great
dread lest the established band would offer us
money not to start, if we were known. Tho pro-
ceedings were opened by formally muzzling the
latin scholar, and appointing the German cooper
to take charge of a bucket of salt meat, that bit-
terly boiled for the morrow. Then we unfolded,
with infinite skill, the plan we had formed of
building up a musical syndicate to rake in all the
superfluous bullion for miles around. Then the
cellerman slipped his muzzle and said “syndicate "
wasn t the word, and that it should be made a sinl
qua non to have all our positions understood.
We pointed out to him, in the oourse of a
lucid and telling speech, that we didn’t want
any foreign yap, and that we’d blooming soon de-
fine his position in that there blooming meeting.
We also offered to belt the physiognomy off any-
body else who interfered. Having thus restored
confidence, we appointed ourself perpetual trea-
surer on the limited liability tack, gave the cymbals
to the waggoner on the strict understanding that
if ever a stern necessity compelled him to pawn
them, we were to be whacks, and allotted the other
instruments among the boys. TflC'oellarman was
made secretary, and offered for the price of an
extra pint weekly! to keep the minutes in two
languages. That is the true story of the birth of
the Border City Band. Well, it grew and grew, and
the brewery resounded with brazen notes; and as
the boss let all beginners have the run of their
uttle gullets in the cellar, the attendance was some-
thing big, and the band made for themselves a
name of fear the other bandsmen quaked to hear.
And, now that our back is turned, they have gone
and done tho thing we felt sure some band would
do'Some day—upset the good old traditions, and
acted in a way that pleased the admiral of a grub-
academy. But it is true that precept is less power-
ful than example. And we have been away Irom
them for a year, VqM! *
AN ADAMANTINE CHEEK.
A wasp went buzzing to his work,
And various things did tackle;
He stung a boy and then a dog,
Then made a rooster cackle.
At last upon a lawyer's cheek
He settled down to drill;
He prodded there for half an hour,
And then he broke his bill.
Some men have a keen eye for business
even in the moment of direst adversity. Four
Melbourne gentlemen, for instauce, at present on
remand upon a very serious charge of assault and
robbery, were taking one of their periodical rides
in “ Black Maria” when they remarked that one of
their fellow-travellers was rejoicing in a gold pin
and shirt-studs. And, like the busy bee, they im-
proved the shining hour. Ever anxious to be “ up
and doing,” they declined to rest from their labours
oven in the dim seclusion of a police van—in short,
they tripped up their unsuspecting comrade, and,
under cover of the gloom, relieved him of his
jewellery. We presume this will be described in
the police reports as a “ daring carriage robbery.”
The Hon. W. M. K. Vale, of Melbourne, is
an uncompromising Sabbatarian, a pillar of the
Church, and a most intemperate advocate of
teetotal principles. When filled to the chin with
ginger-beer and other exhilirating cordials, he
becomes eloquent, and when he mounts the
temperance platform, as he often does, he oca-
sionally gives utterance to unpleasant truths
During a late impassioned address to the “cold-
water section ” of the Baptist Church, Melbourne,
he said that "he was sorry to find prominent
members of the Church, who did not disdain to
draw big pro Its from public-house property.”
Just so Mr. Vale. And we know numbers of them
also. Not only do they draw “big profits
from public-house property; ” but a good
Eroportion of these “prominent members” in
oth Melbourne and Sydney, derive large in-
comes from the rent of bagnios. What a flutter
there would be amdbgst the ** best families ” of
Sfc. Kilda, Toorak, Potts’ Point, and other fashion-
able localities, were a list of the brothels and
low whiskey-soiling' dens and the owners thereof
published in both cities ! Pb matters not to the
churches from what source the revenue necessary
for their support is derived, so long as it is forth-
coming. If old Satan were to donate a “fiver,”
the average church committee would record a
vote of thanks in his favour! The bilious-looking
Vale could have given many local instances in
support of his statement, had ho wished. Take,
for example, a principal shareholder of the
Melbourne Brewing and Malting Company, a
syndicate that owns a large per - centage of
the public-houses in and around Melbourne.
He is one of the “ pillars ” of St. Jude’s
Church of England, Carlton, to which he
recently donated a magnificent stained-glass win-
dow that throws a halo of dim religious light over
the Rev. C. S. Perry or his ourate during Divine
service each Sunday. The same gentleman has
also built an asylum for over-worked Church of
England clergymen at QueensclifT (Vic.), where,
free from the worry of aggressive landladies,
they can enjoy the good things of this world,
and return, like giants refreshed, to wrestle
with Batan. The wherewithal to provide the luxu-
ries mentioned has been derived from the sale of
colonial beer, that cheerful beverage to which
clerics and spouters, with good reason,
perhaps, attribute much of the crime and suffer-
ing of the working classes. Which reminds us.
A few years back the Church of England, Moo-
roopna (Vic.), was languishing for funds. The
debt on the building was heavy, and the parson’s
salary was in arrear to such an extent that he
mildly but firmly intimated his intention of going
“on strike,” What was to be done? Thanks-
giving services were a pronounced and unmiti-
gated failure—from a commercial point of view,
, of course—and the most attractive tea-meetings,
even when the tables were presided over by the
poundkeeper’s missus, in conjunction with the
blacksmith’s daughter and the banker's niece,
could not allure the ungodly bullock-drivers, or
profane ploughmen, from the fascinating influ-
ences of the female “barkeeps” of the town-
ships. But at length a happy thought struck
an enterprising deacon of the church. He sug-
gested that a fete champetre— whatever that may
be—should he got up on a scale of magnificence
fill at would concentrate the attention of the Just
and the unjust. A choice bit of Sylvan wood-
land was selected in a neighbouring selector’s
paddock,[as tho site for this al-fresco gathering, and
a series of games started, which would make the
promoters of Bartlemy fair green with envy. The
central attraction was a commodious liquor bar
where Mooroopna beer, supplemented by equally
unreliable whisky and colonial wine, was retailed
at current rates. The vendors of the liquors were
high-toned young ladies who ran the local Sunday
school, and seemed as much at home behind the
bar as when they expounded the scriptures
to the risiDg generation of Mooroopnians. The
aesthetic and ancient game of “cutting off
the cock’s head,” but under the guise of a
Biblical name, was liberally patronised by the
young and lovely daughters of the clergyman from
tho adjacent township of Shepparton, who, amid
tho encouraging remarks of their ardent admirers,
the Bank clerks, made frantic though futile efforts
to decapitate the rooster with a broadsword. The
wheel-of-fortune, doodle-’em-buck, the three-card
trick, and other games of skill were in full swing,
and in expert hands proved very remunerative,
the majority of the luck being on the Loard’s side.
The local brass band made things hum in the
musical way, until the blacksmith, who belted the
big ;drum, !got disguised in liquor, and went to
“ put a head ” on tho butcher’s assistant for giddy
behaviour towards his (the blacksmith’s) best girl
whilst engaged in the congenial amusement of
kiss-in-the-ring, and I the parties had to adjourn
behind a clump of bushes to settle the matter iu
the Miller-Foley style. With the exception of that
trifling incident, nothing of a serious nature oc-
curred to disturb the harmony of the proceedings,
the [highest of hivh-jinks were carried on, and a
rightjgood ti me was the result. When the accounts
were balanced, a tidy sum was placed to the credit
of the church, the threatened strike of the parson
was averted, and the overdraft on the church pro-
perty considerably reduced. The deaeon to whom
the credit of the affair was due, was alevel-headed
man, who had an accurate grasp of the capacity of
Mooroopnians for “wholesome fun” and mixed
liquors. The foregoing anecdote goes to prove
something, but we forget what it is jast now
Spwever, if we should happen to disagree with
r. Vale on tho teetotal question, we ban him as a
step-brother when he alludes to tho sources from
which the Church draws a good share of its in-
come.
An Emitting Experiment.
The Port Douglas correspondent of the Brisbane Courier writes A rather interesting experiment in natural history is being tried by ono
of our local bank managers. He sent several eggs of the alligator (or more properly gavial) to the Sydney Acclimatisation Society to be hatched
and reared.”
The Emu in the Botanieal Gardens, having nothing else to do, was
entrusted with the job of hatching out the lot.
At last, when the great undertaking was accomplished, “ Well, you arc a
rum lot of chickens,” remarked the adopted parent.
All died in infancy, save one, who grew to be the apple of the
Emu’s eye, and she watched him develope from day to day with
a mother’s honest pride.
One day, just as she was beginning
to look forward to his being the sup-
port andsolaoe of her declining years,
“ Mother,” he said, with sudden vehe-
meneg, “it occurs to me that I never
saw you swim, do come and try/ 7
And now, an aged and infirm
Emu (with a wooden leg), in the
intervals of culling buttons from
passers-by, bewails her fate, and
quotes Shakespeare’s celebrated
lines about how “ sharper than a
serpent’s tooth it is,” &c.


THE
IGNO
N
jg?
m
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Mig-non
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON. ’
THE
PIA2TO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED !
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY !
PERFECTION OF TOUCH 1
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“ WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NIGHOLSOiT AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS.
Cut Flowers of everydescription
Wreaths, Crosses, Wedding and Ball-dress
Bouquets
Ball Room Floral Furnishing
Plants for table, &c. Church Decorations,
SEARL & SONS,
Banquetists and Florists,
5 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY
PAPERS AN GING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURBERY PA'ERB,
CEILING CENTREB,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Nm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIP?
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNIN YONO
BARKABOOL
BIJRWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAW AURA
KONOOWARRA
LEITRA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS*
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
jy/J-ETROPOLIT AN ART UNION.
To be disposed of by subscription on the Art
Union principle, by permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General,
£5250 WORTH OF PICTURES, £5250
In 5000 Shares of £1 Is. each,
comprising Landscapes and Portraits by the best
European and Colonial Artists.
Augustus Morris, Esq.
E. H. C. Bristowe, Esq.
Committee :
R. W. Robertson, Esq.
W. T. Bennett, Esq.
J. A. Parker, Esq.
Ist Prize, valued at £lOOO ; 2nd Prize, valued at
£750 : 3rd Prize, valued at £5OO ; 20 Prizes at £35
each, £5OO ; 50 Prizes at £lO each, £5OO ; 400
Prizes at £5 each, £2OOO- £5250.
The drawing will take place on MONDAY, 26th
Mav, under the directions of a committee to be
elected by the subscribers. Purchasers will be
found for all prizes over £lO, at a commission of
10 per cent., should the winner prefer selling.
Pictures will be exhibited for a fortnight before
the drawing, notice of which will be duly adver-
tised. Winning numbers will appear in all the
leading papers. Applications for tickets to be
made to the undersigned to Box 606, G.P.O. ; or
105 Pitt-street, Sydney.
fWL Ingham's
IUPHOF^BIA,
IIMpIuJuFER/i f
* > EE n«and Cure M
fL Asihma, BtWNCHim A
W Coughs, ■.
! I
f Thomas Ingham %
ROCKHAMPTON if
%
nn
3b
HOT WATCR BATH.
r • .:
i. / '
HfiLF //(-/.<
sas-y
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
J&. Warranted firstqu a I i ty
v Charges sine tly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Burgeon dentist* , og etjst. e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
jMBR|LLAS
RE-£OVEBE4
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
HaveyourUmbrellaFrameß
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield (fill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match ooe-
tumeg. KeruUra nnat.lv «i«v
nu tad
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary WareJPig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
tar Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing aSfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-iltting
of every description. *
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALV * E ‘^ l £g ) C^ SETS ’ ‘‘ VACUUM ’’ WATEK ‘ WA STE
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
Rev. Father Wilds'
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. T. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and m.y system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it lor the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. Alter
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skill disappeared. My catarrh and cough
wore also cured by the same means, and
inV general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
1 recommend with all confidence as tuo
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping then-
publication may do good. WrTTi _„
Yours respectfully, Z. P. M ilds.
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from Impure or Impoverished blood, and a
wakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Sorofur
tous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY’
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price sl t six bottles
for §5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. '/
Best - f>virjg.ative Medicine
oure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders. t>
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, In
secure oover, for Is. Sd., money order or N.B.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0.. Sydney.
BLEND
jTRAOg
/■'IOLLIE BLEND WHISKY—Thin Is a BLEND
Of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATxELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
|ST 308 Q-BORGE STREET.
m
n,i
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
APPLICATION.
IT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTCB BEFORE
Copyrighted.
HQUCTACHA andWHISEEE3.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
t oill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. foi cca heavy Mous*
tar he i* from 2 to 4 toecks and never
Jails, 20,000 young men already l
wear full beards, havivdjttsed 1 to
3 J'kts. JVo injury, easily applied, eertaiti wj. effect,
eaeh, 3 for 3*. l id., post paid ( sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglan, Sole Agent, Box 730,, Q.P.O>, Sydney ,N.B, W m
BEFOR2 AFTEn
gg
Copyrighted.
Packets It. 64.
T
HE GRAND TONTINE
DISTRIBUTION,
A FORTUNE FOR ONE POUND.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
£BO,OOO WORTH of CITY LAND
in
GEORGE-STREET,
and
SUBURBAN LANDS
at
COOGEE
(close to the Baden Baden Hotel).
TO QE GIVEN AWAY.
And 163 ADDITIONAL PRIZES
(making 180 Prizes in ail),
Value from £lOO each to £2O each Prize.
THE GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION
•will take place
MONDAY, 26th MAY,
by a Committee of Gentlemen, to be appointed by
the Subscribers.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Way and Way,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
Bank of New Zealand,
with whom all monies will be deposited on trust.
Nearly 10,000 already s|Libscribcd for in Sydney and
Melbourne.
Easiy Application for Tickets necessury, and
should the Drawing take place earlier than
26th MAY,
Due notice will be given in the
DAILY PAPERS.
A MOST SPLENDID CHANCE
for
SPECULATORS.
The GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION OF
SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE FOR £l.
TICKETS ISSUED DAILY.
AMOUNTS RETURNED IN FULL
Should the Distribution Not Take Place.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
Principal Agents,
133, PITT-SBREET,
Sydney.
N.B.—Looal Agents appointed in Country Town
of N.S. Wales, also in Queensland and Victoria.
The Property to bo Distributed consists of over
631 FEET FRONTAGE to GEOHGE-STKEET,
opposite the New Five-story Building of the
AUSTRALASIAN STEAM NAVIGATION CO.
and close by the
P. and O. Company’s and A.S.N. Company’s
Wharves, and also Beautiful
BUILDING LAND at COOGEE,
close to
BISHOPSCOURT,
The BADEN BADEN HOTEL,
and the COOGEE TRAMWAY TERMINUS.
APPLY PERSONALLY or by LETTER.
RECOLLECT-A FORTUNE FOR £l.
REMEMBER the GRAND TONTINE
DISTRIBUTION.
PRIZES in REAL ESTATE of Undoubted Valur
TICKETS £1 EACH.
Payment must be made by notes or Post Office
Orders.
PARDIE and GORMAN,
]33, FITT-STiXEET,
Sydney.


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 26 O’Connell
street, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Tne Diamond Dyes are tJhe best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.’
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
* feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘ and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
T-A-ILOK,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment
643, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position In every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to ail the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial win suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, Ac.
PRICE 3s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE. Chemist, hr,
43 KRSKINE STREET.
a. «mrr. on* oil nhomid-j
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W,
DANIEL And the lions.
LATEST VERSION.
‘‘Beloved Brethren,” the freokle-
nosed newsboy as he mounted a soft good s box
in a right-of-way and gathered his comrades
about him, “ I doesn’t like to call ye benited
heathen wot never goes to church brethern, (
but I wus out to the Salvation Harmy las nite an
I wants to tell ye wot I hurred. There was a cove
there wet tha calls capting an he got up in front
an’ pitched away for about two hours. He
tole us all about Danial in the lion s den wpt is
somewhere over in a heathen country where your
people must’a' emigrated from. Dan was a Jew
cove wot knowed everythink. Wen he was a boy
he never swored, never played fatty norpitch-un -
toss nor nothink. Wun nite wen he was asleep
he hurred the angels callen’ him an he thot it
was his mother singin’ out to him to git up an
milk the cow an’ chop some wood fur to get
breakfust; but afterwuds he found out that the
Lorrud wanted him for another dart, so he
hired out to the Lorrud and dinged the milkin.
Wen he growd up he got his hed chock full of
ijeas cos he subscribed fur the Bnr.nETin. After
a while the Jews had a llte with the heathen an
Dan he was tooken prisoner an’ carried away into
a strange land where tha didn’t know nothink
about God nor General Booth. Dan s muther
was a good woman an’ wen ho wos a boy she tol
him to say ‘ His Daily Bread’ an’ ‘now I lay me, so
wen he got amongst the heathen he ust alius to git
down on his nees an’ pitch away from midnite till
the sun got up in tne mornin’. Purty soon the
King of the heathen he found out wot Dan wasn t
no auffer an* he made him jioe his ministry.
That wos the place for Dan an’ afore long he got
his work in on the King so well that the lving wos
sorry he hadn’t no grown-up daughter to marry
him to. The other blokes in the ministry tha,
seed wot wos goin’ on an’ tha got jellus ol
Dan. Tha found out that wen Dan prayed
he alius opened the window and looked toward the
yeast. So tha went to the king unbeknownst to
Dan, an’ got him to pass a law that no man should
pray with his face towards the yeast, lhe king
made the law, not thinkin’ about Pan. an’so the
next time Dan went to pray, the other coves had
him summoned for violatin’ the law. The “leg
was sorry enuff to bite his own hed off, but he
couldn’t help liis-self, cos the laws oX the heathen
never changed. But ho tole Dan that ef he would
say he was sorry an’ wouldn’t do it no more he d
let him orf this time; but Dan he said he wasn t
sorry, an’ would do It agin wenever he felt like it.
So the other blokes tha made the king pitch Dan
into the Lions’ den, were tha was about 40 hungry
hanimals awaitin' fur ther breakfust. Of course
the king an’ the other coves thought that Dan was
a gone mackeral that time, but he wussunt. The
Lions gathered around him an’ began to smell,
an* wen tha found out hej was a Jew, tha jist
turned up their nose an* went away to the hack
end of the cave. So Dan he rapt his blanket about
him an’ camped for the nite with a stone for his
pillar. He knew that wen mornink kirn the king
would be down to gather up his watch an’ rings
an’ shirt-studs, an’ any other valuables wat the
hungry lions mite have left av him. When daylite
kim, sure enuff the king rapt at the door, an he
sung out “ Dan-i-11” loud as he could holier. But
Dan he played possum, an’ the king called an
called, an’ called, agin and agin, and agin, until he
was gittin’ the Brownkiltys, and thin Dan he says:
“ Wot in thunder do you want, arnakin’ of all that
noise so airly in the mornink, wen a feller wants to
sleep T” Wen the king hurred this, he wos tickled
mos to deth, an’ he opened the door an let Dan
out. Then thashuk hans and went over to the pub
across the street, were tha had two half-pints an
some biskits an’ cheese, ’cos Dan was awful holler
Inside from fastin’. Then the king wanted to find
out why the lions hadn’t eat Dan, an’ Dan tole him
he’d tell if the king would toss them other coves,
wot were enemies of hlsn, into the den, and let
him form a new Ministry. The king agreed to
this, m’ so they was chucked in hed first, an the
lions swallerod ’em whole without chewin . When
It kim time for Dan to tell the King how he kep
the lions orf, Dan be jes’ put his thumb up to his
nose an’ wiggled his fingers like this, an the king
crawled awav and died. My brethren, there is a
moral to this sermon, which is, wen you tells a lie,
tell a good wun, or it won’t be believed. Now, we
will pass the hat, after which wo will all jine in
Bingin’:—“Trim yer lamps, an’ be reddy fur the mid-
nite call.” Then ye kin break ranks, an’ go forra-
gin’for customers. Knit! Here oomes a bobby,
and the meeting disbanded forthwith.
The Harmy gave Major Thurman and his
bride a “ Monster Demonstration ” on arriving
from England, in Adelaide. It seems that the
most prominent members in the procession were
•• Bishop Kennion,”(l) the Rev. F. Williams. ’’ (I I)
and “a converted burglar from Melbourne (I II).
The latter was evidently, however, the leading
“star ” for we are told that he “was duly wept
over by the entire mob.” Bundey, Mayor of
Adelaide, occupied the chair at the town Hall, and
“ shot the devil” with as much precision as though
he were going for an obstreperous town clerk, or
the •• prime out ” at a civic feed.
Some mild amusement was afforded lately
to the over-worked clerks in an office in George-
street by the antics of a Hibernian who was carry-
ing on telephonic correspondence with a man at
Circular Quay. AU the time he was listening, he
kent a sidelong glance fixed on the receiver, as if
expecting each moment to see it open and shut.
At times he became wildly excited, and it was
evident the blood of a dozen O’Flams was boiling
in his veins. At length, as he turned away, after
listening in vain for a reply to his last question,
“Shure, an’ if he’d jist repated that, he burst out,
44 1 wud a-knoeked the hull blahsted masheen
down his lyin’ throat 1 ”
A considerable number of public school
teachers, we are sorry to report, are in a most
hopeless state of mental collapse brought on by
their having recklessly endeavoured to analyse
the fourth sentence of the leading article of a late
number of the Echo. This cunningly contrived
par. reads as follows: “The latter (the rising God.
as opposed to the crucified Christ) is the perpetual
resurrection from the grave of that fate which
dav by day and hour by hour we see no less than
we hope in the life upon life that shall follow death
after death hope to see.” To the Echo scribe
we would tender the hackneyed advice
“ See that your style be brief, your meaning clear,
Nor. as your wont is. tire the labouring ear
With a wild waste of words—sound without sense,
And all the florid glare of impotenoe.”
Thus Maxwell There is no chance for
pettifoggers —the banditti of the bar. Poor, or
rich, or stupid clients cannot be deluded, nor
udge nor jury mystified by the skill of sharp
practitioners in the courts of law in Norway. The
udgts of the Norwegian courts are responsible
for errors of judgment, delay, ignorance, carless-
nees partiality, or prejudice. They may be sum-
Se£ accused, and tried in the superior court,
and if convicted, are liable to damages to the
part’v injured. There are, therefore, very few
unworthy lawyers In the Norwegian courts. The
Bench and Bar are distinguished for integrity and
earning. They have great influence in the com-
munity, and the country appreciates the many
benefits which have resulted from their virtue and
their wisdom.” Can’t you see ? Of oourse you can.
The disguise is too transparent. ’Tis of Nds. Wales
he is Bpeaking all the time, lor shame, Maxwell,
to try and mislead us like this.
Mr. W. G. Marsh, Secretary of the Young
Men’s Christian Association of Victoria, has been
on the war path. Mr. W. G. M., it appeals, has
been lecturing at Wellington, New Zealand, on
“vioo” in general, and its prevalence in Aus-
tralia. in particular. He quite horrified his
Wellington audience by telling them df a banquet
held in Australia to celebrate the ono hundredth
“eduction achieved by a member of the Legisla-
ture ” and the New Z<ialanders smiled sadly at one
another as they thought of the wickedness of
Australians, and thanked Heaven that they were
not as other men were. Subsequently Mr. Marsh
WM “ interviewed," and the Christian gentleman
admitted that he was not quite certain whether
Don Juan was a member of the Legislature (of
Australia) or whether, as a matter of fact, he ex-
isted at all. We think we can put Mr. M. right on
the first point. No Australian legislator is smart
enough to accomplish such a feat as a hun , oh,
it’s quite out of the question.
Quebec is a somewhat chilly city in the
winter, and, not caring much about having to face
the fast-approaching frosts, he thought he might
as well take advantage of an offer to "‘run over
to Liverpool as a green hand in one of the sailing
packets. He had heard of these western ocean
liners, with their crews of “packet-rats, half-
seamen, half-loafers, with a dash of Trish-\ ankee-
bully thrown in, and he was mightily concerned
about the safety of the thirty golden sovereigns
which composed his entire store. However, he
chanced it. But, somehow, the fact that he was
“flush” had got wind, and in the middle watches
of the dreary Atlantic nights, cautious hands
would stealthily examine his clothes, the lining of
his boots, the contents of his “round-bottomed
chest ” even the very seams of his sou’-wester, but
all to no purpose. The green one calmly pursued
his way, apparently unconscious of the intense
interest with which he was regarded by the non-
plussed ‘'rats.” At length the old Dreadnought
hauled into the Nelson dock and made fast, while
the verdant “runner,” seeing everything clear for
a start, quietly took down an old half-used bar or
soap, which had lain on a iittle shelf at the head of
his bunk the whole passage, and, calmly breaking
it in half, and exposing the golden store, so unre-
mittingly sought for, he remarked—“ Well, mates,
I’m sorry you’ve ’ad so much trouble about this
bit o’ sugar. You was pretty ’ot all the time.
Good job, though, that washin’ warn't much the
fashin in this ’ere old packet-ship. Tar, tar.”
Britons who read this will please observe
that when we say “ B.” Ribbon that initial letter is
put there for shortness and stands for “ Blu«’
not the other at all. Well, here is how the B
Ribton party work the orae’e. They rent a hall
to grind gospel-temperance in. The figure charged
is, say, fora fortnight's rent, £2OO. Well, that is
told night after night from the platform. Surely
everyone should help to pay the rent. If every-
body doesn’t there will be a direct appeal and a
personal canvass merely and solely to meet that
necessary expens°. The couple of apostles pro-
fess to want nothing for themselves. It will be
desperately hard lines if this item of rent be net
responded to. Well, it is, or has been at least
hitherto, responded to so as even to crowd a little
over the edge of the plate. Then the Mission is
wound up, and the theatre, or the Exhibition
building, or whatever the hall was, is vacated.
Next day a deputation from the apostles waits
upon the committee of the hall, and points out
that, although the terms of agreement were for
£2OO, yet as the object whs of a public and charit-
able kind, only half rates, at the utmost, should be
insisted on. By this time the apostles have
got into the graces of some members of
the hall-committee, and 10l a resolution is
passed accepting £lOO, or sometimes £;>o, as pay-
ment in full. And then the apostles meet, rub
their hands, and divide the surplus. And there
are many other ‘‘necessary” expenses incurred
and liquidated in the same way. Now the apostles
have not asked, directly, any contribution for
their own use. They have simply placarded the
amount of the “ necessary expenses,” as totted up
at the opening of the Mission, have urged people
to reach out to these alone, and then gone round
when they had the haul in, and Rot the contrac-
tors to reduce the tenders 50 or 75 per cent., and
have collared the balance. They have just had
a row about it in the local council at Richmond.
Councillor Farmer maintained “the apostles were
making a good living out of the nuisance and
insisted on nrst prices being stuck to. But lie was
outvoted and the rent was reduced one-half. It
was, no doubt, an oversight on the part, of the
apostles, or they would have tried to make close
friends ” with Councillor Farmer before the point
came up. After this it is clear the B. Ribbonists
can do a double-shuflie with their heads if not
with their heels ?
For spicy reading, there’s nothing sur-
passes the properly worked-up account of a prison
“ flogging. Divorce cases are interesting enough
in their way, and murders are not bad, but, lor
blood-curdling details, “flagellations” certainly
bear off the palm. The Melbourne Herald has
been giving an uncommonly lively description or
“A Triple Flogging at Pentridge’’-three cat
episodes in one day being calculated to awake the
eloquence ot any reporter. ITpjohn s first cus-
tomer, it appears, “ suffered severely, but re-
fused to have a cold wet rag put on bis back,
observing ‘That's apt to give a man cold.
Whether those remarkable words are quoted as
an example of the man's bravado, or merely as a
medical hint for future culprits, is not, quite clear
—but no matter. The second gentlema'* to take
up nis position at the triangles was troubled with
a blister on the side ; so “ Upjohn was directed not
to strike near the place.” That functionary must
have selected some other place that was pretty
susceptible, though, because " whikt undergoing
his punishment the prisoner stared at Upjohn the
whole time, and bit his left arm." Here, again,
there’s a certain amount of haziness, for wo can t
quite make out whose arm was bitten—but
perhaps that invesls the item with an addiiional
charm. And now comes a real literary bonne-
bouclie. Flogging number three, you must kno iv,
was a pleasing variety from its predecessors, being
administered to an Arab; and, as it isn't everyday
of the week that one can see a “ darkie” lacerated,
the Herald man gives a little space to this case.
He tells us how, "on the darkie taking off his shirt,
it whs evident that he had on a former occasion
received a very severe flogging from someihiug
more severe than the Pentridge cat.” Alier read-
ing that opinion—and the Herald man is a con-
noisseur in these things-we are surprised to And
that previous experience made very little differ-
ence to the poor darkie's back on the present
occasion, for “at every stroke Abdallah roared
lustily ‘ Oh, Moggara! ’ and his dusky skin at the
conclusion of the punishment presented the appear-
ance of having been chalk-marKcd, the small knots
of the cat being distinctly shown.’ There I We
told you we had a dainty morsel for the fi
you must admit that the bit about the dusky flesh
becoming “chalk-marked” is really appetising:
it’s instructive, moreover—scientifically instruc-
tive. By the bye, we’re not favoured with an
English translation of “Oh, Moggara, but, judg-
ing from circumstances, we should think it was
uncommonly like swearing.
The Jerseyites, although in general a stolid,
matter-of-fact set, have, or years ago had, their
standard joke which they periodically played on on
thenew comers to the tight little island ot cows and
cabbage-stalks, conger-eels and new potatoes.
They played it off on us in this wise, and thus, as
will be seen, furnished us with the material for an
eminently readable reminiscence, of long ago.
“ Was there,” we asked, “ any shooting to be had
in the island ?” “ But yes 1 why not,’ answered
our Norman-Jersey host of the Hotel Kollo, ot.
Aubinsßoad, “at St Brelades (the whole place is
alive with saints) do rabbits much abound, there
will Monsieur enjoy the sport. Elated at this,
we borrowed a fire-arm, which by its appearance
might have served His most gracious Majesty
Charles 11, to shoot gulls with out of the windows
of Goiey Castle, and a largo canvas bag for the
game. Thus equipped wo started. Passing through
the little village of St. Aubins, just as a good
sized vessel was being launched from Hayley s
ship-yard, we, along with some score or so ot
people who scanned our turn-outattentively, then
smiled gently at each other, paused to look on. Ihe
vessebwas of about 700 tons burthen, and for a
figure-head bore a grim-looking warrior in tartan
plaid and coat of mail. The ceremony of christen-
ing was being performed by a, if anything, plain-
looking young girl, who cut the string, and, as the
bottle smashed against the bows, named the ship
“The Scottish Chief.” Tan, tap, tap, and down the
greasy ways she sped smoothly enough into deep
water. Not a cheer or shout from the unimpres-
sionable Islanders heralded the successful launch;
but the girl took off her wide-brimmed straw hat
and waved .it round her head with a shrill “ Kah.
We were slightly acquainted with both the child-
for she was little more—and the tall soldiery-look-
ing cleric by her side, and perhaps, had we imagined
that in the far future Miss. Le Breton would blossom
into fame and beauty as the “Jersey Lily,” we
might have stayed and improved upon a first in-
troduction. But our mind was with the rabbits,
and we walked away, leaving the Mrs. Langtry to
be standing on a big spar, and pointing out ani-
matedly to her pa. the glittering cuirass of the
warrior as it shone in the midday sun. Mais
revinons a nos lapins. Well—you can’t write a
gossipy par. like this without a lot of ’em—we got
to S. Brelades in good time, and were welcomed
as an old friend by the inhabitants, who
asked us what the bag was for, with the
-•same gentle Bmiie we had noticed before.
“To put our rabbits in, of course,” we boldly
answered. Whereupon, the ancient dames, with
tall snowy caps, smiled more placidly than ever,
and muttered something in a curious patois that
we couldn’t quite make out. However, we be 3 t
every gorse-bush on the cliffs, and the hanging
woods round the bay for the rest of the day, aDd
deuce a rabbit, or a hair of a rabbit, or, in fact,
anything else but green lizards, did we see, so,
tired out and savage, we at length chartered a
tously-headcd little Brelader to carry our Brown
Bess, and made tracks. On our way home, the
imp informed us, with scarcely-repressed glee,
that there was but one solitary rabbit on the
whole island, and that he, however, lived at S. Bre-
lades, right enough, was of an immense age, was
visible only ones or twice in the year, and was, in
fact, expecting canonisation, which he well de-
served, owing to a miraculous faculty he possessed
of drawing strangera to S. Brelades. Not so bad
this, from a little savage, who spoke pigeon French,
was it? We never went rabbit-shooting again in
Jersey, and we’ve never seen the “Lily” since;
but many years afterwards we met the Scottish
Chief snugly ashore in a secluded cove in Magel-
lan’s Straits, wht re.wii h other wreckage, she helped
to form a building, used at times as a sealing-camp
and refuge, and as we gazed at her battered and
dinted panoply, we wondered greatly where she’d
been through all those long years, and whether her
gentle baptizer ever gave a thought to the day
when, in girlish glee, she cheered her into old
ocean's arms.
A FORLORN HOPE.
DIMINUTIVE DUDE: “Why do you make me wait until the last dance?”
YOUNG LADY: “Oh, to give you time to grow!”


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
PREifjjut WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
wality UNSURPASSED.
D *w brothers.
of and Queensland,
*l -o. w. and Queensland,
3 ™ <&Sg
Beor 9 8 Street, Sydney
e, Wine Irisf) W,hiskey
o ** B DUBLIN WHISKEY
I 1 * bottled
h tlilt£? Con Buialram? at tho -Distillery
SRS® in the before, rely that i
% for it, hoali, °S hiskey Doctors.’
soi eA
N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS,
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0,
Repairs by London workmen.
tar c. cowles, 407 george street.
N.B.—Second-handGuns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-streei, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed,
steads, Amerioan and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1660.
p EAPES and SHAW
HAVE JUST RECEIVED THE
UtJ
jARGEST, CHOICEST, AND CHEAPEST
Shipment of
■es’ and Gentlemen’s Gloves
ever landed by one firm in the colony of New South* Wales.
consist
of Novelties in Ladies’ Gloves as follows:-
fx^ ove with VEL|VET
K
S^f^ IoWB: ~ Ealllia i Roan, Slate,
11 Browu > Navy, Myrtle.
SAC GLOVE, PATENT
* n T.,
i DS ’ an<^ evening Bhades.
but tong, lE SE EDE GLOVES, 6,8, and 10
a U the
m c °lour 8 shades and fashionable
1,1 Ap ri( . ot ‘ DRe SSED KID GLOVES.
Ff shadcs rOnZe ’ ' l ' orra Cotta > and other
G lo^f NT of our Celebrated “FLC3A”
Price for f
llp pri Ce j ° UE ut ton Is 3s 9d per pair.
Vy Bha °^ Bix hut ton Is 4s 11 per pair.
L 4 . 01 C ° loUr ’ and evory pair
>fc° f LADIES> a nd CHILD-
- In evGr y shade of colour.
SILK HITS, 25 inches
y'Colour,
GENTLEMEN’S GLOVES.
For the Encampment
j or Volunteers.
( White Dogskin CHoves
< White Buck-kin Gloves
( While Doeskin Gloves.
DENT’S GLADSTONE GLOVE 3 ,
Assorted Fashionable Shades of Tans and
' Browns, two clasps, price, 3s Cd. per pair.
The above are with either black self-braid
points, made expressly for PEAPES and
* ?■
SHAW, and arc unrivalled for quality,
fit, make, or stylo.
DENT’S CHEVKETTE GLOVES,
Two clasps, all the new colours.
GENT.’S WHITE, FRENCH GREY, and FANCY
TINTED GLOVES,
For Evening Dress Wear, half-a-crown per
pair.
TWO-BUTTON WHITE and FRENCH GREY
EVENING GLOVES,
WHITE and FRENCH GREY EVENING
GLOVES,
With the new doqble clasps.
Gent.’s New Driving Gloves, and Warm Winter
Gloves, '
and SHAW,
street.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
"''KT’olff Sz Son’s
Storekeepers throughout the colonies
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
IjT ottt - Opera,.
KING and CASTLEREAGII STREETS. ''
‘ ,,(,V4 - WcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
■STAIBS.
0 ooy
as
«:5
the only
GENUINE TIN TAG
TOBACCO
consume, in. manufacture, nearly three,
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
c os sfn into N.S.- Wales, therefore their Twist and
Vc <>h ®ST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Sir Roger (thick R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
“Co* l m Do^ and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
Citrars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
4 ’ TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY*
SOHO BAZA AH,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling's Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort;
ment of
Erie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Bolls, Count Harraeh’s
Bohemian Yases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solh-o Bazaar
352 George Street
F. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Laud & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PUKE COUNTRY RillLK.
T
HE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-inakers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
QrnMG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Ta MriaW lurtsrs
38, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plant itions by
our own Toa-tastef; and quality guarateedi
intending purchasers should visit our i'ea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the qjty will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
Tilt flob-alcdholic bbVbfagb acts as a brain and
nerve tonjc, and does uot intoxicate.
is recommended by the Facult y as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case ot
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, us it acts not only as
a nerve fititny laxity but he a permanent tonic
to tiib systotii. _
Price per cas? containing 1G dozen % pints ...21/-
n »i 6 „ 1 „ .. 24/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
TRY BURGHS’ £3 3a. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes, ilO PITT-BTKERT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1859.
INCORPORATED BY ACT 0* PARLIAMENT, 18T3
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
.£300,000
.£133,600
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G,, Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hop. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C, Roldeston, Es<J., C.M.Q.
Auditors: „ , _
Jas. Soroggie, EsqT I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 163 Leadenhall-atreet.
Directors :
Edward Cfaatpman, Esq,.
Sir Saul Samuef.K.C.M.G
Goo. I\ Slade, E@q.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers: ,
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. . , , _
Bills negotiated'and advances made against woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
REMEDIES THAT STOOD THE TEST FOR
CENTURIES.
German Mineral Waters*
4s. 6d. FEB. DOZEN.
LTTHI.4-WATER, for Gout
POTASS-WATER, for Rheumatism
SELTZER-WATER, for Asthma, Indigestion* &c.
ERIEDRICHSHALLER BITTER-WATER and
CARLSBAD,
most effective in removing habitual constipation,
affections of the liver, diabeiis, &c., &e.
8®” ORDERED BY LEADING'DOCTORS.
Obtainable at principal chemists throughout the
colonies.
Note the Address:
DALM & OERTEL,
[37 BOITRKE STREET, REDFERN.
W. 3EL & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treeele and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, In
J 4,14, and lib. tins*
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Oates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &o.
AN G LO-SC ANDIN A V lAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAIi KING STKEET, SYDNEY.
w
ILOOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle ani
wringer, £A 10
Hi
a
-
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAunsr
Wood,
&c. &e. &c.
II EBB LE WHITE & CO.,
116 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER 01? THE PIANO.
Communications to bo addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
vw~ THE ftt# SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
837 INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMIT^E),
Capital, £100,00?/.
Allow Interest as follows £s£*■
on fixed deposits lor 13months, FIVE PER CENT,
and' UPWARDS lor shorter periods, MVEPEK
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O m the Saying's Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Olhces, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A QtUiIANTEEP,
RttAUNf
H ERV
TREAf M ENT'S"
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration cauftod by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softenm# or tne
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old ago, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss,
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 355., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does »'>t effect a cure
Guarantees issued by ail chemist »,id druggists
Australia*


/
O-'*—
Gold.
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
11
St,
9 "*'9
LATEST FASHIONS.
■WATCHES, 3 Os. E-A-C 22-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
I
S NOW
Mr. 11.
OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
All branches of Photography executed In the most artistic style.
N.8.-BQYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonics.
-A.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER
Is OPENING
SUITS, TKOUS
WHITE and R .
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
ZW~ Both shops are thorougly chock full,
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OE E"
Stock i^ 0
Come early and inspect the to --aa
owws /wnTirmo in SYDK®*
ctf>°
J. J. Ryan, 7SO George Streep
Andi 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near
Market Bt*f
Y’S
£S£ your grocer for
J- S. FEY & SOUS, Bristol, London
COCOA]
~ and Sydney-
GAKTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARLES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. CL OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.*
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TO BACOO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODiEAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG E STREET WEST,
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
5- •- -
Airtight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
I4HICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Giibey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can he recommended as being of the highest
duality, and superior to any imported.
'* uu J TUCI£EK & CO., Sole Agents,
3W George-street, Sydney.
gIEHTiSTHY UNRIIVAB.ILED.
Medals Gained against the World
sr.
*2
m
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
./Ether Spray, Methyline, and Cbloroform.
HIGGm'S
Prize Medal Sait
, FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Mas secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD 1 ,
147 YORK STREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room -Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery,
Unglisb Passers and Magazines received by
every Mali.
ROYAL A ROAD'S. 488 GEORGE SIT.. SYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
:*••• •
KN
08-W
BSD
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New Soutn
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beveratre should com-
pare LOIitNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
vrnovE, sonTTnd chapman
AGENTS.
EUR
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
iar THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
TB m Tobacco off the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The on y Tobacco combining: Excellence of Quality
with Economy in*Price.
0T Bach PLUG is BTAMEED with the word
‘ EUREKA.” Smokers ape. that you obtain it.
Cake no other.
FACTORED BY
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENOE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
blakei v:>
STEAM
H. P.
17
piT t gT"
SYPNE^'
*
ARE SOLE AGENTS l °^^-
and have in StocE ®
FIRE PUMPS
PUN p S fO
1/
TANK OR LIGHT SE
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & ClR
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE
VACUUM PUMPS pL j0 S
V ilv UUill A KJ
DEEP-WELL-SBNKEN
3BIfD FOR PRICES A 1 * 0
pA ?
CATALOGUES
n.
3 4 0 OROVtjgSd
4 u v tab#*- '* 1
Late with D T'^. ca tiAii
!,{>■
- hy
Patients treat©
Author of “Modern [jr[ j { cf-
Queen’s Hospital. ”
PAINTS'
OILS.
/
*
Office : 330 1^
STORES 1 4
N.B. P» tter "'
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, , -|*jf
Manufadyrer of aS! kinds of Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor o* V 9
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. _ oo*
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqu eur ' J>
