

3?r ©-'v’-id.ers
s.
WHONV HORDERN AND SONS,
A LACE emporium, haymarket, only.
fy. Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
1% Qi| 0v Dng a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons,
VeS} ®fes, Collars, Mowers, Costnmes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months,
i stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
requisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN E VER !
n lOur Only Address—
%o/VK HORDERN AND SONS,
v . Palace Emp© rium, Hay market,
hUSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithing
Plumbing, Gas fitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatie Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON'S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &e.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
BUY WHOLE
H. L. SUHHEfftFIELII & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PSTT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMBEFIS3LD Sc CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
(ST* Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
Gr.
470 C3BCJR.GS STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
OF
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
New Stock of Ladies’ Cloves, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Coeds in Sydney.
Parasols, UmisreSias, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Ware.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Piti-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CRATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
> prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ouriargely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, isa great suesess
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
We have
19 3 and
■W- CATES,
195 PITT STREET.
w. mm
a a,
Hercfiasif Tailors, HaM and
Beta© Haters.
Trousers from 21s. to 4©s
ALBERT HOUSE, TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET.
8®” N.B.—Mr. SIIEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Go., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Hi. A. BROWS® & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
200 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-htreet.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Hsidsieck & Co’s.
DRY ISONOPQLE*
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL XU&KAKDB ft C»>. London.
Sole A#eata for Heidsiodt & Co„ Reims.
c
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, tka. All goods will be faithfuilv
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Soie Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CD
ii, m ui
397 GEOROE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGl^’
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery* i
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agric
Implements.
ENGINES’
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting-, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
-
~
ROl.l/ELIS.&.
Vertical and 'Horizontal.
MAC HIKE IST.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shapin
and
UUT , U , ( nammg, Siting
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Earn® 8
WOOH-WORKIKG MAC HIKE IST. gaW B.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. *?f wer .
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steaiu-p
English and American Agricultural li**pl® niiell *' s ' ao( j jtoi
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse
hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Sheu&re,
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant- fari^l
Coach Buidders’ Sundries —Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnis •
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours, oalvfthh
,arge Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ;
and Plain Iron ; Solid Polled S Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. , . nd pad
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine. Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. terS <
Locke, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carp
Particulars and Pnce Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CU '
®B7 Sseoi*®© Sydney-
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents .
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CASHIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southxrn District, N.S.W.s
Goulbum
Tass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging’ Rook
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
CoonambJe
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.i
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth.
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern anb South-Western Lins;
Brisbane
Roma
Rockhampton
Sogantungau
iner&ld
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line;
Capella
Comet
Northern Line;
Towrusville
Charters Towers
Ravenawooci Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM, M CULLOCH & 00. 9 LIMITED.
BST Agencies in all pacts o£ the world.
Foster’s Bu,
GUINNESS’S EXTRA BTOUT.
B*B
U
WVfS.V>:
The BEST ALlfi an d
SOLD BY ALL
*
iff*
Vireoe, Sob?
aobnts
T COAfffnnflOO.
G3P~ THE NEW -
investment -
*
Allow Interest as
on fixed deposits for P^tb e ff ?%
and UPWARDS for sb°&o */'
CENT, on sums from #‘ %d. '
Branch, Payable on
1. V
OAR’S
of Stout oeleeted f pPJf
best of the brewing* Co ., P^eU 4
Arthur Guinness *n b«Bf,


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 69.—New Series.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1884.
Prioe—6d.
What is Socialism?
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1884.
We were last week obliged to break off this
inquiry while it was still incomplete. We
had given tome outline of the antiquity of
the question, a definition of its raison d'etre,
and a digest of one or two of its essential
oontentions. Thus we had explained that
the complaint of Socialists is that modern
sooiety is an organised anarchy which works
in antagonism to natural justice, and is
chiefly characterised by a systematised
“robbery of the poor.” We had digested
the arguments by which Socialists seek to
demonstrate that private ownership of land
is pernicious, and further, that the existing
relations between Capital and Labour are
oppressive and mischievous. We will now
rapidly review the ground covered so far,
and then proceed. Personal property is de-
fined by Socialists as that which is vroper to
a man—all the powers of body and mind
which by nature are his. Common property
is explained to be certain material things
whioh are essential for the maintenance and
renewing of personal property—in other
words, of a man’s powers, bodily and men-
tal; in short, of his healthy life. Further,
we have noted the deduction that by exer-
tion a man can create or develop exchange-
able values. That is to say, that by labour
—the exercise of his powers, mental or phy-
sical—applied to certain material things
which are “common property,” he can pro-
duce commodities lit for use. We have seen
also that honest exchange signifies the ex-
change of one commodity which has cost a
certain amount of labour to produce for
any other commodity which embodies the
exertion of an equal amount of labour.
And, finally, we have noted how, by
introduction of machinery, one man may
monopolise to himself the occupation and
the labour-rewards of many, and while
accumulating substance beyohd his neces-
sities, leave those others depiived of returns
adequate to maintain themselves, and ulti-
mately compel them to accept, as his hired
slaves, less than the full value of their
labour, and thus artificially replace general
comfort of a modest kind with wretched-
ness and all its consequences of discontent,
envy, crime,| and the expensive machinery
for the control (repression being impossible)
of these evils.
• • •
We are reviewing, it must be remembered,
the theories of English Socialists. They say
that the existing Social system revolves in a
vicious circle. The capitalist robs the poor
of the value of his labour. But he is not
permitted to keep the spoils to himself. He
is comparatively a “little flea,” and has
“ bigger fleas to bite him.” The land-owner
squeezes the capitalist, and makes the latter
disgorge, in the form ©f rent, a large pro-
portion of the plunder, which the land-
owner then proceeds to squander, robber-
like, in personal gratifications and selfish
indulgence. But here we must interpose a
word for the land-owner and the capitalist
not in business. It would be absurd to pre-
tend that there is more than an economic
resemblanoe between robbers and plun-
derers and the propertied classes. It is
notoriously true that refinement and deli-
cacy follow to a great length the drift of
riches. It is notoriously true that among
the propertied and moneyed classes in Great
Britain and elsewhere are as large a propor-
tion—perhaps a larger proportion—of up-
right, honourable, pure-minded, andtender-
souled persons as there are among people of
a ny race and in any other condition of life.
There are among them individuals who
distribute their whole substance in
charity, did they believe it would do any
good. But it is only recently that the Social-
ist system has been presented in a coherent
and intelligible form, and up to the pre-
sent time an economic gospel has been
taught—and that by persons clearly above
suspicion of partiality, or of being unduly
well-affectioned to the propertied and capi-
talist classes—the sum of which is that indis-
criminate or wholesale charity orparlition
would rather intensify than relieve the suf-
ferings of the poor, on the whole. This is
the Malthusian system, which even Mill,
radical thinker as he was, bowed before.
The wealthy classes, therefore, can distin-
guish no obligation or duty, and they are
slow to acknowledge the cogency—if co-
gency there be—of the arguments pro-
pounded by the Socialistic school now rising.
THE HON. MR. GIBLIN, OF TASMANIA.
There is not, we believe, at the present day (
one very wealthy declared convert to So-
cialism. The very poor, on the other hand,
don’t understand the philosophy, although
they are ripe for acceptance of the broad
conception that they should share in the
general wealth of the nation. The apostles
of Socialism in Great Britain are mostly of
the lower middle class, men whose intellects
are developed and whose interests are almost
neuter. The rich can’t be expected to bail
the new philosophy with eager cordiality.
It is, doubtless, very pleasant to be rich and
distinguished, although, while the wretched-
ness produced by want has no limit save a
miserable death, the pleasures afforded by
wealth are not of proportionate expansive-
ness. It is impossible, for instance, to be
utterly poverty-stricken, and yet easy-
minded and quite happy; but it is quite
possible to be immensely rich, and yet
utterly wretched. It is very difficult, even
for a candid-minded man of disciplined in-
tellect, to appreciate the force and verity of
arguments which jar equally against his
preconceptions, his sentimental ideas, bis
early training, and his religious impressions,
and the adoption of which would further
strip him of honourable affluence and grati-
fying distinctions. And among the wealthy,
as compared with the middle classes, ele-
gance rather than severity of mental
training, prevails. They are not, as a
class, trained to be close reasoners, nor
to pride themselves upon dispassionate
unselfishness of views. And, besides, they
are taught from childhood and throughout
life, by a most reverend and respectacle
order of priests, that their happy condition
is due to the decrees of Providence, and that
to question the justice of the inequalities of
fortune which prevail is to tty in the face of
the Almighty, and blaspheme His holy
ordinances.
* * *
This brings us straight to another of the
authorities the Socialists quote for their
system. They dispute for possession of the
theological ground; and while challenging
the most reverend and respectable —that is
to say, the most highly paid—priests, as per-
sonally concerned to justify a system by
which they receive infinitely more than the
value of their labour and talents, the Chris-
tian Socialist appeals direct to the Bible.
While the majority of the clergy continue
to inculoate a divine sanction for monopoly
and so ingratiate themselves with the classes
which have the gifts of bisnoprics and fat
inoomes, a little band, headed in the Estab-
lished Church by the Rev. Canon Shuttle-
worth, the Rev. Stuabt Headlam, and
Rev. C. W. Stubbs, are preaching the Social-
ism of Chbist. And, away in the North,
Scotch ministers are allying themselves with
the League for the Restoration of the Land
to the people at large, and a fresh Solemn
League and Covenant is being signed numer-
ously by the people of Scotland, while even
in Australia the most courageous of the
apostles of Henry George’s theories is the
Rev. W. T. Carter of South Australia. By
such as these the Christian Socialist is
written. Its motto is that
“While continuing the Christian spirit, upon
which the teachings of Maurice and Kingsley
were based, we will not hesitate to advance the
principles of Socialism with all the significance
which has been added to that term by the patient
investigation of the last 35 years.”
• • •
These teachers, with nothing to hope in the
way of worldly, ecclesiastical, or social ad-
vantage, but all the contrary, enter the Held
of disputation, like the Covenanters of old,
Bible in hand. They appeal to the law of
Moses : “The land shall not be sold for ever;
for the land is mine. Ye are strangers and
sojourners with me.’’—(Lev. xxv. 23 et scq.)
And when they are told that the old Dispen-
sation has expired, they turn to the teach-
ings of Christ, and quote afresh, with awful
emphasis: “ Give us this day our daily bread”
—a petition obviously not framed for capital-
ists ; “ Lay not up for yourselves treasures in
earthand, again, “ If thou wilt be perfect,
go sell all thou hast and give it to the poor;”
and “ It is easier for a camel to pass through
the eye of a needle than for a rich man to
enter into the kingdom of heaven.” And,
still working this mine of Social ethics, they
allege the parable of Lazarus and Dives, in
which Christ depicted Dives going to hell
for no apparent vice other than that he had
suffered Lazarus to be in misery at bis gales
and had made no effort to relieve hi m. Now,
they argue, in London, Lazarus is always at
the gate of Dives— only it is at the back gate:
the policeman would attend to him did he
trouble at the front. At the oack of Mayfair
lies Horrible Loudon. The slums are within
a stone’s-throw of my Lord’s conservatory in
Belgravia.
Now for the remedy. As we understand
the writers whose conceptions we are review-
ing, the remedy which the Socialists propose
for tne anarchy whioh afflicts humanity is
Communism. “Common property,” that is
to say theforoes and opportunities furnished
by nature for the maintenance of life, they
would recover from the persons who now
monopolise any part of it, and they would
make it really common property. Thus,
land, water, light, air, would be all equally
free and accessible, and all would be worked
and put to use to the best possible advantage
for the general benefit. Secondly, the pro-
ductive power of machinery would be com-
munised. The benefit and the saving would
not be divided between the capitalist and
the land-owner—it would be distributed
among all. But here a potent objection in-
terposes. “ What!” cry the critics, “ deprive
genius of its reward ? Take away the induce-
ment from inventors ? The world would
stand still.” Here we And the objection met*
and, we think, bravely and nobly met.
Treating not merely of the inventor, but of
“ the poet, the painter, the prophet or reprover of
falsehood and baseness, the lawyer or obtainer of
justice, the physician, the statesman or governinpr
man, each and all of these live to benefit
their fellows, and by their lellows they must be
maintained.” But “let this be clearly under-
stood that, for every non-producer who iB
so supported, the producers are called upon
for additional exertions, or else the common
store would be diminished, and this also that
these nonproduoerB are not to be maintained
at any price they may choose to estimate their
services at, but that ail that the evmwuntty can


IE FOFULAH BRAID
BRIAN BORU
IVTOTE.—YOUNG, KING, and CO. (solo propria
- 1 - 11 tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), havo
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, & c
Brian Boru
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLEBOME.
BUI BORO WHISKY,
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
|tr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
86. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Bottle Dejnrtmei
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY.
GO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ed.'
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, POET
WINE SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold In this department.
Th» host Wholesome or all Bbvhbagm.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Bs. od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
[Market Street, Sydney,
do, or can be expeoted to do, is to guarantee their
lives to them in as happy and noblo condition as
the hardest w orker or actual producer."
Here we find a spirited passage
"A pretty state of matters this would be, it is
derisively cried; a nice incentive to discovery and
Invention, thatl Nothing is more characteristic of
this corrupt and Mammon-loving ago than this,
that all great and noble worts is deemed impossible
save through hope of money reward. W ith all my
heart and soul I protest, and to my latest breath I
shall continue to protest, agaiDSt this foul and de
graded conception of human nature. Hold this
belief if you will, but understand that to do so is to
deny all that is high and pure iD man ; to ignore all
that is noble and inspiring in history. Hold it if
you will, but recognise that you—whose only con-
neption is of man as a being, the origin of whose
every effort tits in his rapacity aLd greed—have
left it to the despised Socialist to conceive of him
as one who may possibly be moved to high en-
deavour byasimpledesirotoservehis f«llow-men;
left it to him to believe that Shakespeare wrote,
that Burns sang, and Carlyle taught—that Watt
sought to wrest from Nature the secret of the
power of steam, and Stephenson planned how
best to utilize it—from something other in them
than the lust of gain."
* • *
Proceeding, however, with our investiga-
tion of the Socialistic proposals, we quote
afresh from Hyndman and Morris
“ For reconstruction and reorganization we So-
cialists continually strive, looking to the com-
pletest physical, moral, and intellectual develop-
ment of every human being as the highest form of
the social state, as the best and truest happiness
for every individual and for every class, where, as
none need overwork, so none shall be able to force
others to work for their profit.”
Meeting here the sneer Utopian, these
writers contend that it may have been
Utopian years ago, but that the very causes
which have deepened social disorder have
facilitated the remedy. The tendency to
work everything on a big scale, and by
oompanies or associations, prepares, they
say, the way for State control, or, in other
words, oommunal operation of all depart-
ments of Exchange and so forth. They
would have the railways worked by the
State; so also with shipping; so with bank-
ing. They say the economical forms are
ready, and that the transfer could be ar-
ranged almost without a hitch —which seems
to us somewhat oversanguine. And the
means of affecting this social revolution?
Well, they arc clear only in one particular.
Manhood suffrage to begin with. Thus
“To avoid alike the crushing anarchy of to-day
and the fleroe anarchy of to-morrow, we strive to
help forward the workers to the control of the
Btate, as the only ireans whereby suoh hideous
trouble (the reference is to the dynamite tendency
of the desperate of these days) and production and
oxohange can be organised for the benefit of the
oountrv at large. Thus, therefore, we propose
that all should have the vote; not that the vote
will free them from economical oppression, but
because in this way alone is a peaceable issue pos-
sible for the possessing classes. It is better ” (here
there is a gleam of teeth) “ for them to yield to the
vote of organised opinion than to the victory of
even organised foroe.”
In fact, the Socialists do not disguise that
they mean business. With respect to eom T
pensation, they say:—
“ But this is confiscation. Far from it, it is resti-
tution. Those who cry for compensation for past
robbery, and shriek confiscation because the right
to rob in future is challenged, should bear in mind
that the men and women whom we would com-
pensate are th se who are now stumbling balf-
olothed and half-fed from a pauper cradle to a
pauper grave, in order that capitalists and land-
lords may liv- in luxury and excess. The dead
have passed beyond compensation; it will be well
if the living do not oall for vengeance on their
behalf. Our first principle as Socialists is that all
should be well-fed, well-housed, well-educated.
For this objeot we urge forward the Revolution
which our enemies hysterically shriek at, and
frantioally try to dam baok. But we mean wrong
to none. Rather would we claim the aid of s ich
of the luxurious classes as are willing, so long as
they have still enough and to spare, to forego the
frightful privilege of feeding fat upon the wretch-
edness of others."
And they oonoluple thus :
“ Therefore, we say once more this tea class war;
we know it; we are preparing for it; we rejoice at
its near approach. We mean to tm ak down com-
petition, and to substitute universal organisation
and co-operation. There lie around us the neces-
sary methods: they need but to be applied. But
there are many difficulties and dangers, the power
of wealth is great, the unscrupulousness of pro-
perty knows no bounds? We are well aware of
this: we see and do not shrink from the inevitable
struggle. But the numbers over against us, the
hosts who may be bribed to fight for their op-
pressors, even to their own hurt; thprearo thou-
sands, perhaps millions, of such men ? There are.
We know that, too. But in a cause like ours, we
refuse to recognise difficulties; with such misery
around us, we cannot stop to calculate forces; with
such a future before us, we will never count
heads.”
At which wo will for the present leave them
in the hands of our readers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Herald” versun George.
In a pretended review on a work on Socialism, the
Sydney Morning Herald does two grossly dis-
honest things. In the first place, it pretends to
review the work, and nevertheless leaves the
meaning of the author totally obscure. In the
second place, it recommends perusal of certain
pages, “too long to be quoted,” to “any poor
student who has become dazed and bewildered by
the theories of Henry George.” Now, why
should any poor student who reads the S.M
Herald be dazed and bewildered by George's
theories, unless the S.M. Herald has neglected its
functions of public teacher and failed to make clear
the fallacies of theories of enormous currency
and in its opinion liable to daze and bewilder ?
As a matter of fact, the Herald confessed itself
either impotent or cowardly, when confronted by
the prevalence of Henry George’s theories—
theories which have already sunk deep into the
very souls of the independent-thinking class of all
conditions of life, and of the masses of English,
reading people throughout the world. The editor
of the S.M. Herald did commence in the Echo
and the Mail a series of articles designed to crush
the absurd pretensions of Henry George to main-
tain positions and theories which tended to show
that it was neither rational nor right that certain
thousands of men should own the globe, and so
Impose penurious subjeotion upon almost all the
rest of the humau race. Of these promised ar-
ticles, two, or perhaps three, only were published.
Then there was sudden and quite unannounced
Silence evernuwe? We had the pleasure oi
laughing: a little, In print, at these opening
articles, and of showing, amidst other things, that,
in his eagerness to controvert George’s orinciples,
the talented author had been so unfortunate as to
surpass his own expectations, and to equally con-
trovert the principles of his Saviour. In fact, if
ever there was a poor student who had become
“ dazed and bewildered *’ by the Georgian theories,
the Herald’s own essayist appeared to be the
man. We do not, however, fora moment flatter
the S. M. Herald by supposing that it was its per-
ception of the ridiculous plight we had shewn it
to have tumbled into which occasioned the sudden
and unexplained interruption and cessation of its
announced series which was to make mince-meat
of Henry George. If our information be correct*
and we seriously alHrm that we have reason
to believe it to be entirely reliable, the
literary genius was complacently satisfied with the
elllcacy of the arguments published, but the pro-
prietorial genius interposed. It has almost in-
variably been a tacit assumption among wealthy
men that a man’s talents are proportionate to his
wealth. Thus the proprietory of the S.M. Herald,
scanning the situation with comprehensive vision,
perceived that Henry George was a writer who
owed his fame, not at all to any real genius, but to
an accidental and transitory notoriety: that he
and his doctrines merely subsisted on discussion,
and would sink into oblivion were he and they
severely left alone. The mandate went forth that
the Sydney Morning Herald should treat
Henry George with silent oontempt, and so blot
him and his system of political economy out of
existence altogether.
Public Spirit.
The community will be gratified to learn that by
the publio spirit aßd enlightened devotion of some
of the senior officers in the Lands Department, the
colony has just been saved from a grave outrage-
The principles of free, socular, and compuls no,
that’s not exactly it. The fact is that an insidious
and Jesuitical attempt to corrupt the minds of the
young of tee next generation of N. S. Wales has
been attempted and failed. Since the failure of
Bishop Barry to work u;>' any sort of agitation
against the undenominational character of the
Publio School teaching has b?come an obvious
and assured fact, his partizans have resorted to
dark and devious devices. They have even at-
tempted to seduce the minds of the young through
their Australian Geography, and to instil poison
into the public mind by the medium of parish
maps. A rule of the Lands Department is, that
when parishes attain, by expansion of settlement,
unmanageable proportions, they are to be subdi-
vided into two or more portions, to one of which
is given a new name. To an emissary of Satan, or
Bishop Barry, or the Pope—wo are not sure
which—fell the business of dividing into three
parishes, the parish of Corong. He expended
upon the requisite work, in mapping, draughting,
and so forth, several months of time. And finding
no local names which would come handy for the
new parishes, he veutuied to adopt two names
at the moment somewhat prominently before the
public. He named the subdivisions the Parish of
Barry and the Parish of Moran. This outrage
camo under the observation of a high-minded
and public-spirited oflicer, who, being a believer
only in Pope Jefferis, instantly detected the
latent mischief of such nomenclature. Were our
people to be wronged and demoralized by such in-
sidious methods, and he 6tand by ? Not if he knew
it! God forbid! You bet! He ordered the divi-
sion to be cancelled. True, this nullified the value
of all the work done. The ©bnoxious names were
obliterated, the maps cancelled. It cost the
country something, truly. But what of that ? The
integrity of our undenominational and unsec-
tariau geography was preserved, and the youDg
idea will continue to improve itself by contem-
plating the soul-strenghening wordMesopot we
mean “ Corong.”
--
Fiat Justitia, liuat Ccelum.
The above heading is certainly not plain English.
But we propose to give the plain English for it,
and also some plain English about it. The sentence
is a Latin proverb, and means “ Let Justice be done
though the heavens should fall.” The proverb is
very popular, and has had a long and strong influ-
ence in even liberal-idea'd people a minds. We
only refer to it in order to point out that it em-
bodies a philosophy totally false. Its purport is
that terrible things may happen if Justice be un-
compromisingly adhered to, and it exhorts people
to face any catastrophe rather than depart from
principle. The advice is good, but, as we said
before, the philosophy is false. Our contention is
that no terrible thing can result from unswerv-
ing adherence to Justice. We want people to
comprehend that if Justice ibe done the heavens
will not fall, That, in fact, Justice pillars the
Heavens, and the more of it there is the more is
the celestial altitude assured. Let Justice be
I done, we say, not with fear and trembling lest the
i Heavens should fall, but with the firm assurance
that the more that Justice is done, the higher, the
clearer, the brighter will be the HeaveD above us.
As Captain Jack Bunsby would say, “thebearing
of these observations lies in the application of
them, and the application is pretty wide. Just
to start the thing, we will point out that it is a
regular habit of people to say such and 6uch
principles arc all very well, they agi ee with them
in the abstract, and admit their justness. But
then, supposing they were to be carried into prac.
tioe, how would you provide against this, that, or
the other catastrophic contingency ? In other
words, how would you keep the Heavens from
failing? Now, put it this way again: that the
Heavens are pillared by Justice. Then the argu-
ment is that if you maintain a pillar, instead of
knocking it out of the way, the heavens will fail-
will fall because you won’t knock away the sup-
ports ! Kubbish.
A Disxal Festivity.
The failure of Sir Henry Parkes, in his first set-
speech after arriving, is not to be set down, pro-
bably, to any real deterioration of his powers
L’he circumstances were deeply depressing. A
cloud seemed to lower over the banquet, and to
weigh upon the spirits of the participants. The
/ery personnel of the banqueters was discouraging.
There were no new faces added since he left—none
which afforded testimony that anything had been
forgotten or forgiven aiuoe East Sydney spurned
him from the hustings. It was the same old crowd
which saw him off. Not one ventured to arise and
cheer the guest by those laudatory expressions
which are ordinarily so easily pumped up. Tho
heavy ta6k of proposing the toast of the evening
was delegated to a gentleman who spoke merely
ei>-<>fflcio, and without a grain of enthusiasm. No
peg was afforded for Sir Henry to clutch, no
personal extravagance of laudation which he
might have affected to accept as the voice of a
delighted community. Consequently, his reply
was divided between a laboured endeavour to
avoid seeming to apologise for himself, and a
mal-apropoB attack upon the present Ministry*
Sir Henhy obviously felt that something was
necessary to be said with regard to his absence
from the post of public duty during the present
momentous session. He attempted the Justi-
fication, and succeeded only In professing
to hold the narrowest view of his own duties
and of a publio man’s functions ever offered
to the publio. He, claiming to be a states-
man, ignored his relations, as such, to the
oolony as a whole. He voluntarily—or, as the
easiest horn of a very excruciating dilemma—be-
littled his own importance. He affected to believe
that no explanation was due to the oolony—that
Sir Henry Parkes’ presence or absence during a
session of Parliament is a matter whioh conoern s
only his own constituents. Tenterfleld had granted
him leave of absence; and Tenterfleld—that is to
say, Mr. Whereat and a little clique pretending
to speak for the whole constituency—had extended
that leave. Tenterfleld (t.e. Whereat) being satis-
fied, the colony oh, the colony be damned !
“ What am I to the oolony, or the colony to me ? ”
was the burden of Sir Henry’s explanation. As
for his attack upon the Government, Sir Henry
singled out the weak spots in the Ministerial armour
with all his pristine felicity. Much that he said was
true. But who was he, that he should challenge the
weakness or the errors of Ministers ? While he had
abandoned his public post, as soon as he had been
deprived of a position whioh carried with it pecu-
niary emolument, they, at any rate, had been work-
ing to the best of their abilities, and, as we belie ve t
honestly, even if unsuccessfully, for the publio of
the oolony.
Dorsal Weakness.
The failure of the Stuart Ministry to frame a
decent Land Bill is a source of sincere disappoint-
ment to many people who, as a rule, expect little
from political reforms. Two years ago, the noto-
rious vices of the existing system provoked a re-
volt against the Parkes-Kobertson Government*
and at the general election in December, 1883, the
polling booths w*re thronged by enthusiastic
voters keen to lend their aid in the settlement
of a question that had for years vexed New South
Wales. The expectations of the public were
reasonable enough. They saw the country wasted
by the contentions of squatter and selector, and
they hoped that Mr. Stuart had found a way to
deal fairly with both interests, and at the same
time to lecover a reasonable area of the colony
as a reserve available for future settlement.
There was nothing extravagant in this. A re-
form that aimed at less could hardly be reform
at all. Both of the conflicting interests com-
plained of insecurity, and loth professed their
willingness to waive prescriptive claims, provided
they oould acquire substantial tenures. The
squatter held his grazing right only from Thurs-
day to Thursday, and he was quite willing to
abandon one half of the territory of which he held
the temporary occupation, provided he got an ab-
solute tenancy of the other half. The selector, on
the other part, was quite willing to give up his
legal right of gutting the whole colony, provided
there were certain portions of country faithfully
conserved for purposes of settlement. The publio
voice gladly assented to the policy suggested, but
the Government which undertook to carry it into
practical form, plainly h >d little conception of the
work to be faced. A revolution was aimed at, and
a revolution, to be successful, must be carried out
by revolutionary methods. To deal with the
question thoroughly would have been an
achievement worthy of a statesman, for great
difficulties stood in the way, and great
issues were at stake. Still, in the hands
of a Minister capable of grasping the sub-
ject, there were immense resources available for
carrying the work to a successful completion.
The publio were promised valid areas for settle-
ment, clear from all conflicting interests. The
Crown lessees were offered secure leases, with
every encouragement to reclaim the waste and
arid oountry. Ne.ther one promise nor the other
has been kept. But, through the gap disclosed by
these very shortcomings, there appears the end
of the lever, which, in a strong hand, might have
done what was wanted. The squatters have been
allowed to retain their obstructive attitude to
selection on the resumed areas. Would it not
have been a wise thing to take this power com-
pletely out of their hands, and to conciliate them
at the same time by giving them better leases
with a tenant-right security for thejr improve-
ments ? But such an idea is beyond Mr. Farnell.
The routine of ten years’ pettifogging land-agency
sticks to him like glue; and ho has drifted and drib-
bled back into the Robertsonian quagmire with
the mechanical precision of a tip-cart. How Mr.
Stuart could ever have expected him to inaugur-
ate a new policy with masculine vigour must re-
main an enigma. His appointment was probably
the first symptom of that spirit of “ compromise ”
which appears all through the proceedings of the
last year, and which has made the Land Bill an
emasculated, featureless produet, worthy of a
Ministry without a backbone. When the Cabinet
filled tho chair of the Lands, they might have
remembered that a few years before, when the big
stations were being “peacocked” and "secured,”
»n ex-Minister who had gained golden opinions in
Riverina by his pliability in office and his sub-
servience out of it, received in the most welcome
form a pleasing recognition from a Melbourne
committee; and they might just have considered
whether the characteristic thus displayed proved
the fitness ot the man for the critical work of re-
casting the land system of the country.
Melbourne University.
The Protestant University of Melbourne is short
of funds. It has as much now as it used to have;
but with the recent accession of grace, it has come
to feel that it can swallow more. At the last
For continuation of Plain English, see noart page.


Tub Rates of Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 24a.; hall-year, 12s. Bd.;
quarter, 6s. Bd.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inchi
special positions In the paper 7s. Bd. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 28 consecutive insertions
16 per oent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
“ Life is not all beer and skittles,” is a say-
ing full of pith and of almost unlimited applica-
tion. The best man ought to the race, and, in
fact, generally docs, for pluck and perseverance
generally make a good show at the end. The big-
gest building in the world is on'y composed of so
many bricks or stones, but they must bo nut to-
gether in a proper way; and we are told, upon
competent authority, that liome was not built in a
day, which latter statement we Bee no reason to
impeach. Little to wnships become big cities; and,
if they are led prjperly, little armies achieve
areat victories. Aud we could tell a story of a
little shop that has become a veritable Bazaar of
the Nations, it’s too long to recite now, so we’ll
just tell who accomplished It. Their name is
Anthony Hordern and Sons, their style or title Is
that of “ Universal Providers,” and their only tent
is pitched at the .Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
meeting of the Council, a resolution was carried
deputing the episcopal head and a couple of mem-
bers to wait on Mr. Bervice and beg him to run
bis arm into the taxpayers’ pockets, and draw out
gome more money to be spent by the men who, in
conjunction with God's anointed, control the
higher education of Victoria. The precise pur-
pose to which the extra allowance shall be devoted,
has not yet been fixed upon. Some recommend
that Professor Strong s old duties should be
divided between two men-so that, instead of a
professor of Latin and Greek, there would be one
of Latin and another oi Greek and Comparative
philology. Some recommend that the additional
money should be spent in the teaching of Science
and some again in the teaching of modern lan-
guages. The thing they have made up their minds
to &lnce they got the Church among them i?, that
r> t u
Trent Wear
H r,td
76 t 6 fljr Fae* fy/>f“ s
*' Cc /?uro?'7A —
Te C e OCCU fee/ As /fti //&/> u/ofT/ft
A* e o/ /ft e lft/ec/es/a /*/*/><?r/ortn-crx
>e ' i °S^, J^ fJ , JC fS ooA . r ' as/ir C< sic/ frrfcc.
'ft''o/ frost t'/’fty <?Ct S>fy .
<<ura> e 0/jSo Jess i njp a dry /ouser/u $
ci.sctny une &A. O
OCt-uS/my orerTie £e»*m,\s7'erj /<?/ JSAx*rrn-st</*.
7er t<r r Vf ci*i n jr. ' '
M s h* debut
O/"
if
V u'-r
W' 1 ' ’
/7 s
'Me i a,/ %<4te dis y£ /ce „
*'« */ V"*y* ,Z
s
a 7> o mjbon. « Ate/ for ' / /
7'-ea3on$ j A* a ctfc/tt/'i%3 o /s*Le Cou/~ $A'
fo> £?
Me rfo
9v ,n . \+~.
The Mus
71ie uAt ei/> rt c> a CoS). 0 «;/•* <■*/» *?-
VvVa /i-orn. a**?*/. Jen
/»/ 'la.tuzerfn; ferTt-e f?/7**,
(Xu j i.
The Musical Adventures of Mr. Eucalyptus Hapworth.
zrsrz
somewhere about an equal amount Is contributes
by fees. We are not opposed to the making of a
liberal allowance for educational purposes, and
would prefer to be found among those who incline
o extiavaganoe in this matter, rather than among
aDd ni f ?a , rdl> ; ; bUt the saiatly
who ltlon th° lately made of itself
“Uor.'SSLS theTeoDleTv? ?“ 1“ ?*?;
srir'pTTnfhSr
a layman hi mfght by “this M fl elbourne a *
a moderate repute 0l the sLge o? tfj
Theatre Royal or and this n „„ fa L , i
b * might o lX;\rL I
Mr. Knipe as an auctioneer of suburban allot-
ments. But he came as Bishop of the Protestant
Church, and we call it the veriest shambling to
pretend that it was not as a dignitary of that
Church his claim for the post of Chancellor struck
the minds of his admirers. And what in real fact
is this ? What would it be were Roman Catholics
in the majority, and did they elect their Arch-
bishop ? . . But as if to draw attention to what
lovers of the University would like removed or
covered up, the Council, in determining to go to
the public purse for additional funds, points to the
rapidly increasing expenditure on elementary edu-
cation. The people, the Council argues, do not
complain in this instance. But, why? Because
faith has been kept with the people, and the
Ministry of the (Jay have not used their ma-
jority to clap the head of a sect at the head
of the system. Let a Ministry do that, and
the fate of the elementary education vote
may be foretold. The one unequivocal and un-
questionable line of policy Victoria has committed
itself to is that in matters of education, element-
, ary or higher, there shall be nothing to divert the
minds of the scholars to the war of creeds with
which their homes are blackened. Has not the
Council of the Melbourne University broken away
from this line of policy ? To grant them the addi-*
tional funds they now pray for is to confer on then-
action a national approval. Already, evil effects
are visible. The Senate, forty of whose members
protested against the Bishop’s appointment, almost
refuse to discharge their duties. Twice in the pre-
sent month they have been called together for
important business, and out of a roll of 230 a
quorum of twenty could not be mustered. Most
certainly this is not the time in which It is wise to
increase the grant from the general funds, to what
is becoming popularly known as the Protestant
University of Melbourne.
Mr. Jamieson is the neatest public speaker we
know. He puts the whole essenoe of a demon-
stration into a single sentence. At Paukes’ re-
ception, in proposing Sir Henry’s health, Mr.
Jamieson simply said, “lam sure we are all de-
lighted to see him amongst us again. He looks a
more vigorous man, and wc man expect from htm
greater things than we have had before Sir Hen ry
will have to look about for a bigger reserve than
the Ashfleld one, to satisfy Mr. Jamieson’s reason-
able expectations.
The actual sentiments of the Andersen sympa-
thisers have been at length accurately defined.
Thanks are due to Mr. Neill, who, at the meeting
on Friday last, ventured to remark that Ander-
SEN’sloffence had been filthy and disgusting, for
eliciting the real feeling of the agitators. They
hooted and hissed Mr. Neill for hinting at such a
thing. The public can, therefore, now understand
exactly how matters stand. The agitators are not
merely opposed to flogging, on principle. They
hold that such proceedings as Andersen and bis
lady-love were engaged in are not filthy or dis-
gusting. Mr. Andersen, it therefore appears, was
interrupted in the exercise of his rights as a
man, and should not have been punished at all.
But we take the liberty of saying that the persons
who hold these views are quite on a level with
their protoge, Mr. Andersen. And we beg to
remark that if they or any of them v r ere to exer-
cise the rights which they claim for Mr. Andersen,
and which they deny are tilthy and indecent, with-
in forty yards of a public place, where citizens
who do not hold their very liberal views are pass-
ing with their wives or daughters, and were
policemen not sufficiently “pu.illanimous” to
scruff them promptly to the look-up, they would
be very apt to be sh )t. You see some people hold
very strong views with respect to what constitutes
filthy and indecent conduct, and if the laws failed
to protect their wives and daughters from such
speotacles as the drunken' Andersen and his har-
lot provided for the denotation of passers-by, they
would bo apt to take the law Into their own hands.
We would.
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.


Personal
Items
Mr. Henniker Heaton is now a candidate
for Canterbury in the Conservative interest.
This surely can’t be our old friend Henniker, who
drove round Ireland the other day with Mr. Par-
nell. However, perhaps he was only trying to
steal a little of Jove’s thunder.
44 Poor Miohael Bass lies buried here;
Although be was both hale and stout
Death stretched him on the bitter bier;
In another world he hops about.”
Thus a 17th century epitaph reset. Cut this out, J
Toohey; ’twill do you when your turn comes.
Apropos of Mr. Labouohere’s suggestion
as o the creation of a host of Radical Peers to
swamp the Lords, it is proposed by one paper that
Mr. Bradlaugh should be 44 ennobled ” under the
title of 44 Barren Atheism.” Another urges upon
him to accept the title of ‘‘Lord Godaiming, of
Fiddlers’ Green.”
It is a matter of comment amongst some
people that D. W. B. Sladen has ceased pouring
forth poetry. TVe are a bit intrigued, also. For,
since D. W. B. is professor of English literature at
the University, it is clear (which it would not be,
otherwise) that he has leftoil pouring forth poetry
because he has begun taking in washing.
• The statement that the Prince of Wales,
by “command” of Her Majesty, will not dine out
with more than fourteen persons in future, is cal-
culated to cause much commotion in Sydney,
whioh be may one day visit. Let’s see, who’ll be
the fourteen—Burdett Smith, Dan O’Connor, John
Davies, Angus Cameron—ah, yes, we can make
out the list.
“The O’Donoghue,” who has of late years
been very hard-up, has now succeeded to £5OOO a
year—or rather his wife has ; but in Ireland it’s all
the same thing. The O’Donoghue in Paris years
ago, tried to outshine even the glories of Napoleon
111. in his brilliant, not to sav extravagant, style
of living. Expenses amounting to £20,000 in one
week weren’t bad for one private Irish “gintle-
inan.”
Salvini, after strangling his Desdeinona
several thousand times on the stage, has decided
to marry her. Miss Belgrade, the Desde i.ona in
question, is about twenty-eight, while her lover
has roached the ripe age of sixty. It is purely a
love match, and Miss Belgrade has already mas-
tered the Italian language, so she is enabled to
correspond with the Signor. The date of the mar-
riage has not yet been ilxed.
Speaking of Australians in London, we
may mention that Mr. 8. De Lissa, a Sydney mer-
chant who has lately transferred his sphere of
operations to Lond'in, has been created a life mem-
ber of the 44 City Liberal Club ” and the West-End
Affiliated Club at South Kensington, having been
proposed by no less a celebrity than Baron Roths-
child himself. To this Club all the leading bankers
and merchants of London belong.
Tho pompous and parsimonious Marquis
of B. often personally superintended the sale of
the produce of his dairy. One morning a pretty
little girl presented her penny and her pitcher to
his Lordship for milk. He patted her on the bead
and gave her a kiss, saying, " Now, my pretty lass,
you may tell, as long as you live, that you have
been kissed by a Marquis.” 41 Ah,” replied the
child, “ but you took the penny, though.”
We expeot the story about the Marchion
ess of Hastings (Sir George Chetwynd’s wife) hav-
ing a male lady’s-maid is .all boßh. Ever since she
was Lady Florence Paget the lady’s conduct has
been, if not “painful,” at least so 44 frequent and
free,” that it is ludicrous to suppose that she
would stoop to a deception such as this. Besides
—as if—we hardly know how to put it—as if Sir
George would not have found it out long ago!
Can there, by any possibility, be any truth
in the story that an Australian statesman (who has
recently been 44 doing ” England) before he left
these shores acoepted the trusteeship of his mori-
bund son’s estate, borrowed all he oould on it so
soon as the breath was out of his son’s body, and
applied the proceeds to his own travelling uses,
leaving his widowed daughter in-law and his
grandchildren to starve or not, as things might
happen ?
Mr. Charles Henry Cole, who recently
made his wife drink her own blood, which flowed
from a blow inflicted by himself, was sentenced to
six months.—
We wish, we do, upon our soul,
That they could string up Henry Cole-
No more t’wards mercy leaning;
But give it him in public, so
That wives could gloat upon his woe—
This Cole should have no screening.
Since the Baroness Burdett-Coutts mar-
ried the by no means rich Ashmead-Bartlett she
has apparently ceased most of those benefactions
which in bygone days made her name a synonym
for philanthropy. Perhaps sho now thinks that
charity begins at home. Ashmead lives at home,
you know. He can’t have a very keen sense of
humour, can Bartlett. He changed his name after
marriage to 44 Coutts.” In doing so he was very
candid. He is ever so much more Mr. Coutts than
the Baroness is Mrs. Bartlett.
Labouchere, when asked why he believed
in Cumberland and yet insisted that Irving Bishop
was a humbug, replied: “Bishop pretended that
he could, in some mystio state, sea a picture of
what was passing in another person’s mind. Cum-
berland showed that by the mere cultivation of
physical perceptions, and by watching the in-
voluntary signs given to him by his subject, he
could do precisely what Bishop pretended to do.
Cumberland has, in fact, done even more than I
have done to expose Bishop.”
Mr. Henniker Heaton and Sir Saul Samuel
have come to cross purposes in London. The
latter was in treaty for the purchase, for the
colony, of certain valuable manuscripts relative
to its early history—of which the less said, perhaps,
the better—and discovered that Mr. Heaton also
had his eye on the precious spoil, whioh has since
been bought for the colony, but at a price much
enhanced by the bidding of Mr. Heaton—whose in-
tention, it is only fair to say, appears to have been
to present the papers to this Government.
Seeing the name of a certain heavy swell
on an advertised list of directors the other day re-
called a good story about him. He was once pri-
vate secretary to the Governor of a Northern
colony, and during Blondin’s visit to the capital,
our swell, wishing to create a sensation, asked the
Governor his master whether he would have any
objection to the Frenchman carrying him across
the river in a basket. “None whatever, Mr. ,”
promptly replied His Excellency, 44 provided you
put on your uniform, and let people seo whose
fool you are.”
Wo are sorry to see Percy Lucas has been
called upon to show cause why he shouldn’t be
dismissed the service. This is chiefly because the
C.C. at the W.P.C. is so pretty. Percy was a J.P.,
too, got a thumping salary, and had, furthermore,
the privilege of attending 'in his private room to
all the red-shawled dames who wishod to have the
law ag’in their 44 rusbanda.” There’s one comfort,
thank Heaven! still remains to us: if Percy the
Picturesque has to go, w« can for true aesthetic
comeliness still pin our faith to the coat-tails of
Alexander tho Adorable.
Professor Lorenski, the phrenologist, re-
cently 44 came down handsomely ” near Gladstone.
His buggy-horse this surprising fit of
generosity, ’i’he horse RO w, probably, “ prime
tinned beef,” while the professor’s new array of
bumps are being manipulated by less gifted crea-
tures than himself in Gladstone Hospital. Sounds
foreign, Lorenski —doesn’t it ? Well, if you polled
all the North, you wouldn’t get a single vote that
he was a North Pole. There is another Thadeus
in Queensland, and his name is Lorenski. The part
of Poland he was born in is called Dalby.
“Princess William of Prussia has been
delivered of a son, so that the succession to the
throne of Prussia and the German Empire is now
provided for to the fifth degree in the direct line.
'rhis comes from an English paper, and delights us
immensely. We are absolutely frantic with joy at
hearing that the German crown succession is pro-
vided for to the fifth degree in the direct line. It
also gives us much pleasure to notice that the
German princes are still being provided for in and
by England to the five hundred and fiftieth degree,
both iu the direct and indirect line. Yes.
Bishop Jacobson, of Chester, is dead. He
was a cautious man. A lady oace asked him what
he thought of the new vicar. “I think, replied
the Itishop, “ that he is a middle-aved man. On
another occasion, two celebrated dignitaries were
engaged in a little friendly criticism of a certain
sermon. “It struck me,” said the one, “as being
rather Low.” “How very singular, now, re-
joined the other. “ I thought it rather High; and
then, appealing to the Tight reverend prelate,
asked, “ What did you think of the sermon, my
lord ? ” “ Why,” replied the wary Bishop, I
thought it rather long.”
First Mr. Cornwell, secretary to the Irish
Post-oifice, in quod, and now Mr. Yan Baerle, a
great official in the Lands and Titles office, for-
merly private secretary to both John Bright and
Lord Carlingford, is committed for trial for for-
gery and embezzlement. This same Van Baerle
got £5OOO out of Sir Salmon, on the understanding
that he could get him created a baronet. * v e
wonder how much a poor widow couli get out of
Sir Salmon by stating how many weeks she and
her family had been living on potato-peel ? Not a
cent. Our wrinkle to the poverty-stricken and
excessively seedy widow is to penetrate into the
Grosvenor-square mansion, plank herself down on
the hall se.it, and shriek out, in the hoariDg of the
powdered footmen, that she’s his aunt.
It is not generally known that Sir James
Cockle (the ex-Chief Justice of Queensland and
eminent mathematician) is a son of the Cockle or
pill celebrity. When Cockle, senior, died he left
his lucrative pill business to a younger son, as the
gentleman who ia now Sir James did not consider
it compatible with the dtgnity of wig and gown to
to traffic in boluses. However, Sir James has a
snug colonial pension of £l5OO per annum, which
keeps things going. He is the honorary treasurer
of the Savage Club, and is very proud of the posi-
tion, for he frequently takes the chair on festive
occasions, and is, in a sense, “ Speaker of the
House.” Sir James lives at Ealing, almost oppo-
site the residence of our old friend, Kev. Charles
Clark, the celebrated peripatetic lecturer, who has
now come down to “ running a church ” —or, as a
certain irreverent Australian puts it, “acting as
the local Chadband.”
Listen. “Mr. Ryrie, M.L.A., has brought
in a Bill which contains five clauses, for securing
the safety of passengers by coach.” How careful
they are of the public, these gentlemen, when their
own safety is in question. Mr. Ryrie has not for-
gotten the spill he got on the Queanbeyan road,
some months ago. His fragments were carried
into the town that day in several baskets—or
barrows. They took a lot of editing. And even
now it is whispered that a section of him was lost
somewhere and that he has been vainly advertis-
ing rewards for its recovery ever since. Perhaps
this is why his Parliamentary speeches have been
so feeble of late. There are those who say, how-
ever, that ithe [lost part has been found, and has
had the head of a revolutionary selector who was
killed the other day morticed on to it, and is to be
brought for ward jat the next general election to
oppose the other part of him now in Parliament.
If this is a joke, it is a cruel one.
The wife of Mr. Jeremiah O’Donovan
Rossa is, it was recently announced, “ travelling
inoognito in Ireland,” and Jeremiah, who, during
the lady’s absence, may possibly have been drink-
ing all the profits of his “ hotel,” says there will
be more explosions in London soon. Suppose the
English authorities take Jeremiah at his word, and
send over to him, as a present from “ the boys,’ a
packet of panclastite aud fulminating powder
marked “contributions,” and a case of nitro-
glycerine and clock-work labelled “ whisky.”
Jeremiah will then, allowing that things are ar-
ranged so as to bring about a proper bust-up in-
stantly the little presents are touched by his bar-
man, bo enabled to “ travel incognito ” iu America
for about a quarter of a minute, and all the New
Yorkers who don t happen to be injured will laugh
at the little joke This is what we’d do if any Vic-
torian or Queenslander, who was protected by the
authorities of his oolony, feloniously sent dyna-
mite to Sydney and then bragged about it in the
papers.
Our N. 8. Wales experience has bitterly
taught us that it is better to have this sort of thing
settled before the property and liberty of men are
placed at. the mercy of any man. Speaking of the
proposed appointment of a Judge, the Northern
Territory Times says of the nomination of Mr.
Pater: “Hemay be a clever criminal lawyer, but
he lacks many of the attributes which a Judge
should possess; briefly, his temperament is ner-
vous and excitable, his temper is hasty and violent,
and he shows his sympathy with one side of the
cases which are brought before him, hastily,
before’he cases have been fully ventilated. Mr.
Pater has proved himself to be utterly unfitted for
the position of a Judge, and we sincerely trust the
matter will receive careful consideration before
the appointment is made. If the country is to pay
£lOOO a year for a professional man let us at least
have one who possesses the attributes of a lawyer
oombined with the demeanour of a gentleman.
Bombast, irritability, and vindictive spleen are
qualities we can dispense with.”
The home papers just to hand oontain a
story about an elderly gentleman, handsomely
attired, putting up at the Victoria Hotel, Preston,
and sending out someone to look for his wife, to
whom he had been married thirty years before.
The couple separated soon after their weddi g,
both being out of work. The husband enlisted
and “proceeded” to Australia, whence he only
returned the other day; and when he did find his
better-half, things had improved with her, for she
was at work —as a charwoman. An interview be-
tween the two was arranged, when the elderly
gentleman declared himself to be her husband.
At first, the lady declined to entertain such an idea;
but subsequent conversation, and presents of an
auriferous description, convinced her that she
stood in the presence of her long-lost husband.
The pair have since left Preston, to take up their
abode in Belfast We have often chanced upon
cases (in the Divorce Courts) where a woman has
been persuaded by presents “of an auriferous
description ’’ that sne was a man s wife.
A decree of separation lias been pronounced
between the Grand Duke of Hesse and Madame
Kolemine. A good deal of bad feeling has been
imported into this case. If a widower falls in love
and chooses to marry the woman he loves, it is
hard lines that he should have his windows broken.
There is not one of the royal ladies and gentlemen
who have been so indignant over the marriage
who would have said a word had the liaison been
unsanctioned by the law. And the Hesse-Darm-
stadters themselves, who have made the place too
warm for the Grand Duke, would have been his
obedient hat-doffing subjects still, had he given his
heart to twenty ladies instead of his hand to one.
Such is the world! And, talking of “ Kolemine,
we are reminded ithat Sir Henry Parkes did not
succeed in floating his Jervis Bay coal property.
The English people just now have an awkward
habit of asking, when they are offered a good
thing,” how it is that the rich colonials don t put
their money down in the first place. As the Pro-
perty in question is, or will soon be, a reallv good
thing, we are sorry, for the sake of the colony,
that the veteran didn’t get together his company.
Kine Tawhaio, we read, visited a London
Coffee Palace, the other day, and was received
“with much enthusiasm.” The enthusiasm was,
no doubt, all on the side of the Coffee I alace
people. A man who, like Tawhaio, has been
accustomed to sharpen his teeth on a grindstpne
before wolfing 1 the baked remains of his enemies,
can’t afford to become enthusiastic on mere coffee.
A more horrible decoction than that which in
London pas?es current as Mocha, can’t be ima-
gined by anyone out of Sydney. London coffee
seems to be made out of marine glue, decomposed
snuff, stale porter, and human hair. You can be
sure about the last-named ingredient, for you have
only to make a dive with your spoon to fish up
half a dozen hairs from the bottom of your two-
penny cup of sorrow. They say it’s all right—the
hairs are only waitress’s hairs. A workman who
saw Tawhaio fishing up long red hairs and throw-
ing them on to the floor - apparently in sheer dis-
gust that the head of the copper-topped waihenn
who waited on him wasn’t attached to them—
grimly remarked, “They seem to have been boil-
ing down a stiff ’un, your Majesty.” The King
said nothing, but went on stoking in peas with his
knife.
“The Duke of Albany’s will was drawn
out a few days before his marriage, and ne signed
it at Windsor directly after the ceremony, before
he left the Castle for Claremont. He was in a very
critical state of health at that time, and he would
not allow an hour to pass without settling his
affairs.” This is from the World, which toadies
to Koyalty, and it all reads very prettily indeed.
Judging from the Lord Colin Campbell divorce
case and the case of the late Duke of Albany, it
seems that now-a-days the obility, et cetera,
doesn’t think of marrying until it is ready for the
grave. By and bye it will, no doubt, be fashion-
able for “our betters” to be attired for the altar
in windiDg-sheets, and to be carried to church in
coffins. But even that will be better than tne
present style of thing, for, though a man who gets
married after he’s dead (instead of getting married
wheD he ought to be dead) may leave a wife who
will draw £OOOO a year from the revenue, it is
probable that, unless the age of miracles comes
again, a dead gentleman will not, as in the present
case, leave two children who, in some capacity or
other, will sooner or later be foisted on the bleed-
ing country at big screws.
From the evidence, in the case of Weldon
v. Semple, of Dr. James Edmunds, an eminent
English brain-doctor:—Cross-examined as to the
nature of insanity: There were various kinds of
insanity, and we were all more or less unsound.
Mr. Justice Hawkins: That is the very question I
was going to ask you—is there any exception to
that? Witness: None, except, perhaps, your lord-
ship when sitting in court. To Mr. Anderson: If
Mrs. Weldon had said she had believed that the
spirit of her dog had been seen by the boy, he
should have considered her insane. Mr. Justice
Hawkins: You do not believe in animals having
souls? Witness: Well, manv animals came down
from heaven in a sheet, and I do not know what to
think, Ite-examined: He was not a Spiritualist.
He did not see why Atheists should not go mad. Is
seeing visions a sign of insanity?—St. Paul saw
visions. When St. Paul fell down and saw a bright
light, my impression is that he had an attack of
sunstroke or an epileptic fit. Balaam was not in-
sane in believing that he heard his a?s speak if the
ass had actually spokeD. Swedenborg I should
think decidedly insane, though not fit to be de-
tained; and I should think John Wesley was, in
times of exaltation, insane for a time.
Prince Krapotkine, who was, with Louise
Michel, excluded from the list of offenders par-
doned by the French President on the occasion of
the National Fete, writes from prison:—“So long
as M. Ferry governs France, and the reports of his
secret police are considered the best sources of
i .formation, we have merely to stay quietly at
Clatrvaux and do our best not to die of anemia and
scurvy. Accustomed in former times to work ten
and twelve hours a day, I now esteem myself
happy when I can write throughout a week two
hours a day. If Ido more my gums begin to bleed
again; they swell, and a fluxion of all the tissues
in the mouth sets in. These continued swellings
have produced alveolo-periostite, and the doctor
fears I may have osteo-periostite. At any rate, my
teeth are all dropping out. Last week I pushed
out with my tongue a great canine tooth, quite
sound, and the doctor says I shall lose in the same
way all four teeth, which are also quite sound.
However, autumn being near, my health may im-
prove, and if no complications come it may con-
tinue so until towards the end of winter, when the
scurvy will come on again worse than ever. But
all this is a bagatelle. We are so happy, my wife
and myself ‘■hat we can work together for several
hours per day, that we think and speak more
about our literary undertakings than about other
things.”
The Bombala Jonas says, “ We do not
often agree with Mr. Buchanan;” and whilst reel-
ing with apprehension as to the probable upshot
if this feud between two of the greatest thinkers
of the age, we recalled the fact that David has
written an essay in the D.T. on Thomas Carlyle,
and as the old man is dead first, we will recall an
anecdote of h'm. It might help David when he
proposes to grapple with the Bombala Bombastes
Furioso. Gilflllau was a preacher in Dundee, and
a good man-although a Presbyterian He gave
Garibaldi an invitation to Scotland, for instance.
His congregation was composed chiefly of working
men and tradesmen; and although, from his high
•iterary attainments, he did have many divine
“calls” to big “steepends” from more cultured
classes, be stuck to his kirk and went on with his
work. He died a few years ago, and is best known
by his gallery of literary portraits—a collection of
essays written in “Blackwood” and elsewhere. Car-
lyle had written the “Sartor,” and was fast ram-
ming his way into fame. He, too, had been trained
for the kirk, but couldn’t “see it.” Gilflllan “ went
for” him. Somebody said to Carlyle, “D’ye hear
what Geordie’s been saying about you ?” “ What
Geordie?” asked Mr. Kesartus. “ Geordie Gil-
fillan. Why, he says ” “ Who is Gilfillan?” he
asked, wondering like. Now, David, just try it in |
that musical way of yours—Who’s Jonas ?
QUITE BIGHT [!!!]
“Mr. and Mrs. James South (nee Edith
Pender) have become reconciled and live together
again.”— News.
Quite right! You know, we gossip flout.
And pinn’d our faith on Edith Pender;
And, when mad wags put tales about.
Out flashed our faulchions to defend her.
But there was no need for a tussle;
No need for play of Jimmy’s muscle—
For 10, behold, those two
Once more do bill and coo—
Quite right!
It seems ’twas but a baliverne—
A joke— whichever way you turn it;
The public were too dense, we learn
(As ottthe case is), to discern it!
A feather—puff! ’tis on the wind,
No trace at all it’s left behind;
For, with a loving thrfll,
They once more coo and bill —
Quite right!
Quite charming fun! a few small jokes
Like these but are as airy bubbles;
The world is “giddy,” and tho folks
But murmur lightly, “Pooh, ‘our troubles!
Some really, "thought, you Know—because . . .”
But that shows what a joke it was! I
For 10, behold, they’re willing,
Once more to be wooing;
Once more to be billing,
Once more to be cooing—
Quite right!
An interesting fact, which we do not think
has ever been mentioned in print, is that a wonder-
ful facial likeness exists between Henry Irving
and his “associate” Ellen Terry. Anyone who
keeps this in mind while looking at the respective
photographs of the pair will at once notice where
the resemblance lies. By the way. Irving’s Mal-
volio did not meet with the favour of his audi-
eucos, and though it was highly puffed by all the
daily papers of London, where it is fashionable to
admire lrviog, it is described by a very competent
critic, “Carados,” as “thoroughly original, but
beinu thoroughly original itis thoroughly wrong.”
Apropos, Irving, undeterred by the fate of Mr.
James Albery, has begun to show temper, and to
rudely and impertinently lecture his audiences,
j In the “ Twelfth Night ” revival the success of the 1
evening was won by Ellen Terry, whose Viola waR
enchanting. We read that she started rather ner
vously after Viola had transformed herself into
the page Cesario, but nervousness may readily be
pardoned in an actress when for the first time she
shows her legs to the public. It is satisfactory to
find that Ellen’s legs are good ones “straight and
shapely, and highly creditable to their possessor
So that Miss Terry, as an actress who is literally
good at all points, must be held to have a clear
advantage even over the Langtry, who, says a
recent 8. P. Newsletter, “when she is satis fac
tory as an actress, it is a que tion of flesh and
bones, and not art.” Which recalls a cnt cism of
an Indian chief, who, when in Washington, was
taken to see a burlesque show. After the per
formance he remarked, through an interpreter"
that the Great Father was very kind to send the
poor Indians blankets, when they were so much
needed at home.
Thomas Hunt is the name of a gentleman
who toed the scratch at tbeCity Court, Melbourne
a few days ago. to defend himself from the charge
of not having lost a shingle, but of being minus
the whole of the root of his head entirely. Oqo of
Mr. Hunt’s fads is that he has just finished a house
la Emerald dill, which is capablo of accommodat-
ing 1,000,000 people at a pinch, and as this com-
modious buildfng is built on wheels, and oan be
driven along by an electrical machine specially
made for the purpose, country towns about to
hold railway opening shivoos would do well to
communicate with Mr. Hunt and secure a lease of
his valuable premises. The next racy notion
Thomas holds is that he has an action against
Police Magistrate Call, for twenty millions, tor
wrongful Imprisonment, and when this is handed
over he intends to give £6OO to each of the Mel-
bourne charities, and £3OOO to every Church in the
city. After this he intends to buy a steam yacht,
and go all round the world relieving the destitute.
For all this, however, Ttiomasis remarkably sound
on the goose in some things, and, being asked by
the P.M. what all the trouble was about, ha re-
plied, with a considerable amount of method in
his madness, “ You flued me 40s. for being drunk
and disorderly, and you had no earthly right to do
that. Being drunk is not an offence, either legally,
or equitably, or ecclesiastically. lam open to say
you yourself, in your time, have taken many a
bottle of wine, and felt queer after it. If a poor
devil drinks a glass too much and gets drunk he ij
put in gaol, but if a swell gets queer with wine it
/loes not matter ” Subsequently, Mr. Hunt felt
in a more good-natured humour, and re marked:
“ Rather than have any bother. I will accept your
(Mr. Call’s) cheque for £5OOO and say quits, it, will
save you an extraordi ary amrount of pain and
worry, and all the unpleasantness of having to go
before the Judges And, as you know, the losing
side pays both nis own and the claimant’s bill, you
had better pay it.” Mr. Call accepted this generous
offer, and then Thomas gave orders to have his
carriage ready in half an hour, m order to convey
him to BucKlngham Palace, where he had an ap-
pointment to dine with the Prince of Wales and
'•ladstone. But the caitiff slaves took him up to
the Yarra Bend, and soaked his head in a tan-nit.
When the Prince and Princess of Wales
were visiting Belvoir C stle, in 1815, they were in
turn requested to contribute to the confession-
book, and “confessed” their favourite likes and
dislikes as follows:
My Favourite
Queen
King
Hero
Poet
Artist
Author
Virtue..
Colour
Dish
Flower
Name
Occupation.
Amusement.
Motto
Dislike
Looality
Ambition...
Mary Queen of
Scots
Leopold, K. of
the Belgians..
Nelson
Byron
Raphael
Macaulay
Honesty
I Zingari
Truffles aux
P6rigord
Rose
Louise
Improving my
mind
Hunting
“Ich Dien.”....
Cowardice and
avarice
Sandwich Idles
To attain fame
without seek-
ing it
Queen Dagmar.
Richard Coeur de
Lion.
Marlborough.
Shakespeare.
Rubens.
Charles Diokens.
Charity.
I'rue blue.
Yorkshii’e pudding.
Forget-me-not.
Edward.
Playing the piano.
Riding.
“ Honi soit qui mal
y pense.”
Slander.
Great riritain.
Non-interference in
other people’s
business.
Albert Edward. Alexandra.
Belvoir Castle, April 7, 1865.
After this, we think still more of that dear, (rood
ittle woman, Alexandra, and still less of Albert
Edward. We see that A.K.’s favourite Queen is
Mary Queen of Scots. Victoria isn't very “ popu-
lar” with him—on account, we suppose, of her
not allowing him to fill up Windsor Castle with
bis rowdy friends when Ascot races are on. A E.’s
favourite locality, we notice, is the “Sandwich
Isles.” Let us hope that he will one day find him-
self there; also that as long as he lives he will get
enough money to allow of his eating “ truffles aux
Perigord ” ad. lib., and that,he will stick like grim
death to his “ favourite occupation ” of “improv-
ing his mind.” it’s quite shocking to tlnd that we
have been so ignorant. Everyone out here has all
along thought that Albert Edward’s favourite oc-
cupation was something quite different.
The Reverend Byng is still lecturing on his
favourite subject, “ The Recognition of Friends i"
Heaven ” He says that he is morally certain that
such of us as go there will know each other when
we meet, and volunteers the bold, not to cay
irreverent, statement that his wife and children
are “more to him than Moses and Elias.” Mosos
and Elias's troubles! If these fine old Jewish gen-
tlemen, all of the olden time, are auytbing like
their race on earth, they are probably in possession
of the regalia of half the Gentile saints in heaven-
We had a dream about this very thing once. We
dreamt we saw myriads of confessors aud martyrs,
sitting in rows—some crowned but harpless, some
crownless but harped, and some with neither harp
nor crown but holding pawn-tickets for botn
signed by Moses and Elias and other eminent
celestial Semitic firms. There were only hflt-a-
dozen saints who came fully equipped, and we
subsequently learnt from a passing cherub that
these were Scotch. By the way, Mr. Byng says
that heaven is a material place. He calls it, in tn«
language of the Scriptures, a temple—a citv-a
mansion—but leans to the idea thut it is a.city-
He leaves us to our own conjectures whether it
has the enjoyment of a town-council, and »
so, whether the aldermen are such adepts at arao
esqued vituperation as those in this abode oi
sinfulness below. Which suggests the idea that
the little unpleasantness between Michael ana
Lucifer was not unconnected with a dispute as to
the re pective mei its of gold-plate or jasper-metai
for paving material. But it is no business of ours,
anyway. We are more interested in the question
—very pertinently put by Mr. Byng—“H w wert
we to know a resurrected body ?” The reverend
and ingenious lecturer answers this question wim
great satisfaction to himself by saying that tne
glorified boly will bear a similar rt semblance w
the body we knew in life as the butterfly does to
the chrysalis. This theory is altogether too at-
tenuated for us. We have never considered tnv
matter carefully before, but now we are brougni
face to face with it—we see its importance.
only way out of the difficulty is, we think, to
a law enacting that all corpses shall be either num-
bered or ear-marked. The marks or numbers u
be kept among the archives of the family.
every child of that family to learn these by hear
before engaging in any extraneous studies.
yet we are not very much interested in this ma w
even. We would just as soon not recognise ou
friends in heaven. Unless their natures wu
completely changed, they would want to Done
something frem us before we had been there
minutes. It argues a certain amount of < coe “, lh _
city on the part of Mr. Byng to choose sued a su
ject as this for a lecture. And he is eccentric. «
is a clergyman and ne cares nothing for money.
So a hitch has occurred in the
with George Augustus Saia. We are afraid e
chances of hearing the author of “Quito AloU fnr
and those of O’Mara being again returned m
Tumut are about equal. Talking of «“ t Vu
Alone,” there is a curious incident connected


A PRETTY FACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples', it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
A young lady in one of our pro-
HAMBURG minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
TEA.. among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
HAMBURG her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
TEA. accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
HAMBURG tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
TEA. physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
HAMBURG ailment, failed to afford relief A
TEA. friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
HAMBURG using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. Sne
TEA. made trial of it, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
HAMBURG the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
TEA. restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
HAMBURG Bible to 6ay too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
TEA. Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
HAMBURG vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
TEA. sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
HAMBURG foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
TEA. ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
Remarkable Consensus off
Opinion.
International Unanimity.
WORLD- WIDE HONOURS.
THE GREAT GERMAN REMEDY, St. Jacobs
Oil, stands honoured with the highest dis-
tinction ever paid to a medicine. This is not only
the case in this country, but abroad everywhere.
At the New Zealand International Exhibition, 1882,
it received tue magnificent First Prize medal, here
reproduced, together with the Highest Diploma,
tor being, according to critical tests, the best pain-
curing and healing remedy known to mankind.
In this connection a few testimonials from
foreign lands are giveD, as an evidence of the
world-wide popularity of St. Jaoobs Oil. Thous-
ands of unsolicited testimonial letters, similar to
the following, received from authentic sources in
ail sections of the Globe, are on file at our office
for inspection of visitors.
Our Indian Empire.
At the recent Calcutta International Exhibition
the jurors awarded the gold medal. The English-
man, of the tsth May, commenting on the unparal-
leled success of Bt. Jacobs Oil, says: “Disclaiming
irreverent tendencies, Bt. Jacobs Oil improves on
acquaintance, and the jurors have, after most
crucial tests, confarred upon it the gold medal.”
Peru.
Senor A. de La E. Delgado, LL.D., and Coun-
sellor, Tribunal of Justioeof the Republic, Lima,
Peru, writes: “I have the pleasure of informing
you that one single application of St. Jacobs Oil
has cured me completely of rheumatic pains, from
which I have been suffering for four years, with-
out relief from any other remedies I had used.
The inlormation i give yYm has for its sole object
the testifying to that which is truly mysterious,
and that you may uhc it as an authentic testi-
monial to the marvellous effects of the Bt. Jacobs
Oil.
Sandwich Islands.
Hon. 8. Crosby, Hawaiian Consul at Lima, Peru,
says; “ Having suffered for some years with rheu-
matism, 1 was advised, during my last attack, to
try your St. Jacobs Oii, and after so doing found
relief, after three or four applications; painsleav-
ing me, and since then, some months, have had no
indication of this painful complaint.”
Cuba.
Senor D‘ Antonio Josd Romay, Assistant Phy-
sician and honoray member of the Military Board
of Health and member of the faculty of the Garri-
son of this port, Havana, Cuba, certifies that he
was cured by the use of St. Jacobs Oil, the great
pain conqueror, of rheumatism aud neuralgia, by
a lew applications.
Calcutta.
“Campbell Hospital, Sealdah, Calcutta, March
18,1884:— Having hoard of the healing and curative
powers of Bt. Jacobs Oil iu cases of sore throats,
pains, &0., and suffering while in this institution
with a sore throat, I obtained the permission of
the medical officers who attended me for small-pox
to use it, and have much pleasure in stating that a
single application gave me much relief, and in
three days, using the oil twice daily, I felt rid of
the sore throat. I have no hesitation in recom-
mending the use of the same to others, and feel
sure they will find the oil give instantaneous re-
lief. I would also here mention that with the sore
throat I had a severe pain in the jaws, which was
removed after only two applications of St. Jacobs
Oil.—(Signed) E. A. Peeeira, Head Inspector of
Post-offices.”
Wliat Leading Papers Say.
St. Louis, Missouri, Republican.
“We take pleasure in saying of St. Jacobs Oil,
from individual experiment, that it is a most ex-
cellent remedial agent, and as suoh we can heartily
recommend it.”
Boston, Massachusetts, Daily Globe.
“The Charles A. Vogeler Company, Baltimore,
Maryland, is one of the most substantial firms in
the United States. St. Jacobs Oil drives pain
away.”
Chisago, Illinois, Tribune.
“The inferedee is irresistible that the great Ger-
man remedy. St. Jacobs Oil, is the most remark-
able pain cure that has yet been discovered.”
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Sentinel.
“The wonderful remedy for rheumatism, St.
Jacobs Oil, has been used by a large number of
people in this city with effects truly marvellous.”
Washington, Distriot of Columbia, Post.
“The fame of St. Jacobs Oil is now world-wide.
It certainly conquers pain.”
Salt Lake, Utah, Tribune,
“ The remarkable popularity of St. Jacobß Oil
has been acquired by the absolute truth of its
claims.”
San Francisco, California, Evening Bulletin.
“Their great remedy, St. Jacobs Oil, still com-
mands (onfldenee all over the coast, from the
Sierras to the sea, and is recognised ns the most
wonderful discovery in medical science of modern
times.”
Buffalo, New York, Commercial Advertiser.
“The Charles A. Vogeler Company’s medicines
are the best, aDd St. Jacobs Oil has an especially
high reputation.”
£lOO REWARD.
£lOO REWARD.
£lOO REWARD.
£lOO REWARD.
, ‘ SilOO REWARD.
£lOO REWARD.
£lOO.—A cash reward of one hundred pounds
will be paid by The Charles A. Vogeler Company,
of Baltimore, Maryland, U.8.A., proprietors of St.
Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited local represen-
tatives in various parts of the world, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St Jacobs Oil are
not strictly genuine.
THE GREAT PAIN CONQUEROR.
ST. JACOBS OIL relieves and cures Rheuma-
tism, Neuralgia, Headache, Toothache, Backache,
Sore Throat, Quinsy, Swellings, Soreness, Chaflngs,
Eruptions, Intiammations, Chapped Hands, Corns,
Bunions, Diptheria, and all bodily pains for which
an external remedy may be applied. Sold by
druggists and chemists everywhere, at half-a-
crown a bottle.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR N. SOUTH WALES
ELLIOTT BEOS.,
SYDNEY.
, t flt-orr. Sala was writing it in weekly instal-
tbfnt« for Charles Dickens, in all the Year
* e f,vn and when the story was but half com-
*°HS ft A s. was sent by the Daily Telegraph
piC America, to write up the War. Only a day or
t 0 in'rprvened between the order to go and the de-
-80 ?,,re of the packet, so Sala set to work and did
P ‘ copy ” for Dickens as he could, pronfis-
aS Dost the other instalments with unflagging
iDg ,,iarity from America. But once “over the
re pond,” in the wild excitement of the
ne scenes that were going on around him,
« iTfnrgot the motif of his story, the plot, and
the names of the personages figuring in the
oir This he wrote Dickens, with comical frank-
k°?a. a communication which, no doubt, caused
conductor of All tiie Year Hound to invoke
tlie „ his erratic contributor the blessing of the
up i There was only one thing to do—to get
to°mfibody else to finish it. The somebody chosen
Andrew Ilalliday (now dead), a writer of
w ‘i T .ordinary versatility, and the author of
eX h r ntlo=» plays, including “The Great City,
therein is depicted Frith’s picture of the railway
-train, detect!vea, and all complete. Sala
Bt *i been meandering a good deal in his story,
!lh eh is about a circus woman who has a daugh-
who, like Smangle’B Jewess, is coveted by the
Anility and gentry, but who, being a sort of -May
imwards in satin and bugles, repels all advances,
and telling her admirers -
“The way to my affections, sirs,
Is through a wedding-ring.”
nailiday, being a practical man, gradually drew
nit his characters together, slid in a low comedy
character ot his own to lighten up the tale, then
billed the rider in the circus-ring, and married the
Slighter to the virtuous Earl. So that was all
S and the readers of the A. Y. K. were per-
fectly satisfied. But when Sala returned and read
the conclusion to his nova), he was aghast. The
niot suddenly dawned upon him, and he discovered
that Dalliday had made things turn out quite the
rvnnosito to what he (Sala) had intended, and he re-
aputed the introduction of Halliday s comic man
Hoenlv “ What the deuce did you kill the circus-
woman for ?” cried Sala; “she was to have turned
virtuous ” “And taken in washing? en-
quired Andrew. “No, confound you, cried the
author, ”to have preached at Exeter Hall. I in-
tended the book to be a ‘ novel with a purpose I
They made it up, however, and it must be stated
that nine out of ten people who have read the
nook prefer Mr. Andrew Halliday’s ending to Mr,
Geo. Augustus Sala’s beginning.
More than one member of the Royal
family is now very strong on Spiritualisrn—a class
of belief which, ai may be easily imagined by any-
ono who has read muih about the mental idiosyn-
crasies of the princes of the House of Brunswick,
i» calculated to increase rather than to lessen its
hold upon them as time goes by. No one
aoouainted with the rate at which things ha ye
hpen progressing in this direction for some years
nast, was at all surprised at the statements made in
several newspapers that just before and after the
death of the Duke of Albany a very eminent per-
sonage indeed “saw visions,” and that the de-
ceased Duke stited on more than one ocoasion he
had seen apparitions whioh warned him of his end.
The Loudon Spiritualists claim that John Brown
was a “ good medium,” and was in communication
with the spirit of the late Prince Consort. How-
ever this may be, one thing is certain—that the
Duke of Albany was an out-and-out Spiritualist,
and that he was completely under the thumb of
one Eglinton, an individual of the Slade order,
who has long been astonishing private and fash-
ionable circles in London by his "slate-writing
and other performances. You perhaps have heard
of Elkington, and, wishing to test his powers, you
make up a party to visit him at his rooms in Old
Ouebec-street. You bring with you a new folding
slate, which you have just bought. He takes
vour slate, which you have wiped clean in
his presence, and drops between its leaves a
small piece of slate pencil the size of a pin;
then he shuts the slate and holds one oorner
of it firmly between his thumb and forefinger.
You hold it by the other corner and middle with
both hands. Presently you hear a scratching
noise, and in a moment or two he asks you to open
the slate, which, you find, is covered with writing.
How is it done ? Kglinton says he doesn’t know—
there it is, and that's all he can tell you about it.
Hundreds of people, including Professor Crookes
(of “radiometer” fame), who investigated the
Katie King affair, leading physicians, and other
scientists have interviewed Eglinton, and seen his
slate- wiiting phenomena, without being able to
say more than that the writing must be produced
bv an unknown force. It is astonishing to find
how many swells of all grades who have been
dabbling in Spiritualism concur in attributing to
Efflinton “medi^miBtic ,, powers on the basis oi
the phenomena alluded to. Eglinton, who is a
stoutly-built, heavy-featured, gentlemanly young
fellow, reminds one of Slade in many respects
for he has that arch-humbug’s big dreamy eyes,
listless drawl, and exaggerated insouciance ■ or
action. A little while before Prince Leopold died
he bought a handsomely-mounted folding slate
with the intention of presenting it to Eglinton,
and, after his decease, the slate was found among
his papers. The writer of tnis has seen a letter
addressed to Eglinton by the Duke’s secretary
who, a little while since, forwarded to the ‘ me-
dium ” the slate aforesaid as a souvenir of the
friendship of His Koyal Highness.
Joe and Barney Thompson are in London,
and have obtained a fair position in the betting
ring—whatever that may mean. They won about
£BOOO at the Ascot, and dropped—for such is the
fortune of war-about £lO,OOO on several small
country meetings soon afterwards. The very last
heard of “the Leviathan” is that, on a recent
Sunday morning, hh and one or two other distin-
guished spor s had the honour of escorting down
Petticoat Lane the eminent Mr. John M'Elhone,
M.L.A., who has since remarked that Petticoat-
lane was “ the grandest sight in London, and no-
body should miss seeing it.” The other day, John
got on top of a ’bus and began to swear some. This
attracted the attention of another Horsetrailyan,
who was also sitting on the knifeboard, and who
instantly remarked, “You come from Australia,
don’t you ?” John promptly owned up that he
did, arid began to describe uis trip over the Denver
and Rio Grande railway, in the course of which he
appears to have met with the most awful and
blood-curdling series of adventures which ever
betel mortal man. Mr. M‘Kay, a tall, slab-sidea,
lean, lantern-jawed Murkan gentleman, who, a
little while ago, visited Sydney in the interests
of the railway named, induced John and his
friends to travel by the Denver and Rio
Grande instead of by the Union Pacific. For
hundreds of miles, John says, he had to hang on
by his eyebrows while passing over frail bridges,
through marrow-freezing gulches, and canons in
whose horrid depths locomotives rusted and
corpses mouldered. “ You don’t catch me going
any more by the Denver and Rio Grande,” remarks
John; “no, not for all Europe, Asia, Africa, and
America, with Riverina thrown in. M‘Kay gave
us a big prospectus in San Francisco. It showed
that there were ssventy-three dishei on the bill or
fare, buffalo-hump and all. And, by the political
reputation of John Davies, I swear that for fitty-
two hours we couldn’t get a bit of tucker. To
print exactly what the hon. member for the Upper
Hunter says about the Rio Grande and Mr. Tom
M’Kay would hardly suit this paper, so a full
account of it will be postponed until Mac returns
and in the Assembly brings to bear upon the Good-
chap and Whitton quarrel his experience of Ame-
rican railway bridges. He is accompanied by his
son, a youngster of 15 years, who is so ’cute that
in the absence of his lather he can at, any time bo
entrusted with the expenditure at a hide and
tallow sale of a few thousands of pounds. Mac
was interviewed at Denver by a newspaper man,
who printed in his paper a column account of the
corrobboree; and at another town further on
a couple of columns of the opinions of the Mar-
quis of Normanby on things in general were pub-
lished by a newspaper man who didn’t speak to or
even see the Marquis at all. Next day six press-
men filed up to interview His Excellency, who.
however, declined to see them on the ground of
the aforesaid invention by the editor of their con-
temporary, whom they accordingly proceeded to
abuse. But that gentleman retorted that they
were telling a tiesue of impudent lies merely
through jealousy.
Lord Tennyson once remarked, in a man-
ner that did credit to his discrimination, that Love
may come and Love may go, and fly like a bird
from tree to trea. Hans Peter Hansen, a middie-
aged Cupid residing in Auckland, N.Z., was either
much struck with this observation, or arrived at a
similar conclusion by a process of original ratio-
cination. He bad been six months married to a
young woman twenty years old, when he deter-
mined to fly with Another. They flew. The Other
left three children and a husband behind her in her
hurry; but one cannot be expected to remember
everything at such times. Her fourth olive branch
she took with her. They flew to Nelson, and there
—in the very height of their billing and cooing—
Hans Peter was limed. Limed by a constable. He
was brought back with his wings frayed and torn—
a most unsprightly vision. The Other, faithful to
the last, wont with him. They were met on the
pier at Onehunga by the young woman of twenty,
who immediately charged upon the other with
much spirit. an,d would probably have cat.erpillared
her if the Force had not interposed. The three
were finally got into a railway carriage amid the
cheers of an admiring crowd. Here there was an-
other skirmish between the two rivals. They were
again separated. The young woman of twenty
then developed an intention to mingle herself
with the wheels of the train, and had thrown open
the door of the carriage and cast at her husband a
last despairing look, which seemed to move him
about as much as if ho had been an india-rubber
buffer, when the constable caught her by the
skirtsand unromantically plumped her down injher
seat again. When the party got to the end of their
Journey, Hans was conveyed to the police station,
whither he was tollowed by the young woman
who had had designs upon herself. By this time
she had become conscious of her wicked and fool-
ish conduct in attempting to interfere with the
happiness of her husband, and had apologised for
the same, and begged permission to lie outside his
door all night. The keeper of the lock-up was too
tender-hearted to allow her to do this, so she was
shut up in a cell by herself on a charge of at-
tempted suicide. Here she became hysterical, and
would not be comforted until he went to Hans
Peter, and asked him to call over to her from his
cell—which he did, adding an expletive or two
which seemed to soothe her considerably. The
Other would have also accompanied Hans Peter to
the police-station if she had been allowed to. but
she was not, neither did the husband she had left
behind in her hurry manifest any sign of having
missed her. What is to be the end of this little
romance we don’t know, but if Hans is to be
returned to the young woman who wished to
make a corse of herself on his account, we shall be
surprised if he doesn’t give her the opportunity
to repeat the experiment with more success before
very long. The most curious—if it is curious at all.
which we are not by sny means sure of-part of
this affair is that Hansen is a tow-headed Dane, as
bomely-looking as a Dutch oven, and both of the
women are more than passably pretty. If plain
men can exercise such a fascination as this over
the;sex, what hearts may not a man break who is
both clean and distinguished-looking? We have
often put this question to the partner of our beer,
but she has never exhibited any alarm. She was
always noted for her courage from the time she
was a child.
A Pall Mall Gazette man has inter-
viewed the Messrs. Tussaud, who carry on the
celebrated business of their late mother, Madame
Tussand, whose wax-works are now being re-
moved to new and enormous premises. Mr. Victor
Tussaud told his visitor that “we always And
after a thrilling murder, when a wave of horror
has swept through the country and stirred up the
morbid bile in a thousand stomachs (the stomach
is the seat of the disease), that the business of the
Chamber of Horrera increases enormously.” The
apple of the eye of the Tussaud family is a wax
model of the face of Robespierre beneath a glass
case—a wonderful piece of workmanship, worthy
of the hand that shaped it. Robespierre went to
the guillotine with his broken jaw swathed in a
white linen cloth. An hour after the knife fell
Mdme. Tussaud, unshrinking, plied her ghastly
trade, took his head in her lap and made the cast
which is now shown—an historical relic, of which
the brothers Tussaud are justifiably proud. There
is /the model of Marat in his bath, which brave
Mdme Tussaud took with her own hands. “ They
came for me,” she says, “ to go to the house where
Marat lived, for the purpose of making a cast of
his features, for he had just been killed by Char-
lotte Corday. He was still warm, and his bleeding
body and the cadaverous aspect of the fiend made
me feel desperately sick, but I had to perform the
task.” Marat’s model lies in the very bath in
which he was murdered. The guillotine which has
divided the arteries of 20,000 unfortunates is on
view. The Tussauds do not, we read, now-adays,
have any sittings from murderers Some of the
casts shown have been taken after execution, or
from sketches in tne condemned cell; but now-a-
days sketches and notes are made at the trial.
Here is a captital story told to the interviewer:—
“Calcraft I had not the pleasure of knowing; but
Marwood, now—why, Marwood has often sat in
this very chair,” said Mr. Tussaud, putting his hand
on the chair in which I was resting for a moment.
This was an unexpected joy. “Poor Marwood 1
he’s gone now. He would come here when bis
spirits were low. A pipe and a alass of gin-and-
water—his favourite vanity—were always at his
service. Then he would go down to seo some of
his old acquaintances around whose necks he had
so delicately adjusted the fatal noose, whose bodies
he had sent whisking into space. It was quite
pathetic. He would stop before each one with a
grim smile. His lips moved tremulously as he
summoned up some pleasant thought. * Put me
there,’ he once said, after he had given us a sitting
on his own account. It was like a man choosing
the site of his own irrave. His companion on these
visits was a grizzled terrier. One day he came
alone. ‘Your dog, Mr. Marwood, where is it?
The old man was sad. : My poor old dog is dying.
My dog that knew the business like a Christian
and the inside of every prison in England, who has
played with my ropes, who has caught rats in my
business bags.’ ‘Dying by inches?' I said; ’why
don’t you hang him?’ Marwood gave me a long
reproachful glance. ‘No, no! Hang a man. But
my dear old dog, never.’ Poor old Marwood, he’d
a good heart.” The story of the old hangman and
his dog was so affecting that the interview ended
abruptly. When the wax figures were removed,
they did not, it would seem, procesh “in Indian
file, at dead of night, when the 6ilver moon was
shiuing bright,” but by a much more prosaic mode
—in vans!
We have lost the last of our illusions. We
have been visionaries, but that is all over now.
There are mote fatuous members of Parliament in
Queensland than we’ve got. Weresign the bolt on
behalf of—there are so many of them that it would
be invidious to particularise— to Mr. John Annear,
the junior member for Maryborough. This gentle-
man has, by one effort, distanced all competitors
and put himself beyond the pale of rivalry for-
evermore. How did he accomplish this ? He
accomplished it byaspeechhe delivered in Gympie
a week or two, or maybe three, ago. Such an
oration as he delivered there had never gladdened
the ears of the electors of Gympie before. He
began by an invocation to the patriotic spirit of
his hearers, then he dropped easily, and gracefully,
down to the railway question, which reminded nim
—as it naturally would—that he had travelh d the
previous night in the same carriage with Mr.
Taylor of the Stray Leaves Company, and this
caused him to say such intelligence as he saw
before him—(cheers)—would, he was sure, grace
that show with its presence. (Derisive laughter
and eggs.) The honorable member then, by an
easy transition, passed to the timber question, and
proved that he grasped it in all its phases by volun-
tarily stating that he had once been a
and hoped he would be a boiler-maker again—a
sentiment which was received with deafening
applause. This led him to modestly observe that
he was a most humble man, with the qualification
that there were gentlemen by nature, and that he
hoped he was one of them. After a brief reference
to certain physiological curiosities with bumps of
self esteem as big as th«ir heads, whom he said he
had seen with his own eyes, he touched lightly on
the stamp duty, complimented the Town Council,
claimed acquaintanceship with several persons
present (none of whom betrayed any agitation to
respond to the claim, except one old gentleman,
—surmised to be in a condition of drink—who was
promptly ejected), and wound up by a bold diplo-
matic stroke to the effect that “the conduct of
the people of Gympie told him the lock-up was
unnecessary,” and some lines of poetry strongly
suspected to be his own. Inspired by the success
of this speech, a kindred spirit got up and in-
formed the audience that he had been the last man
to shake hands with the other member for Mary-
borough, and commenced to tell a joke he (the
speaker) had made upon that occasion, the point
of which was lost to posterity by a person behind
him summarily crushing his hat over his eyes.
Not daunted by this example, two other gentle-
men rose up together and congratulated Mr.
Annear upon his success; whereupon that versa-
tile orator again got upon legs and said, in a
voice trembling with emotion, that that indeed
wasa night worth livingfor, and that—so much was
he touched with the generous reception they had
given him—the poorest there would do him proud
by writing a letter to him and addressing it to the
House of Parliament—an invitation which was
greeted with much cheering of a scornful nature.
A voice in the audience then manifested some
curiosity about his position with regard to the
Kanaka question. This matter he soon set at rest
by stating that he kept a little Kanaka girl at his
home as an adopted child. His final words were
to the effect that that noble book, “Coningsby,”
had won for him his election, and would doubly
win it next time, and that the men of Gympie
should buy it. Mr. Annear then got down from
the platform, and invited the crowd to come and
drink with him, which the crowd did like one man.
Thus genially concluded one of the most panto-
mimic political meetings ever held this side of the
line. We have nobody to compete with Mr. An-
near in his own particular line. Angus Cameron
is well enough in his way, and so are many more
in theirs,tfflut there is not that fine element of
originality in their absurdity which there is in Mr.
Annear’s. As we said before, he wears the belt.
• • •
Tawliaiao has been suffering from tooth-
ache. A man cannot in his youth use his jaws to
crack up the devilled bones of his enemies without
suffering for it some day Parson Kutledge, of
Tamworth, has been holding forth on “Lazy
Christians a topic on which the cleric is always
completely at home, since all he has to do to se-
cure the fullest information on the subject is to
look into his heart and describe accurately what
he sees therein “Your hair's on tire!” shouted
a boy to his red-headed schoolfellow. “ You can
put it out, then,” was the reply; “you have water
on the brain.”. . Henniker Heaton will be much
disappointed if there is no one in New South
Wales willing to plank down £3O for the purchase
of certain singular old Australian mementos he
has unearthed in London. He himself, he says, is
tired of giving. Why doesn’t he canvas for the
needful amongst the many N.S.W. absentees who
are doing the grand in the mother land?... They
had to get a Tamworth warder to flog the prisoner
Bridger at Newcastle. Not a turnkey in East
Maitland gaol would have anything to do with it.
None were in want of the fee; each presumably
having a Bridger 'gin his own door.
Gallant, who took the Queen's Prize at
Wimbledon this year, is a barber. He ought to
bo a dead shot with a hair gun... According to one
authority, Mrs. Langtry took £3OOO as her share for
two weeks' playing in San Franc sco The Earl
of Wemyss proposed a compromise in the Lords,
who now find themselves between Wemyss and
abyss Mrs. Langtry’s mother, Mrs. Le Breton,
accompanied her to America. The Jersey Lily is
now again in England. Apropos, her father, the
Dean of Jersey, is described as having been in his
time a very gay old boy, indeed—and it would
really seem to be so, judging from the character
of the quarrels he has had with his ecclesiastical
superiors It is well-known, remarks a London
paper, that Cornwall, the ex-Secretary of the
Dublin Post Ollice, had made himself obnoxious
to the ParnelliteJparty by reporting partisan post-
masters and employes Mr. James Gordon Ben-
nett is going to build a big hotel, “ on the Ameri-
can principle,” in London Thus a leading Paris
journal: “M. Ferry, who in the art of downright
jying, surpasses all preceding Ministers, whether
of ine empire or the monarchy',” &o , &c. To be
the greatest liar of a century of liars is no little
matter. William has gone down to posterity as
“ the Silent.;” Louis, as “ the Fat;” why not “Ferry
the Liar?” Doctor Koch, who is announcing
himself as the discoverer of the cholera germ, is a
diminutive weazened-face man of forty, who looks
like sixty. It is widely suspected that the doctor
is himself the discovered germ. At any r rate, he is
a German.... The Rev. J. S. Watson, who died re-
cently in England, while undergoing a sentence of
penal servitude for the murder of his wife, was
the author of a Life of Porson, a Life of Wilkes,
and a Life of Cobbett. He executed a number of
the translations i'< Bohn’s "Classical Library.”
Thus Truth:—“The expeditions to England of
the Crown Princess of Germany have not been
frequent of late years. When H.R.H. was here in
1878 she resented the ascendency of the late John
Brown, and freely expressed her sentiments on the
subject of ‘the Highlander’ to the Queen, who
was exceedingly angry'. A ew months later the
German Empress came to England on a visit to
the Queeu, which excited much gossip at the lime,
the real object of the visit bei; g an attempt to
bring about a reconciliation between Her Majesty
and her eldest daughter.” Princess Louise is to
model the statue of the Queen to be placed in Lin-
coln Cathedral. Her Majesty insists that the
material shall not be marble but bronze, as she
wishes to be ns near Brown as possible. ..William
Morris, speaking of Millais, the idol of the blatant
plutocracy, says that his record is that of a ruined
reputation, of a wasted life, of a genius bought
and sold and thrown away.


Professional Directory.
TriSCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTREI> and «pe-
Xl olalty Union. Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W
Sydney.
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music.
GEORGE PERRIMAN. Scene Painter, Wynd-
ham-street, Alexandria, Sydney. Disengaged
Y A L
Theatre ro
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gahnkr and Musorovb.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING.
SECOND WEEK and ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
of the latest and grentest Musical Novelty of
MERRY DUCHESS' <1Uy ’ MERRY DUCHESS
MERRY DUCHESS MERRY DUCHESS
The finest performance of Comic Opera ever given
in Sydney.
The music is hrilliartly sparkling.
The dialogue is wisp, pointed, and witty.
The scenery new and beautiful.
PRICE*: Dress Circle, 5s : Stalls. Family
Circle, ~s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. Noireelist.
O
E K
H O
U
E
Lessees
E. Majhhoni and W. J. Wti.sON.
Under the Management nt'
HIGNOIi I> and ALLIS ON .
Acting Manager ... Monty Brownb.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
MISS DE GREF.
who will be supported by Mrs. Chippendale and
Miss De Grey's
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
will repeat their glorious performance of
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
whioh has received unanimously the highest en-
comiums of the Press and the ecstatic applause
of the public. .
LADY TEAZLE Miss DE GREY.
Saturday Night, Oliver Goldsmith’s beautiful
Comedy,
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
Business Manager I for Mbs \ Mr. A. L. Cunard.
Stage Manager < I)e Grey *MrF. T. Bingham.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbem s, 411
George-street.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee ... ■ Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MB. W YBERT BEKVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS-*'PHILANTHROPIST.’’
Last Two Nights. Mr. Wjbert Reeve and his
powerful Company, in the most successful comedy,
• The Philanthropist ’’ (written by Mr. George
Forbes.)
Saturday next, Sept, a—Grand Double Rill.
Firsttirae in Syduey of the latest London Success,
the grand Comedy, “ IMPRUDENCE ; "
and the Screaming Faroe. ** Obllgiog a Friend."
Box plan at Nicholson’s, 385 George-street,
Tickets at Coder’s Hotel (oppositeTheatre).
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
flth MONTH, and 22nd WEEK.
Unparalleled Sucoess.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTREL*
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIKARDS.
Continued Success of the Great American Come-
dian, Mr. FRANK HUSSEY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling’s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
W
ALLSEN D ATHLETIC CLUB.
THE GREATEST PROGRAMME EVER
ISSUED IN AUSTRALIA.
£2OO MONEY PRIZES. TWO SPLENDID CUPS,
and TROPHIES,
to be competed for on the
Bth aud lfth NOVEMBER, 1881,
ON THE GROUND, WALLSEND.
See programmes ; and apply for all particulars
to
JOHN SUMMERS.
Secretary,
Newcastle cricket and
CLUBS’ annual
football
ATHLETIC SPORTS.
To be held on the
Newcastle Cricket Ground.
ON
Saturday, Sept. 27, 1884.
PROGR A M M E.
Open Events:
1. Bicycle Rack, 8 miles: open to residents of the
Northern Districts only.
2. Bicycle Race. 1 mile; open to all-oomers.
;t. Bicycle Race’3 miles: open to all comers.
i. All CmeKETEHs’ and Footbalt.eus’ Race, 209
yards; open to members of -all Cricket and
Football Clubs.
ft. Pole Vaulting (Handioap); open to all cricket-
ers -<nd footballers.
ti. Steeplechase 440 yards; open to all cricketers
and footballers.
V. All-comers’ Handicap, ot £10; 125 yards.
BICYCLE PARADE AT 3 O'CLOCK - .
Entrance to All-oomers’ Race, ss. Competitors
for this event must, at time of enteriug, send in
list of performances for past two years.
Entrances to all other events, Is.
Competitors must appear in cricket, football, or
University costume.
Entries will be received up to Saturday, 20th
September, by Mr. R. Bryant. Newcastle ; Mr. R.
Sbute, 40 Phillip-strect, Sydney, or the under-
signed.
GEO. BEWICK, Jus.,
Hon. Sec,
Newcastle.
gT. MATTHIAS’ HALL, PADDINGTON.
ON THURSDAY', SEPTEMBER 11,
An ORATION on the
DRAMA OF THE BIBLE,
will be delivered by
G. E. A. KENNEY,
Grandson of the late Very Rev. Dean of St.
Olive’s, Southwark, London.
His Worship the Mayor of Paddington has
kindly consented to take the chair.
Doors open at 7.15 ; chair to be taken at 7.45.
Front Seats, 2s, ; Back Seats, Is.
WHIMS ELECTRIC CIRCUS
AND
GREAT LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM,
■rr:-v4 \
r 5
- //*>
&
i n
■ Q
.\<o
i ' ;
mb—*
ill*
C __
<r£4* *,
NOW DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES!
Location: BELMORiTpARK, SYDNEY.
Open Nightly, at 7 o’clock; and Matinee every
Salurday, at 2 o’clock.
Admitted everywhere to be the best Circus ever brought to the colonies.
A PALACE OF AMUSEMENT!
ROBERT LOVE, Agent.
g D N D A Y AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCENT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20, 2.40, 3. 3.20,
3.40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
foite from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
JQ A N 0 1 N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
lhursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, <fcc. No decorations required.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming: Baths
(the *ioly pure sea water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
(i a.tn. till dark.
Admission. 3d ; Children, accompanied by adults.
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; .An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 2ls.
SWI MMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
CAVII.I,, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
liotn France to England in 12 hours, 20th August
1817. Six Lessons, 21s The North Shore Ferry
Stexmers leave the circular Quay for the Baths
cvi ry quarter-ot-an-hour.
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP of 1884
Run first week in November!
Capital . . £35,000, in 35,000 Shares of £1 each.
PromotersJas. McLeod. Esq., Melbourne'
Hy. Ford, Esq., Sydney : P. Ingram, Esq., Perth :
W. J. Erskine, Esq., Adelaide ; J. F. Me bain, Esq .
brisbane ; all geuuine names, and men of good
Standing. Promoters guarantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed £ICOO
Hr 10410 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
Plan of distribution.
100 Prizes of £50.. £so<
200 „ 25.. 50
300 .. 12.. 86
200 5.. 1(1
100 ~ 4.. 4
Total .. .. £25,0
The Public are respectfully requested to jointl
Promoters in the above enterprise, the bona 1i
of which is unquestionable. Money promptly r
turned should any subscriber wish to witbdra
before the drawing. Drawing held 30th Octob
next. Conducted publicly in presence of Sbar
holders: representatives of Press admitted Resii
posted, and advertised in Town and Count
Journal. Send P. 0.0., Notes, Cheques, and 3
pxtra forreply and result (registered if convenien
Write for Prospectus giving fuller particulars. E
close self-addressed envelope. Addr. 68 all Letti
a'id make ail Orders payable to the Secretan
u-ider ROBERT RAMSAY, Commission Agei
405 George-street, Bydney.
F. A . WEIGHT.
gsfjwik.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARK A BOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGB.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Bydney.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30.
THE QUEENBCLIFF ESTATE,
MANLY.
JUST BEYOND THE CURL CURL LAGOON,
having large i'rontages to the Lagoou Reach.
QUEKNSpLI FF-ROAD
PAVILION-ROAD
CROWN.RO AD.
107 CHOICE BUILDING SITES,
with frontages from 50 feet to 133 feet, by depths
of 150 feet to 407 feet.
MAGNIFICENT OCEAN VIEWS.
Within easy walking distance of the Manly Pier
and the charming Fresh-water Beach, recently
dedicated to public use.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from the proprietor to sell by public auction
on the ground, on SATURDAY, September 20.
at 3 30,
The above
MAGNIFICENT ALLOTMENTS,
beyond all question the finest portion of the
charming marine suburb of Manly, well situate
on the slope of a beautiful hill, covered with
ferns and native flowers, aDd commanding
such views as are to be seen nowhere else in
this locality.
The terms of sale will be—
-10 per cent, deposit;
Balance in 18 monthly payments.
Title, Torrens’ Act.
The question is now frequently asked, 1 Where
is Queensciiff ? ”
Queensciiff comprises the whole of the line un-
dulating range across the Curl Curl Lagoon, ex-
tending from the ocean to the old Pittwater-road,
which overlooks the whole of the town of Manly
and the lower portion of Sydney Harbour.
It is difficult to Imagine any spot so well suited
for the Marine Suburb of a large city as Manly,
possessing a splendid Beaon on the shores of the
Harbour, approachable from the city by smooth
water all the way, while within less than a quarter
of a mile from the steamers’ wharf is the grand
ocean beach nearly a mile in length, fronting
whioli, abcut 15j feet, back, are numerous tine
bouses extending the greater part of the distance.
The most charming spots in Manly for Villa
Sites are the hills to the North, and South Clifton
Heights to the South are being rapidly built over,
and it will be a difficult matter in the course of a
few years to secure a decent sized piece of ground.
Queensciiff hounds Manly to the North, and ex-
tends to the beautifully shelly beach of Fresh-
water, which has been dedicated tor public re-
creation.
It is within easy walking distance across the new
foot bridge of the Manly wharf, and commands
LAND and OCEAN VIEWS unequalled near
Sydney, and the villa sites are beyona ail question
the finest in the neighbourhood. They vary in
depth from 150 to 4bo feet, and those fronting* the
Lagoon have water frontages suitable for bathing-
houses.
English estates have special values in conse-
quence of there being good shooting about, and
there should be good shooting in this locality;
there is certainly good Ashing out at sea and "in
Curl Cu>l Lagoon. Rabbits ana hares may be
abundant, but the auctioneers cannot vouch for
the fact; and as for foxes, there is a whole family
at Manly, hut it would be dangerous to attempt
to shoot any one of them.
This superb Estate will be sold on the ground, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, September 20,
at 3.30.
Littaos at the Rooms.
Plans on view.
Conveyances will ply from the steamers wharf
to the ground.
Easy terms.
Torrens’ Title.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers,
130 Pitt-street.
THIRD EDITION NOW READY.
Mitch Improved.
Maid, wife, and mother,
A Medical Book for Womankind. “ Worth
its weight in gold.” Post free, in secure cover, Is.
(3d. N.B.W. stamps. To be bad only of the Pub-
lisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO LOOK YOUNG and HANDSOME,
and to Live One Hundred Years; applicable
to both Sexes. A rcaiiy wonderful book. Pest
Free, Is ; Intercolonial, Is. 2d. To be bad only of
the Publisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


How about that special train for Parkes ?
If it were a delicate attention of the Government,
provided at the personal cost of the Premier, or of
the individual members of the Cabinet, well and
good but if it were one charged to the State ac-
count, then the public should kick up a row about
FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Ritters.
. . . . These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, inviting to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic.
WILLIAM JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist.
Kidney and Urinary complaints of all
kinds uermanently cured with Hop Bitters. Rea i.
Family Wines aud Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co , 143 Pitt-street.*
Wells’ “ ~.ough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
With Sir Henry Parkes here, and the great
race for the Metropolitan Stakes at last decided,
the most engrossing object of attention in town is
the show ot unique diuner and tea sets at Bray
Brothers* China Warehouse, 402 aud 404 Georjre-
Btreet. *
A want long felt in Sydney has at length
been supplied by the opening of Messrs. Taylor
and Harrison’s premises at 348 George-street,
nearly opposite Wynyard-street. Situated as these
premises are in the centre of the business part of
the city, their convenience for all classes must be
at once recognised. Their stock is an extensive
and varied one, including a fresh importation of
fancy goods of French manufacture, which is well
worth inspection by those who like to have their
homes adorned with works of real artistic merit. *
thirty shillings.
I
M
THIUTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Sclenoe and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
lrom this new composition aro equal in design and
gem ral appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuiue goods.
Kernembcr that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is any thing but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling golu as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen thecon-
viotion that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad a become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. Hut as wo are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you bo dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—wo
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any ono
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, wo will send to
any customer (post free, if at a distance) on reoeipt
of Five Shillings (5s ), a realty exquisite Oriental
Hold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling’ metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
ot the latest design. “To see is to is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in the long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at cost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 155., 205., aud 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. (id.,
Bs., Bs. 6d., Os., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies* very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaine.-, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 20s , 225.
6d., 255., 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. (id., Bs. lid., 10s., los , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s 6d. to Bs. 6d. each ; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasselis
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
These watches are made specially to ou
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; th
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelle.
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert „
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance.
with Oriental Gold Albert
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, eompensatkm balanee
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years' accural
performance la forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph.
with Oriental Gold Albert ..
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
aud Locket .. £lO 10
We import our watches direct from the man
facturers, and give our customers the advanta-
of all the saving thus effected-about 35 per ceil
as compared with prices when wholesale middl
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we ct
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for ;
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as com pan
with country prices, our £5 watches would n
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gen t’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6<
and 108 each; Gents’ Client
Gold Alaska Diamond and Kuhy Rings, 7s fi
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rinn
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buokly e
graved, good luck rings, &c., &0., from ss.
8a (>d. each; Gent s richly chased engraved ai
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d. 8
Hs. fad., 08, iOs., and 12s, 6J. per set; Same
above, only half sots, 35., 4s„ and 5s per sc
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitai
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s elegant Seals, re
stones, 7s. (id., Bs., os.. 10s., and 12s 6d. eae
Gent s elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gents' Oriental Gold i
berts. handsome patterns, fas 6d. and 10s eac
Gent's very latest American Rolled Gold 1
berts, mane specially to our order, 17s. (fa.. 2*l
265., and 30s. each.
£3 2
£2 6
£2 15
£3 0
£4 5
£5 5
£4 10
£a 5
£3 3
£5 5
£6 6
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“ The Merry Duchess"... P- 8.
Gaiety Theatre—“The Philanthropist”.... lb.
oper* House—“ School for Scandal ib.
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
Last Saturday tve went to the Gaiety to
see George Forbes’ new comedy, “ The Philanthro-
pist.” And now you will want to know what the
niece was like. You expect us to “slate” it, of
course, lor we are always putting George away;
but we’re going to surprise you this time, and
after your hair grows out again you may come
around and thank us. We like “ The Philanthro-
pist.” Tt is not the brightest play ever written,
and it needs some “fakeing” to make it a long-
running piece; but it is a lot better than many
comedies th Jt we have seen put on the stage. We
are rather glad to say this about George Forbes,
for we have so frequently found him “a duffer at
play,” and honesty has compelled us to siy so.
Gur heart is always under our left waistcoat-
pocket, and we would rather do good than evil.
You can’t guess, however, wnat fun it is to have a
subject like George Forbes. You know he is pretty
W ed braced up so far as his family and social rela-
tions are concerned, and that he plays, not for a
living, but because be likes it. It does our soul good
to get hold of a professional like George, because
you know he can stand it. We arc not in the habit
of smoothing anybody over, but we can tell you
that it George Forbes was placing for bread and
butter we might treat him with Jess nonsense or
leave him alone altogether. And that would kill
him.
* m m
The reason we like “The Philanthropist”
is because it is an “ even ” play, as the daily papers
have told you. Geortro can’t act a little t it, out
we must confess that he has a good command of
language and an appreciation of dramatic situa-
tions that he must have acquired from his step-
mother’s slipper. There is one striking thing about
•• The Philanthropist,” which is that it has a plot
in it. We have been to several original things at
the Gaiety, but, so help us, Moses, this is the first
one we have seen with any plot. And, come to
think of it, there isn’t plot enough about this one
to hurt anybody’s head. Wybert Reeve (what a
pretty name Wybert is, now that it occurs to us)
plays in the title role. The Philanthropist is a sort
of Don Quixote, who goes about straightening up
all family difficulties the same way the Spanish
knight demolished.the windmill. He brings lovers
together (just at the wrong time), and makes the
young fellow feel just as though he had to ask the
old man for his daughter. Perhaps you don’t know
how that feels. Well, we do; and if you believe
what we say, you’ll never want to feel it but once
in a lifetime.
* * *
Wo rather liked Wybert Reeve as the
Philanthropist. There was just a suggestion of
Count Fosco about him at the first, but this wore
away, and presently he came out with both ears
up and his hair parted in the middle. And this
reminds us of the time we were iu Patagonia, and
the natives were so dangerous, in those days we
had to sleep with one eye open, and thus we
learned to part our hair in the middle like J.
Walter Scott does his name. Often have we
wondered where Wybert got his conception of
characters. Sometimes we have thought that he
got it from contemplating Coleman's nose, for it
is so coufoundedly crooked that you can’t look at
it without getting your system mixed; but the
way he plays in this new pieca makes us tbiuk
that he must have slept with his mourh open and
the wind blew some sense (artistic sense, we mean)
into him. Wybert wid be cross when he sees
these lines, but after a while it Will begin to dawn
on him that we’re not writing just to please him.
* • a
This is a funny world, anyway, and you
can’t have everything just as you want it. And
this brings to our recollection the chum we once
had over in the Rocky Mountains. He was one of
those men you have read about. He would peei
his coat anywhere for his friend, and he never
knew when he was licked. One day he was all
alone up on tne Taylor river, when a cinnamon
bear came at him. The only weapon he had about
him was a pocket-knife, with a catch spring, that
he had used for months to open tins of salmoD,
green corn, etc. He pulled out the knife and
yelled, but the bear came ou just as hard, and we
happen to know that he would have given seven
million dollars to be out of that neighbourhood.
First he swore a little, and then he began to pi ay,
but the Lord didn’t seem to listen at all. Finally,
as the ferocious brute drew nearer, he sang out: -
“ Oh, Lord 1 If it’s agin yer principles to h<-lp me,
don’t help that bar. Jest staud by, an’ y’ll see the
gol-darndest ligh; ye ever hear tell on.” We didn’t
see the encounter, but when our mate came home
with bear's claws dangling at his belt we knew
that he'd been where our hair would have turn d
white in one night.
* * *
Harry Leston is in the cast, but he might
as well be clear of it, for the part he has smothers
him entirely, and he h .sn’t a chance to act a little
bit. Edwin Palmer plays Mr. Charles Poynter, and
you’ll guess at once what kind of an old snoozer he
is when we quote the classic language of the pro-
gramme: “Mr Charles Poynter, Mrs Pouters
husband.” That’s about all the distinction to
whioh a lot of men ever come, and after ail, it
doesn't seem such a suTdll idea. There are a lot of
men who couldn’t be honest busoands if they
wanted to, and a lot more who are such confounded
fools that they think they’re too sharp to get mar-
ried. We ouce hoard Bob lagergsoli say that the
man who bad the love of one pure, good woman,
was, or oui-ht to bo, the proudvst and happiest
man on earth. He seemed to regard it as a sort of
compliment to a man to have a woman love him;
and yet he is only a freethinker and next door to
an atheist.
* * *
Maggie Knight came back to us in “The
Philanthropist,’’ and she sang a song. We don’t
remember the name ot' the lay, but it was ever so
prettily rendered. We didn’t koow before that
Maggie could sing, but we know it now, and when
we want to male a our pet canary shut its head
we’ll threaten it with ner. George Forbes (Mr.
George Forbes we ought to say, perhaps, since he’s
risen to the dignity of a play wright i has oast him-
self as an aesthetic poet, who is always talking
Jove like a jackass to people who haven’t a par-
ticle of sentiment about them. Thore are a lot of
other people >n the piece that one would like to
tell you about, but Grattan Riggs has just dropped
n and upsei. our ideas of things. By the way,
Grattan left with his company for Brisbane last
Monday, and we’il bet a thousand dollars that he'll
do well in Queensland. Jimmy Macmahon is still
engineering the outfit, and what he doesn’t knowi
about the show business isn’t hardly worth learning
But we’ve stayed long enough at the Gaiety. Take
our word for it, and go to see George Forbes’
play. It’s always right to encourage home talent,
but a«ide from that, “Tne Philanthropist ” has iu-
tritiiic merit that you’ll recognise rignt away.
•» * *
Of course you are wondering why we
didn’t tell you something about Marie De Grey to
start with. The reason we didn’t open out that
way was that we preferred to tell jou about
George Forbes’ new play, it was on our mind,
anu we coulu’nt get it off while the memory of a
few baptismal cock-tails lingered on our breath.
Now, however, we are going to tell you about
Miss De Grey,, and if you don’t go to see her you'll
make a bivger mistake than the woman who burnt
a hole in her apron. We are sorry that Miss De
Grey came to us in the “ School for Scandal “—not
because it’s a bad play, but because the little
woman hadn’t the success she deserved in Adelaide
and Melbourne. The “School lor scandal” is a
good enough play—in fact, is one of the best of
the standard Euglish comedies; but Lady Teazle is
hardly the character in which a star ought to ap-
pear for the fir-t time. No difference how well
she may play the character, it isn’t prominent
enough for an introduction piece. Miss De Grey
is a very fair actress, scarcely the least bit stagey,
»nd most of the time so natural that you would
think she was born that wpy.
You know all about the plot of “ The
School for Scandal,” and, of course, don’t want
us to tell you anything about it. We might tell
you, though, that it’s not a bad outfit that’s playing
at me Opera House. They are called the London
Comedy Company, we believe, and are run by
Allison. Amongst the lot there are some fair
art'sts, and, when we name them, you won’t know
them from Adam because they are strangers in the
colonies. Some of them are not so strange, but
there are a few to whom you will need to be intro-
duced. There is A. T. Hilton. J. P. West. Matthew
Brodie, Mort Belton, Mark Kingborce, Mrs. Chip-
pendale, Grace Otway, and a few others that you
don’t know much about, but will learn to admire,
perhaps, as the months roll by. You have heard
of Mrs. Chippendale many a time, no doubt, for
she has a London reputation that many an actress
envies. And you ought to see her play Mrs. Can-
dour. Not it is a difficult role at all, but still
it takes mighty good acting to put it out the way
that Mrs. Chippendale does. But we are not going
to stay any longer at the Opera House, for the
“devil” is yelling “copy,” and-anyway, we want
to look in on “The Merry Duchess ” at the Royal
lor a minute or two.
** * *
You haven’t been to seo “The Merry
Duchess?” Well, that’s wrong of you. The first
thing you know the Governor or we will be out
some nivht, and you’ll miss an opportunity to get
into distinguished oompany. Oh, yes! and this
reminds us that the Governor was out at the
Gaiety last Saturday night. The dear old buzzard
kept the audience waiting as usual, and the cur-
tain was late going up. But when he did come iD and
enter the leit box the people rose like one man.
The height of enthusiasm wasn't reached, how-
ever, until his royal nibs stuck his beak out from
behind the curtain ai d let the audience look at it.
We were glad to witness this demonstration, for
Lord Lot'tus has so often distinguished himself on
the field of battle and in the realms of litera-
ture. Everybody knows, from public annals,
ail about bis army record, apd how he did
valiant service for his country in many a hot
campaign. Everybody knows, too, how he has
distinguished himself In the world of letters. As
a philosopher, only a few men can approach him.
Therefore, it is mete and right that the populace
should rise and stand unbonnetted when the dis-
tinguished orator, statesman, and soldier enters,
[ff you were as good at paying your debts as you
are at using sarcasm, you wouldn’t have thq
bailiffs after you all the time.—Ed. B.]
♦ f *
“ The Merry Duchess ” is a very entertain-
ing opera. We have listened to more brilliant
music in our time, and have seon operas that had
more “catchy” airs scattered through them. In
fact, the only “catchy” thing about “The Merry
Duchess ” is the tiger song, which is sung by half-
a-dozen small boys in boots and breeches.
Musicians growl at the piece because their
liver won’t be satisfied wittt anything short of
high-class symphonies. Actors like the piece be-
cause it affords first-rate opportunities for act ng;
and we like it because it amuses us, and we don’t
know one note from another. The only thing we
ever learned to play was a solo on a fog-horn, and
the people who heard us seemed to think that wo
“discorded” that. You can’t imagine what fun
we have with ourselves when we sit down to
criticise an opera, we know so little about music
that our mind wanders back to the days when we
used to stuff fire-crackers up a sleeping pig’s nose,
and then touch then-i off just to see the fun. But
away with dull care. Now we are going to the
Minstrels.
•* * *
In the first place, we’re going to tell you
that Colonel Hiscocks has been ill for more than a
week. We are not exactly sure what made him
sick, but we are satisfied that it was one of two
things. It might be that Hussey’s old jokes
paralysed him, but the stronger probability is that
our neglect to l oiioe his show last week is what
ails him. We told you some time ago that when
we kept our head shut about any place of amuse-
ment its patrouage fell off. Maybe you didn’t be-
lieve us, out you just ought to see how the middle
of the house has fallen out of the Mlnsirels. r Jlie
entertainment is just as funny as ever. and. if you
take our tip lorHt, you’ll go to see the Minstrels.
They’re not goiDg right away, to be sure, but
they’re not going to stay for ever, and you ought
to be makiDff hay.
** * *
We would like to tell you what we think
of Woodyear’s circus, but the truth is we haven't
had time to get there. We’ve heard people speak
well of it, however, and you’d better chance it.
We’re going out some evening this week, and
nextwoek we’ll tell you all about it. Until then,
adieu.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.)
Professor Carl, a “ deaf and dumb exhibi-
tor,” gave an entertainment founded on Dickens’s
“ Old Curiosity Shop,” in Hamilton recently. The
Professor was eloquent in the person of an active
assistant; but gave ail bissuporiorgagstothe audi-
ence with a magic-lantern and a sheet—And New
Zealand is lively, let us tell you, with grand concerts
at Kaitanga (“under the auspices of the brass
band”), and a grand success lor Mrs. Thomson,
who fascinated the audience with “ Barney O’Hea."
A feeling of gloom, however, was noticed to come
over the audience when the chairman announced
that the proceeds of the concert would just suffice
to buy “two new instruments” for tne brazen
performers —And let us riDg out that Georgie
Smithson has migrated to Dunedin ; and that
“ Professor Anderson, who has been lust sight ot
since he finished his Northern trip, opeued for a
short season at Sloan’s Theatre, Invercargill, on
August 12.” A statement we should like the
Canterbury Times to explain! And the Papanui
Amateurs have been doing Gilbert’s “The Wed-
ding March ” (“ Lo Chapeau de Paille d’ltalie,” in
which both the Marshalls, poor fellows! were so
good). Further than this, on the last night of the
Dunning crowd at Auckland, Miss Ivanova fainted
twice, and her indisposition, was feelingly an-
nounced to the audience by Mr. George Dean, the
stage-manager. A local paper—which means well
—says, “The audience departed evidently more
concerned at the illness of the courageous prima
douna than at the abrupt abbreviation" of
the performance which it entailed.” And
talking of Dunning’s crowd rem nds us that
Agnes Consuelo (whom they once tried, with dis-
mal results, to put up in “Boccaccio. ’ the title role,
is only placing little leg parrs in “UhilptSric,” at
the London Empire; and furthermore they say
that amongst Mr. Dunning’s company is a terrible
masher, who, a paper stys, "goes by the soubri-
quet of ‘ Handsome George,’ and who enquires
for letters thus addressed to himseit at the post-
office.” This kind of thing mates one tired of
being a man, and wish to tie a penguin Curi-
ously enough, the New Zealand papers seem to
laud this conduct on the part of air. George Dean.
It seems Mr. Dunning’s religious opera company
gave a sacred concert one Sunday, and there was a
collection. Two gentlemen in the dress-circle,
probably thinking the entertainment was not
worth any more, gave a penny each to the “ chief
robber ’ when he came round. But read:—“The
collector, however, bad caught sight of the contri-
buted coins, and extracting them irom the box, he
held them in full view of the ‘house,’ which
promptly concentrated its attention upon the gen-
erous gallauts. To complete their diseotnfiture,
Mr. Leau then gracefully tendered the Cuius to the
abashed donors, and as they seemed reluctant to
confess the ownership, the plebeian tokens were
contemptuously tossed towards the wall. Subse-
quently, Mr. Dean announced tdat the receipts
would not recoup the expense involved by tne
concert.” The vexed questions, in Australia, as
to giviug what you choose at a collection enter-
tainment, and hissing when you are dissatisfied,
should be quickly decided. Let a man, for In-
stance, even hiss Maggie Moore’s singing (not
Maggie Moore) in the second act of “ The
Mascotte.” and see how he would be “ biffed
out.”—Oh! and—you'd hardly believe It. would
you?—but the Lynches are coming l back with their
infernal bells. They are at present in Batavia, and
the youngest Lynch is so unwell that the doctor
(who reminds us of Dr. Wosky, in “The Boarding
House”) recommends an immediate return to
Australia ...And, in alluding to bred. Marshall, a
rather clumsy Melbourne correspondent to a New
Zealand paner siys:—“ Within a comparativc'y
short time he has tost his money, his reason, his
wife, and his brother. As Sam Weller would say,
‘a regular staggerer.’” Sam Weller never mid
anytning of the kind. That is the gag that George
Darrell’s impossible lawyer used to *‘ have ” the
world with in the “Sunny South.” The advent
of Bland Holt is drawing nigh, with the
“Stranglers of Paris,” and a play called “The
Donagh ” (with a panorama in it), by Geo.
Fawcett Rowe, who could never act anything
but Mieawber, and can’t act that now Rey-
nolds, who is en route from London, with
Kate Bishop; also “ In the Ranks,” “Called Back,”
and “Falka” and “Nell Gwynne,” comic operas.
Kate Bishop’s brother, Alfred, is a member of Mr.
and Mrs. German Reed’s company, who play,
either in theatternoon or evening, in London ail
the year round, at the St. George’s Hall. Kate
Bishop is a tall, fine-looking woman- or was. But
now she’s coming to Australia, perhaps-but who
knows? ..They can't wipe out Verdi. He Is now
playing Count Arnheim, in “ The Bohemian Girl,”
itpMelhourne, with Melville, at the Bijou, and is,
apparently, a great draw And Mother—we
mean Dr. Potts-is back in Sydney again, fiushrd
with success, and signalling suffering humanity
with a phial in one hand and a scalpel in the other.
—No less important, either, is it that the Gym-
pie amateurs have been playing “ Blow for Blow,”
apparently to that great critic Arthur Leslie
Bouc cault’s satisfaction. So they ought to be
happy —And M'Lean, with bis kids, in Charters
Towers, announces, with characteristic modettr,
"Ten Thousand Laughs in Two-aud-a-half Hours.”
Not coutent with mis, bis troupe—we knew be
couldn’t resist it-is billed to play “ the great tem-
perance drama, in five acts, ‘A Woman of the
People; or, The Curse of Drink.’” We suppose
Little Emmeline Fox will “take” (as Alfred
says) the ill-fated Murry And, don’t you forget
it, “Silver Readings” at Wickham, with Senti-
mental accompanied by the local brass
band—And we must certainly give Ada Camp-
bell a line for rousing up the pulpit-punchers
of Adelaide by her lectures. Ada has demanded
an apology from the S. A. Registkh, but we
don t expect she’ll get it. Ada ought to have come
to us. We keep layers of it in a cool place, ready
to supply any demand. Bundaberg is in ecstacies
over Tommy Hudson’s new acquisition. Miss May
Melville, who used to sing at the Protestant Hall
(for the Highland Society, when Clara Hamilton
wouldn’t) under her own name—Dora Browne.
She has a very fine soprano voio l , but has every-
thing to learn with regard to stage business. Hud-
son was succeeded at Bundaberg by amateurs, in
the burnt-cork line. Herr Becker, who went up
there from down South, was the musical con-
ductor. The Herr is doing splendidly in the
Mount Perry district. Lucky Becker!....And if
anybody dare hint that Mr. luglis didn’t lecture,
on “The Scotland of our Granofathers,” in the
king’dom of Whereat, they lie basely and ma-
liciously. We should like to have been in Tenter-
held, to have heard that discourse. Mr. Inglis s
remarks on the subject of our Scottish grand-
tatbeis and the milestones, were, we understand,
of an eloquent and interesting nature. Nothing
daunted, Mr. Inglis lectured against St. Leon's
circus; though whether he shut up the tent or
not, we are unable to authoritatively set forth. We
expect so. Nobody seemed to want to let that
circus have a show at Tenterfield, it seems, be-
cause Duncan Maecallum was playing his opera
company against it, too. In that oompany we see
that dow Miss Lily Boleyn plajs Aurora in
“Uirotte.” We are glad to see this little Lily
Boleyn going along so nicely. The amateurs were
to the fore on the departure of the tune-
ful push, and wUen Miss Penny touched
the Bord gently it. was generally considered in
Tenterfield that there was the true ring about her.
We are surprised to find Tenterfield so gay. They
are splendid people up there—for staying at home.
.... Brisbane is to have he r Potts fust, and her Riggs
to follow, Ist September; and, referring to the
Holloways, the Era says of the last night of their
appearance, “The success of the farcical comedy
of ‘His Last Legs’ indicated very clearly bow
popular a short season of good comedy would
have been here, in&ttad of the interminable season
of heavy melodrama”—a revelation just too l«te;
and the same rather captious party is anuoyed be-
cause Bill calls cr&mc de la crSme “ krenim dler
krem," and Fontainebleau “ Fontenbloo.” He is
particulnr, this party. The sort of man who
would require a Circassian slave to take the beards
off his oysters. Miss Essie Jenyns seems, though,
to have rather enslaved the Era man. See how
be darts into poetry:—
“ BONNIE BEATRICE.
“ Shakespeare ‘ Abcut Nothing ’ made ‘ Much Ado,’
And made it bright and merry;
But here • about nothing ’ would be untrue,
For it’s * much ado ’ about Essie.”
Do you think, now, that “Essie’’with “merry,”
sir, chimes?
To the deuce, oh, we cry, with suoh tanglefoot
rhymes;
In future, don't write stuff at which we’ve all
shiver’d.
Till the spring-cart is greased and the bread all de-
livered.
....We see that Woodyear’s Circus (“Madame
Woodyear’s,” it is billed—hem!) did a great stroke
in Brisbane, and will here, if the weather holds up.
Alice Bnrvett is in Brisbane, too, and by this
time has probably been lashed either by the en-
comiastic doggerel of the miscreant above, or the
lyrical paddymelon that Bobby Byrne keeps in
his coal-cellar to lay on & discretion The Ade-
laide papers say that Miss Jeff reys-LewiS is doing
very bad business, indeed, the seems to be quite
outdone by Solange Navaro, who is in the same
piece—“ La Belle Russe.” Miss Jeffreys, it seems,
plays emotional heroines with an American ac-
cent, and in Adelaide people can't swallow it.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“Gold help us! it is a world to see,” and
when the age is in the wit is out, for a dead cer-
tainty. Speaking on the small-pox scare, the
Sydney Morning Muddle, with its usual per-
spicacity, says: “On the subject of Chinese clean-
liness, it may be added that ony of the best-known
doctors in Sydney declares that the Chinese houses
in Lower George-street are cleanliness themselv es,
and that, in fact, the sanitary state of the mer-
chants’ quarter appeared to be higher than in some
fashionable parts of the city.” And, in support of
his truth-squelching statement, Granny declares
Cb?7i-e~£
Not So Big as He Was!
(BUT STILL VISIBLE TO THE NAKED EYE.)
it must bo true, because, the much-known medico
“ has not only professionally visited several
Chinese houses in George-street North, but he is
a property owner in the said locality, and his ex-
perience of Chinese tenants has been uniformly
good.” Greed, greed, greed! And wo verily be-
lieve that even Hades itself would get a line re-
oommending it as a pleasant summer retreat, if
some of the Old Girl’s cronies had a pecuniary in-
terest in that sultry district.
• • *
While the entire population of New South
Wales—except the portion that lost—was hurrah-
ing itself black in the face over the victory of
Beach, the inhabitants of Churchville, in Queens-
land, were cheering frantically over another hero
—one Billy, a black tracker. The mails were lost
between Langlo and the Minnie Downs, and Yel-
low Tommy, who till then wore the belt as the
best tracker in the world, was engaged along with
Billy to find them. They were bitter rivals, were
Billy and Yellow Tommy, and great interest, even
to the wagering of quarts, was laken in the result.
Billy won, and now wears the belt. Y'ellow Tommy
is now a confirmed pessimist.
• • «
There was a shower of worms in dunes
(Vic.), lately. In some places the ground was
covered an inch in depth. The oldest inhabitant
came on one of these patches, and, after looking
fixedly at the wriggling heap for a few minutes,
remarked, as he slowly walked away, “These
worms is in a h lof a hurry 1 I’ll go home and
give the old woman one more lickin’ for luck, and
then I’ll te ready when the Loard calls me.”
* * *
A Shoalhaven Scot gives us “Ither Days,”
and winds up in this way :
“» n’ oh! that aince mair
I might wander free
An’ breathe caller air
In my ain countrie.
With whieh sentiment we rapturously agree. This
country is getting overrun with poets, and rabbits,
and recidivistes. We want peace for awhile.
The only literally guileless Chinaman now
living dwells in Wilcaunia. He was sent some
time ago about ten miles out of the town, to serve
a summons on another Chinaman whose very pig-
tail was instinct with guile. The innocent wor-
shipper of wooden gods went out on foot, and re-
turned on foot —with the summons in his pocket.
When he was asked why he had not delivered if'
he replied, with a bland smile, that the man re-
fused to take it, and said he didn't owe the money!
Would that all summons-servers were so guileless!
* * *
Oscar Wilde has much to answer for. The
word msthetic, which he has made so popular, will
lie heavy on his soul one of these days. It has
come to this that a man who cleans his teeth and
changes his linen more than once a week is now
called an msthete, and scorned by all his fellows in
the towns of the western interior. A person who
defies popular opinion to the extent of paring his
nails is called a dude, and has to pay for his own
liquor.
* * *
“ BUMBLES.”
“Tea and toast sent up to him every
morning when he couldn’t touch anything.” Mr.
Wackford Squeers in “Nicholas Nickleby.”
“Mrs. Smyrlc (on the recommendation of Mr. C.
Delohery) was assisted weekly with bread and
meat, or (sic) flour, tea, sugar, rice, or (sic) sago, for
self and family.”—J. J. Josephson in the Lyre.
’Tis seen, ’tis with a nerveless hand, oh, Ike,
That once again thou wield’st the Poor house
spear!
Thou hast, we well know, all the tvill to strike,
But yet thine arm is paralysed with fear!
The Spirit of Disgust, wrapped in a pall,
Frowns on thee, Ike, from o’er the Work-house
wall.
Oh, what philanthropists you represent!
What men of charity! what men of soul I
In sooth, you are well styled “ benevolent,”
Who to the dying fling a work-house dole.
Oh I for a sinking woman, what a treat—
A Poor-house loif—a Poor-house lump of meat!
Great Ike! Oh, Great Society! Great Board
Oh, Votaries of Bumble, ’twas well done,
To give from out your overflowing hoard
That dolt, when she was sinking with the sun-
A Work-house ration for a woman lying
All helpless on a squalid couch and dying!
Out, Bumble! Let us hear this tale no more,
Nor feeble letters in the journals cram;
Or we shall come to vow thy Pauper Store
Is but a grisly monument of sham.
Relieve the sick and poor, or you may rue
The time has come to cry, “ You've got to do it!”


•‘The Duke of Wellington has died sud"
denly.”—Cablegram.
•Blood will tell I” the feeble Duke,
Whose death, the other day, was scarcely heeded*
Gave, by his life, a stern rebuke
To words so vain—if e’en rebuke were needed.
The story of that worthless scion
Of such a house provokes reflections bitter:
Too oft, alas! the bravest lion
Has sired a weakly and unworthy litter.
A gentleman died in Narandera some time
ago, and left some freehold property and cattle to
friends of his in the town. The other day one of
the local clergymen was seen going around collect-
ing subscriptions to put. a wooden fence around
the grave of the generous dead. When the facts
A Hint for Dawvid.
of the case became known, each of the legatees
wanted to erect a headstone and gilt railings
around the grave on his own account Gratitude
f considered an unmanly weakness in Narandera—
except when it is advertised. And Narandera is
not unique in this respect,
• • •
‘Happy Baker,’ a Salvationist at Ade-
laide, sentenced;to four months’ imprisonment for
embezzlement.”
To be so “ happy,” Baker,
Of course, you paid the toll;
You’ll now be “ Happy Baker”
In quite another rile.
So throw the sponge up, Baker,
You wouldn’t fairness heed
You’ll lots of drill have, Baker,
But that drill won’t be - knee'd.
The Mudgee Muddle “Tho Chinese
(sic) making extensive preparations to meet an
attack by the French. Large bodies of men are
building fortifications and earthquakes” (sic).
How live these these dullards—we can’t tell—
Who can nor punctuate nor spell ?
Whence come these moving hiccups—whence,
Who can nor write, nor truth, nor sense ?
Is there, ye gods, no other field
That will these Goths a pittance yield ?
Enough of bread and rum, wo ween;
Enough of wage to keep them clean ?
Though it might take a million, full,
To bring about that miracle.
How can these “ wrappers ” last so long,
With news and telegrams all wrong ?
With, for an honest man, a sneer,
And “butter” for the auctioneer ?
With ads.—a kind of poor-house salve—
That groan out, “ Put me in and starve ?”
With Sydney news that isn’t true,
And sporting items all askew—
How live these rags ? We ask again,
How live these rags ? We ask in vain!
If we know how they’re weekly ramm’d
Down rustics’ throttles, we‘ll be 1
* * *
The godly of Auckland (N.Z.) have suc-
ceeded in crushing an attempt to hold sacred con-
certs on Sunday evenings. No charges were
allowed to be made for seats. We think this
would be fair enough on onp condition—that
neither pew nor seats in churches were charged
for. Why should a feeble creature in gown and
bands, or a drowsy old gentleman in a chronic
condition of too much dinner be allowed to charge
money for makiDg men irreligious and women
narrow-minded and children wretched, while
those who offer to truly lead the thoughts of peo-
ple to higher things up the spiritual stair of music
are threatened with the terrors of the law ? Are
fools and hypocrites always going to have their
own way? We hardly think so. If we did, we
would just as soon be damned at once as live any
longer.
• • •
Here Is a statistical item that has been go-
ing the rounds of the oountry papers:—“ln the
city of Glasgow, with its half-million of popula-
tion, 41 families out of every 100 live in a single
room, and a large number of these families have
a father, mother, six or seven children, and several
lodgers.” Forty-one families living in a single
room is just a trifle too much of condensation. Or,
if only one family is meant, and it consists of a
father, mother, six or seven children, and several
lodgers, we think even then that things might be
looked upon as rather promiscuous by persons in-
dited to be severe in their notions of propriety.
But perhaps the “lodgers” arc interesting only
from an etomological point of view. The tourist
travelling in Scotland is astonished with the abund-
ance of the land in objeots of this kind. He never
fails to carry some home with him, because there
are plenty and to spare. "God bless the Duk of
ArgpTel”
Not content with seeing the papers
deluged with the Beach-Hanlan business, some
intolerable miscreant (we don’t say Scott) has
perpetrated, on some handbills, a poem on the
event, which old Watson (father of the N.S.W.
press) prints in extenso in his Shoalhaven paper.
Read, prithee, some slabs of this delicious compo-
sition :
“ * Hanlan,’ the World's great wonder,
Which no one can deny:
He (sic) thought that all Australians,
He really could defy.
As Hanlan has expressed himself
So very much pleased with us;
For (sic) we received him very well,
With any amount of fuss;
But (sic) still he is not a bad sort. [ I!!]
Hickey, Triokett, and Laycock,
And Rush, have rowed in days gone by;
But (B ic) as we have beat Hanlan
Wait till the time rolls by.”
Down with it, even if every string but one is being
used for a clothes-line:—
“ W ait till the time rolls by,’ we would
The precious moments lose,
Were we but sure that Old Time could
Twine round thy neck the noose.
Thou can’st not see, thou blantant owl
Thou sorry rhyming loon.
That straight proclaims thy hideous howl,
Ihou’st night-school left too soon.
We know, O, songster, sorry, sad —
O, piteous putty-head—
While penning this poor rot, by Gad,
You spoilt a batch of bread!


COPPER-COLORED.
I have been afflicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering almost completely the upper
part of my body, causiDg my skin to assume a
copper-colored hue. It could be rubbed off like
dandruff, and at. times causing intolerable itching
and the most intense suffering. I have used blood
purifiers, pills, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which, although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching, and restoring my skin to its natural color.
I am willing to make affidavit to the truth of this
statement.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, la.*
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “ Wells’ Health
Reoewer.” Druggist*. Moses. Moss & On., Sydney
A jrPntjß.
Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Proprietors Marshall
Brothers, M.U.8., 104 and 106 Market-ttreat, and
5 Pitt-street, Circular-quay, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. IW Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Rte«k.»
Mr. DeCodrcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,’’
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adv ser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, Castle-
reagh-street. Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne's
skill, a matter ox record in the Departments and
1 supreme Court.*
A curiosity in journalism is the proprietor
of tho Germ anton Advertiser, a now organ of In-
telligence lately started In that flourishing hamlet.
In his first issue, he printed a complimentary
poem to himself to the following tune:—
“ Fair Germanton, like love-siok maid,
Secluded sad and lonely;
And loving heart did droop and fade,
Although so fair and comely.
“ She dow comes smiling to the fore—
A pleasant sight to look on;
She's found a Hart! and sighs no more,
For Fate has kindly sent one.”
It seems his name is Hart, and so the quaint con-
ceit of Germanton being a love-sick maid until
she found a Hart is justified. The verses are
signed with his initials, so that wo take It he wrote
them himself. This was a beautitul beginning.
But it did not last long. In his second issue he
became sordid, and asked subscribers to pay up*
Alas! we fear—but why should we not also write
in verse 1 We fear —
If his sul soribers will not “part
Excuse our little Joke—
Though Germanton has found a Hart,
That Hart will soon be “broke.”
* * *
Some philanthropic members of tho Vic-
torian Sunday-school Union have arranged to
hold a conference on the burning—tobaoco-burning
—subject of “Juvenile smoking” Don’t all laugh
at once, because these good men mean well. They,
too, smoked when f hey were Juveniles, and hence
their solicitude for the rising generation. The
moral organisation of the unco guid Is such that
they only remember the unpleasantnesses of life.
They distinctly recollect being sick after the
initiatory cigars, and forget the wild bliss that
filled their bosoms while enjoying the first harmless
“ draws.” Now, our sympathy is with the boys in
most of their little diversions. We would grieve
deeply if one of our male olive-branches were
exempt from this particular weakness, and would
look sorrowfully forward to his dying upon the
gallows or becoming a C M.G. For, if the boy is
father to the man, then the non-smoking urchin
must be regarded with severe suspicion.
A PLEA FORTHE YOUNG.
To see the dear boy with a weed in his mouth
Should recall to each paterfamilias
Certain episodes sweet in his own giddy youth,
1 iWhon he, too, got smoking—and bilious.
So, instead of regarding such sights with disgust,
As some do, we really ought rather
To say (it were only but kindly an*l just)— I
“The rascal is just like his father.”
* * *
“Observer” writes to the Moatnr a Some-
thing commencing “ Dear sir, The subject of
these remarks is one which must strike every re-
spectable funeral-goer.” He says be can’t have a
quiet, comfortable little funeral in his family, and
be allowed to lean back In the coal-tarred “ fly ’’
and dream of the glories of life insurance, without
the procession being “cut off” continually at
street corners by the youth of the district, who
Invariably ealute each appearance of the hearse
with a wild halloo of delight. At times, the con-
duct of this, the youthful section of the populace,
becomes even more unbearable— persons in the
crowd saluting the mourning-coach with derisive
cheers and such expressions as, “Oh, come! put
away that tent-fly ’—“ Here, fetch him out of that
circus-waggon in mournin’ “ ill, mister, he ain’t
dead. Can’t you ’ear him a-coughin’ of the lid
together with offers of a mop wherewith to
swab up his (“Observer's”) tears, and other simi-
lar proceedings, all of which were calculated to
cover the cortege with ignominy. Not content
with t'ris, "Observer” remarks with grief that
constituting themselves mock mourners, the local
youth will attend the cemetery as well, and if the
weather look a little threatening, will cry—"ln
with him ! ’—“Whoop 1 down-a-daisy“ Drop
’im in afore he gets his whiskers wet"—with more
to the same evil purpose; to the great discomfi-
ture of the Curate, who is now as hard to find for
a funeral as Upjohn is for a strangling match.
“Observer," in conclusion, seems to hint that if
this kind of thing goes on much longer, he will, in
future, instead of treating the Moruyans to a
dignified spectacle, have all his funerals iu his own
hack yard, with no more ceremony connected
with the obsequies than the ordinary pine six-
footer, and just the meat-axe, that had invoked
the funeral, laid upon the coffin-lid, iseatly orna-
mented wiih a piece of old hat-band.
The Bowral Free Press on aquatics:—
“The scholar's highest awards and the athletic’s
renown have been the portion of Australians.”
“The athletic” Is, we darkly conjecture, Bow-
ralese for “the athlete.” The language is
strangely like English. Of Hanlan, this authority
on sport and scholarship remarks: " Ho has been
the bright particular star in the equatio orbit only
to be eclipsed by an Australian light.” “ Equatio ”
is a near enough approach to “ aquatio ’’ for us to
guess at the meaning, but when it is associated
with “orbit” we are plunged in confusion. What
Is an “equatio orbit?” What, for the matter of
that, would an aquatic orbit be ? But we daresay
the idiom of Bowralese admits of these expres-
sions. Tbo article is wound up with this elegant
and for Hanlan— oomforting reflection: “Every
dog must have his day, and the defeated champion
a 9 (sic; had his.” This comes from the employ-
ment of Kanakas as editors.
* * *
Patriotism as a fine art has only reached
its f U U V> r'eotion in New Zealand. The members
<)t' Parliament there vote themselves anything
they want, and whenever they want it. But’
t ough thus liberal to themselves, they are very
strict about the expenditure of the public money
wheu it goes to benefit the public. The other day
they took away the tree railway passes from news-
papers on the grounds that the privilege had been
abused. But, what do you think they did them-
selves? Why, several of them set up-on the
strength of ibeir Iree passes—as commercial
travellers! You may not like to believe this, but
it is truer than the truth that is in wine. We
shall next hear of Opposition orators contracting
with patent medicine fir i s to use only ourative
gvrup similes, and liver-mixture metaphors, and to
perorate a wavs upon pills. The wonder to they
have not done so belore. It would put money in
ti.oir o'ookets and their speeches would be just as
lute eating to the public as they are now.
BRIEF MENTION.
It is now known to his intimate friends
that Joseph considers Shakespeare to be an over-
rated man.
There is something in a name after ail.
The patronymic of the Goulburn hotel informers
was Doggett.
Gale, of the Queanbetan Age, says he has
over 1000 books in his library. But, then, it is only
natural for a Gale to blow.
“Ikey,” said Rebecca, “did you take a bath
this mo ning?” “No, ma tear, o’ courshe not.
Why, Holy Mnsbesh, have you misshed vun ?”
Wh<*n the greatest gambler we know mar-
ries for money, and at the end of his wedding ady.
we read “ no curds,” we smile and think about the
iron' of fate.
‘ I don’t like to be pointed,” says a writer
on the Gundagai Herald. It is just as well he
doesn't like, for he Is one qt the most obtuse crea-
tures now extant.
Says the Bowral Free Press; “In the
opinion of many colonists, Bowral Is the foremost
of Austra lan towns.” Certainly. Beginning at the
bottom of the list.
The Y.M.C.A. have refused the offer of a
well-known “sport” to deliver a companion lecture
to Dr Barry’s recent deliverance at Newtown, on
“ Books, and how to make them.”
The only conscientious, cabman in the
colonies is dead. He committed suicide in Mel-
bourne the other day. If he had not been con-
scientious, he would have been still alive.
“ The Queensland footballers have got 17
behindp, mother,” said n enthusiastic youngster,
darting into her boudoir one evening lant week.
“Hush, my dear,” said his rnotaer, blushing.
A Postmaster in a town in Southern
Queensland asked for a change on account of ill-
health. The Postmaster-General sent him to
Cooktown! But why not to th@ cemetery at once ?
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN, AGE 23, WITHOUT FRIENDS, RECENTLY FROM ENGLAND,
WISHES TO BE ADOPTED BY AN OLD LADY OR GENTLEMAN. THIS IS GENUINE.
ADDRESS L. L., HERALD OFFICE, SYDNEY.”
We think we know this youth. If we mistake not, he it was who played the part
of the Bearded Woman in Artemus Ward’s show, some years since; and got the great
showman into trouble by getting drunk, and disclosing his sex by standing on bis head
Bad showing his top boots. However, we are glad to hear that his “ad.” has borne
i ruit. He has been adopted ”by a real nice old girl of some 90 summers; and no was
be sits upon her knee in the gloaming, and hears her recall day after day passages
from the lives of nine previous (whose accumulated legacies, she tells him,
shall be his [the orphan’s] if he survives her), he realises the fact that it is only in
new countries, where competition in every line of life is reduced to a minimum, that
the orphan business even finds a market.
A whole family at St. Leonards were re-
el mtly taken ill through eating sardines; while,
si rrange to say, on the same date, about seventeen
o ±' Alfred’s bards were seriously indisposed for the
' rant of them.
A Chinaman named Chin Gong was fined
£5 in the Palmerston Court for an assault. The
solicitor who defended him objected to the inter-
preter who had recently been sworn in. His name
; vwas Hang Gong.
Be careful to avoid unripe fruit and un-
diluted water. Everyone shquid live a little longer,
I ito see what M‘Elhone looks like when he comes
; 'back and gets through with his libel action against
| the Evening News.
Somebody suggests a meeting of the mili-
tary foroes of New south Wales aud Victoria at
i Albury. By no means a bad idea. It would afford
f a capital opportunity for settling the respective
f! merits of Protection and Free Trade,
j When Joseph read, “We commend the at-
tention of our readers to the magnificent serials in
I'.Qornrill,” he went and nought it. Now he goes
j redout sayi.tg it’s a put-up job. There’s not a word
I t* boat barley iu the whom jammed thing.
At a tea-fight held in a village near Camden
the “sub-editor and manager” ot the Protestant
t-TANDAHi) arose and said his object in visiting the
place was “to try aud induce them to subscribe to
: his paper.” The meeting broke up iu gloom.
“I hear that you are about to marry a
wealthy Australian girl, ’ said one English swell
to another. “ Ya’as, replied his lordship. “You
must allow me to congratulate you. Are there
any encumbrances on her property?” “Ya'as,
i the girl.”
1 It has come to this at last. An editor in a
certain Southern town sends a boy around to de-
-1 liver with laisown hands to each subscriber the last
issue of the <juaiT.tr. And why is he thus careful,
do you th nk ? Well, because there is a summons
Inside it
The first novel ever written by a coloured
man Is now in the press. The writer is Mr. George
* . Willi; n» of Boston. So here we have at lust a
rival to William Blaok. (Note.-Thls iaajoke.-
lVrtter.) [Then If this is a joke we want gloom In
future.—Ed. B.]
Mrs. E. M. E. Browne has made, it is said,
several converts among the Bank-clerks of Mait-
land. Boldly walking over to Cohen 8 now is a
thing of thepast; but it is remarked that there is
an active demand arising for youths above the age
of 14 to run messages.
The steel shot used by our artillerists cost
sixteen shillings each Even if every shot killed a
man, it would be much cheaper when toes invade
us to welcome them on shore and feast thetn ontne
tanglefoot of the country. Such as survived could
easily be dealt with by the police.
Henniker Heaton is grieved—in the Even-
ooze—that there is no Australian Record om-e tor
the keeping of papers concerning famous colonist*.
One of these days, when Henniker crawls a niche
higher in the Temple of Fame, he will regret hav-
iu# said this. For somebody may acr. upon it.
“ Seditious journalism in India is being
support-d by Russian money” read out a country
editor from his “reprint” to h'S wife, the other
day. “Pitv you couldn’t bo a seditious Indian
journalist, dear,” she remarked, and smacked the
youngest but six gently over the head with a
1 11 side-stick.
The Martinis of Lome remarked, the other
day, that “ in old times it was said that boys were
taught to speak the truth and to ride. Ini our old
days. only those boys who didn t speak the truth
were taught to ride—on a wooden quadruped.
They were “ horsed.”
It is estimated that 8,000,000 persons tra-
velled by the trams in Sydney during the year
1883. Out of these, eight only were killed—one to
every million. And this after all the gory articles
Alfred used to print about the “ Tram Fiend and
“Juurffcrnaut A#ain*’l Why, the articles killed
more than the trams did I
The local paper of a Southern town says:
—“Preparations are being made for another Band
of Hope entertainment at the Wesleyan Churoh.
This is rather a stilted way of saying that galvan-
ized-iron shields are being constructed for the
protection or the singers. Yet that is wnat is
meant. But some people will pose.
An enthusiastic speaker at an Orange meet-
ing held at Quirindi remarked that he was “glad
to say that Pope* y was dying out in Portugal. The
oldest nun there is 108.'' If this be the rate at
wnich it is dying out. we reckon that Popery is
about the best speculation for an Insurance Office
that is to found on this side of Everlasting Glory.
Mr. Colonna Close is going for Gunnedah.
We believe bis motto is a saying of Lotbair’s:—
‘ Thou must see Colonna.’’ Ho is, we might say,
the pestle to this “ morter.” No one, thougu,
seems to know who his cuairman will be-who
will be the “Ancient” to this Pestle, there you
are, Shakespeare, Disraeli—Hang it; we're spoiling
j oul
“I’ll give you the tip when to kneel
down,” said Chrib’a best man to the groom on the
wav to the wedding. “ Ha' e I got to kneel
down ?" cried Chris. “ What a bore. If I’d known
that before, hanged if I’d have put on my pants.”
Then he commenced wrestling with the oenzined
nines, until the barouche smelt like a prosperous
gas-works.
A Tumut gentleman who was said, in the
elegant vernacular of the place, to have been
slightly “off his onion ” lately, is now reported as
fully recovered. The reason of this report is that
he his since got married. They consider this a
proof of sanity in Tumut. No wonder Tommy
O ’Mara laughs in his shoe at them, and goes on his
way regardless.
It was in a clergyman's family, and the
eldest brother, cat. 13,“ was studying the steam-
engine in the interval of catechism. The question
under discussion waß, “ Why was the baby so
naughty?” ‘Papa,’’ said the heir, “as we ail in-
herit the sitv of Aeam, and the baby is such a little
fellow, isn’t there a greater pressure to the square
inch on him than on the rest of us?"
In, England, a man sent to gaol for the
hor.ible aud Mongolian crime of stealing fowls,
has .tust had his sentence commuted to ten years.
‘ From the style in which they mb it loco fowl-
speculators at tbo Antipodes, one would really
Imagine that Lord Augustus had had the making
of the laws and Sir Alfred the dispensing of them.
No wonder John Chinaman keeps out of England!
You remember the paragraph we wrote
about the man who suddenly disappeared from a
Hay hotel a few weeks ago, and how we stared It
as our opinion that the “tail dark man” who
called for him was the veritable Devil ? Well, the
body of the missing man was discovered on a snag
in the river two or three days back. He went to
Hell by water! Woe to the wicked, for the days
are approaching when they wiil gnash their gums
and call on John Lucas to fall on them 1
“It was a very pretty marriage, and al-
though the dear little girl had been on the stage
and had danced in burlesque, yet she had played'
her part in life so well that lots of people believed
she had always been as meek and proper as Saint
Ursula. Jiggins the J., who was the bridegroom,
looked preud and hapDy at the property lather
when the curate read, “ Who giveih this girl •
away ?” But then there came a voice from the
side aisle, “I could give her away, but I ain’t
a-going to.”
The editor of the Cooktown Independent
appears to have borrowed a ladder and climbed up
off his little onion. This is his odour now: “The
Bydney Bttleetin has another ‘lying fling’ at the
editor of this journal, even more distorted, al-
though about chivalrous in spirit, a 3 the reports
in the Courier and its corner echo. ‘ There are
reptiles whose poison is innocuous.’ (Bufl’on.)"
Why he omits an “o” in the last syllable is not
olear. Surely' a man ought to be able to spell his
own name?
More gall has been added to the already
sufficiently bitter cup which is held to the lips of
losers in a libel action. Says an exchange:—“ To
show their sympathy with the proprietor of the
Express in the laic libel action, in which he
suffered defeat, theCooma people intend assisting
him by giving a concert for Pis beaefit. - ’ ibis is
dancing upon a man when he’s down, with a ven-
geance! Who. alter this, would wish to bean
editor and tell the truth ?
“What are you?” said a metropolitan
Magistrate to a witness last week. “I’m assistant
to a photographer, ’ was the reply. “ What part
of the business do you attend to?” enquired his
Worship. “The outside business is my departs
ment,” said the witness: “and now that your
Worship has introduced the subject, I have some
samples here which will, doubtless, meet with
your approval. Take you and your baby any hour
of the day, hany weather; three for arf-a-crown,
height for flve shillia’s. The ” “Standdown,
sir.”
Whatever may be said against the Parkes
Ministry, it must be allowed that in some things
they had more sense than this one. This Mr. Brod-
ribD clearly proved in the House the other night,
when he said that having once invited Dr. Ken-
wick—then Minister lor Mines-togo to Bourke,
that gentleman could only get permission from his
colleagues to accept the invitation provided he did
not make any speeches on the occasion. If the pre-
sent Ministry bad been so prudent, we might still
have a lingering belief In its ability. But bucolic
banquets were too much for it.
The Modgee Independent calls the Echo
writers “ Refugees of tbe Attic." It also remarks,
“ One cannot expect much manhood or manners
for'a penny.” With legard to the latter statement,
it is only just what we expected from tbe editor of
the M.I. Of oourse, he can t exp et much man-
hood or manners for a penny in Sydney, when he
can t give any at all in Mudgee for tbreeptnee.
When the Oiraffe used to boss the Lawn-Mower,
in Mudgee, he has called us many worse things
than “ refugees of the attio.” That was wht nhe
was writing serials, and we put some of our attio
salt on bis tale.
Tbe Tasmanian Government has taken to
patronising poetry. It has just concluded to give
an annuity to a literary lady who has written some
little tales for children, and some poetical compo-
sitions which we have heard ot but never seen.
An annuity of £lOO, and paid regularly every
quarter! The Muses can afford to be respectable
fa Tasmania, at this rate. Hero they are usually
to be found either in the rum vaults or the lock-
up. Yet we see a way la whioh Sladen might,
perhaps, get a pension from the Government of
this colony for his poetry. How? Well, by pledg-
ing himself, on pain of death, i ot to write any
more!
“I believe,” said Mr. Blaokmann, by way
of clinching his argument that German should be
taught in high schools, “that Sir Wigram Allen
has a German governess for his children." And,
verily, it is a clincher that no person of “ correct ”
views can resist. Scores of paters and maters-
familias, who would never otherwise see the good
ot having their children taughr. the tongue of
Goethe and Schiller. Humboldt and Lessing, Scho-
penhauer and Hegel, Heyseand Heine, will clearly
see the value of having their darlings trained as
ne«rly aa possible on tbe same lines as those on
which Is run the education of the kids of a
knighted plutocrat.
Even widows have luck. A Hay teamster
died lately, leaving a wife and family and his team.
There was £230 owing on the latter. It was valued
at £4OO. The widow accordingly decided to dis-
pose of it by lottery, and sold £332 worth ol’
tickets. The remaining 68 she kept nt-rself, and
with the very first,ticket she drew the team! Now
she can keep it, and! pay her debts if she likes—
though we should think a person so signally
favoured by Fortune would hardly make such
foolish use of her luck as that. What we should
like to know next is, who will draw the widow.
On hearing the name of the winner in that lottery,
we will be happy to forward him an epitaph free
of charge.


Hordern brothers,
211 PITT-STREET.
NOVELTIE3 IN EVERY DEPART-
MENT.
We have made preparations for a Great
Trade THIS WEEK.
NEW GOODS FOR THE BPRTNG
In Every department
In Every Department
TO-DAY, TO-DAY, TO-DAY.
Come in TO-DAY and see our Splendid
Assortment of NEW SPRING GOODS.
Everything Fresh, Fashionable, and
Good.
Dresses,
Manchester
Hoisery,
Haberdashery
Laces
Parachutes
Silks
Carpets
Gloves
Ribbons
Wools
Mantles
Trimmed and Untrimmed Millinery
Underclothingr for Ladies and Children
Men’s and Boys’ Clothing
Oilcloth and Carpet.
BEDSTEAD and BEDDING.
ENORMOUS SHIPMENTS OF GOODS
for the
SEASON NO >v OPENING UP.
COME IN AND SEE THEM TO-DAY.
Remittances must accompany orders
from the country to facilitate despatch
of jroods.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
174,176, 309,311 Pitt-street.
’S BOOH
p £|f
aN^EQUALLED
C^SYDNEY
m
EITHER FOR
PRICE or QUALITY
CEORCES
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
• at this oflttqe.
SOLE IMPORTERS OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SJO
Zj 1
-
SOLE AGENTS POE THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
T
STAR AND GARTER HOTED,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
IRIS Hotel Is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tram wav &c
Min- lior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Snirita*
,1 most Coin lorta tile an: * ommodieus Private Bar in the city. Albert 8. M a riders and Co’s telegrams
The
supnlied
■■ city.
'porting telegram from all parts of the colony posted up.
&
0
m
%
&
AINVMI
Vtf AM
WT
" v i
3
Magnificent Water-Frontage ufi Ocean View Lets.
Remarkably Liberal Terms. Torrens’ Title.
Nbw south wales.—monster CONSUL-
TATION on Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£3soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £5 r 0; third horse,
£250: starters, £250; non-starters £5OO-£2500.
First prize gift. £600; second prize gift, £500; third
prize gilt, £150; JO at £5O. £500; 10 at £2>, £250;
20 at £2O, £400; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
- by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
hard, 1.0 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
Victoria Furniture Polish.
Wholesale by
R Precious and Co., King-street.
W. a. Friend and Co., York-street.
Holdsworth, M Pherson, and Co., George-street.
8. Taylor, Queen s place.
Msson Brothers, Spring-street.
Holdsworth and Co , George-street.
Lazarus, Ros nfeld. and Benjamin, York-street.
MATRIMONIAL- Parents the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which rnav prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766. G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’
ANGLO-. AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG'S BUILDINGS
Utt PrTT Strut, Sydney. ’
Capital,, £503,000, in f>o,ooo Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capl al £lo‘> 570
Reserve Fund £5OOO. *
Tr Directors:
Henry Gorman, Ibu , ,i.p., nhairman
p H O, n - {*' KKD - A- Wright, tf.P., Vice Oinihman.
C. C. Skarratr, Esq. tJ. H. Newman
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P.! Benjamin l a mes! Q Jr.
I Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call Five per cent.
” ■> months .. .. Five and a half per cent.
» ® » oix per cent.
•* » Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being i'sueJ.
Full particulars 011 application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
*J? ,f * year, y dividends, at the rate of 12U per
ZSSi be ’ n •»“ 8, "“
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly Instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years. ’ u
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
AIX at Ous Offife * Ternium required.
Woman Items.
“Lore,” at tennis, means nothing. It often
means very little elsewhere.
Heat, this, very:—“ Mnstapha ben Ismail
has Just arrived In Paris from Tunis, aeonmpanied
by his wife and his two sons. The suite consists of
Beventeen governesses and seven servants.”
“Very strange. The supplement to the
Cambridge Chrontot.e, after giving the names
of the “Junior Ops,” had one significant line
under the heading “ Women.—Wranglers. None.”
An Old Bachelor (of Arts) exoialms, “Ts that pos-
sible?”
“We are getting a race of husbands,” re-
marked an English Judge, the other day, “ that
ought to be obliterated.” He had one before him
at the moment, who bad come home, taken his mar-
riage certificate and some family pictures from tho
wall, and made a bonfire of them in the middle of
the room.
“ Nail-portraite says the Graphic, ‘‘are
the latest fancy among Gallic lovers A miniature
likeness of the beloved one is photographed on
the thumb-nail, so that the devoted swain may
always h >ve herimagebefore him.” Exactly. On
his thumb he has her shadow. Under her thumb
she has him.
A lady writes thus to an editor“l have
two gentlemen friends who are very devoted to
me, and I like them equally well. Lately they
have both declared their love for me. What am I
to do, as I love them both ? ” The editor answers:
“Goon loving till you love one better than the
other, then have him.”
Here is a terrible consequence of the insti-
tution of the divorce law in France. A young
man gets a divorce and marries a second time; bun
the mother|of his first wife haslheen divoroed, too
and has married the father of his seoond wife
Thus the young man has ohanged his wife, but non
his mother-in-law. Where, then, is the profit on
the transaction ?
A Liverpool barber the other day “oleared’
with a young lady of good family, but the pair
who had taken passage as brother and sister, were
caught on a steamer bound for Amerioa, and, as
the girl was under age, she had to go back with
her parents. The barber left in the steamer, en-
couraged, however, by the parting assurance of
his lady love, who had so suddenly been taken
from him, of “ I’ll follow thee, lad! ”
Some ladies who, with their husbands, re-
cently visited an Austrian monastery, were en-
chanted by the spacious cloisters, rich dining-hall,
splendid iibiary, and lovely gardens: the generous
collation and rare wines raised their admiration
to the utmost. As they left, an enthusiastic
youngiady said to one of the monks: “ You are in
Heaven here.” He was equal to the occasion.
“We should be,” ne replied, “but we Jack the
angels.”
At a clanee recently, a fat old gentleman
with a bad cold and a charming wife, insisted,
somewhat inconveniently, that she should at once
return to the bosom of her family. “ Never mind,”
said sh c to her partner, “I’ll find a way to stay.”
So she slipped out while the sets were forming,
went, into the gentlemen’s cloak-room, got her
husband’s hat and threw it out of the window.
Then returning, and requesting her spouse fl st
to find his hat and call the carriage, she accepted
partners for the next six dances.
Mrs. Laugtry’s dresses are of such import-
ance that the name of her Parisian dressmaker,
Madame Doncet, is now always printed on the
hills. Personally, we have hold the opinion that
the cleverest dressmaker is the one whose creations
produce the greatest effect on men. If this be so,
Madame Doncet is worthy of being put on the
bills. The very latest style of ladies’ dress is a
peculia bodice, which looks exactly like corsets
worn outside. The Lily’s modiste has seized this
idea with success. In one act, as Lady Ormond,
she strolls out before breakfast in a pink jacket
with a white lace top, and a pair of these new pink
satin corsets; and, judging from the number of
opera glasses levelled at her. the men do not seem
to find it disagreeable gazing at Mrs. L. in corsets.
It is said a beautiful woman is never so beautiful
as when she has neither more nor less than these
interesting articles on. At any rate, the new style
of makittg them a sort of outside gear is a little
fairer to the spectator than the old-fashioned mys-
tery. Another dress worn by Mrs. Langtry in “A
Wife’s Secret ” is thus spicily described by a lady:
—“ The Lily’s blue satin bodice, in the third act, is
certainly the most explicit fit it has been my for-
tune to obs rv© in female apparel. Being made
with special reference to the scene to be enacted,
it stamps Madame Doncet as an artiste. The Cap-
tain, though amorous, is rather given to langror
ia his gallantries than to hot-headedness. But
whena’man finds himself in company with this
bodice in a dimly-lit drawing-room at midnight,
witli no danger of a husband’s intrusion, one must
admit that the peril is not confined to the wife,
unless the lov. r is altogether above human weak-
ness ” Well, a modiste who can make dresses to
fit with such a nice adjustment to circumstances
as that, is certainly an artiste.
“Surely that is not Langtry,” said a man
who saw her for the first time in “A Wife’s Peiil,”
at ’Frisco; “ why, the photographs make her many
shades darker, and she’s got a wad on the top of
her head,” and so on. They are all surprised the
first time they see her. Hhe is not a bit like her
pictures. The fact is, no camera can photograph
the exquisite fairness of the woman—a fairness
that will bear minutest scrutiny in the searching
light of day. A fairness of pink and white, be-
gotten of porf'-ct health. That is where the Lily
has the advantage; she has a glorious constitution,
such as God gives hardly to one woman in five
thousand, in the dazzling white glow of her skin,
the unclouded blue of her eyes, »he delicate eye-
brows and ears, the glory of her shiniDg hair; in
her elastic step and queenly carriage of figure;
God's heritage of health and wholesomeness of
being are so shown in the woman as to make her
famous through the world. Numbersof peoplede-
preciate her—but they are those who have never
known or spowen to her: none ever do so who
have once been brought within the range of her
wondrous personality. Even now, in her artificial
life, she still has the taste that was born with her
in her island home at Jersey for active exercises,
and whenever she has a chance indulges in long
walks that would be impossible to other fashion-
able women. When Mrs. Langtry fell a complete
somer-'ault over a stage sofa, last year, before a
theatre full of people, the way she bounded up
stamped her as a gymmstic genius of the most
cha-ming sort; and people crowded the theatre
for weeks after to see her do it again. But she
dldn t. She probably thinks that the people who
oorae into the fi-ont seats with their opera-glasses
are favoured enough by seeing, above her beauti
ful evening dress, a neck and shoulders that have
become famous beyond all other busts. The “ wad
ou the top of her head ” is easily explained. After
Mrs. Langtry had invented a style of head-dressing
suitable to her own beauty , it spread over the land
quicker than a plague. Every woman in the four
quarters of the globe seized on her p itent. and dis-
figured the Langtry bang. So she had to find some-
thing new. She low wears a wad on the top ol her
head. It is inartistic, aod unbecoming even to ha ;
but it would make any ordinary woman almost
repulsive, and will not thereto: e be much copied.
There are lots of people who consider it stamps
them as possessing critical Judgment to Bee no
beauty In the Lily: it argues that they have a very
high ideal, and more taste than their fellows. They
know twenty women who surpass Mrs. Langtry in
beauty; but they never point one out.
For a few moments we were puzzled
whether to make this a sporting mem., or a woman
item. It s about a strong young woman; but she
has been knocking out men in a way so very un-
usual with the gentle sex, that we really couldn’t
determine whether to turn her over to the
“ Referee ” muo, or hand her tenderly to the fellow
who carves out our modest little •• Woman ’ para-
graphs. Spinning a coin on this momentuous ques
tiou, it came down woman; so now he s going to
dress it up just so delicately that our bluest-eyed
little reader won’t get warm cheeks as she spells it
out. Well, the wonder is Miss Lulu Hurst; and
she possesses a peculiar force that no one has yet
been able to account for. She is so strong, that
although three months ago hardly anyone knew
she existed la the wilds ot Georgia, United
States, now she has paid off the mortgage on
her father’s farm, and put three or four hundred
pounds to her own account in the bank, and the
men can’t get Into the theatre quickly enough to
see her throw great muscular fellows about. There
is something supremely bucolic and ingenuous
about Miss Hurst. She has red oheeks, a stalwart
figure, a good-natured smile, and a deep chuckle.
Sho laughs constantly. She tosses strong men
around the stage, and giggles when they flounder
among the soenery. She spins d.,des around like
tops, and laughs as she watches them wheel over
the edge among the orohestra. New Fork is di-
vided into two classes of men—those who believe
that Miss Huretis simply an abnormally strong and
muscular woman, and those who have lalth In her
magnetic or eleotrio powers. Scientists sneer at
her, attend her performance, are flung about the
stage, and retire. She doesn't wrestle or box-or
we would have banded this par. over to the •• Re-
feree” man at orce— out her favourite method is
to make her victim hold a rolling-pin or a walking
stick quite Arm, and try to stand din ground. When
he fancies he's ready, the Georgia girl walks up to
him, looks in his eyes, and cheerfully gitrgles as
she Just puts her hand against the stick. Then the
man commences antics he never dreamed of per-
forming; he whirls round, and runs to and fro, and
contorts with the slightest motion of her linger,
and the only thing stops him Is the walls of the
building. An ordinary man Is hardly any fun to
her at all; so the New Yorkers fetched out their
strongest man, Mr. James Laflln. Some s ears ago,
Mr. James Laflin went to ihe Vienna Exposition,
and there, suitably dressed, or rather undressed,
he stood on a pedestal and exhibited his musoles
to the assembled world's fair. The result was that
the authorities gave Mr. Laflin a medal in which
his muscular development was highly commended
in choice and formal French, and the (Inscription
on this medal is translated by the owner -who,
however, only speaks early Irish himself—thus:
“ Professor J. M. Laflin, the Handsomest Formed
Man in the World.” He is certainly a person of
extreme strength, and so when Mr. Laflin walked
jauntily on to the stage, the house nearly lost
itself In enthusiasm. He wore a tranquil, though
slightly contemptuous smile, as he seized a
billiard-cue in both hands and faced Miss Hurst.
She looked small and overmatched. Laflin turned
around and winked at the boys. Miss Hurst
touched the cue with the palm of her hand, a"d
"The Handsomest Formed Man In the World”
started as though struck by a thunderbolt and be-
gan to struggle baokward over the stage. He
ceased to wink, and the smile bad melted away.
Then “ The Handsomest Formed M»n In the World”
gave an Inhuman howl, and flopped over backward
on the stage with an Intensity which shook the
scenery and reverberated thrbugh the house. Then
his friends picked Mr. Laflin up, and he made for
the nearest door, while Miss Hurst cackled more
delightedly than ever. There have been strong
men innumerable on the stage to cope with the
Georgiaglrl, but all come off agaiD, and leave her
chuckling and perfectly calm. Occasionally, some
man ot great muscle and strong will resists for a
short time, but in the end they all suocumb.
Though she tires out several men every night, she
shows no fatigue. Numbers of men haveatteuded
every performance, and studied her, but the secret
of her wonderful power is yet a mystery. In faot,
they leave her presence quite exhurstoa.
• • •
A San Francisco society leader engaged
the front row of the dress circle for Langtry's first
appearance and filled it with local boautles In
dioouetS dress. The local verdict of course was
they were all more beautiful ihnD the Lily...
Several Sisters of Mercy have died of cholera at
Toulon.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thatt be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
A.J.C. Spring September 4, 6.
Singleton Races Septe nber 10
Mudgee Tattfcrsall's R.C September 11.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Northern j.C September 17.
Liverpool J.u September 20.
Geranium R.C September 23. 24.
Wild River J. C September 24, 25.
Sydney Turf Club September 20.
Tamworth R.C Sept. 30, Oct. 2.
Oamdeu and Campbelltown J.C October 3.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,10.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,0,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murruinbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual), November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
ftosehill R.C December 27.
Tatteraall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, Maroh 5, 7
AQUATIC.
llrett v. Sharland September 5.
S.R.C. Regatta. September 13.
N.B.R.C. Regatta September 27.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
N.S W. Rowing Association Regatta—October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race Qntebsr.lB.
Matterson v. Kemp October 1&
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Hanlan v. Clifford January
Hanlan v. Beach May
ATHLETICS
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
Suburban B,C. Race Meeting September 13.
SPORTING AND A THLETIC MEMS.
Double Bay Regatta fixed for November 1.
Where is Elias Lay cock during all this
match-making ?
Mr. Renshaw has for the fourth time worn
the English lawn-tennis championship.
Mr. Rabbifc-Inspeotor Strachau won the
first prize at the Hay Gun Club matches, killing
his five birds without a miss.
The N.Y. National Police Gazette saysq
“Fario, a dark outsider, won the ti> doey Cup.”
We must go from home to hear the news.
The latest in re John L. Sullivan is that
the champion pugilist and boozer iB a candidate
for the position of Mayor of Boston And, why
not ? Have we not got —[Enough.—Ed* B.]
To-morrow, Friday, Messrs. Brett and
Shariand row over the ohampion oomse for a
trophy. Given Brett is fit and well—and at latest
he was all that—we expect to see him land the dol
we mean the valuable trophy.
Mr. Keene, the Yankee horse-owner, has
gained his point with regard to the impoi cation
into America of tho Goodwood Cup won by Fux-
hall in 1882. The Customs authorities have now
allowed the Cup to enter duty free.
The Nooze man states that. Matterson was
steered in tho Edwards race by Fern, who trained
dim. We could have sworu we saw Tommy Kelly,
armed with a cardinal handkerchief, doing the
needful from the br>w of the Admiral.
The Melbourne Sportsman gives as portion
of Beach's measurements, “round the xorearm
10 in., round the biceps 18 in.” The writer doesn t
tell the circumference of the pewter out of whioh
he quailed previous to inditing the paragraph.
“Owing to the costumes of the boating
men it is almost impossible for ladies to use the
river.” The cry will soon be that owing to the
costumes of the ladies it is almost impossible for a
Christian young mau to go to an evening party.
It is stated that the Tasmanians intend to
make a bid fortbe rowing of the next Intercolonial
eight oar race on the Derwent, l'ais is almost as
“ cheeky ” as the Times’ suggestion that our oars-
meu should go home to pulton poor old played-out
Thames.
Thus the Nooze:— “T. C. O’Brien, thepro-
misiug young cricketer, who gave the Australian
Eleven some trouble at the beginning of the pre-
sent Eng;iBh season, is the nephew ot Sir Patrick
O’Brien.” This is news, indeed ! But wno, in the
name of thunder, is Sir Patrick O’Brien?
At Chicago (U.S.) Driving Park, on July
10, Westmont, a pacer, made a mile with running
mate in 2min. beating all records by
several seconds. The first quarter was done in
:JoJ4Bec., the half-mile in lmin., and the three-
quarters in lmin. 30sec. A lignt road waggon was
used.
At the London Athletic Club meeting, the
120-yards hurdle challenge cup was appropriated
by Mr. Lockton, the celebrated Tasmanian ama-
teur, who has probably won more prizes than any
man living. The English half-mile amateur swim-
ming championship has been won by George Bell.
Time, If min. 35HjSec.
“The Australian colonies,” remarks a
London paper “ have contributed £15,000 towards
the annexation of New Guinea. The Australian
cricketers did not subscribe, but they are ready to
play a match against eleven non-interventionists
selected by Lird Derby lor the honour of the
Antipodes and all the gate money.” Hum! What
do you say, Billy Murdoch ?
The sympathy of the Warrington (Eng.)
magistrates was on June 16 extended to two
youths named Henry Holt and William Wi kinson,
who were charged with playing the Illegal game
of pitch-and-toss. The case was dismissed in con-
sequence of the novel defence set up, which was
that they were tos-ing to see which should pay for
u poor cripple-boy to go to the theatre.
There is trouble in store for the men of
mus le down Cabbage Garoenway. Tbe proprie-
tor of the Melbourne Victoria Hall has been threat-
ened by the authorities with prosecution if be
allows Jackson and Farnham to giovo lignt ia his
hall. Why not come up to Sydney? we do things
in better style here. The Inspector-General may
be induced to attend the show d la the Miller-Foley
affair.
No less than 400 counterfeit tickets were
taken at the recent buuivuu Mitchell fizzle. When
accounts were squared up. each man received
about £430. Good pay, this, for one man suffering
from fever and ague, and the other from a severe
alcoholic attack. We don’t know about the fever
and ague, but we’ll venture our reputation that
we couli obtain any number of men to do the
“drunk” part for something less than half the
money.
The match in outriggers—the first, by the
way, ever pulled on the lilawarra Lake—between
Massey and Duley, resulted in anything but a
satisfactory manner. There was a regular sea
running, and Massey was winning with ease when
the cora washed out of his boat and she swamped,
leaving Duley to finish by himself. Both men
pulled in boats turned out by Dodd. If they meet
again, tbe odds should be a few hundreds to one
on Massi y. ,
The Matterson-Peter Kemp race, to come
off on the Nepean on 18th October, appears a mys-
tery to us. Kemp has never been in an outrigger,
and we fancy he might have dropped on a “softer
thing than the fourth or fifth best man in Aus-
tralia. Kemp has ordered a craft from Dodd, and,
by the way, the North Shore builder is now as
popular amongst the rowing men as his namesake
“ Tommy ” was with the music hall people some
years back.
W. G. George, the English amateur cham-
pion, has not met Myers, the American representa-
tive, In England this season. Myeis wants him to
run three distances-balf-a-mlle, 1000 yards, and
1200 yards; but George, who beat the American m
a triplicate match in the Kates, naturally declines
to run over Myers’ favourite distances. Meek, the
walker, who came over to England with the Ame-
rican, lowered the four-mile record from 29min.
29sec. to 29min. 1036 C.
“ Feats of strength, quoted merely to show
that the hero of the tricycle ride from Sydney to
Melbourne, la still in form. He disposed of nine
meals and an Impudent wood-carter on his last
day, when in spite of wind, rain and hail, to say
nothing of charming roads, he rode sixty-two
miles. Bravo ! ‘ Cop.’ May you have many
cop-iers.” Thus a writer In that blood and thunder
Journal, the Cycling News, on Copland's now
listorio ride. There’s a look of hot copiers about
this.
The latest novelty in sport is a. series of
oxen races, which have just been run in a suburb
of Munich. Unlike the bull-fights which prevail
further south on the Continent, the cruelty in this
sport is chiefly toward the hutnan participants.
The oxen were saddled, bridled, and ridden like
horses by jookeys, who were armed with whips
and spurs. The steers proved most intractable
steeds, however, and all but one of the jockeys
were thrown, some of them being quite severely
injured.
The plucky ones at the back of Clifford
must certainly have great oonfldence in their man,
and we do not think we are wrong in stating that
the offer to back him straightaway for throe
matches of £5OO each is unprecedented in the his-
tory of aquatics. That Clifford must have done
something to inspire snoh..confidence goes without
VERY LIKELY.
STOUT LADY: “WELL! BEFORE I’D SQUEEZE MY WAIST UP LIKE THAT, I’D KILL
MYSELF.”
saying l . A good judge of rowing who saw him
doing a spin recently on the Ulawarra Lake, told
us that the “ long ’un ” was going like a piece of
machinery, and pulling in iar and away better
form than Beach has ever shown.
Our champion wobbler, Edwards, at latest
was in England. Says Bell’s Like:—“W. Ed-
wards, the celebrated long-distance walker and
champion of Australia, has arrived in England,
and called on us yesterday. He looks in rare fsttle,
but is not particularly anxieus to get to work just
yet, bis trip being chiefly a holiday one If, how-
ever, Littlewood or anyone else wishes for a match,
he might possibly be accommodated; and Edwards
is desirous of entering the lists against Weston,
O’Leary, Vaughan, or any ether walker next fall,
the walk to take place in New York.”
On the opening day of the A.J.C. Spring
meeting, Dr. Cortis’ Despatch made an easy win of
the Hurdle race from Uhlan, Vidette third; the
Hon. Jas. White’s Tempo defeated Zeno by a neck
for the Trial Stakes, Boscawen third. Tho betting
was 4 to 1 on the Hon. Jas. S' T hite’s Bargo for the
Derby, which he won with the greatest ease from
his stable companion Tremando, in 2 minutes 42!4
seeonds, the fastest time yet done for an A.J.C.
Derby, Cairngorm running into a place. Mr. J.
Monaghan’s Espiegle made an unexpected win of
the EpsotmHandicap by five lengths from Fernlea,
Lord Exeterilbird. Mr. J. O. Inglis’ Malua appro-
priated the Sitting Stakes by a short head from Off
Colour, Reginald third; and Palarenda finished
the day’s sports by winning the Welter Handicap
from The Tramp, Tristan third.
Many are the opinions expressed by the
Yankee press as to the eccentric—to say the least
of it—conduct of their sculler, Courtney. But we
think we have dropped on the correct hypothesis
this time. He is *. victim of the newspapers. The
newspapers have made a great sculler of him, and
not being able to row up to the great standard
they have set for him, he has clung to the reputa-
tion and lied and sneaked out of various matches,
instead of rowing them [are you sure Mr Court-
ney is not in the colony ? Ed. B.] As a matter of
fact, Courtney has never beateu anyone worth
speaking of, besides Riley, who at best is a third-
rater. Courtney’s last race, or rather fixture, with
Ross, was on lines something after the recent
.Nepean atfair. If he won he was to receive £5OO,
and if he lost £lOO. But he had not heart enoHgh
to face it out.
In the item of “defence,” says “William
of Cloude'lee”: “Midwinter takes the palm.
When the Australians’ campaign closes, Midwinter
will be credited with preventing their losing a lot
of games. In the second Australians v. Gentle-
men of England he kept his wioket up by—what
shall I call it?—sheer obstinacy; and at Hudders-
field simply would not be put out. The Yorkshire
crowd did not agree with Midwinter s tactics, and
thereby showed themselves very poor Judges or
the game, and, in expressing their disapprobation,
bad sportsmen. Against 450 the Colonials scored
175 and 124 for seven wickets. They could not pos-
sibly win, but had just a chance of playing out
time, and Midwinter was playing the right game
in doing his possible to beat the common enemy,
if so hard a word may be used of the Old Father
with the kindly hand.”
Courtney, the Amerioan sculler, chal-
lenged Wallace Ross to a match since the running-
away affair. Ross replied with the following:—
“ in view of the publio career of Charles B. Court-
ney for several years past, and particularly beoause
he has done so muoh to disgrace professional scull-
ing, we, the undersigned, in order to protect our-
selves and encourage square, manly rowing, here-
by pledge ourselves never to, in any respect, asso-
ciate or connect ourselves with said Courtney,
either by rowing with or against him at regattas
or elsewhere. Respectfully, Wallaoe Ross, Fred.
A. Plaisted, George H. Hosmer, Albert Hamm,
George Gaisel, George W. Lee, H. Peterson, James
A. Ten Eyck, John Teemer. James H. Riley."
Courtney has since been engaged to train a col-
lege crew. He is a greater success at the theory
than practice of rowing.
John L. Sullivan, in July last, had a very
narrow escape of being knocked out with that
very effective equaliser, a pistol bullet. A sport-
ing man named Coakiey entered a billiard room
where Sullivan was playing, and asked the cham-
pion to join him in a bottle of wine. Sullivan re-
fused, saying he could pay for his own wine; upon
which Coakiey retorted that Sullivan was putting
on a great deal of “side” considering that a few
years ago he hadn’t a shirt to his back. John L.
rushed at Coakiey, who drew a double-barrelled
pistol, and, pointing- it point blank at Sullivan, was
m the act of pulling the trigger when an onlooker
lumped in and seized the pistol, his hand covering
the nipples. How dose Sullivan’s esoape was may
be judged from the fact that the hammer de-
scended on the hand of the man that grasped the
Weapon, leaving an imprint that he carried about
for days.
The American publio hare worked them-
selves up to about 130 deg. in the shade about the
proposed match or matches between Maud 8., Jay
Eye See, and Clingstone. Maud S. has done 3m.
Ssec. Jay Bye See’s best record so far is 3m.
sec., and it is felt by the people that he would
surely stretch the other half second, especially
when trying his hardest alongside such a grand
goer as the mare. But, then, Maud 8. might stretch
too. Vanderbilt, her owner, however, declaros
that no borse of his shall run for a money stake,
for a public purse, or for any similar prize. Why
Vanderbilt, who is in his way the greatest gambler
in the world, should thus set his face againßt
gambling by means of horses, against the mere
actual running for stakes and prizes, it would be
futile endeavouring to discover. Perhaps be has
a bit the best in the one set of transactions which
he would vainly look for in the other.
Thus the London Echo “Itis a pity for
the Australians that their cricket match against
All-England could not be finished, for there is no
doubt that the visitors would have won with a bit
in hand. Shrewsbury, Steel, and Lucas proved by
their consistent scoring in eaoh innings that the
wicket had little or nothing to do with the low
totals made by the English eleven; and it is simply
unaccountable how Ulyett, of whom so much was
expected, came off so badly with the bat. The
English captain (Mr. Hornby) certainly, too, ought
to have stuck to his original position, and gone in
eighth wicket down, instead of going in first; and
the fact of his being stumped in both innings
seems to say that he is hardly reliable enough to
represent England. Ulyett and Peate bowled fairly
well and yet every one of the Australians scored
in their only Innings, so that the English trundling
did not go any way near to creating a funk, and
this little circumstance must settle the question—
that had the match been played out; the Antipo-
deins could not have been off winning.
Says the Hobart Mercury Mr. W.
Webster has returned from his visit to Sydney,
and informs us that he has made arrangements for
introducing to the Hobart public the famed ath-
letes of the day. In addition to having arrangbd
with Hanlan, he has also concluded terms with
Professor Miller, Victor, and T. M. Malone, the
latter being the champion sprint runner of the
colonies. This array or talent will appear together
in Hobart at an early date, the precise time de-
pending on arrangements now pendinx between
Hanlan and Beach for another sculling contesc.
Mr. Webster's enterprise will doubtless meet with
the reward it deserves at t r e hands of admirers of
manly sports in Tasmania. In reference to Hanlan,
Mr. Webster says that his defeat in the recent en-
counter with Beach is attributed by Hanlan him-
self to sinister influences, and not to any failure of
his cwn powers, and in this opinion many in Syd-
ney eoncur. Among a favoured few it was known
previous to the race that Hanlan would not be
permitted to win.” And now the “ favoured few ”
want to know when Mr. Webster intends to return
to Sydney for the purpose of making Anal arrange-
ments—for his funeral.
In Amerioa, a turtle-fight is considered
the next beßSt thing to a ” canine controversy.”
At Staten Island, U.S., a couple of turtles had a
rough go in for a small stake. When the pair were
put close to each other on the floor, they remained
as still as two empty shells for an instant.
Then two snake-light heads darted out, and the
glittering eyes seemed to take in the surroundings
at a glance. Then the heads were drawn in and
there was a period of quiet. Next, one of the
turtles put out a fore flipper, and the other
snapped at it vioiously. The other responded by
imbedding his teeth in the neck of his antagonist.
They held on for several minutes, and then they
were shook apart. For an hour and a half they
kept this sort of thing up. The favourite hold
was on a hind flipper, and when suoh a hold was ob-
tained the biting turtle dragged his victim around
the floor until ho was forced to give up his hold.
Their quickness and ferocity was wonderful. Their
heads flashed in and out like lightning, and their
teeth closed like vyoes upon every exposed bit of
flesh. At the end of an hour and a half they were
as full of fight as at the start, and to break their
last hold a stout stick had to be brought into re-
quisition. It was then decided to make the affair
a draw.
Two prize fights have just taken place in
England and are recorded by all the papers in a
matter of fact way, without one word being said
as to the brutality and so on of the thing. The
first was between Jack Knlfton and Jack Massey.
Knifton, who is 27 years of age, stands Git.2in.
high, and weighs If st. 7 lb., has won a couple of
boxing competitions, and was beaten in Madden’s
Tournament by Middings, in the latter end of 1882.
Massey, who is four years his senior, stands 5 ft.
BHn. in height, and weighed list. 81b. His prin-
cipal performance was beating Tom Tully, about
four years ago, fightiDg forty-five rounds in 1 hour
35minutes. Knifton won tnetoss, and chose the
highest ground. As soon as the fight commenced,
the disparity in the size of the men was very mani-
fest. * K nil ton's advantages being conspicuous.
After thirty-eight rounds had been got through in
40 minutes, Massey, finding he hd no chance, gave
in. Neither man was very heavily punished, each
having one eye shut up and a few bruises on the
neck and ohest. At a fight at Birmingham, be-
tween two oombatants known as “ Big Ben” and
•' Stinger,” the latter being a tall, thiD, wiry man,
of about 35 years of age, and his opponent a tall,
muscular man, of about the same age, a striker in
one of the forgej in the Black Country, 200 persons
were present. “Btf ger” won after an hour’s
desperate fighting. Both men were damaged fear-
fully about the face and body, “Stinger’s” nose
being broken.
In America, at Lake Sebago, on July 7,
Teemer and Conly rowed a five-mile race, with a
turn, for £2OO a side. The betting was 100 to 80 on
Teemer. Hardly had the word “Go ” left the re-
feree's mouth before Teemer 6hot to the lead.
Both men were pulling at about a thirty-four
stroke, whioh they kept up to the end of the first
mile, at which point Teemer led by a boat’s length.
At the two and a half mile turning stake, Teemer,
without apparent effort, had increased his lead to
seven boat-lengths, and was then pulling 27 to the
minute. After squaring away for home, Conly
spurted, and slightly decreased the Pennsyl-
vanian’s lead: but the advantage thus gained was
lost shortly afterward by Teemer spurting and
again putting seven boat-lengths of clear water
between him and his antagonist. At the end of
the third mile, Teemer seemed to have the race all
his own way, and several times rested his oars on
the water. At a mile and a half from the finish
Conly began to pick up with a strobe of 29 to the
minute, and at the commencement of the last mile
they were nearly even, and both men were spurt-
ing for the lead. Teemer, however, easily went
ahead, and, gaining a boat s-lengtb, held it to the
finish. Teemer’s time, as taken at the stake-boat,
was 34m. lOsec.; Conly’s 34m. 12iseo.; makiDg the
winner s time a minute quicker than the best pre-
vious record for a five-mile raoe between men.
The course had been laid out partly by guess-
work, so that no reliance can he placed upon the
time given.
The following is the petition the South
Australian Jockey Club are working up for pre-
sentation to Parliament, with the object of re-
instating the TotaHsator“ Firstly, By discourag-
ing the breeding of blood stock, as the studmasters
and breeders of South Australia, who have laid out
vast sums of money in importing the very best of
sires from England and elsewhere, cannot find
purchasers lor their young stock at prices suffi-
ciently remunerative to warrant a continuance of
the breeding of such stock consequent on the
racing bodies i*< this colony being unable, without
the aid of the totalisator machine, to offer stakes of
sufficient value to induce sporting men to support
the breeders of blood stock [by purchasing their
yearlings at their annual sales as heretofore—a
most important industry beiDg thus crippled.
Secondly, By driving owners ot racing studs to
Victoria and elsewhere, through their inability to
race and maintain studs in this colony without
entailing considerable pecuniary loss, whereby a
large number of persons are deprived of employ-
ment and a considerable sum of money is sent out
of the colony which would otherwise be distributed
to the benefit of corn and chaff merchants, saddlers,
farriers, farmers, and many others. Tour peti-
tioners therefore most respectfully request that
your honoraMe House will be pleased to protect
their interests by enacting a Bill provid ng for the
use of the totalisator machine uuder such restric-
tions as your honorable House in its wisdom may
consider desirable.”
It was evident from the small fields at the
Cyclists’ Union sports that the youngsters are
frightened of the track. The curves are too sharp;
few would deny that, when they see such an ac-
complished rider as Bennett unable to come round
at full speed without juuning off the track on to
the grass. And on the upper side, if a rider does
come to grief, there is a patch of bare stones to
fall on. The straight run has been made very
good, and when Elliott and Hart fell it must have
been more their own fault than the track. On
racing bikes, with a very strong wind beh nd, they
probably went faster than they ever went before,
and, being novices at racing, lost their heads. The
ten-mile race was Bennett’s all the time. Thurlow
led the third lap (three to the mile), Ferguson,
Clarie Wood, and Bennett following, Attwood right
in the rear. At lap eleven, he fell out of the pro-
cession, and only four completed the race. Fergie
went at it demon-like as long as he was able,
making the pace alternately with Thurlow, who
led round the fourteenth time; Ferguson had then
shot his bolt and fell back, while Wood laboured
to keep his place. He was evidently half trained.
Then Bennett challenged Thurlow, and after a
brief struggle took the lead, and kept it to the end
easily, the others spread-eagling behind him, as
the effects of the pace at the start and the strong
wind round the back of the course told severely.
Ferguson made an insidious attempt to creep up
with a rush 1 or second place in the thirtieth round,
but Thurlow spotted his copper-top gleaming in
the sun, and baulked his well-meant coup. Time
of race, 37V6 min. Previously, Bennett had won
the one mile trike race, though A. Wood (sen.) bad
2550>yards; and afterwards he fairly rode down the
field in the three-mile bicycle handicap, j oung H.


To restore nerve and brain waste, nothing
equals Hop Bitters. Believe this. See.
The Diamond Dyes sire the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each paokage will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &e., &0., by return post.’*
The promoters of the Federal Consultation
Company offer shares In their Melbourne Cup
Sweep at £1 eaoh. They guarantee to distribute
1000 cash prizes, the first being £2500. Prospectus,
giving full particulars, will be sent free, on appli-
cation to Robert Ramsay, Commission Agent, 405
Georgo-street, Sydney.*
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARE SICK.
If you are siok, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP HITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, opidomic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains ana aches, asE»d
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you Fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &0., and
£5OO
will be paid for a oase they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health"by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay^
U
DE
&
COMFORTABLE TEF.TH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Bilk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London .”
DE
ASTHMA,GOUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
tee that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox ajul
Co., m Oxford-street, London,"
it Lambton, wiio made a game struggle and catfip
fli'nnd being the only one who gave him any
frouble. Hal Lambton is the most brilliant young
hlovollst on the traok among the coming men.
Phlzaokerly (great Scott! what a name) won the
maiden mile trike; and H. 8. Lambton the 100
™‘ r ds fuueral prooesh., and the one mile open
handicap.
Just now, when we hear so many diffeient
opinions as to the amount of ease with which Ed-
ward Hanlan polished of his Christian namesake,
TJed Trickett, in their memorable match rowed on
the Thames on 15th November, 1880, our readers
may not object if we fight the battle oyer again.
On the morning of the race, a thick fog hung over
♦he valley Of the Thames* and although it lifted
ttdnSiderdbli'. a light ha2e huiig over the river and
tain was falling when the nden started. At twenty
minutes flast noon* the,race started, Trickett
Striking 40 to Hanlan’s 3f At Simmons’ Yard,
about f wd hdndred yards from the start, the boats
#ere dead level. Thrickett then oommmoed to
Ipflgthdfl out, and, fulling in much better form
than at the stdrt, drewawaV from the Canadian
and obtaine a short lead: but at the quarter-mile
Hanlan had pulled uo level; and a little further on
leading by half a length, Trickett put in
Some good work, and fit the half there was nothing
?o choose between the men; but shortly after-
wards Trickett eased off, and Hanlan went away
foot bv foot, amidst the frenzied offerings of the
Canadian contingent to lay the odds. But the Aus-
tralian was not done with just yet, and at the mile
noint, shot in 4min 535e0., had reduoed the Cana-
dian’s lead to half-a-length, whloh the leader
lengthened out to a clear length at the Crab-tree,
something less than a mile and a quarter. Ana
then spurt and counter spurt took plaoe between
the pair as far as Hammersmith Bridge, one mile
and three-quarters less 200 yards, when it looked
anybody’s race; but Hanlan came out of the
ordeal with a lot in hand and a lead of two lengths,
in 9min. 34sec. Trickett after this fell to pieces,
and Hanlan paddled over the remainder of the
course, finishing in 20min. 12sec.
We clip this from an American paper
11 Oh, we ain’t entirely without amusements and
sports In Arizona,” said a bearded passenger from
the south-west. “Of course, theaytres and cir-
cuses ate pretty scarce, and there hain’t nougn
levbl gfdund in the territory td play a game of
pass-ball on. But we has our fun all the same. In
the town where I live—mind you, we are gettin
civilised out there, and have towns now Instead of
hWe camps—ln my town our best sport Is with a
coloured man named Sam. He’s a big, strong
jack—that Is, he was. Poor fellow, he tempted
fate too often, and got took in Anally. Bam made
his livin’ furnishing fun for the boys. He would
draw a chalk-line on the floor, get down in front
of it on all fours, and for ten cents let any man
take a big bag of sand and crack him one from be-
hind. If the striker knocked Sam over the line, he
got his money back Well, this sport went along
several months, until one day a wicked-looking
stranger comes to town. He saw Sam taking
In the dimes In the hotel bar-room, where
the stranger was a pretty good customer
himself already. ‘ Will ye let ma have a
lick at ye for a dime ?’ he Inquired of Bam.
‘Sartinly, sah; three for a quarter. Take a
quarter’s wilth?’ The stranger said he guessed
one would be enough. Sam got down on all fours.
The stranger then picked up the sandbag. Bam
lopned his head down and grinned between his
legs at the striker. The Sandbar is raised high In
the air, the wicked - looking stranger looks
wickeder out of his eyes, and we get on to his
powerful frame and arms all of a sudden. Like a
stroke o’ lightning down conies the bag—poor
Sam.” “ Did It hurt the nigger much ? “Hurt
Elm? Nobody knows. The fact is, when be got
down on the floor his head was pointed toward the
wide-open door of the bar-room, out of which we
could look down the mountain side. Sam cata-
pulted out o’ that door, and hain’t been seen since.
One o’ the boys said he believed the coon had
never stopped till he got back to 4 ole Alabam be
used ter talk so much about.” “ Did you find out
who the stranger was?” “Well, I should say we
did. His name was John L. Sullivan, a prize-
fighter from down East somewhere.” This is one
of the biggest lies we have yet dropped across in
connection with Sullivan.
It was a case of diamond cut diamond at
the meeting held at J. D. Young’s hostelry, on
Thursday evening last, to arrange a matoh between
the two great gun scullers, and in the end the
Yankee gem got all the best of it. "Well, said
Hanlan to the Beach party, which, by the way,
was minus Beach, “ you are resolved to keep me
waiting six months for a match ?” To which Mr.
Deebles replied with a benignant smile, ana a
“You can bet your life on that, Hanlan.” The
Hanlan trio then proposed a matoh in May, to
come off as near as possible on slack water, Mr.
Deebles agreeing to the first part of the proposi-
tion, but stating that the tide would have to take
its chance. “ However,” added the International
honifaco, “I’ll leave that for Beach to say,” and
forthwith he started in search of the Champion,
and in a very short period returned with him in
tow. Beach very properly said he would not agree
to pick a tide to suit Hanlan, and, after some re-
markably smart things had been said by both the
ex and present Champions, a matoh was fixed
up for the first Saturday in May next. At
regular intervals during the discussion, a re-
presentative from Clifford offered to back him
against any man in the world for £5OO
aside. After the Hanlan-Beach match had been
arranged for May, Beach stated he could not be
expected to lie idle for nine months, and if he saw
a soft £5OO knocking about—no doubt having an
eye on Clifford’s oJer-he would certaiDly go for
it, to which Mr. Alcock said they could not blame
him. Just then Clifford’s representative again
offered to make a match against all-comers, when
—horror to the opposite faction—Hanlan jumped
up and accepted, and almost in less time than it
takes to tell, ’a deposit was planked, and Hanlan
and Clifford were matched to row for £5OO aside in
five months from last Saturday. This was certainly
a smart move on the Canadian’s part, as it pretty
well binds Beach down to hold the championship
till he meets him In May next. Had Beach and
Clifford been matched to row in the meantime,
Clifford may have won; and then Hanlan’s match
would not'have been for the championship. So
far as his matoh with Clifford is concerned, it
is to come off in midsummer, certainly; but,
supposing he is beaten, it is not for the cham-
pionship, and in the event of his beating
Beach, he can then have another match on with
Clifford. In every way the visitor has the best of
it, and we are not sorry. Under all the circum-
stances, we think ihe Beach party should have
given him another Bhow before the heavy summer
weather comes on. and to our thinking, in trying
to get so much the best of him they have over-
reached themselves. During the evening, Mr. J.
D. Young offered to match Clifford against Teemer,
the American sculler, for £5OO. Mr. Morris Green-
wall accepted on behaif of Teemer, and stated he
was willing to put up a deposit of £250 a side before
leaving Sydney; but if Teemer would Dot row, he
would expect the money to be returned. ’ Teemer
has j ast dpfeated Conlv in America, and was to
row Wallace Ross early in August, but we have
not yet heard the result. If successful, the inten-
tion was to back him against Hanlan. As Hanlan
is booked here for the next nine months at least,
it does not appear improbable that Teemer will
come over and add his luscre to the biggest aquatic
boom Australia has ever experienced. The only
fear is that the young Americau may drop across
Granny’s account ot the Hanlan-Beach race He
then may not feel inclined to run the risk of a
“gauntlet of Wind, Wave, and Tomki.”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
Hail, mighty Humbug! offspring of deceit,
Hypoci-isy, and lying; to thy feet
Thy suppliants throng, and own in secrecy
The conquests they achieve who live by Thee.
In ev’ry rank thy vot'ries have a place—
Eew are too proud to serve thee, none too base;
Yet none dare openly set forth thy praise,
But swear they walk in Virtue's plainer ways;
And, ever as they thrive with lying tongue,
Ascribe to Truth the gifts thy power has won.
The ardent oonverti tfho \Vere lately made
In Edwin Bodth’s last Temperance CrUsado,
Wear in their ooats, to prove their faith sincere.
The flaunting ribbon of King Gingerbeer;
And still we note that they most proudly boast
The ribbon, who in drink have sinned the most—
Those in their cups, who most excess displayed,
Now loudest talk in praise of Lemonade.
Oh! that thy followers in this bold way
Would own the King, whose precepts they obey;
And as from Virtue more and more they swerve,
More loudly boast the monaroh whom they
serve;
And, when they part from Truth to join thy band,
Would vaunt the power of thy guiding hand.
But this can never be: for thy best arts
Seduce the reason, and mislead the hearts
Of truthful men, who never think that they
Who speak so fair, speak only to betray.
England’s high Sovereign, on the festal day,
Calls forth her troops, their numbers to display;
And Volunteers, in coats of scarlet hue,
Go gladly forth to join the grand review—
Thus, then, King Humbug! let thy warriors
pass,
File after file; and, with the looking-glass
Whioh Truth supplies, show who thy warriors
are,
And with what arms they carry on the war.
See first the Holy Humbug: he, the worst
Of all the frauds with whioh God’s world is curs’d,
Betrays his Maker's oause for sake of cash,
And sets His trademark to his own vile trash:
(But stay, my Muse! you ought, you know, to
laud
The arms of Humbug, trickery and fraud;
I really can’t allow this wild abuse—
You must not let your tongue run quite so loose:
Repress your finer feelings, and speak well
Of those whose presence would make Heaven a
heU).
Who, if the pastor’s honoured rank he claim,
Will artful use, with mind devoid of shame,
The high position, to indulge his vice,
And sell a spurious pass to Paradise.
Perohance—like those who study to evade
Each new Land Act our Parliament has made,
And strive to break each salutary law,
By acting just within its corners four—
He guardedly will break his Master’s code,
By arguing that his peculiar mode
Of sinning was not named by James or John—
So that no penalty ensues thereon.
He walks the path Iscariot has trod,
And thinks that he can humbug even God;
Or else, perhaps, he seeks but to mislead
The minds of men by putting on a creed.
Then from the weekly pulpit thunders forth
The dire effect of Heaven’s avenging wrath;
And, e’en while slating thus his fellow men,
From “ Thou ” to “ his,’’ breaks precept number
Tens
And, while attending to his neighbours’ lives,
Pays more than due attention to their wives.
One other cleric Humbug meets the view—
He fondly reads his Bible through and through
Notes every verse, and cleverly distorts
The sense, to make it lit his petty thoughts—
“ Perverts the Prophets,” and the Gospels, too,
To prove his dainty whims and crotchets true.
A follower of the Word he is, we know,
But it must lead where he would wish to go;
Fain would he have the Bible overthrown,
If its blest maxims did not match his own,
Brimful of creed, he preaches sermons long,
To show how other men interpret wrong
The meaning of this passage or that verse,
And proves such worthy of a Saviour’s curse—
Or else, to satisfy his people’s need,
Condemns them all by Athanasius’ Creed:
He almost argues that Salvation’s won—
Not by the merit of the dying Son—
But by the robes of Bishop or of Priest,
By rubrics, or by facing to the East.
Then, there are those who don Religion’s dress
Just to condemn their neighbour’s wickedness,
And go to churoh that they may safely say
How wicked people are who stay away,
Lend helping hand to Mother Church’s labours
To prove that they are better than their neigh,
hours,
Devoutly trusting they to bliss will climb
By ladder built of others’ sin and crime.
Next comes the man who, by Religion’s aid,
Hopes more successfully to cheat in trade:
With Pharaisaic mien, each Sawbath day,
He kneels within the House of God to pray
(He preys throughout the week, but here, we see,
The “a” in pray is altered to an e ”).
As loving husband, he will fondly make
Sale to his wife-just for “aff ction’s sake”—
Then, when he files his schedule, it is found
That he can pay, p’r’aps, twopenoe in the pound.
While he is overwhelmed with seas of debts,
His greedy spouse retains the large assets—
Declines what he has given to restore,
But keeps her house, and footmen, as before.
Thus, as in games of whist, when partners lead
Each to the other’s hand, and both succeed,
Though one may lose if but the other gain
More poiots than their opponents can obtain,
Bo with these two; although you note, of course,
Though he may lose, he never feels the loss:
She keeps the gains—the official assignee
Clears off his score, and once more sets him free.
The fraud leaves on his mind no cicatrix,
He loses “ honours,” but he gains by “ tricks ”
(Although the game’s like whist, I would suggest
That cut-throat euchre may describe it best;
They two against the world play fast and loose,
And scoop the pool by leading with the “Deuce ”).
Though of all social thieves he's deemed the
worst,
He keeps his carcase out of Darllnghurst;
Yet still with Piety hts fraud he veils,
And throws the blame on God, whene’er he fails.
When Balak called on Balaam to asperse
The host of Israel with a mighty curse,
The prophet to the Moabite’s distress,
Though told to imprecate, could only bless.
But here the Muse another mind displays—
Gives but reproach and blame, when asked for
praise;
Against deceit she pours her anger forth,
Almost forgetting courtesy in wrath.
So let it be; and, if this truthful rhyme
Shall please the reader, at another time
The Muse shall sing, perchance in louder strain,
Of others, who are found in Humbug’s train.
IBBMAEL.
The Pressman's Dream.
“ 1 dreamt last night,” the pressman said—
“ Say on,” a poet cried,
“ Now that the golden sight is fled
Across old Dreamland’s tide.
“ Oh, say how fair the vision came,
What sights of Paradise;
What angei cboirings thrilled thy frame,
What darts of angel eyes.
“ Tell me of brooklets murmuring,
And forests waviDg wide;
Of mountains tell and crystal spring—
Or, mayhap, of a bride
“ Whose lovely form, when sleep had fled,
Had vanished from thy gaze—
Saw'st thou again thy long lost dead,
Among the far-off braes ?
“ Or, wert thou wandering through a land
All thronged with palaoes—
Thyself a King, and on each hand
All joys thy heart to bless ?”
“ Nay, more than these,” the pressman cried,
“ Moro than my tongue can tell;
Not visions of a vanished bride,
Nor home, nor village bell;
“ Not palaces, nor flowering vales,
Nor heavenly serenades;
Nor faces of my long lost dead,
Nor rambles in old glades.
“ What made my bosom throb with joy,
And what now makes me wipe
These bitter tears, was—” " What, old boy V*
“ I dreamt I had fried tripe!"
An Æsthetic Idyll.
They stood beneath a soft Spring sky,
.Esthetic lad and lass,
Around them blossomed sundowers high,
About them bent the grass)
They talked—the rapture of their talk!
’Twas on a peacock’s feather,
Or else a dado or a stork—
Their “ souls ” were “ one ” together.
“ Oh, love,” said he, and his pale nose
Grew crimsonly intense,
“ I would that thou wort but a rose,
And I a humble fence;
And thou wouldst cling unto me fast,
And all'about me twine—
Unmoved by any howling blast,
My rose would still be mine!”
“My heart,” sighed she, “is like yon sky—
So warmly, poppy red,
And. as a pleading rooster’s cry,
Echo the words you said;
But, like a tulip fair which soreeds
Its face, so I my choice — ”
“ you've got to come and string them beans I”
Yelled out her mother’s voice.
Back Again.
A still small voice (the same, I trowi
told the Laureate to go
And hang himself or sling his woe,
What time he used to weep and boo
Abou! a Universe he knew
No more of than most others do)
Approached, and whispered unto me,
“ Throw down thy pen, and westward Uee,
The gums again will welcome thee.”
Far out among the friendly trees,
On placid nights, had come a breeze
That sailed from cities ill at ease.
And, as I listened to'the cries
That fell out of its folds, my eyes
Down from the stars drew sympathies.
I said. “The trees will always stand,
The silent night be always grand,
But I shall die and leave the land.”
I also murmured. “ While my blood
Has heat and ruddiness, its flood
Shall flow to help a human good."
And so I left the friendly trees,
And tracked the sorrow-laden breeze
Unto the cities ill at ease.
I plumed my pen to striko the throng
Of men who prosper and are strong
Through riding on the law of Wroog.
And time went on. My ink was done,
My pen had lost its point; alone
I sat with all my tetner run.
’Twas then the still small voice came near,
And told m» to pack up and clear.
And seek the trees I once called dear.
But, to the still small voice I said,
“ There is a point I’ve marked ahead,
I go, despite the quick and dead.”
But then the still small voice replied,
To do if, thou must be supplied
Like others, whose renown is wjgke.
“ Thou seest Haddon, Bennej^Syme,
And thinkest thou oanst nobh their prime—
Thy innooenoe amounts tfcrime.
“ Theso have a thing whioh they can show
To all men wheresoe’er they go,
And this it is that lifts them so.”
“ And what,” I cried, “ have they that I
Have not ?” Then came the curt reply,
“ A conscience.” JThen I shut one eye,
And said “ 0, still small voice, to these
I leave the cities ill at ease,
And back I go among the trees!”
I “This,” said that distinguished lecturer,
Mr, B. Lewis Scott at the School of Arts, a few
nights ago, “this is Westminster Abbey, and that
little spot (there] is the Poet's Corner, the place
where some of the greatest geniuses the world
ever saw sleep the sleep of peace now that life »
fitful dream is o’er. Why have not we a place
wherein to bury our great men as well ?” Screams
of laughter greeted this prize conundrum, “ and
yet," as Gkanny innocently observes, “the ques-
tion appeared to be seriously put.” The plain met,
however, is that we have heaps of places wherein
to bury our great men, but the devil of it is our
great men won t die. if they did, Mr. Soott would
be pionioking with the worms to-day instead of
stumping gaily around with his derned old magic-
ian tern.
A Teacher’s Association has been formed.
Primarily, of course, its object will be to watch
such portion of the administration »f the Educa-
tion Act as effects their own pocket, and nobody
who knows how they have been humbugged by a
drowsy department for years can blame them.
They want, also, to be heard as a body on the duty
imposed on them of giving religious instruction.
Probably the bulk of them belong to some reli-
gious denomination, but in so large a body of
intelligent men and women, there must be great
numbers who are expected to parrot through what
are called religious reading lessons, or Sacred His-
tory, and who all the time feel degraded in their
own eyes to have to spell over and explain all
about the plagues, and Lot’s wife, &0., and have t<>
be careful all the time not to let their views of
things come out by a smile or grunt of disgust.
Another object of the association is to promote a
wider intellectual oulture, and certainly it is
needed; but it will only add to their discontent it.
with every step they take in the acquirement of
modern knowledge, the clergy and their echoing
elders persist in using their influence to force
them to teach honesty and truth for four hours in
the day, and then to practice Jesuitry for the fifth
—and all in the name of the Lord.


JIUBNITURB SHOW 800 ||
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and streets, Bydncy.
r ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8 —
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Drawing-room' suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well wortwil
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
W A TT J^„<^5J* V 5 Ty for Choice ChlnT~Tr
VERY ELEC. ANT, just received. Bradler
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong "hTStt
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant
smoking 1 rooms. &o. 119
BEDROOM SUITE* complete in various wood?
and very handsome designs, with 7-tph
wardrobes, or with smaUer wardrobes for sin»u
rooms. variety. BRADLEY, NEWTOw
a . n< ? Spring and O’Connell streets, Bydney W
Eight-Pound bedroom suites^tw:
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising warri
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table « n J
two chairs - The lot for £B. BRA BLR V
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street. Kr
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft, with silvered
piate-glass door; AYASHSTAND, with marble tn«
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TAB Mi
with swing glass attaobpd ; PEDESTAL Cnp
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, lt> guinea*'
BRAD LEV, NEWTON, and LAM&
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables,
tfd.; Dining Tabl.s. from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 2 Vs. (Id.; Washgtands from 12s «,].
Chest of Drawers, from 40s ; Wardrobes, from uni'
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s : Cedar Sideboard*
from £3 10s.: Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLRv
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
J!
i
-£?QPi PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
cvOU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rj.il or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
I FFONNIEirWHATNOTS, effective designs,
V just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, tor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered In the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW BTYLES.
Price*,, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOJTNGK. or BED. Verv handv and inex-
penslvo. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRB, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining'- room—stde-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O'CooneU-street,
INTNG TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
D
This cnalr adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
th(/ occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It tits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
AGATELLW BOARDS. Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room' suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework tor dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O'i'onnell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
Bell and Spring streets
WABHSTANDS, with marble, lrom 255. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
/""I ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
VJT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment; beet make, leftist prices.
B
SOCIAL
The oause of all those private oarriages,
those duloet sounds that floated out upon the star-
lit sultry air, the palm-decked porch, and all the
other tokens of high-toned gaiety that pervaded
the civic hall on Tuesday week, was the ball given
by the Ausralian Club. It 6eems hard that even
such a really nice society event as this could not
be held without obtrusive opposition to it—very
bard that well-dressed and alHuent members of
society, who live In houses with special Dames to
them, cannot disport in an innocent dance without
having threats of a heated hereafter hurled at
them by people who are not well-dressed, and not
even refined. Yet. while the vehicles rolled by
with the wealth and culture, style and ton, from the
flower fragrant suburbs of Sydney, there at the
very doors of pleasure, the ungrammatioal Harmy
raved and demanded that the human race en masse,
not even exovp ing carriage people, should give up
everything and come to the Lord. “ Ah! yer may
go by in yei carriages into yer dazzlin’ ’ails," ob-
served the capting; "but some day yer’l dance
where there won’t be no music, only a weepin’,
and a wailin’, and a gnashin’ er teeth, my ferends ’
But the alfluent people heeded not the street Jere-
miah, and went into the dance. Full preparations
had been made for them: except a few couches,
the seats had been moved from the vestibule to
make more room, and round the passages drawing-
room furniture was placed, interspersed with plant
ornaments and leafage. In the main entrance, a
sort of conservatory was arranged, delightfully
cool, and adorned with coloured drapings. standing
palms, pot-shrubs, ferns, &c. The ball-room door-
were ourtained off with flags, and the band played
in one corridor, while guests entered from the side
opposite. At the doorway, members of the commit-
tee ranged themselves in two lines, through which
the guests passed, bowing as their names were an-
nounced, while the smiling committee bowed af-
fably in return. It did not seem necessary for all
ladles to have a male escort, some entered by them-
selves, or a mother and daughter together, others
on the arm of solid papas. By about a quarter-
past 9 o’olock the room was well filled, and a few
bars of the National Anthem made every one look
to the door. False alarm. However, a few minutes
after, the band again began to tootle out the s ilemn
air—then His Excellency the Governor appeared
and was greeted by the committee. Beii id came
Mr C. Rolieston, G. M.G. with Lady Loftus, Mr.
Unwin esoorted Miss Constable in a Leautifuily
combined toilette of blue and black; while the
fallant Lieutenant who first became known to
ame through emitting to "pass examination at
the institute ” brought up the rear. Immediately
afterwards the sweet strains of the "Venetia"
floated through the air, and one after another the
jewelled beauties were led from the crowd to sta t
in the swinging dance. The space available was
very limited at first, but after a time the orowd
drew back towards the walls, and the dancing
orbit, gradually widened its circumference; and
in the meantime two “ blue-jackets ” in nice
olean clothes and straw hats came out with a blue
rope and held it stretched across the room. Then
followed the “Patience” lancers, done in some
sets by eight couples instead of four. There were
no quadrilles, the programme being mostly a
succession of soft, delicious waltzes. Listen to
this list: Mvosotis, Dream Faces, My Queen, Thine
Alope, Auf Wiederschen, La fteine, The Old Love
and the New, Margherite, Dolores, Chant du Ciel,
Visions d’Amour, and Silver Rhine. It's enough
to make the toes tingle still, played as they all were
by Koptf and Austin's fine string band, and in
their best style—though there is always a little
difficulty as to where a band should be stationed
in the handsome Town Hall. Reversing was not
tabooed—at least, not by those who could do it.
Everyone could not, of course; even in an assem-
blage so full of fashion as that, a few laborious
dancers oould be seen persistently doing the old-
fashioned teetotum waiiz, with a big dip on the
"one” to get up impetus. After a few dances,
the oppressive warmth of the night became very
evident, and there was soon an exodus into the
passages aßd ante-rooms in search of cooler air.
Then it was that tender tales were told, ever so
sweet to woman’s ear, so glib upon man’s tongue,
as the time slipped by—heedless of Initials on the
forgotten programme, careless of the chill air in-
sidiously falling on bare white shoulders—in some
shadowy retreat. Here are a pair. They are very
interested; both are playing a game. Though she
is young and it is novel to her, she feigns to be not
very attentive, and with fingers that wander in a
listless way over the snowy mass of dress falling in
oasoades on to the floor, she carelessly touches a
frill or a bow In idle adjustment. But he is ex-
Serienced, and as he goes on gently speaking m
lat soft voice that he keeps for pretty women,
the insensible charm steals over her, and
the faintest, tingo of colour hovers on the
whiteness of her neck. With shy modesty
the eyelids fall, the little satin shoe stops
tapping, and, as he leans over, and speaks lower
and more earnestly, the feather fan ceases to
flutter languidly to and fro and falls softly to her
lap: and then-a crash of chords breaks the spell,
a streim of chatterers from the ballroom shows
that another dance is done, and they go back into
the glare. Perhaps he has said enough: perhaps
not. The light in her eyes will tell. It is a scene
so often rehearsed. And it is not always the man
who is the more experienced in it. The even How
of the dreamy waltz, the wine that sparkles and
the tone that lulls, the low-curved dress in the
twilight corner, all help the actors in their little
parts. Very different were the prosaic elderly
gentlemen at their card-tables in a quiet reona set
apart for them. Then another large apartment
was fitted up as a refreshment buffet to- light and
temporary relief, independent of Baumann’s
elaborate supper. While the bright-taujd belles
floated under the crystal chandelier in a gor-
geous moving mosaio of dressmaker’s art and wo-
manly shapeliness, around the walls stood maDy
of the portly gentlemen, who aot as the pillars of
patrician fooiety in Sydney. The Chief Justice,
Sir James, is with Lady Martin, in a rich robe of
heliotrope satin, with side panels and bodice, cut
square and low, of deep mauve velvet. Sir Patriok
stands by Lady Jennings, who wears a beautiful
white satin gleaming with diamonds on the breast,
and richly worked skirt. Mr Wigram and Lady
Allen are near by, and Commodore Erskine, Mr. F.
B. ’Buttor, Mr. C. Rolieston, and others. Mrs.
Cooper wears a white satin and tulle
waterfall back, looking stylish, and is accompanied
by her sisters. The wife of a leading professor is
also in a rich white toilette. A beautiful girl from
North Shore floats freely in the dance in a black
net ballet skirt, loadrd with flowers on one side,
the bodice cut low back and front in a deep U
shape, and edged with broad white lace. A tall
lady looks stately in a bright framboise broche,
with lace sleeves to match. Most exquisitely
proportioned is a white broche satin, the
small pointed bodice and Niagara skirt of
fine faille serving to display a form of
fierfeot grace. Birds’ plumage was much worn;
n < ne case a lovely white satin robe was rendered
conspicuous by two large green parrots, one on
the bust and one on the skirt The wearer of an-
other pretty white was observable for the brilliant
red geranium wreath on her hair the only reliev-
ing colour. A petite figure all in black wore
immense white roses, like balls of snow over one
Bhoulder, with singularly happy effect. Two
young ladies wore veritable masher dresses that
are as yet novelties in the ballroom; they were all
black, with h»lf-length sleeves, but the white
chemisettes and tall masher collars gave a really
piquant appearance. A splendid cream dress with
garnet broche tablier had a wealth of warm-hued
flowers .railed over the corsage. A North Shore
young lady wore an elegant white net, with satin
bodice and front draping, and a white aigrette in
her hair. Now, the old saying, "Two’s company, but
three's none,” applies to colours as well as to com-
Eany, and it was specially so in a costume where a
right crimson skirt was draped with snow-white
India muslin, and topped with old pold satin bodice.
It was one colour too many. A shot pearl satin
was very obvious, and so was an unusual com-
bination of ficelle laco and blue oorded silk. One
of the richest costumes was blue satin with a bold
“throw” in tho pleated waterfall back, and broad
Sources of white lace on the skirt. One of the
most stylish dancers was a tall, dark lady, in lovely
amber broche and satin, with cerise scarf draped
over the back skirt. Two dresses of blue were
both a ike remarkable for being oovered all over
methodically with gold spirals in all sizes. Soon
after 11, supper was announced, served d lacarto
in Baumann’s best style, in the large supper-room
at the back. Two lo g tables were choicely set for
the guests, who had to come in relays, as there was
nut room for all, nearly 350, at once. The room
was exceedingly hot Then dancing was resumed,
and though some left early, the majority stayed
till past two in the morning, when the successful
ball of the Australian Club came to an end.
On Wednesday, 20th August, the oom-
mittee of Moree Sohool of Arts gave a good plain
and fancy dress hall to aid the institution. Room
decorated with flags, emblems, eto., and the word
“Welcome” prettily arranged in white and
scarlet w >< 1 opposite the door, by the secretary’s
wife. Dre-ses various and in good taste. Cream
satin broohe and ruby velvet admirably became
the wife of the local Lands' offloer, and this lady
was voted the belle. The better-half of a surveyor
la cream satin also looked and dauoed well. A
young lady admired for her handsome pale blue
satin and broohe; and the local medico's wife wore
a nice black satin and broche. Other dresses that
pleased the fancy were, a plain white Indian muslin
worn by an unmarried lady; cream veiling with
peacook blue plush top; and black and old gold laoo
looking well on two sisters. A young lady from
Millie was charming in cream and cardinal,
and evidently enenanted the bachelors. Among
the fancy dresses, Mary Queen of Soots by a mar-
ried lady was a faithful oopy; and a (Huntress was
successful in black and gold, with scarlet ribbons.
Winter was personated in black and white, with
'• >iiy, by a lady who inspired no oold feelings,
t’tie postmaster’s wife was a Breton Peasant, and
the Doctor a Sir Joseph Porter, who carried the
palm among the gentlemen. A local land agent
wore Court dress; a station boss, a jockey costume,
which looked last; and an energetio J.P., as a
Knight Templar, sprang about in a way that
showed that while there's life there’s hope. A
Jack tar, huntsman, footballer, and members of
the mystic crafts completed the list. About forty
couples were present. Messrs. Broderick and
Tibby provided capital musio, assisted by Sir
Joseph. Supper was laid in an adjoining room,
tasteful programmes, efficient M.’s C. (especially
one), good spirits and dancing, set off a pleasant
evening, and the enjoyment only ceased as day-
light came.
* * *
On Saturday the Association Ground will
again be tho scene of a 6ports exhibition given by
the amateur athletes of the Eastern suburbs. With
favourable weather, it will be a fine afternoon’s
lounge. Sports begin at 2, the Nelson band will
play, there is a three-rade bike race, and a trioycle
race for “kiddies.” There will also bean attrac-
tive show of Spring dresses. These are not men-
tio ed in the advertisements, but they are v«ry
important.
• • a
On Saturday night nearly 200 gentlemen
were present at the banquet to Mr Henry Parkes,
Mr John Hardie, Mayor of Sydney, in the chair.
Baumann catered the dinner, which was de-
spatched quickly. The health of Sir Henry was
proposed by the Mayor, who had known Mr.
Parkes on the Empire, forty years ago, but he
didn’t suppose Mr. Parkes knew him, because at
that time—like Patience’s sweetheart—“ he was a
little boy.” In reply, the veteran politician made
a rather remarkable speech, lasting over an hour,
first explaining why he had not resigned his seat,
then alluding to the lamentable depth of demora-
lisation the Government had managed to reach
owing to his absence, adverted to all they hadn’r
done, and depreciated a Land Bill whioh they
founded on the old one, but with all its good
features refined away, and its bad ones fearfully
aggravated. Then said Sir Henry, in conclusion.
“I never want to resume official life; during 13
months’ freedom from politioal turmoil, I have,
for the first time in many years, really enjoyed
rest. The country has had enough of me, and I
feel that In my last administration I received a
most unjust reward of bitterness. I am not dis-
posed to forget it.” And the banqueters went
sadly away.
a • •
A very varied entertainment was given
last montb at Wilcannia, In aid of the Athenmum
up there, which wants a new chimney or some-
thinsr. The looal millionaires filled the front seats,
but though a thin attendance at the baok oaused a
loss In the prooeeds, the looal paper cheerfully
observes that it was a muob greater loss to those
who missed a delightful evening’s amusement.
This Dick Bwivcller way of looking at the matter
seems to Indicate more philosophy In Wilcannia
than one would expect. Among the concert Items,
Mesdames Cunnyngbame and Forster, and Messrs.
Bailey, Pike. Chapman, Borlase, and Armstrong
(accompanist) were the leading stars; and the
oomedietta “To Oblige Benson” was given by
local ladies and gentlemen with a good deal of
care, Mr. Forster, as Trotter Southdown, being tho
best. The committee had conceived the idea
of a spelling bee, but, owing to their having
over-estimated the culture of the Wiioan-
nia population, this bee didn’t hum very
successfully. The fact is, the influential men
of the town who had any reputation for know-
ledge didn’t care to risk it. So, when the invitation
to go on the platform came, all tho well-connected
people looked at one another as if they could spell
anything that they wanted—only they didn’t want,
for fear high-class education might possibly get too
common. So the spelling genius of Wilcannia was
represented by a sma'l company of small boys, and
a very pretty little girl whose charms so affected
the judges that, although she put in letters where
there wasn’t room and left holes where they ought
to have gone in, they gave her a special prize for
being so pretty. It's a hard handicap for a boy
competitor to spell against a pretty girl. The
influential oitizens were awfully glad when the bee
whs over : somebody might have asked them to
spell a word.
• 9 9
Country parsons have a novel way of rais-
ing the “ needful ” when they require a new altar-
cloth or a few wax candles. At West Dapto, a ball
was lately held, under churoh auspioes, In the old
school-house, which had been “tidied up ” for the
occasion, and was a decided success as to numbers.
There were many visitors from Wollongong and
Albion Park, but the attempt of the lady con-
tingent to wrest the honour of belle from their
Dapto cousins was not successful. “Top Sawyer”
was a-sumed by a piquant damsel from the latter
place, who dressed in remarkably good taste, and
donned au outfit of oatmeal cloth and tinselled
grenadine. Beach's oolours were tastefully dis-
played on a biack dress by another Dapto girl; and
a visitor from Wollongong had a neat dress of
white muslin trimmed with crushed-straw berry.
Two sisters, in pink sateen, looked well: as did a
steady dancer in white muslin, with cardinal sash.
Dancing wag kept up till four o’clock.
Officers of Ve Railway Department held
their annual gathering on 27th ultimo, at the Sir
Joseph Banks, tbe attendance being more numer-
ous than any before. At 10 o’clock a pretty pro-
c< ssion started from the tram terminus, the motors
and three cars being gay with flag and flowers.
Qt course, they were driven by steam as usual,
but the gins helped to “set them off” with win-
some smiles and fair faces In addition, a band
dispersed sweet music; and, in fact, altogether,
even an Alfred man could scarcely have looked
on those cars in their glory and caded them Jug-
gernauts When tbe grounds were reached on the
shores of the Bay, an attack was immediately
made on the sand-which-is there. This joke is the
result of the trams doing the journey out in loss
than the regulation hour—suGh speed made us
light-headed. Festivities of the day were vory
varied, a ioug list of sports, raoes, hurdle hops,
quoit matches, &0., the priooipal raoe, for a hand-
some trophy given by the Commissioner, being
won by Knox, with Log-fin second. A long
programme of dances was got through just
before seven o’olock. At lunch, Ministers Wright
and Dtbbs gave tbeir presence, the former,
however, was not quite right yet from his severe
iflness, and the speaking was done by Mr. Dibbs.
Catering would have been a great sucoesp, only for
the fact that, instead of the ordinary two-year old
chickens, the caterer had unfortunately made a
mistake and killed the valuable birds left at Botany
by Capt. Cook on his first visit. Railway officials
do not appear to be speech-makers—probably be-
cause they are in such a hurry, especially on the
Parramatta trains. So after Mr Downe had said
the Ministry had done a lot for them, Mr. Ritchie
that our railways are the best in the world, Mr.
Berners that we had so many millions of men and
money, and Mr. Townsend that he admired the
ladies, the railway officers once more sought the
giddy dance or the sylvan shades and their best
girls. And, about dusk, puff! puff! home.
m * m
Chatsworth, the reeidenoe of Mr. C. J.
Roberts, M.P., C.M.G., is one of the most delight-
fully situated houses in Potts Point, and few can
surpass it in any of th« suburbs of Sydney. Re-
cently, extensive additions have been made; a
bllliard-ro in, 80ft. by 18ft., has been built behind
the dining-room; and over this, and extended
across the broad drive, supported by massive et'mo
columns, a ball-room, 50rt. by 30ft. and 22ft. high,
has been erected. On Monday last, about 700 ladles
and gentlemen acoepted Invitations for the open-
ing ball, and moat brilliant was the sight. The
entrance is from Wylde-street. The drive was
lighted with large Chinese lanterns, and at every
angle through the winding path which leads down
the garden to the water's edge the lights in lan-
terns of every colour glittered. One one terrace,
a summerhouse beguiled the danoers; onanother.
young couples admired the gorgeous foliage in a
conservatory. Lower still was a fernery, also well
patronised; and on the lawn, nearly on a level with
the harbour, a Jargo marquee was erected. The
band of the Permanent Force discoursed sweet
music, and the Hashing rays from the Boutb
Head lighthouse shed a special lustre around.
Looking upwards from the garden, the scene
was very picturesque; through every window
and door might be seen gaily-attired ladles
moving amongst ferns, statues, and lights In
the broad verandah, on the staircases, and in
the rooms of the bouse; above, the balcony—
which surrounds the water-front of Chatsworth -
was enclosed with curtains, through which the
lamps shone brightly. This balcony was trans-
formed Into a supper-room. Within, the scene
was gay, indeed; from half-past eight the arrivals
began and continued uninterruptedly until past
teD. The ball-room is entered on the eastern side
from the terrace, and also from the corridor; at
the former doorway the host and hostess received
their guests. The terrace, which served as a
lounge between the dances, has a floor in imitation
of gray granite: it is furnished with handsome
seats ot cast-iron, decorated with palms and other
Slants, well-lighted, and fitted with Venetian
linds—the iron railings and supports, in dark
maroon and gold, are very handsome. The ball-
roomlpresented a magnificent sight. The guests
inoluded the celebrities of Sydney and notabilities
from all seotions of society. The ladles were
handsomely dressed, and as they moved to the
graoeful strains of the slow waltz, the brilliant
colours of their robes.refleoted in the mirrors gave
a couv d'a’U of rare gorgeousness and splendour.
The hall itself is probably the finest of its kind
attached to anv private residence in New South
Wales. It is fifty feet in length, by a width of
thirty feet, and decorated in a style hitherto
hardly attempted in private architecture in Aus-
tralia. At the north end is the music gallery,
whioh on this occasion was tenanted by Mr. Hodge
and a baud of picked musicians. Dancing was kept
up with spirit until 3 a.m., and of the Hundreds
present every one endorsed Sir John Robertson's
words, as, in proposing the health of the host and
hostess, he thanked them for their splendid hospi-
tality, referred to the mansion as an ornament to
the capital of N.8.W., and wished them long life to
enjoy the beauties of their borne, and many more
opportunities of sharing these pleasures with the
guests who had so delighted in the entertainment.
Certainly the Ist of September will be a red-
letter day in many a young Jady's oalendar.
The hostess was attired in a handsome light blue
satin, embossed in light blue velvet, with long
train and blaok Spanish aie draperies; her
three yomhful daughters in white tulieover white
silk. A handsome leader of society in black
laoe and Jet over blaok satin, with bodioe cut low
and short sleeves, looked extremely well, her band-
some shoulders and arras showing to perfection.
The hostess wore pale blue satin covered with
blaok Spanish laoe. Lady Hay wore black, as also
did Lady Robertson; Mrs. G. R. Dibbs, black satin
and sprays of flowers; Mrs. T. Burdekin, cream
and pale blue; Mrs. Devlin, a handsome salmon
pink dress; Mrs. Garran, blaok, and white lace;
Miss Dit be, black net; Miss E. Robertson, ligbt
blue; Miss Q. Eagar, blaok net cooped up with
roses, and the upper skirt covered with cardinal
pompons; Miss E. B. Smith, pale blue striped satin;
Miss Parkes, cream satin; Mrs. Russell Barton,
blaok and maize; Miss Alexander, a pretty pale
pink costume; Miss Maolean, a rather sombre
royal blue; Miss Neill, pale pink and cardinal;
Mrs. Neill, black satin; and Miss Mackenzie, a
handsomo heliotrope broebe. A recent bride ap-
peared in a stylish cream satin; and a pretty little
damsel with dark hair from a marine suburb,
was greatly admired; her fister in pale green
net looked attractive. A very elegant black
satin, made with stomacher and flounces of
gold tissue with peacock’s eyes, was very lovely.
A silver grey satin, embossed in rose colour, had
Bleeves composed of.a network of pearls, also the
plastron worn over the bodice; very handsome
jewellery. A rich black lace dress had facings of
cardinal satin kiltings, and was draped with black
net sprinkled with cardinal chenille pompons. A
light blue satin worn high to the neck was made with
Elizabethan stomacher, and bansomely trimmed
with peacock and gold tissue. Black costumes
were endless in variety and magnificence. A
crushed strawberry saMn, with dcru lace drapery
and flounces, was tasteful; also a coral pint, with
laoe trimmings. A classic-featured debutante was
muoh admired, and wore white satin and silver
flounced all round, pointed bodioe, with garniture
of water-lilies and terns—pronounced by many to
bo the belle. Another white satin had draperies
of white chenille pompom net, with waterfall
back. The wife of a member of Parliament wore
an extremely handsome dress of French grey,
brocaded in velvet of geranium pink. An uncom-
mon dress was a fawn-coloured satin, the trim-
mings of which were lined with coral piuk,
and the whole set off with fringes of pearls.
A black lace, with here and there little
satin facings peeping out, was trimmed with
bunches of told grapes. A light-blue satin,
with ostrich feather trimmings in same shade, was
worn with high Elizabethan collar opening to the
over white laoe. Extremely beautiful was a
white lisse trimmed with gold, and worn over
white satin. A heliotrope saun flounced with black
lace was adorned with flowers to match the satin.
And there was a white satiß. with white jet and
lace flounces; also, one with skirt made in broad
box pleats, with swansdown ruflles between ;oach
pleat. A great many of the dresses may have
been haßdsome at one lime, but the wearers ev-
dently took into consideration the crowded state
of the ball-room, and reserved themselves for a
time when their finery would have a better show.
m • »
The Cyclists’ Union had a lovely afternoon
for their races, and, considering counter induce-
ments on all sides, a very fair attendance of visi-
tors. The chairs placed all a'ong the straight run
and along by the wianing post were much appre-
ciated by ladies, though some preferred the sunny
tei races because of the higher ground. The racing
Helds were unfortunately small, anc, after a
couple of spills early in the day, there was an
element of apprehension in spectators’ minds as
the competitors came whizziug round the sharp
corners, at the idea of risky fails on such a hard
surface. A great deal has been done to the truck
to improve it. Sweet musio was given by the
Naval Brigade band, and the young cyclists con-
st*,ntly evoluting on their glittering wheels in the
(For coutlouatioa of Bcoiab, see next pa#*'}


In his banquet speech, Sir ’Enry used the
pronoun “ 1 ” (or “ Hi ”) exactly 203 times.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
lias: and iloral decorations. ttOf Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Catarrh or the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint, 8
eured by “ Buchu-paioa.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney. General Agents.
China at war with France 111 It may be
well to remember ' hat a charming view of China—
or, rather, chinaware—including dining sets and
chamber sets of infinite variety—may be had at
the well-known crockery establishment of Brav
Brothers, W 2 and Wl Georgo-etroet.* ’ :
‘jentW iof the green lawn kept up an Interest in the
ice**;. A large number of ladies was present,
jb*St they mo-tly sat during the afternoon, in pre-
ference to griuuiug their dainty boots in the san '
Bennett's bri liaut riding w>*s the feature of the
jay; he seems to be all wind and wire. To win a
one-mile tricjolu, ten-miles biaycle. and three-
tniies bicycle races in two hours must be called a
good feat. All Was over in good time, and a most
pleasant afternoon was spent.
. • •* *
Tam worth’s fourth, and last, Winter party
was held in the Oddfellows’ Hall on Thursday
eveniug. It differed lrom the preceding parties
by being fancy dress optional although tbo
majority came in ordinary evening dress: still,
enough came in fancy to make a pleasant change.
The oeileship was decidedly carried away by a lady
(from New England, in cream satin and broohe. A
“Daughter of the Uegiment ” and a bewitching
Hittle “Nancy Lee” divided the honours among
the fancy fair; but there was nothing original or
■tartling—"Spauish Lady,” ” Mother Hubbard"
(very good), “ Shepherdess,” “ Sootoh Lassie."
“Quakeress,”“AmbulanoeNurso,”&o.; "Soldier,”
“ bailor,” “ Policeman,” “ Fisherman," " Foot-
baller,” and “Cricketer” have all been seen at
scores of balls. Two sisters from Attunga, as
usual, looked charming in handsome dresses of
heliotrope and white. Being the last, more people
were at this party, alth ugh some faoes were
missed; and it was kept up later, the room not
being clear until about four o'clook. The Tam-
worth ventlemen have the girls’ thanks. They can
have the * Iris themselves by asking.
•m l *
The plain and fancy ball inaugurated by
the storekeepers of Armidale was much yearued
for, and was very gay and picturesque when it
oame. Promenading before the dunoing began
showed off the pretty costumes, and both stage
and balcony of the Town Hall were thronged with
spectators. The dancing lasted from 9 till 4 30. The
trio ot ladies most ad mired wore Harvest, Fairy,
and Young Australia. Harvest wore white satin
aDd nun's-veiling: skirt looped with minature
wheac-sheaves encircled with small reaping-hooks.
Fairy, ia white and spangles. Young Australia
wore a dark blue bodioe a"d skirt, adorned with
Australian flowers, and the Australian coat-of-
<arms worked in crewels on her costume. A good
many arms of coats were also worked round her
costume during the evening. A Highland Lassie,
»*nd a dark lady as a Mexican Gipsy were
also much admired. A fair lady from Beardy-
street, wore green satin as the Colleen Bawn, and
looked nice;, r and a Jady Gymnast danced well.
Two sisters (Tom Dumaresq-street, as Ivy Girl and
Comiug-through-tbe-Rye, were attractive: and a
fair lady, in pale-blue satin and silver stars, from
Barney-street, appeared as a worshipful Starlight.
Amongst other characters were Urania, Soubrette,
Spanish Lady, Night, Patchwork, Huntress, and
Mrs. spoopendyke. The gentlemen likewise were
varied and interesting. At one o'clook, adjourn-
ment was male to the supper-tables, under care of
Mrs. Pitkin: the musio was from a good trio, and
the bad satisfactory.
* * *
A series of Winter parties having been
Bflven by Dachelors at Newcastle, the young ladies,
after muoh grateful consideration of the benefits
they had reoeived, issued prettily designed invita-
tious for a complimentary party to the bachelors,
which tooß place in the Protestant Hall on Friday.
By 9 o'olock, 54 couples were present. The hall
was tastefully decorated with ferns, evergreens,
and flags; a pretty casket of ferns and flowers
stood on each window-sill, and the platform was
carpeted. As each gentleman entered, he was
presented with a button-hole by one of the com-
mittee, a lady. The whole affair (except four mar-
ried man>erg of ceremonies) was carried out by
ladies; hi presidents being Mrs. T. Claok and
Mrs. J. C. Ellis, and the committee Misses M.
Ash, E. Thomas (hon. see), E. Hickinbotbam
(hou. treasurer), and H. Hall; and they were aJi
distinguished by wearing bouquets of violets and
snowdrops. It was ;tne first party the ladies
had given in Newoastles, and exceedingly
pleasant. There were 23 danoes on the programme,
one beiug a set of lancers for ladies only, who
muBthavo practised, for those who took gentle-
mans parts never made a mistake. Forty-eight
ladies danced, and the gentlemen gathered on the
platform and watohed Among the company, a
few of the most conspicuously hand ome dresses
were—Miss Thomas, m a beautiful black velvet,
and pale blue bows and glove*; Miss Hickin-
botbam, white India muslin and lace, pink belt:
Miss Crver, a pretty blue satin and llama: Miss
F. Beeston, a white lustre skirt, and ruby
velvet bodice; Miss H. Hall, a [nice cream
oashmere, with cream satin ribbons and blue
gloves: Miss Lipman, red velvet bodice, pink
dress; Miss M. Ash, a charming white india muslin
and pale-blue bows; Miss Niokisson, a pink llama
and broohe: Miss M. Htckinbotham, cream india
muslin and lace, also cardinal and pink bows. Miss
Hays old gold satin was rich; and Miss Leneren
wore a simple madras muslin of cream; Miss A.
Hall wore oream cashmere skirt richly trimmed
with cream satin, of which the well-titting bodioe
was made. Light refreshments arranged in a
tasteful manner, and good music, helped to make
the ladies’ party a pleasant as well as graceful
oomplimqnt to the bachelors of Coalopolis.
• • *
A large number put in an appearance at
the Gundagai Quadrille Assembly, which, as i was
the final, toe committee decided should be in fancy
dress. The energetic secretary worked success-
fully, and elaborate and tasteful costumes were
not wanting. Pretty “Nancy Lee ” was much ad-
mired; bersister, the “Duchessof Gainsborough,”
waltzed divinely, and never waited long for part-
ners. Mona Cottage and Greeudaie Park were
both well represented—the former by “Snow,”
who seemed warm enough to thaw the hearts of
the local mashers: and the latter by a vivacious
“ Chinese Lady.” A married lady was charming as
a “ Highland Lassie.” Amongst other nice dresses
were those representing “Court Lady,” “Snow,”
&3. One of the gentlemen was a “Naval Officer ”
—evidently more accustomed to the land than to
the sea. Others were a “ Miller,” “ Cadet,” “ Foot-
baller,” “Sailor,” and “Buuthorne.” The ladies
give a return fancy dress ball to the gentlemen on
the 26th September.
** * *
On Thursday last, Mr. A. A. Hunt, the
well-knowu bicyclist, was banqueted by his oon-
freres of the Wanderers’ Club, at Baumann’s
rooms. A capital spread was given, and speeches
were made. Me. Hunt and his lather go home by
the Indus Bachelors’ bali at Mulgrava (Q.) last
month; and at Gyrnpie, the Masomo ball was a
grand success.’....Last week, the stonemasons'
Society of Syduey had a picnic at Clontarf, which
place seems still to attract those spirited young
men who first rendered it famous. However, after
the police had “run in” a lew of them, “every-
thing passed off very successfully.” To-morrow
(Friday) tne Socials at Tattersail’s will hold their
last dance but one, the final being ia the shape of a
grand soiree on Sept. 19th—To-morrow (Friday)
a private soiree takes place in the Town Had,
P tersham, which the gentlemen who have pro-
moted it expect to be a most enjoyable affair. As
the last train to Sydney leaves Petersham at a
quarter past midnigut, they propose to keep it
up till auout 5 o clock In the morning Dr.
James M Leod, who has just passed iirst-ciass
examinations at Edinburgh University, is son of
Mr. Jonn M Leod, building contractor of Sydney,
whose daughter was married a fortnight ago.
Having seen his son and daughter so well started
in life, Mr. M’Leod has now nothing left on his
mind except the trifling matters of building us a
new Post Ofli.e an i a new Town Hall. .. A Skating
Rink bad was held in Adelong on Wednesday, ana
Was one of the nicest? assemblies seen there. Three
ladies were pre eminent among the collection of
mountain beauties; a doctor’s wife in white, and
two demoiselles, a int. Horeb brunette and a blonde
from Hospital Hill, respectively. Music by simp-
-8008, of Tuinut and Mrs Hodgson provided a
choice supper, rtkatieg has been so successful at
Braidwood, that it is proposed to end the season
witn a competition, and give prizes for the best
fanoy skaters One of the largest pionics ever
held in Bourke took piaoe List Wednesday, over
«X) persona attending, by Cobb's coaches, other
vehicles, and steamer Elsie. It was a public holi-
day. ... Musio is besoming plentiful in Bydney. On
Thursday afternoon last, the City Band gave a
concert in Wynyard-souare. On Saturday, the
Ne'son band played in the Gardens before a large
audience; another band at the Zoo; the Naval
Brigade at the cycling sports; the Artillery band
played on Hand wick Kacecourse; and the North
Shore band gave its first performance on St Leo-
nards Reserve. The Young Australians are en-
larging their band. And there is the Salvation
Army—we had nearly forgotten that Mr. H
Prince (Prince, Ogg, and Co.) was entertained at a
rechercht little supper in Baumann’s rooms on
Friday night by a few intimeis. Only ten of them,
and they expressed their warm wishes for his hap-
piness in a new mode of life Next vvednesday
will be a great day in Mudgee, when the railway
opens and a grand banque will be held. The town
has made elaborate preparations, and advantage
will be taken of tee influx of visitors to have fes-
tivities on all hands. A large number am going
from Sydney. On Thursday, a plain and fancy
ball in the railway *hed, to bo lit with cas. Both
ball and banquet deoorations, lighting, &c , are all
under Mr. K. D ToUernaohe, the managing genius
of the Compagnont Catering Co Sydney foot-
ballers entertained at a ball in Albert Hall, Bris-
bane on Monday night... .Echo says that on
Derby Day “the best and most tastefully dressed
people present were the jockeys.” Not strictly
true: but the jockeys had the least illusive figures.
Bodalla Oddfellows had a ball aid supper lately,
to mark their anniversary. The dav was fin a . or,
as the Exaiunbr putsit, “ gentle Zephurus sweetly
lulled Dame Nature to rest as old Sol departed
from the soene.” A well-churned sentence
Seine hundreds of invitations we e issued for a
complimentary ooncert in the Deaf. Dumb, and
Blind Asylum on Newtown-road, last Monday.
There was a large gathering, Dr. A. Itanwick,
president, being chairmaln; and M. Willimoff and
Mr. C. Hueoerbein, the Vernon band, and several
amateurs contributed musio. Some of the blind
pupils rendered exquisite music. Mr. Ellis Robiu-
son, who has been hon. secretary for 31 years,
was presented with some valuable gifts, in re-
cognition of hts generous services for so long
At the Dunedin baby show, 140 sweet sucklings
were entered. It’s a fine climate at Dunedin..
On Thursday. Mr. L. M. Oakes was married in the
Wesleyan Church. Parramatta, to Miss A. H.
Geeves. In the middlo of the sacred oeremony,
the bride's beautiful nose commenced to bleed.
As Mrs. Malaprop said, the ways of Providence are
unscrupulous —Alderman Taylor, of Parramatta,
objects to money being voted to fit up the Town
Hall for theatrical purposes. Alderman Booth
protests there ought to be a piano, some scenery,
and a looking-glass for the ladies’ dressing-room.
Alderman Taylor replies: “They don t want one,
they look in the gentlemen’s faces.” No! Wo
don’t believe Parramatta girls could do that ..
Next Monday night, being the last of the season,
the Woollahra Skating Rink will consider whether
to continue for four weeks more. A number of
skaters desire it ...Newcastle Liedertafel has a
social meeting to-nigbt.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“A A.”: Thanke, but late. We noticed the festi-
vities a fortnight ago “Moree": Thank you,
names always confidential ...“A M.H.”: Alto-
gether too trivial “H J.V.”: Roughly writ-
ten, you say, Yes, too roughly. Write again
when there are any items, but smoothe the
stylo. ..”Nimrod”: Much obliged....” K.D.M.”:
Thanks.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lady Loftus’ Reception (Govt. House) Sept. 5.
Union Club Ball (Exhibition) September 6.
Amateur Dramatic Performance (School of
Arts, Balmain) 5.
E.S.A.A. Club Sports September a.
Railway Ball (Exhibition) September 8.
Manly Wildfiower Show September 11,13,13
Bachelors' Assembly (Nitbsdale) September 13.
Petersham Social. September 13.
Masonio Ball (Town Hall) September 13.
Vaudeville Quadrille Club Ball (Tat-
tersairs) September 13.
Suburban B.C. Sports September 13.
Annual Railway Ball (new Masonic
Hall) S( ptember 36.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—As I have before remarked
to you, when a man of merit is fortunate enough
to earn popularity in Sydney, he is safe-quito safe
—for, granted that tue Sydneyites are slow to ac-
knowledge talent, still, when once their eyes are
open, their appreciation is as keen as it is liberal.
This was plainly demonstrated the other night,
at Herr Max Vogrich's concert in the Exhibition
Building; for I do not remember ever having aeon
so large an audience at a benefit concert in Bydney
before. And this is the same Max Vogricn who
used to play pianoforte solos at the Wilhelmj con-
certs, some years back; and there were only a few
of us amongst the shamefully thin audiences who
foresaw that the melancholy-looking pianist had a
brilliant future before him. And it was neither his
sad face nor his long hair which imbued us with
the conviction that he was something out of the
common; not at all, though Ned used to declare it
was. He was so certain of this, that for a tow
weeks he actually cultivated a sad visago and
allowed his hair to grow long; but when he found
that he was never by any chance mistaken for
either poet, musician, nor Lewis Scott, he gave
It up as a bad job, and became himself again.
But, about the concert. Of course, the chief
interest was oentred on Madame Vogrich, who
appeared in a rich ivory silk dress combined with
cerise satin. The front width was entirely of the
satin, ana the long handsome train of the silk. A
diamond ornament sparkled in her hair, and l
assure you, dear, she looked splendid. Lady and
Miss Allen wore black: so did Mrs. Gilles, but the
latter lady’s was enlivened by bunches of pink
feathers on the corsage. Little Miss Gilles looked
very pretty in a tasteful cream frock and her
beautiful hair flowing loosely down h- r back. I
admired very much a dress of ruby plush, made
quite plain, and worn without a single ornament
of any kind. These rich materials are so much
better left alone to their own handsome simplicity.
Mrs. Kingsmill Shaw wore a cream-ooloured
dress, but I wasn’t near enough to distinguish the
material. Whatever it was. it suited her admir-
ably. A most peculiar dress was of brown and
yellow check in a very largo pattern—rather out
of place foracoocert-hail, I think, though ’twou d
have been effective enough for a walking
dress. The building, being fearfully draughty,
compelled many to cover their handsome toilettes
with clouds or opera cloaks. Of the latter a very
handsome one was composed entirely of pale blue
silk ohenille, and I very much doubt whether the
dress it covered would h ive looked half as pretty l
Madame Kellermann's dress was black velvet, wiih
black feather trimmiDgs. A white Elizabethan
collar, edged with pearls, made u nice finish to the
toilette. I was surprised to soe so many long
trains worn, and I am sure I was not singular lu
thinking it so wiokedly careless to allow them to
trail on the sanded floor, just as if silk and satin
were to be got for nottiing. Such vulgar, extra-
vagant wastefulness is truly abominable. I know
it is unnecessary for me to ted you anything of
the music, as you will learn all about that else-
where. Madame Vogrich had several floral tro-
phies presented to her, one of which was a basket
of pure white flowers, and which was handed to
her by a very young but devoted admirer.
Tho Metropolitan Liedertafel concert, which was
held in the Protestant Hall on Friday night, was
almost as well attended as used to be the 8. Liedvr-
tafel when held in the same ha 1. Thire is no
denying tho fact that Herr Alpen has some rough
material to work up >n, so it is hardly fair to com-
pare the efforts of the baby Liedertafel with iis
not very ancient parent. But In order to make up
for any shortcomings on tne part of the chorus, I
do think it would be wise to get the very best
soloists the city can provide to assist. Now, with
all due respect to my dear friend, the oonduotor.
I can't help thinking be lacked judgment In his
choice; but l may be wrong in accusing him, for
it is just as likely that it was somebody else's fault.
But the fact of the matter is, we are just a little
bit tired of each of Giammona’s three songs, and
Madame Morz is only enjoyable when in her best
voi e, and she wasn’t on this occasion. Mr.
Hinchy I always like in a simple ballad, but the
“Message” is out of his style in his second solo
ho was more successful; and. as for Mr. Reginald
Toms—why, a man who can play well and doesn’t,
should be treated like a naughty boy, i.e., he
should be whipped and stood in a corner. Miss
Palmer pleased us very much by her clever piano-
forte playing, and I was so glad she was encored.
She has a splendid memory, and is evidently
a careful student. Herr Alpen’a new vocal waltz
was warmly received, which was not surprising,
as it is, liko all his compositions, extremely pretty,
t noticed in the small orchestra that young Smith
played flrst violin, and in the waltz he has a short
cadenza all to himself, and which, by the way, he
played with the coolness and ease which always
characterise his playing. The laughing chorus
was very Infectious, for there was an old lady
sitting next us wtio did nothing but laugh for the
rest of the evening, and was very much disgusted
when the < ondu tor refused to answer the encore.
It was not strictly a full dress audience, as many
wore their bonnets and even hats, and oh! tee
Protestant Hall is so dismal than even when the
dresses are nice they don’t show to advantage.
There is one thing I noticed about the singers
which, though it seems trifling, is more effective
than you would think. It is this. They all wear
their waistcoats cut alike, and showing exactly the
same amount of shlrt-fron . Now tho Melbourne
Liedertafel do this, but not so the Sydney Li°der-
tafel, but if they knew how much nioer it looks
they would, I am sure. I suppose they think if
they can please the oar, it matters nothiDg for the
eye, but it does, dear boys-it does.
I have heard something good about Miss Lydia
Hastings again. Last Wednesday, just as she was
about to open her “voice building" olass in the
Arcade, one of her pupils (Mr. T. Slooombe) sud-
denly arose, and, after a short speech, presented
her on behalf of the class with a purse of sove-
reigns and an engraved complimentary address
oonveying expressions of thanks and appreciation
for the benehts received under her tult on. I be-
lieve, in this case, the recipient was really and
truly taken by surprise, but she had sufficient
command over herself to make a neat but expres-
sive speech. The lady is evidently a great favour-
ite with her pupils, for she has had several presen-
tations during the past year.
Somebody—l don’t know who—has sent, me a
copy of the “ Itaadwiok Galop,” composed by Miss
Essie Thomas, and dedicated to the Mayoress. It
is not a very ambitious composition, but at the
same time it is pretty, and I have seen far, far
worse galops in print, and composed by men, too.
It opens thus:—
vflfcl THE RAKgWJCK &U3P-55*-
Now, I like to see a girl possessing sufficient cour-
age to place her own compositions before the
public; and I hope Miss Thomas will not stop at
the “ Randwick Galop.”
You complain that you have no day-time amuse-
ments but tennis and croquet, and wish me to
suggest something for you ? Well, I wonder you
don't follow that now fashionable pastime, “ama-
teur photography ” Ido not think it is very
difficult to learn the art, and just think what a
fund of enjoyment there must b© in it. General
Bennett, who is manager for Tuttle and Co., tells
me that they manufacture what they call the
‘ dry plates,” which go a loDg way towards facili-
tating photography, besides saving the fingers
from getting stained. He showed me how they
were made, but, although it was like A.B C. to
him, I confess I felt about as wise as ever when he
had told me all about it. But men take a delight
in puzzling silly girls, and I do believe they just
do it in order to show off their superior intellect.
But, anyhow, you just invest in a small camera,
and send to Tuttle’s for some of th»ir “dry plates,”
and I have no doubt, if you make a study of pho-
tography, you will not need to complain of want
of employment again in a hurry.
We are all impatience for to-morrow night, when
we are to hear Mr. and Mrs. Radcliff in the old
Masonic Hall. If only the stupid people who don't
go the concert knew what a treat they will have
missed, they would never forgive themselves. I
hope, for the credit of Sydney, the attendance will
be what it ought to be.
I have promised to go out with Edith, to help
her choose a new bon< et for the Eastern Suburbs
Amateur Athletic Club sports which are to be held
at the Association Ground, on Saturday next, and
to which everybody means to go-go by-bye, dear.
Yours ever,
MAB.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondent who give either name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication noticed .]
“ Mdn.” : You omit to send the dippings,
so that we can’t readily follow you. Anyway, we
are glad that >ho article should cause the subject
to be th u«bt 0ut....“C.C.”: Will r«.ad and con-
sider. Anyhow, your “Explosion in Fairyland”
is the first we have heard of since Oberon “ blew
up” Titania—“ Donald Dinnie”: Too late for
det lied notice. Will deal with the matter next
week ..“Musious”: It was a mistake. Herr
Vogrioh is oanduotor of the Sydney Liedertafel,
not the Metropolitan; the latter is the junior
society. Madame Vogrich is a native of Ballarat
not stawell....“lt.M.": Thanks; next woek. ..
“Maude”: Thoughtful as ever, and welcome as
ever. We have several accounts, but this is also
serviceable....“ Cosmos”: We are not aware that
Andersen would accept a C.M.G.-sbip. He might
think it beneath him..,.“ J.P.”; We have heard
the rumour that Parkes is to lead one Roman
Catholic and Anglican combination against the
Education Act. Probably premature....“ Happy
Jack": Sir Henry Parkes’ local co-directors in the
Investment Society he has floated are Messrs.
Flood, James Watson, and Ebenezer Vickery ...
“ Dignity ”: You are mistaken. We do not object
to the Queen conferring the Order of the Garter
on the kid, Prince George of Wales. And we don’t
suppose Her Majesty would cure greatly if we did.
Our idea is that the more ridioulous such trumpery
distinctions are made by the manner in which they
are distributed, the better it will be for the chances
of a reaction to common sense. We maintain that
no one can oonfer honour upon an unworthy
object. What has the boy done more than your
own son, that he should be held un for reverence ?
....“Anxious": Not a bit of it. There is no small-
pox scare outside the S. M Hkkalo and other
sensational journals. Possibly Parkes and Stuart
feel a trill- anxious. But then, not everyone has
so much beauty to spoil “Bu*hmau” <Ara-
mac): w e don t know exactly how Ara-
mao came by its name. We have heard a
tradition that, it was in honour of R R
Mackenzie, once Premier of Queensland, ‘ and
who subsequently suooeeded to a Scottish baro-
netcy as Sir Robert R. Mackenzie. R. R Mac. vou
hear. There s another yarn about “Arrah Mac "
• Sundowner”; The composition of shanty rum’is
a dead secret. Inquire of any ghost you may see
hanging around a b*t of a mound near any track
within twenty miles of a shanty. All ghosts of
that sort know about it.
It is rumoured in Washington that Dr
Mary Walker has deolared, “once lor a11,,’ that she
“will wear trousers or nothing-.” This is exactly
the attitude assumed just now by a set of English
ladies, who refuse to pay taxes because they can’t
vote. J
Says Parkes, if you oannot carry on a
Government by reason and argument, and by a
fair meeting of votes, you must carry it out by
means that you dare not allow to see the light by
cajolery, manoeuvring, promising to meet this
wish and that other wish, promises to serve this
little interest and that other little interest. Inti-
mate acquaintance with how it is done enables Sir
poiuts to Bpeak witb authorlt y on these measley
“The three daughters of the Prince and
Princess of Wales are verging into young lady-
hood, and yet their lives seem to remain as stag-
nant as that of the world around them,” remarks a
home paper. “ The Princess Victoria, the second
daughter, attained the age of IB recently, and has
appeared in the Park for the first time with her
hair gathered up. instead of floating on her shoul-
ders, after the sohool-girl fashion in which it has
hitherto been worn. Of the three girls, the Prin-
cess v ictoria seems to possess the greatest sense of
authority. She is taller than her sister, of more
deoisive countenance, and has brighter i yes. She
is said to resemble the Queen more than the
other children, both in appearance and character.
The Princess Louise is, like the Princess Alice,
gentle and thoughtful; and they sav at court that it
is by her own wish that her ’coming out ’ has been
retarded till next season. Bhe is timid and re-
served, and dreads the criticism of publicity.*’ *
In the English Chancery Court a suit, Le
®?»v v \ 'Y‘ )lch ’ ° as been brought to assert plain-
tiff s right to a commercial monopoly in an “im-
proved masher collar.” The masher collar, pro-
perly so called, is, we venture to think, one of
uncompromising rigidity and undeviating regu-
larity of shape, rising like a castellated fence
round tbe neck of the heroic wearer. J3ut the
plaintiff, Le May, bad introduced what mu-t be
characterised as a base subterfuge for relieving
the wearer -of the agony caused by the orthodox
collar. He devised a scheme for cutting away two
corners, so as to allow “a hole for the chin to
c S m^ th / o i ,firh -" That the ingenious inventor
should find enough mashers, or quasi- mashers
ready to buy this article and earn their title
cneaply, without enduring the purgatory of the
uncut collar, perhaps argues some degeneracy in
the masher of the period. We have placed this
par. under the heading of Woman Items s a com-
pliment to the gushing young things known as
masners.
him over with broken bottles, empty jam-tins, and
logs of wood, and left in order to claim their just
reward. Unfortunately for the success of the
scheme, however, Master Douglass, alth'-ugh he
had been over twenty hours buried, was not quite
dead when his parents, led on by the meek little
Murphy and the mild little Georgie, found him
and the result was that all the reward this inge-
nious couple got was a visit to the nearest look-
up. At the examination. Master Murphy end-a-
-bc>lF the blame on Master Steeden,
Sthi u s,?®°.**® a]l he did w « 8 to hold
wm? inmi ® l efr ? while Stephen covered his head
lliimps of stopps, bits o’ wood, an’ things.”
Nothing more devilish can be conceived, and the
future career of these juvenile Nichols and Lesters
will (when they get out of gaol) be watched with
considerable interest by every parent within a
radius oi I 0 miles of their lively district. Master
Douglaes is better, but it will be some time before
the Minstrel shows will be honoured by the pa-
Mar, “‘ y “ d «°° d
“ The world knows nothing of its greatest
JFF' aD n P l ’ ecioUB httle about its worst boys,
either. Pecks bad boy Hennery is rough
enough at times, but for thorough villa-nvlitfle
Stephen Murphy and Georgie Steeden agediine
years a-piece, taae not only the cake, but the
whole bakery establishment from ail comers It
appears that these two young London geniuses
found themselves rather short of the wherewithal
to supply themselves with ginger-bread cakes, sour
apples and ice-creams when it suddenly struck little
Georgie that people sometimes received la>ge re
wards for finding dead bodies. This was at once
hailed as a happy thought by the enterprisiug pair
especially when Master Murphy rtmembereri th n ;
’«w° k ?n Ce a of a * eller wotgot flvTpoun’ fur
awkin a dead furriner out o’ th’ river.” “ Five
P 0 ! 1 * 1 > exclaimed little Georgie; “my bloomirP
oath, couldn’t a cove get heaps o’ jani tarts an’
?il n ?? r *G® er '< an . tickets for th’Minstrel shows with
that lot/ \ isions of a pastrycook's heaven with
burnt-cork cherubim aud seraphim doiftp “ chib ”
business between the feeds, at once flashed hefnr*
the delighted children’s eyes, and they were up to
their ears in the Joys of antici nation wh .V, Y?
struck little Georgie that, they hadn’t got a corpse
Master Murphy immediately suggested they should
make one. Master Steeden »ald he knew a kid
named Harry Douglass, who was three years old
and ought to make a stunner. So they went for
jittle Hjirr.v aud stunned him with a brick-bat
Then Uu? Jabbed h-m a dust-bin^


Political
Points
The proprietor of a London journal says
he can get three men to write In favour of Henry
George’s ideas to one man against them. That one
Is employed, and the three have no opportunity to
write on this question.
When Denmark ordered its magnilioent
field-artillery from Krupp, of Essen, the latter
asked Bismarck whether he would be permitted
to undertake the order. Bismarck replied, “By all
means, let them have the very best and dearest; I
can always fetch them in case I want them.”
Concerning the Parisian anti-German de-
monstration on fitc day, the Pali, Mali. Gazette
says : “ Whatever fuss a certain portion of the
German press may make about them, the Chan-
cellor and the majority of his countrymen have
long made up their minds that the wisest and
most dignified course is to ignore—and remember
them.”
As a tremendous lot of blue-lire and black
bile is being expended by the Sydney organs ot
bigotry Just now over the 13th of July celebra-
tion rows in Ireland, it is just M well that Dr.
Barry and Co. should be reminded that the Secre-
tary of Ireland, in answer to a question in the
Commons, stated that “ the only persons armed on
the oocasion wore Orangemen.’
Sir Henry Parkes informed a Rum re-
porter that propositions had been made to him to
take part iu an American Investment Company to
be formed in London. He also recounted how he
had been hob-nobbing with Jay Gould. Putting
this and that together, one gets a glimpse of the
probable truth. The ex-Chartist may yet be the
colleague of Jay Gould and Vanderbilt, and a
loading exponent of the Vanderbiltian sentiment,
"The people be damned.”
Thus the N. Y. Herald, re Lord Rose-
bery’s speoch:—“How could a committee, or any
other device, whether human or Paliamentary,
Improve the efficiency of a body at
sally admitted to be perfect/ This tribute at
least, is due to the House of Lords—that no idea of
imperfection has ever penetrated its conscious-
ness. Its members sit enthroned, like gods. They
do not debate: they enact. They take p oh ®®dof
terrestrial wants. The hum of the people scarcely
reaches their ears.”
The undergraduates of Oxford and Cam-
bridge. writing in their own journal, say: Were
Socialism allowed Its way, not only would every
tic calculated to maintain social order, every
affinity between class and class, be destroyed, but
the adoption of the theory of equality, however
oarefully hedged round with safeguards, would
oertainly result in the creation of a mass of loafers,
who would refuse to work on the plea that they
have a right to adequate maintenance.” The odd
thing about this is that the youngsters don t know
that the Booialist complains that the existing
system creates “a mass of loafers, suoh as nobles,
laud-owners, and annuitants, who refuse to work
on the plea that they have a right to adequate main-
tenance.”
Proputty! Proputty! At Devon Quarter
Sessions, a Mr. Halliday, the chairman, had before
him one John Dymond, charged with theft.
Dymond “had been left a widower with nine
children, the youngest only a week old. His
housekeeper robbed him ofbis small stook of
money, sold his goods, and put the children iu the
Work-house. He was ordered to tahe them out,
and they were all turned out on the street without
either food or money. They had to tramp nearly
one hundred miles, and, after four nights out of
doors, they were all starving; so the miserable
man took four ducks from a farm-yard. He had
been refused admission to three unions, therefore
it was literally a case of either helping himself or
of seeing his children die. He was sentenced to
five years’ penal servitude. No wonder that two
millions more of British democracy are clamouring
for votes.
Courbet has had luck at Foochow, his
bombardment of the arsenal having apparently
perfectly succeeded. So late as July 15 tne China
Mail wrote:—“The seizure of loochow by the
French must be looked upon as a very remote
oontingency. Fooohow would be about the most
difficult spot the French could select along the
whole coast. The entrance to the Min River is no
wider than the Lyeemoon pass, and magnificently
fortified. There is a very large Chinese army en-
camped on the hills at the entrance to the Min, and
a line of forts extend up to Pagoda Anchorage,
where the river becomes unnavigable for any but
the smallest gun-boats. If the French got their
fleet up to Pagoda Anchorage, they would have to
traverse fourteen miles of the river in boats
before they reaohed the city of I oochow, and this
would be an extremely perilous undertaking with
tho Chinese attacking from the hills on either side
of the river.”
Writes “Stepniak,” in To-Day :— “I must
nail to the pillory of European opinion a charac-
teristic example of the position of women in
Siberia, it happened to Olga Lioubatoyitqh, one
of the heroines of the ‘trial of the Fifty’ at
Moscow, where the Socialist propagandists gained
to so remarkable an extent the sympathy of the
public. On the 30th August, 1883, on passing
through Krasnoiarsk on tho way to her destina-
tion in Eastern Siberia, she was called before the
* isnravnik ’ (chief of the police of an arrondisse-
ment). who told her she must exchange her own
clothes for a convict dress. But as she was con-
demned to transportation by administrative order,
aDd not to hard labour, she had a right to wear her
own clothes. This she tried to explain to the
ispravnik. At her first words, however, he became
furious, and repeated that she must not only
change her dress, but do it there and then, in tne
bureau before everybody. To this most amazing
and unheard of intimation, Olga Lioubatovitch
answered by a categorical refusal. Then, at a sign
from the police-officer, his subordinates seized hold
of the prisoner in order to undress her by force.
A barbarous struggle ensued. This crowd of men
began to beat this women, to pull her hair and tear
off her olothes. So long as she kept her feet she
defended herself as best she could, but the chief of
the police by a violent kick felled her to the earth.
This is how she herself describes this infamy:- I
fell into a kind of stupor. I remember confusedly
how the heavy boot of the ispravnik struck my
chest. Someone was pulling my hair, another was
Striking my face with his fist; the rest were tear-
ing off my clothes, and at last, naked, crucified on
the floor, ia the presence of a crowd of men, I felt
all the shame and horror of a woman violated.
Frightened of their own deed, the cowards fled,
and when I recovered consciousness I saw around
me only my companions, pale as death, while
Fanny Moreiness was writhing in hysterical con-
vulsions.’ ”
“ The Lords,” remarks a London writen
“have been and gone and done it. They have
crossed the Kubioon and burned their boats, I
don’t know how wide the river was that separated
ancient Italy from Cisalpine Gaul, but the Rubi-
con the Lords passed when they did not pass the
Franchise Bill is a broad and swollen torrent, a
raging flood that they will n.ever get back across
again to the land they left. L? every peer were a
Webb and a Boyton rolled infcfi' one the task would
stili be impossible. Nothing can ever give tne
poor foolish peers their old position. I am sorry
that the old relic of baroarism., hereditary legisla-
tion, will have to go so soon. It was a link that
bound us to the dear old dark sa-res. Still, the great
sea of progress will not be sfaiyed. The old and
the useless structures that stand in the way of the
onward sweeping billows of refo rm must give way
at last and become the sport of '.the pitiless waves.
A coronet covered with muswls and limpets—a
robe caught in the seaweed—a bishop s mitre
battered and worn by the surge—these will be all,
perhaps, that future wanderers onthe 6hore where
the IJpper Chamber ono stood will find. The
silent sea will cover aU the re« . . . Nothing
incapacitates an hereditary legislator from decid-
ing the fate of the nation. A peer mav drive from
a prison, or be brought from a lunatic asylum, to
vote away the people's liberties. An absolute
idiot, incapablo of jabbering two ooherent words,
has if he is a peer of the realm, a right to sway the
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER—LESSON VIII.
R. stands for Rash. A man is said to be Rash
who un-der-takes more than he is a-ble to do.
The man in the pic-ture is a Rash man, be-cause
he has un-der-tak-en to clean a Syd-ney Po-lice-
man’s boots. All po-lice-men have big feet, and
that may be the rea-son why they walk so slow-
ly that the row is al-ways over be-fore they get
there. Once a po-lice-man chased a man with
two wood-en legs. The man turn-ed round a
cor-ner, and es-caped. A po-lice-man nev-er
keeps house; he finds it more con-ve-nient to
sleep on his beat, and eat cold meat pies thrown
to him from the back kit-chen win-dows. They
e-con-o-mise their time, and sleep with their
mouths open to catch the meat pies thrown at
them. Once, a naugh-ty, bad boy saw a po-
lice-man a-sleep, lean-ing a-gainst the lamp-
post, with his mouth o-pen. The boy threw a
cob-ble stone in the po-lice-man’s mouth, and
he be-gan to chew it. “What a lot o’ sand
there was in that one,” he mur-mur-ed sweet-ly
in his sleep. Po-lice-men seem to have a lot
of sen-ti-ment. I once saw one squeez-ing the
hand of a red-head-ed cook with one hand and
eat-ing a sav-e-loy with the other.
destinies of the nation. Tt is a ghastly farce hal-
lowed by thecenturies-this hereditary legislature.
It remains to be seen whether the grandest, the
most intelligent, and the wealthiest democracy in
the world will allow itself to be insulted by the
farce actors any longer.—
“ TO THE G.O.M.
“ The foolish Peers, undaunted still,
With daring hands throw out our bill;
Now, ’mid the people’s ringing cheers,
Our Bill will just throw out the Peers.
* * *
The title “Land Law Reform Alliance”
had a definite meaning which he who ran might
read and understand. “ Land Industrial League
means anything or nothing. . .In the Commons,
Mr. Labouchere said he thought the number of
Foreign Service messengers and their journeys
might be reduced. When be was serving under
sir Henry Bulwer at Constantinople, he calculated
that one box of pills sent out to Sir Henry, who
was nearly always ill, or imagined himself ill, cost
between £3OO and £3OO. He, had also known mes-
sengers to be employed simply to carry letters
i from the Queen to her German relatives on the
[ Continent To your tents, O Israel! The British
Franchise Bill has been scotched by thirty Peers
having voted one way instead of another, and they
and their confederates did this like silly lambs, in
obedience to a mandate promulgated by Dora
Salisbury in the dining-room of his town mansion:—
The Lords, with tearful elooution,
Seem anxious for Redistribution;
What if the people dry these tears,
By redistributing the Peers ?
An American jury recently found that a
drunkard “died by banging round amm shop. ’
Another returned a verdict of “suicide in the
ninth degree,’’ and a third, after debating on a
long oase involving a hog worth seven dollars,
came in, found the hog not guilty, and recom-
mended both plaintiff and defendant to the meroy
of the Court.
“ Hurroo! Th’ foight’s begun, an’ thare’s
owld Finnyookin’s bald head sthiokin’ outffthraight
forninst me.” Delicately alluding to the beggar
opposite, the Gymfib Mister says: “Our genial
friend over the way, who, by the way, looks like
a walking emetto, seems to be subject to an
occasional accumulation of bile, whioh not only
oozes through his skin and stagnates there to mud,
but he must squirt it over his neighbours. That
he should sympathise with those of his own class
was to be expected, and is, perhaps, the ono decent
trait in his character: but to loot for anything
approaching fair play or honest antagonism (of
course gentlemanly feeling is out of the question(
from such a source, why you might as well expect
to find the grace of God in a goat-house.” This is
good, condemned good, indeed: and now’s the
time for our “ genial friend over the way ” to rise
up in his wrath and say, “ The dirty cur that slings
filth for the Gympie Miner seems to be offended
because we possess brains enough to bring out a
really live paper, and he sobers up long enough to
give us a small quantity of the slime with which
his dirty, bloated, rotten, stinking, whisky-pre-
served carcase is filled. If he has anything ‘in ’ for
us, let him appoint a time and place to tire it off,
and we’ll be on hand to satisfy him. Now, you
wall-eyed, bandy-legged, cat-hammed, saveloy-
worrying son of a swamp angel reply to this, and
when you do, send us a copy containing your dirty
typhoid fever-breeding slush. D’ye hear that,
Ananias.” This is the style of the retort editorial,
as it’s slung in the Far North.
Simple Simon—we ben pardon—Professab
Simon is scooping in a pile by fingering the bumps
of the inquisitive men of Goulburn, and the ex-
tent of the maudlin smile on the fsoe of the gs’.not
who is told that he combines the wlffdo'm of a
Socrates with a passion for the ladies only equalled
by the late Mr. Brigham Young, or the present
Dan O’Connor, is only equalled by the scowl on
that of the important citizen who is plainly told
by the blindfolded Professor that his cocoanat
holds a star combination of all the bumps that
were peculiar to the he ids of Judas Iscariot, Ned
Kelly, Informer Carey, and the jackass-headed old
reptile who invented hurdy-gurdies. This, by the
way, reminds us of the man with mud in his ears
and whitewash on his pants who leaned over the
bar of the “Glucosers’ Rost” one day, and ob.
served: “Yes, sah: I’m a Iflzzyogenmist, an’ I ki n
tell a man’s trade by the out ov his face: an’ you
better believe I’ve got the money at home that’ll
second my remarks. Now, you there in the frowzy
shirt—you’re a painter; I know’d it soon ez you
kem is th' door.” “ Wonderful,” exclaimed the
party addressed: “if I hed a gift like that I’d make
neaps o’ money, an’ hev a shot fur a seat in Parlia-
ment. Was ho on to you, sir?” “He was,” re-
plied the man, who said, “ A little more bitters in
mine this time, Jorge;” “soon ez ever he see’d me
he steps right up, an’ sez, 1 Mate, you’re a hatter,’
an’ then I laid down right away. Not that I ever was
a hatter, but my first wife’s step-father's brother
was, which makes the allusion all the stranger.”
“By thunder! that’s wonderful,” returned the
man with the dirty shirt; “and I ain’t a painter,
either; but my wife made me whitewash the fowl-
house yesterday, an’ I s’pose that gives my face a
sort of hartistio hang. How d’ye do it, sir?"
“ Can’t explain it,” said the physiognomist; “but
I never fail. See that man loanin’ agin’ th’ filter
an’ feelin’ about fur more piokles? Well, that
feller’s a labourin’ man, an r drives a nocturnal
vehicle That's his business, an’ you better step
right aloDg an’ convinoe y’r elves that th’ science
can’t go wrong.” The man who wanted more
bitters in his started off, accosted the cold beef
and gherkin worrier, and returned radiant with
delight. “ Most curious thing I iver heard of in all
me life,” he observed, as he beckoned to “Jorge"
to set ’em up again; “ I nope I may be painted pea-
green if I can tell how you does it.” “ Struck it
agin, hev I?” chuckled the scientist; “ told y’so-
th’ thing can’t fail." “So it seems,” replied the
other: “ you get closer an’ closer every time. You
said that duffer overt here driv a night-cart, an’ I
wish I may die if he doesn’t own up that he’g
editor of a religious weekly paper. I’d give a
forchin t’ hev your gift, sir.” Just then the pro-
fessor thought he heard a man calling him outside,
and the siance ended.
This will interest the Sydney “Social
Purity Society.” The House of Lords has passed a
“ Bill for the better protection of young females"
from molestation. Of course the policeman lathe
man selected to carry out the work, and it is fair
to say of him that he is, at any rate, a better pro-
tector of young women than are the clergy, despite
the fact that now and then a “mimber av the
foorce” does get into trouble with the girl who
begins by handing him the cold meat ana bottled
stout at the back gate. But there is no real pro-
tection in lessening the responsibilities of girls and
women, and crippling their at present leebie op-
portunities of acquiring strength by independence
—to say nothing of adding to their already ample
opportunities or trumping-up a-j ainst men charges
in which the defendant’s chances of getting a lair
trial are prejudiced by the fact that they have
often only their mere statements to offer as against
the oath of a cunning woman, backed up by slight
corroborative evidence. The Bill passed bv the
dear, good Lords, makes it an offence punishable
by imprisonment to speak in the street to a woman
you don’t know. This kind of legislation seems
to have a peculiar kind of fasoination for
old men, Lords and Bishops especially; per-
haps it reminds them of their salad days. Be-
tween it and the question of the disposal of the
carioature statue of the Duke of Wellington, the
Lords have divided one-half of the time of the
session. It is the only subject upon which their
lordships seem entirely at home; the hoary sinners
gloat over the details of prostitution and infamy.
Now, if there were any use for Bishops in the
House of Lords, one might think it would be in
connection with this Bill. But, what was the
aotion of the spiritual Lords ? Not a word of sym-
pathy for the frail creatures whom the Socieiy,
which these hypooritical churohmen support, has
driven on the streets, was heard. Not one word!
On the oontrary, that obsequious Pharisee, the
new Archbishop of Canterbury, made a speech, in
which he advocated the strongest measures of
coercion against the poor Hagars and Magdalena
No talk of moral suasion; fashionable Churohmen
could not stoop to save the fallen; they advocated
only the arm of the policeman. As soon as the
new and delloate duties of the police come into
operation, each constable will be pi ovided with a
six-penny book of etiquette, a bundle of tracts, a
book of tickets for admission to midnight meet-
ings for distribution, and Lecky’s “History of
European Morals.” Every policeman will be a
married man, and will always be accompanied by
his wife. A jury of matrons will be kept in con-
stant attendance at all polioe stations. All the
stations will be in direct telephonic communica-
tion with the Lord Chamberlain, who will send an
official on application to identify such lady pri-
soners as pretend that they have been presented at
Court. Members of the House of Lords will be al-
lowed to bow to ladies in the Royal parks and the
West-End thoroughfares only if they—the Lords-
wear their robes and coronets. In view of the Act
passing through the Commons in i s present form,
the following table has been prepared, and will
shortly be posted on the doors or all the parish
churches:—A man in the street may kiss his grand-
mother, grandfather’s wife, wife’s grandfather. A
man in the street may shake hands with his father’s
sister, mother’s sister, father’s brother’s wife. A
man in the street may nod to his sister’s son’s wife,
wife’s brother’s daughter, wifo’s sister’s daughter.
The police have orders to arrest any man kissing,
shaking hands with, or nodding to any female re-
lative within the prohibited degrees.
Every notable event notches itself in the
calendar of time. So in the medical world
Wolve s Schnapps signalized an epoch, and will
live as long as humanity is capable of appreciating
its miraculously curative powers.
In no other medioinal preparation have
the results of the most intelligent study and
scientific inquiry been so steadily and progressively
utilised as in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It leads the
list as a truly scientific preparation lor ail blood
diseases.
No lady ever taints her handkerchief with
a coarse perfume. Indeed, the refined of both
sexes are always critical in this particular Hence
it is that Murray and Lanman’s Florida Water
is so universally preferred by persons of correct
taste to all other toilet waters and extracts.
One Dollar expended now in purchasin' l ’
a bottle of Jayne’s Expectorant, by those troubled
with a slight Uough or Hoarseness, or Sore Throat,
may save the expense of a doctor’s bill A
neglected Cough often ends in Consumption A
slight inflammation of the lining of the wind-
tubes, the usual symptoms of which are Sore
Throat and a Pain in the Breast, frequently leads
to Bronchitis. A day’s delay may entail months
of suffering. Better try at once Jayne’s Expec-
torant, a standard remedy, whose curative pro
perties have been tested and approved by thous-
ands. To be had of all Druggists and Store-
keepers, and wholesale by Elliott Bros Pitt-
street, Sydney.
The People Want Proof. There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries suoh evidence of its suceess
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Syrup
for severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effeot before
buying the regular size at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one l hat uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a* Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of sc-caUed Con-
sumption whioh doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World.


Itching Skin Diseases
-TTICZEMA, or Sait Rtaoum, with its agonizing
Jli itching and burning, instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cdticura Soap and a single ap-
ilication of Cuticura, the great Skin Cure This
repeated daily, with two or three doses of Cuti-
cl'RA Resolvent, the New Blood Purifier, to keep
the blood 0001, Ihe perspiration pure and unirri-
tdting. the bowels open, the liver and kidneys ac-
tive, will speedily cure Eczema, Tetter, Ringworm,
psoriasis, Lichen, Pruritus, Scalled Head, Dand-
ruff, and ©very species of Itching, Scaly, and
Pimply Humors of the Scalp and Skin, when the
best physioians and all known remedies fail.
T HAVE been afflicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering l almost completely the upper
part of my body, causing my skin to assume a
copper-colored hue. It could be rubbed off like
dandruff, and at times causing intolerable itching
and the most intense suffering. I have used blood
purifiers, pills, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which, although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching and restoring my skin to its natural color.
I am willing to make affidavit to the truth of this
statement.
Milan, Mich. S. G. BUXTON.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTIOtTRA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CuticubA,
is indispensable in treating- Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticdra, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, V.S.A.
W. H. PALING
AND|CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
OZSO--A-3iTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
IV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
IST ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Bay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Ja«. Scroggte, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq*
General Manager:
A. A. Wilaon.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Raymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Uosford, Nynpran, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
“IrSaul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. r. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
Jh} B hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
Business on the most favourable terras.
"Ills discounted daily.
? negotiated and advances made against Wool
QQ other produce shipped to England ror sale.
iOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Reiris
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated bv
the most Modern Methods. J
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Mondav
Wednesday, and Saturday fevenina-s
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
Women 1 )* 7 ’ NervOUS Debi]ity ’ &c - for Diseases of
Address-ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.-P.fi. Box 6737
ii La w le ro^ t i ng^ro ? m ’* No o ; Gentlemen’s, No.
1L fig Castlereagli-street, Sydney. Note —Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULT A
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Ensllsb Papers and Magazines received by
•very Mall.
r OYAL ABCADB. GEOKGB BT., 496 BYDNBY
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
T"SmKukS'or SmSSSr “ tunderl,k “ lor B *"*’ WeMl ”". n*»<lueM, Dinners,Luncheons
.. T £« DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen are the finest in
Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs “ are tne finest in
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnom Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£•'( lOm. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
SINGER & CO.
S=P
W. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, Sec. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health, See,
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
Sowing Machines.
Do n ,t buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. T
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application we
have called our now Machine '
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS :
TOZEH and CO..
22!) CLARENCE STREET.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. 83F" GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
I
BN
1111*11
“IS®
HI
Es
N
§
v
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION, tw SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regcnt>street, Red fern,
Sole Agents for
Hydraulic Elevators.
The Otis


MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
striot attention, coupled wi h thorough integrity,
to make the “ Malabar ” Consultations by far the
At the request of a largo number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, nt' course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
»KRieoß*m
iksSENGKorUFE
jhj2““ T
Tine only infallible remedy for
ib /Ter/oi/s JjebiLixyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of tne nervous and
musoular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
365.; if by ooaoh, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
&gr A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19th century.
RETICLES MENDED CANNOT BE SEPARATED.
VHZBl CAH H9VELT? 00,. 203 Pitt St (0«ly) Sjninof,
SAVE TEE PIECES I
Use Pearl Cement, tho
freatest American
hscovery of the 19th.
century--never known
to fail—for mending
China, Crockery,Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
Ac. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the American
Novolty Co., 203 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for whatever
you may require
whether the article is
in tlieCatalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything.
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy known for
fiving instant relief.
'rice Is bottle; Is 6d
bypost.
Send 2d. stamp for
27‘2-paged Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
AST LE&SO/l/£
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Madame Bayard, 7 Southampton-street, Strand, writes:—
abstain
look
October 2,1882.
rendered smooth and glossy, beautiful, soft, and agreeable, while the Brush wijl also assist its growth, and remove scurf.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH
sS
<■
n
6>
°r
(9
s*!
&
&
G.
&
K%
'■ .
O
<*
%
<9L
tA
,i
l
m
o
0Q
p
p
et
«
o
£
<5
fi
%
V
a
%,
a
V
x 6
<SL
o
[From
Rev. Ur.
Bridgeman.J
Brooklyn.
“ Gents: l
have never before given
a testimonial, but am
willing to encourage the use
of an honest remedy. I am
so pleased with your Hair Brush
that I deem It my duty to write
you recommending It most cordial-
ly. My hair, about a year since, com-
menced falling out, and 1 was rapidly be-
coming bald; but since using the Brush a thick
growth of hair has made its appearance, quite
equal to that which I had previous to Its falling out. I
have tried other remedies, but with no success. After this
remarkable result I purchased one for my wife, who has been
a great sufferer from headache, and She finds It a prompt and
infallible remedy. A. C. Bridgema^D.D.”
ALL DEALERS WILL REFUND THE PRICE
IF NOT AS REPRESENTED
Many thousand similar Testimonials can he seen at our office.
No. 1 Hair Brush, 5/-
No. 2 Hair Brush, 7/3
No. 3 Hair Brush, 9/6
No. 4 Hair Brush, 11/6
No. 5 Hair Brush, 13/6
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH, FOR S YEARS.
We will aend by mail, on receipt of the price named, with Ib, added, either
size of this beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W. or Queensland.
Request your nearest Druggist or Fancy Store to obtain one for you, and be
sure Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
MONET RETURNED IF NOT AS REPRESENTED.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
As soon as you receive the Brush, if not well satisfied with your bargain, write us, and we shall return the money ]
What can be fairer? ’
Remittances should be made payable to PALL HALL ELECTBIC ASSOCIATION, 54 Margarst St., Sydney. P.O. Box No. 221.
They can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Cheques should be Crossed Union Bank of Australia.
Liberai. Discount to the Trade.
Send for a Circular of Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh Brush , Electric Corsets, and Belts for Ladies and Cents.
An Honest Remedy
PRESCRIBED AND USED BY OUR BEST PHYSICIANS.
mhirh has won its way to Royal favor in England, been cordially indorsed by the
'prince and Princess of Wales, the King of Holland, and Prince Bismark, and
written upon by the Rt. Hon. W. E. Gladstone, is now brought to the notice
Of the Australian Public. It cures by natural means, will always do good,
* 1 never harm, and is a remedy lasting for many years. It should be used
daily in place of the ordinary Hair Brush. The Brush Handle is made
of a new' odorless composition resembling ebony, a combination, of
substances Producing a Permanent Electro-magnetic Current which acts im-
mediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always
be tested by a silver compass which accompanies each Brush.
WOT A WIRE BRUSH
But Piii*e Bristles.
It is Warranted to Cure
Nervous Headache In 5 minutes!
Bilious Headache In 5 minutes!
Neuralgia In 5 minutes! Dandruff
and Diseases of the Scalp! Pre-
vent Falling Hair and Baldness!
Promptly Arrest Premature Gray-
ness ! Make the Hair grow Long
and Clossy! The continued use
of Pills, etc., works Irreparable In-
jury. Ask any Physician.
Will positively produce
a rapid growth of hair
on bald heads, where the
glands and follicles are
not totally destroyed
PROPRIETORS:
The Pail Mall Electric Association.
SARATOGA.
“I cheerfully testify to the merits
> of Dr. Scott's Electric Halrßrußh.
It cures my headaches within a
few minutes. It Is an excellent
Hair Brush, well worth the
price, aside from Its cura-
tive powers.”
Jot. li. Chapman,
Mayor.
Ttr. Pj./ob, M.R.G.9., Mount rieasant. Leodfl, writes: — A patient of mine lias been using X»r. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush, she having
suffered from neuralgia, and informs me that she has reoeived considerable benefit from it. As I am troubled with nervous headaches, I should
be glad It you would send me one.
KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-street.
yin’s Mercers, k
Kibby’s Shir at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit quality or finish.
Underwear for Winter, large variety, lowest
prices.
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Collars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
KIBBY & CO., 96 King-street.
i810.000.-NGLBOVRNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.i
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. Sad. Every opportunity Is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission tioket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one a almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan ok Distribution :
The above facta and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OOO, by far the largest
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, fend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
SPRINGFIE
PRINGFIEL
RINGFIELD
INGFIELD
NGFI E L D
GFI E L D
FIELD
IE L D
ELD
L D
D
0 fcH
- & *v
o
r per month.
No Interest.
Suburban Homes.
Business Sites.
75 per oent advanced to assist pur-
chasers to build.
CHARMING VIEWS, CULTIVATED SOIL.
Oranges and Vines growing on the Allotments.
The subdivision of this far-famed vineyard and
orangery, formerly known as Ellenger's Orchard,
.. .11 enable business men engaged in Sydney to have
'their residences on this char ming property.
Numerous trains to suit business men. Season Ticket, 4s. Per week.
.'Springfield is situated about a quarter of a mile from Guildford.
2 miles from Granville, 3 miles from Parramatta, and 16 miles frM»
Sydney, on the Great Southern Railway.
Plans as above, or from
FiTZ. A. BOYD, on the Estate Springfield, Guildford
ALLOTMENTS 50 TO 120 EEET ERONTAGE.
200 TO 300 EEET DEPTH.
Price, from £2O per Lot.
Plans— BOYD &KING, 96 Pitt Street.
.
■Willxxxoxe’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN?
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamert
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILUMORE, Proprietor.
TAYLOR &
China, Glass. Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
348 GEORGE ST


THE
IGNO
Piano.
II
. a, ■ ■
- •>
:
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a t old
on the public as the Mignon has done sin e
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us— blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MICxNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in Now Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word,
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
ean be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work anc
richness of tone.
Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments
on application.
AND GO.,
„ SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. *
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
dUJJRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALPI, & c and
taken internally cures DIARRHOEA, y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lutferno aches
and pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, SOLE PROPfLTOR,
ME LABOUR Nil AAN'D o' . DNEY
PAINT
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and,General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. 4s. 6d.. or 255. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARBH A.LL BP OTHERS, M.P.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 ard
Market-street, near Hyde Park, Bydney, and
a Pitt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO SUBSTI-
TUTE
AYER'S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases -which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver,
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills' by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, ami
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills ara the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
1 have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
\V. I/. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro."
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co.,Lewell,Mass r
Sold by all Druggist*.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO..
Wholesale Agents.
*3
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as eihcacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS' EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can uow
b© also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
M edals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
ME. F. WARE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Lauirhimr Gaa
mher Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform, ’
DEAiNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed bv
those eminent aurists, the SeDior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Inilrraqries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hanuaford.
Auckland, New Zealand.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron. aDd Empty
•otflce ° f ° r BfUe ' Apply Pubii6 “ or - Bulletin
COL
BLEND
A
(Trade]
JMARkI
COLLIE BLEND WHISKT.-Thln is a BLEND
Of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, corn-
billing fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
)f taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
A.geuts.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HT* 308 GEORGE STREET.
ft HOLEBALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
(SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHIBKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Hr* MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
>
s>
*
X N. '
HOT WATER BATHS
HAIR DRESSING SWICMAKINC ESTABLISHMENT
137. 139 A 141 OX FO RON S T .
HALF HOL/DA Y CFFAt Y THUAtSDAY
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
| Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Deoline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty, IST" CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright's (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosonodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous SubstL
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERSc
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. w., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
SB
i*
KyCJHM
©
W2g?Hj®C
c» o !sSft
gpsi/<§r
33MMLMKSI
PABRTOPPOSITCiOSTOf rice.
SsJiitgcoragj •eopse stfcci
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Tib.© ZESeliafbl© Eu.grg'les!
\
N»
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
XW BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Photographic
. STOCK
IMPORTERS 4
ill
%
65'
I
/
>$
■ v
a s s
"" S: '%«
v CAMERAS, ,1 Mq d ,
CARDS, fephic
Iqents fop — —■ —
W.JOHNSONfeSGNS 'im£
NITR.SILVER AND j
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.


It was admitted the other day by the par-
ticularly pious Lord Shaftesbury, who is chairman
of the English Commoners in Lunacy, that for the
keeper of a private lunatic asylum to send his own
people to arrest a patient and convey him to the
asylum is a possible and even a permissible pro-
ceeding.
A Glasgow idiot or humourist is permitted
by the editor of the Times to publicly suggest that
“ it would be a wise and noble thing for France to
burn Toulon and Marseilles before the cholera
finds another seat, and confide in Christianity for
the cost.” Hut G lasgow isn’t the only place where
some people’s highest conception of Christianity
consists in consigning to future conflagration
whatever or whoever happens for the moment to
be obnoxious.
While French cannon were thundering
around Foochow, there were other things happen-
ing. People were speculating on the upshot of
Frenoh interference in Asia. It is reassuring, how-
ever, to know that in the speculative hurly-burly
the Australian press has not lost its head. Proor:
“ The Cowra coach was eompletely wrecked on
Friday week, through the horses bolting. No one
was on the vehicle, and the animals continued in
their mad career as far as Berry's, at the One-Mile,
where the final catastrophe took place.
He was a cautious cuss, and when be was
reminded that he was on his oath, and requested
to state wbat was his opinion of the defendant s
character for probity, he smiled a sickly sort of
smile, and replied: "Well, really, I never gave
the thing much thought, but if I happened to be
the pastor of a ohurch in which the defendant was
a deacon, I’d never allow him to pass round the
contribution-box, unless he was provided with a
bell-punch, like the tramway guards, to register
all the cash collected.” Then the gentleman for
the defence said the witness could step down, and
the party behind the spikes turned green with
suppressed gratitude.
Amongst the won-
ders of science shown at
the last South Kensing-
ton Exhibition was a re-
pulsive-looking sort of
instrument which at the
first glance might be mis-
taken for a whisky demi-
john that had spent a bad
night in the editorial de-
partment of the Shroud,
but which in reality was
an extremely scientific
weapon called the Ple-
thysmograph. From the
summary of its descrip-
tion, we learn that the
Plethysmograpb is an in-
strument for measuring
the fullness of the limbs,
and when a theatricalim-
presmrio is armed with
this it is simply impossible
for any traudulently-in-
clined nymph of the bal-
let to fool him with a
mixture of sawdust and
wadding in lieu of good
substantial calf - brawn
and well-developed mus-
cle. But the Pletbysmo-
graph has far higher aims
in the realms of science
than this, for a little
further along we read:
" The whole of the fore-
arm of a subject being
immersed in water in a
glass vessel, the cover of
India-rubber grasps the
arm with a water-tight
grip. Every enlargement
or contraction of the
arm by the inflow of ad-
ditional blood or the
withdrawal of the usual
amount causes a differ-
ence in the bulk of the
arm, which atfeots the
pressure on the water.
This is connected by a
pipe with a recorder, and
it is shown that if a de-
mand is made for blood
in the brain by unusual
brain action, it is neces-
sarily withdrawn from
the extremities; hence it
is claimed that this ap-
paratus can be used for
testing the intensity of
brain action. It is stated
that a classical scholar
tested with a Latin and
Greek book showed more
blood needed for brain-
work to read Greek than
Latin.” Here, then, is an
invaluable instrument
for guiding intending
subscribers in their
choice of a family jour-
nal, for subsequent ex-
periments proved that
while the arm of a robust
man bad to shrink to the
size ef a consumptive
magpie’s leg in order to
supply his cerebellum
with enough blood to
master the brain food
supplied by r i he Bulle-
tin, the same limb posi-
tively swelled as big as a
telegraphpole when its
proprietor began to wade
through a Herald
leader. Granting that
thought is brain-work,
the study of our weakly
dailies would be attended
with an extraordinary
rush of blood, not to the
reader’s head, but to his
boots. Wo can, there-
fore, safely recommend
the Tlethysmographto all
our readers.
The other day a wood and coal merchant
was found with his head resting heavily on the
desk and groaning lit to split a knotted log. “ It’s
no use,” he muttered, “it’s no use -it's got to be
done.” “ What’s got to be done ? ” asked one of
hiscarters. “Everything,” he moaned; “expenses
must oomedown; your wages must come down;
givo that horse iess corn, and take notice tha'
your wages will be two shillings a day, instead of
three.” “ I can’t live on it,” said Hodge. “ You’ll
have to do it. Look at that! ” he roared, pointing
to The Bulletin cartoon of a Ton of Wood.
“ You’ll have to do it. The game is up. After
that, the ton will have to be raised to the old
weight—fifteen hundred.”
Renan, in the preface to his “Nouvelles
Etudes d Historic Religieuse,” expresses a wish to
be “ selected into ” a new missal, to be held “ entre
les langs doigts elfins d’une main flnementgantfSe,”
and to “recevoir le regard abandoned de la femme
au moment oh elle se oroit seule avec son
Monsieur Joseph Ernest would, we
doubt not, fain be selected into the role of Por-
phyrsto watch a Madeline, as
“ Her vespers done,
Of all its wreathed pearls her hair she frees,
Unclasps her warmed jewels one by one,
Loosens her fragrant bodice,”
and so on, as described by Mr. Keats.
The Cooktown Independent really used
to be a lively paper. It was a pleasure to read it,
for then it was all about how the editor got plugged
in the nose about four times a week, and bow
drunk all the other editors were, and how he had
startling disclosures all ready to wheei out-to-
gether with stern intimations that he was going to
elevate Gehenna, generally. But now they’ve
knocked all the stuffing out of him, as will be seen
by the present headings of his paragraphs. Mark:
“Small Debts’ Court; Revenue; Municipal Coun-
cil; The Blacks [TJ: Escort; The Bridges; The
Byeretown Road; Tropioal Agriculture; The Vol-
unteers; Normanby Reefs.” They have evidently
taken the hawk from the Fowler, and slung him
the dove.
Ever sinoe the very much bygone days
when “ Adam delved and Eva span,” the question
of what constitutes a gentleman has been the
subject of innumerable controversies. Aristo-
phanes, in that cheerful little comedy of “ The
Frogs,” which he “dashed off” something like
2000 years ago, makes one of his characters, Abacus,
exclaim, “By Jupiter the Preserver, your master
is a perfect gentleman!” To which Xanthias, the
servant, replies. “ Most assuredly he is a perfect
gentleman, inasmuch as he knows only now to
drink and mix up with troll-me dames.” Later
criticß define the term to mean any man who can
wear a full evening dress rig out without being
mistaken for a high-toned caW waiter; but one
Master Souazzi, a little Italian lad of Wellington
(N.Z.), goes more fully into the matter, and in a
recent school essay declares: “My ideas of what
constitutes a gentleman Is kindness, good manners,
no shyness. Straitfourdeness, walk straigt. Not
to proud, no tbsht boots, no tight fitting gloves,
don’t suck cane handles, waro your hat stright.
don’t wink at ladies passing in the street, always
take your hat off in entering a house, don’t twirl
your bat on your finger, don’t smoke in a com-
pany of ladies. Never have to big of a flower in
your button hole, don curl your fringe in front,
don’t be sulkey; never call anybody by nickname,
never start a row. Never let love matters trouble
your Brain, never get excited, don’t get drunk
to often. Never cough, not if you can help it. Be
Courteusto Laides. Never swear. Go to ohurch
every Sunday, don’t pass remark, never tell
Lies. Barring the last remark, Master Scuazzi’s
essay sounds extremely sensibly, indeed.
“God loves a generous giver ” is the proper
preface for a tale from Louth which tells of a
oertain Louth lady, who. whilst collecting for the
Cobar convent a few days ago, bailed up a wealthy
These illustrations show the front and back of most uncommon and lady-like sailor toilettes for
young ladies. The material is dark marine—blue stuff and collar of white cloth, with blue brai l
quarter of un inch in width. The bodice fitting tight at the back, opens in front over a full hanging
vest (put on a plain lining) of white woollen material patterned with blue.
geebung, who gave her £1 towards the deserving |
mission. Shortly after this, the distinguished !
donor of the “flimsy” came to Sydney, and it is ;
alleged that the whole of his chat on the way |
down and back was a glowing panegyric on his i
own generosity towards the “ poor Roman Cawtho- !
lie party.” When this became known at Louth, it
was resolved that too much publicity could not be
given to the matter, and, furhermore, that it was !
positively unjust to allo v the noble-minded, back-
block Peabody to be at the loss of the whole
pound, and, accordingly, a select committee made
a house-to-house collection, raked in a penny from
each, and then sent the bag along to gladden the
heart of their charitable townsman. His sleep is
less troubled now, and the extent of his smile
would shoot a pang of envy through the heart of
Tommy Empson.
Here’s a neat little ad. from a Northern
journal: “ Lost, Cameo brooch, representing Venus
and Adonis on the Dunmore-road, about .10 o’clock
on Tuesday night.” Delicate sort of subject to
adorn a maiden’s breast, is it not? Personally, we
have no wish to hurt the feelings of either the
giddy Mrs. Vulcan or her nice young man, but, at
the same time, we feel bound to state that their
conduct on the Dunmore-road on the night in
question has Dunmore to corrupt the youth of
that district than anything else that has happened
since Mrs. Potiphar tore the shirt off Joseph's
back; and, were it not for the dread of the ven-
geance of the Evenooze, we feej confident that
Adonis would bo immediately flogged, and his dis-
sipated companion boosted up under the Vagrant
Act for six months. Mr. Shakespeare knows all
about their little game, for he was leaning over
the fence when the female offender exclaimed—
“ Fie! lifeless picture, cold and senseless stone,
Well-painted idol, image dull and dead;
Statue, contenting but the eye alone,
Thing like a man, but of no woman bred.”
Oh! she was a nice cup of tea, was Mrs, Vuloan,
Rather a lively scene is reported- as having
happened at the last winter quadrille party held at
Orange, in which it was plainly shown that the life
of a country M.C. is not exactly one continual
round of bread and cheese and kisses. It appears
that the legally-ordained band having stepped
outside to “see a man,” a lady present, very
obligingly began to rattle a polka out of the hall
piano, when a new arrival, dropping his partner,
stepped up and yelled, “Here, who told vou to
play a polka ? I want a waltz.” The polite M.C.
replied that he did. “ And what have you got to
do with it?” demanded the other; “you appointed
youahself.” M.C.: “ But I’ve paid my money, and
have as much say in this mattah as you have.”
After this, the courteous guest walked round the
room inquiring of the members if they had ap-
pointed “ this person ” to rule the revels. As the
new-comer happened to have the reputation of
being a gentlemanly copy of Slogger Sullivan, the
majority of the members went back on their old
M.C., woo has acted all through the past quarter;
and were it not for the good sense of a fair peace-
maker, it is said the polka party would now be
M.C. in the locil hospital. Cheerful little scenGS
like this do much towards inducing persons to
enjoy themselves-at home.
The Kalizoic age has fairly boomed at last,
and in future all things will be lovely, and ali con-
versation of the most culchawed and refined
nature that the most crack-brained aesthete could
ever hope for. This was particularly brought into
notice a few weeks back, when an amorous coster-
monger named Peter Yaggers was hauled up at
the Bow-street Police Court on a charge of having
unmercifully “biffed” his wife. Peter’s deferfee
was that his spouse called him a “body-snatching
thief,” and he at once “corrected her.” Mrs.
Yagger’s version of the affair, however, was
slightly different, and went to show that when her
husband came home he told her to clear, as he had
“got her betters,” and then, letting her have a
postman’s knock between the eyes, aesthetically
observed that he’d “fade her bloomin’ face for
her.” Further enquiries revealed the fact that
upon other occasions the high-toned Mr. Yaggers
declared he would ‘ tint her eyes,” “depress her
nose,’ and one night, being more than usually
reflued, he let her have a John L. Sullivan pol-
thogu© in the mouth, and exclaimed, “There, I
guess that'll decay your dentals for you.” Our
Waterloo heroes, with their “bags,” “nit,” and
“c o,” are a long way behind thei:' brother vags.
or Petticoat-lane and Bow-street.
This is the first of the charters of the city
of London:—“ William the King greets William
the Bishop, and Godfrey the Portreve and ail the
Burghers within London, Freuch and English
friendly. And I make known to you that I will
that ye be law-worthy, as ye were in the days of
King Edward. And I will that every child be his
father’s heir after his father s day. And 1 will not
suffer that any man do you any wrong. God keep
you." There is about all this a strong smack of
off-hand good-nature and good-fellowship, for
which we look in vain among the monarchs of later
days. The times of “ William the King ” are gone.
William the Bishop finds now-adays, pretty well
all over the world, that his teeth are chipped, and
nobody takes any notice of poor Godfrey the Por-
treve. The Bishops have become not less fond of
good living than were the ecclesiastics in the time
of the Friar of Copmanhurst, but they are a good
deal less candid, and, believing less, are a great
deal more worldly. How, for instance, would this
sound from the pen of (say) the Bishop of Northern
Queensland?—
“ Back and side go bare, go bare,
Hand and foot grow cold;
But belly, God send thee good ale enough,
Jolly good ale and old.”
The author or' the foregoing lines was the most
Reverend Father in God, John Still, Bishop of
Bath and Wells, who lived long after London’s
first charter. If he lived in these days, it would be
alleged that he was an illicit Still.
It was quite in keeping with the good old
English way of doing these things to find that at
the recent Exhibition in London which was de-
signed to elucidate the laws which govern health,
the unfortunate waitresses in attendance had to
stand on their poor little tootsey-wootseys for
eleven hours a day. We need scarcely say that
these pooah creechas were not under the fatherly
care of Brother Woseby. Although, by the way,
we have a hazy recollection of having, upon at
least one occasion, seen his Coffee Palace waitresses
so excruciatingly tired that they wera forced to
rest themselves on the knees of a lew of their
favourite customers. This, however, was late at
night, and in the heat of Summer when the mer-
cury in the thermometers used to crawl out
through the top of the “chubes” and sit in its
shirt-sleeves to keep itself from evaporation.
Mr. Frederick Crook recently lectured to
the Wellington Free Thought Association on the
“ Lights and Shadows of London Life.” Jhe
shadows were more conspicuous than the lights.
When in London recently Mr. Crook said he visited
a thieves’ soup-kitchen, where any hard-up bur-
glar or stock-broker could get a plate of soupatd
a lump of bread for a penny. In this establish
ment all the spoons, knives and forks, &c., were
chained to the table. The soup was served in
basins sunk and rivetted into the table. It was
brought from the kitchen in a big syphon, which
the waiter carried on his shoulder. When a thief
called for soup the liquid was sent whizzing into
his dish with a head on it; but when he said he had
forgot his purse, and would pay for it to-morrow
the waiter replied, “Oh, no, you don’t. It’s not
good enough," and then, without further re-
mark, he thrust the nozzle of the syphon into
the soup, and, presto, before a cat could jump, the
soup was gone, every drop of it—back again into
the syphonic tureen, and the dish and customer
were left empty and hungry together. There wa
no tick(et) for soup at that establishment.
Tustiee is usually re
presented in a blindfold
condition,but up the Dar-
ling she sometimes slips
the bandage from at least
one eye. There is a story
told of a Police Magis-
trate who, many years
ago, used to boss the situ-
ation in that region, and
hold the scales of justice
with a pretty steady hand
He was a good judge of
horse-flesh, too, and
whenever he saw a cleau-
limbed animal having
symptoms of breeding,
he yearned to pessess it.
And he’d have it, too, if
the remotest chance ex-
isted of securing it. One
day a bold shearer came
into a township in the dis-
trict, riding a handsome
thoroughbred, and he
duly set to work with the
laudable intention of
melting his hard-earned
cheque in the most ap-
proved fashion. In the
meantime, the P.M. spot-
ted the showy horse, and
determined that he wou id
have it at any risk. So
he interviewed the shear-
er. and made a liberal
offer of ready cash for
the animal, which the
owner as promptly re-
fused. As all things come
to those who wait, so it
was in this case. While
enjoying his carnival in
the township, the noble
shearer got filled with
rum one day, and when
the police collared him
he was punching the
head of a resp- ctea citi-
zen, who, in an un-
guarded moment, de-
clined to drink with the
misguided, though hos-
pitable, bushman. Next
morning, he appeared
before the bench in a
sadly demoralized condi-
tion, with damaged
clothes and mutilated
features, and when the
constable had finished
with the interesting de-
tails of the capture of
the prisoner, and the
particulars of the affray,
the following dialogue
took place His Wor-
ship : “So you’re here,
eh ? Now, what have you
got to say ?’’ Prisoner :
“Nothin', yer Worship.”
His Worship : “ Well,
then, have you sold that
horse yet ? Prisoner :
“ No, yer Worship.” His
Worship: “I’ll give you
£2O for the animal—are
you on ? “ Prisoner (who
loves his horse): “ I don’t
like to part with him, yer
Worship.” His Worship:
“Well, you can take your
choice £2O, or three
months.” Prisoner (who
loves his faithful steed,
but prizes his liberty
better) : “ I’ll take the
£2O, yer Worship.” And
there was revelry in the
township for three daya
before the shearer
trooped wearily away
with half a bottle of run>
to regulate the jimjrms:
and a whisky bust head-
ache that lasted him a fulli
week.
If the whole of the fashionable audience*
which crowded up to hear Mendelssohn’s superb
music to “ Antigone ” the other night were asked
what really induced them to attend the show, and
if each one in reply told the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, how many do
you think would declare they attended for the
sake of the drama and music solely ? Ten ' Oli,
come, hang it all, that’s a triiie too rough. We
should say there were quite a dozen, if not more.
Apropos of this, we had the playshaw of being
seated exactly behind a pompous old First Family
mamma, who, with her three deah daughtahs,
spread out, in front, and kept up one incessant
gabble from the first note of the overture to the
last of the graud finale. It was devilish interest-
ing, too, and part of it ran along in this style:—
Mamma, as the first allegro began: “ Oh, dean me,
Pauline, do you remembah how pooah deah Ret-
ting used to play that for us, at our little evening
pawties ?” Pauline: “ Oh, ma, how could one evah
forget those delightful evenings; especially when
Maudie’s favourite, Paladini, used to drop in and
warble duets with her and Arabella?” Maudie:
“Yes; and how jolly the daah old Commodore
ust'd to make himself, too! He was positively in
love with mamma; now, wss he not?” Mamma:
" Tut, tut, girls, don’t talk so foolish. We were
simply congenial spirits, nothing moah. Lord
Lobbyjob was my favourite. You remembah, he
came with the Polish CouDtDonebrownski—lovely
tenor voice the Count had. Who’s this cornin’ on
now?—Anty-po-ny’s sistah, I presume.” And so
on all through, until we felt that we would wUl-
ingly swap our immortal soul for the loan of a
dead cat to belt those culchawed creechaws over
the ears with, for of all the phases of pride, this
talking for the benefit of persons around is the
most pitiful and contemptible.


* U| ® COUHTRY MILK.
B SUPPLIED by the
hesi r<Kd & Ice Co., Lim,ted,
» T ■““'"'-I upon as being
!t ‘ a w«biSrt Ys pube . ~
free trom H om the country districts, as
iom city contaminations.
« eith^
fteli
°fry contaminations.
Butter.
tea t> nTO “fUfaetured &v uieir own depot
district B^ est butter “ makers in the
«Pecia] oliiy morrun,, 1 !^. 6 dail y. Sundays excepted,
citv g i, 0 lver y iB made. Butter by
«iy, uty, daily; suburbs, three times
' es^J r ° oc f <& Ice Co., Limited,
S! STREET.
§TUDY ECONOMY
and
Frames
re-covered, and your
tarasols re-lined and made
_ equal to New, at
J- SULLIVAN'S
_ 541 George Street,
Brickfield fiiil, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts,
r arasola made to match eos-
f iimes Renalr® neatly exe
eutfwA
&
o
Oo
jQ^r-
.O
■ ■
. r--..
f
TRAM I
markl'
as
Or
\
w
-OA
a
a
D O
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on iftie palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATT ELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
p EAPES and SH m
jlj to*, RESPECTFULLY invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS,
’ as follows
Q nc! Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
i, lroi Hte 8 a . nd , TAILOR-MAD a ULSTERS,
f^-an/^^uiaeas
a Mcri telAAU «as
Ij o lm. d l CJ f B Asters, from ss. 6d. to 30s.
K?
I'ATr, ' u olrrin« "''‘o,uuiu®.mi. loch
iAn!^ aped Ulsters - New Cloths
in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 87s. 6d
each
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER*, from 12s. fid. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Broeatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW,
Standard Tweed Clothing.
now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
ctionor « Eady - madb CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
Ui, - ! various classes of goods enumerated below.
COATS, CUT LONG,
, iliiLlA N CLOTH, 255., 365.,
LINED WOOL, 305.,
OVERCOATS, 635.
K‘‘ST?i? ea rov^h n r,C vero °ats, suitable for
&W D Suit, 425.. 505.. 555.
! ' l: Ua ,4'-CED fiJ’vXP KI) SAC SUITS are
9 UT ’ FIT, STYLE, and
tbe for Oood Honest Value
•a. 6 d
35®f^ R F AS FOLLOWS :-
•> 505., 635. the SUIT.
h$ O onf
° ck Co&and. Vest, 50s.
Y oet of England Broadcloth),
m 8i r * 0 3 J 1 f, er s |'’ 9H S°°d Black Doeskin, 255., 30s.
S%B i shrunk and well made,
'‘Jrous^c 0 ’ ,^ 8 - each
'lf CllUTio a ’r,H 8 -6d. and 16s. (id. per pair
L TKnN IS JACKETS, ‘2ss.
K: " " r i <:el «e , GOWNS, in Felt,
, Scotch Knicker, Quilted
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING
Travelling Rugs, imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. (id.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicber Suits—The Norfolk, Kb, Od,; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. (id, Bs. Od.
98.6 d., 10s. (id., 11$. 6d., 12s. (id.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats arid Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
and SHAW,
U «GB STRP.-p.rp w
STREET.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
Hp
Sz Son’s
'° l * l all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
lT©txt Open.
fCLEERY’S HOTEL,
er Of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
<lt?4 ' r s']u!!' *®CLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor
Ali
rATV
■
HH:
Th E only GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
N.S, Wales, therefore their Twist and
c oti in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
'^*'®'^t'uS la43ror ’ Bir Koger (thick twist), Out R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
%
TOBACCO W0R&8, HYIXE PARK, SYDNEY,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
mm
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftenei
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFSfUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADE
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oii, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and ail,' nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None gennine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL
War ran ted fi
Surgeon dentists IO6MARK
TE,
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL,
The practice of PATHLESS DENTISTRY it
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction bj
anaesthetics.
■9
HlaUk Swasi il@fel
GREEN WELL POINT.
•j. H. DEYfdN, Proprietor.
FTRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shootinsr, fishing ant
taunt,in<r. Good Stabling-. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur
passed. The magwitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday Eight, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIBB Y,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJra.d.extsilser.
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the lat*
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
wm
■llfiliiii
'V hr;
n
I
'■j
1 VALUABLE e~-~ '•>
SU FFEHINg t
V:
V* „ THOS*
fb
s$
5;/. o
m
iW
i
P^fkclAUV'^tJlljP
A9APTE9 FOR THE
Colon i esJ
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
if, jVVSfffiSSi.ia, $
,5r \ .
Hi iff •
'MI
n 4
m
mm
UMi
m
my BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trouser,
’ from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, auo
iron trtalv shrunk. This is the cheapest house foi
ood, genuine suit of cl othes. 170 PITT-STR EET,
Iney. Samples aud diagrams for st J-measuriug
warded to say parti ol the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
jar THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Hv^Cat'o.red
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
OILY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
SOS ®g!@rg® Street,, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO/S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that ii
has not been in the hands of “" 7 hiskey Doctors,*
When you ask for it, see that you get it,look for tiw
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule
Oaiy iiretiiere p
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
.-«? ii®
P?»W<S3SsirW»
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CFLEBRATEB (JOTS,
For Price and Quality are no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARJf 3 in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING- KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
Sir C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.R.----Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. X"!. Arlell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
roanny, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in SOiu.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Cori-
f Station ter y.
A. M. HUNT A CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
M, H, and lib. tins.
WHITTING HAM & cO/8 Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates. Salt Herrings, Paper Bugs,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, <see,
A NT; LO-SCAN DIN AVIAN MILK Gold Mvßi
brand. '
343 a aid 345 fCent Strac ‘,,
.NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
m
,Tu;
PREMIER
Kicw Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualit.es
-f PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Mann-
uctuied by
NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
817 & 319. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TOMS,
IiiACHEIt OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, caro of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTER C£FOR£
HOUSTACEi! and WHISKEES.
Boyd's Heard Plrirdirt thin,and
trill do it ott either bald hand or
bar,! /am. fir. res heavy Hot it-
Car he in from B tn 4 toco’cs and never
fails, »>tmo yonny men already
teeur full beards, having tinea l la
Kttma apJIP
3 pkt i. Ao easily applied, certain in effect. PiKkettlt.M.
each, 3 far St. 6d.. nos! vaitl. sent wider caver, free from ooccrvaiion.
JMr
for &». lid.,port paid, tent under cover, frW'fronQOrfivanw
, Frank Douglas, /Sole Agent t 7.30, «> A
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
coh.n' ek op i»rrx and park sxbjEbis.
TAMES PEARSON, successorto w. Alexander.
wishes to remind ali oK cnistomers ana
public generally that he has si largo assortment ot
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Pocnri I' inniture, aifo
Office Furniture, all ol good rjaalitj .ana reason-
able iu price. Inspection solicited.
rrsOßEltT BUTCHER * 00.
I.lj (late William Long)*
>OT WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY
OountJW Order® receive wrom-oi s - ? nation


G-olcL TeTxrelle^'
Q—a i i»ii
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
FARISIAI 111 JEWELLER?, CAFE 111 WATCHES, St,
LATEST FASHIONS,!
T'TZOIvL 3 Os- |
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended
QUINA LAROCHE.
■WS-A-T IS
ASIC YOUR OOCP
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artist* specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
oN£^\
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR
YOUTHS’ CLOTHE
SHO^
MEN’S, BOYS’, &
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE
haymarket shop.
IA ttl e
Come Early and Secure Cood Fashionable Clothing? <or
J. J. RYAN, 760 George Street, Hay
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Fruit Mar
m nef '
J. S. FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
IM
81nD'W0
siipßjsrj)
m
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
JLL IW UL |iUQ Übiuuow —, r- - -
csch bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will a difference
of at least 10 per cent, m favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
V/RGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Hiaaiars
Prize M edal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
sTi ILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS,
s-jr Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of tae highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
3*lo George-street. Sydney.
WALLACH BROS’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE. '
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
, A. MELYllTand SONS’
Edinlnngn Pale fti®.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQCTARIE-STBEBT SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
&
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
U 4 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents tor all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE’S f
k. p. a®**!,'
.7 R.T’ *'**
sydN#^
11
A.RE SOLE
and have in St° oK 90
riRE RUMPS s ~{ f
30ILBB-FEED pJ “ B y,C!I3P
FANK or light f t
vIININQ PUMP®
COMBINED AH i&
cannery *****
IUGAR-HOUSE ***
VACUUM PUMi ; S pU&
.
5BNI) FOR PRI cES p t
A ft "
CATALOGUE^
PAINTS
OILS*
4
0
C .
ST OB® 9:
?
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
m
of>
Manufacturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor 0 *
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at ffi
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for LW 6
iifi’
