

m
m
3 m
mw KRMilKji t
ll
m
AT . A
in
WE ARE MAEffIG
GRAND PREPARATIONS
For the Coming Christmas Season!
INTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
1
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
OUR CHRISTMAS IMPORTATIONS are arriving by every opportunity, and we have determined to make a Display of
Goods hitherto unequalled.
Wge consignments of Carpets, Floorcloths, and other goods connected with House Furnishing, are already to hand, and in
these we are making Special Prices for the Christmas Trade.
children will not he forgotton, for DOLLS and TOYS of every description will, as usual, he a prominent feature in our
CHRISTMAS SHOW, and these particular goods will include many of a perfectly unique and novel character.
e We Special Lines in our IMPERIAL CLOTHING, for Christmas, and everything requisite and desirable for CHRISTMAS
GIFTS and PRESENTS will he found in the most delightful variety.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium* llaymarket* Only.,
The Bulletin


(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS,
SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. %W~ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. tW GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
tW LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OP ROPES.
//, v//////////////>//
m
m
m
m
ss^
ft
to !
*
3
Itt
//////'
■
sar" simplicity of manipulation, tar* smoothness and noiselessness of motion,
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Kedfern,
Sols Agents for
The Otis HfeSraisSic Eiewaters.
A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS Mil MANUFACTURE ES of
DIVSSSG GS&B, Brass & Nicksl-pfated SHOP PROMTS,
'Hydruntsi, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c,
J3F“ Brass and B» 11 Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
1 lumbmg, Gaifitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
JICCSDHD If OfSKS, BE9 Macquarie Race, Sytiasy.
Full particulars and price on application.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
GRAMPTON & BRUCE.
107 XTTT ATTEST,
m msmi
tr £*-|JfcrfsSistS 1
V K>#*J
HKftti!
m
mm
p|2^»*fl
lfflilM'' "fi! ! i-;' ;■/■.&•. ■si
SiBSJBtiAn&SSSjaI
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH OHO-AKT.
CHAMPION & BRUCE,
197 FXTT STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
s
1
a*
soH^
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
OH 8z
j
iQUERUB
tobacco *r
YOX POFTJLI !! ! This mighty power has built the DTXSON’S great Tobacco Fnetnrv ■>
voiooof tho people deeiaWtho YANKEE DOODLE amICONQTJEjfoK Tobaepoa VheTr owo
demanded the supply-DU-son and Sons responded-and hence a Tobacco Factory having no eXuaTin
the »-OUth. rn L I.l. sphere, and consuming the bulk ©t all the Imported American Leal Tobacco. D
MEMO, to you from
HORDERN’S is Pitt-st, Sydney
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better tlian send down to us for Goods
whenever you want something nice and tasty, different
from what you can get in the country stores.
Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measuremsnt Guide, and Prices.
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
M, MACHINERY, ui MM MHM
387 ®Emmß STREET,
6* and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND'
SOLE AGENTS TOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
BNGINEV
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
MACHINERY.
Special im- llug&Y, an 4
Foicc -I'd 'ft.
TOILERS.
V®rtical an<3 Horizontal.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Sera* lo "
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WGOD-WOKIIKie MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing apd Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Geß er9
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Hor® 6
Rates, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines'
, Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Build bus’ Sundsieb.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes. atl
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. .
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugate
and Plain Iron : Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine. Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest Improvements In Carpenters’ Tools.
*
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 Seargo Strmt, Sydney.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 PHt-street
ALL GOODS AT STRICTL y"w HOLES ALE PRICES.
C 1 ATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at whol@ salo
I prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY,
NERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES. AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our Introduction of Gloye-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess b aV<s
now both Lady and Gentlemen titters engaged 5
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
CATEE,
19 3 and 195 PITT STREET 1 -
w. shUSsby k GO.,
Ifercitsaßift Habit, 301! Bob© ESafecrs-
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last live years, was HEAD .CUTTER at Farmer and c '°‘
■ Shbaksby & Co , Afterfc House, Temple Court, Elizaln'* 11 '


WILL BE PUBLISHED
Tuesday, Dec. 23.
m Christmas mm
;A Special Enlarged
Issue!
MAGNIFICENT COLOURED
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHED
Picture Supplement,
By W. MACLEOD, Esq ,
“Tracked!”
A CHRISTMAS CAROL,
In Black and White,
DRAWN BY L. HOPKINS.
A REGULAR BUDGET
Mb, Tam, mi Fua!
LAVISHLY ILLUSTRATED.
NOTHING TO EQUAL IT!
Price—6d. only.
Agents will please send in their orders for
extra copies.
Advertisers will please note that only a couple
of pages will be allotted to extra advertisements.
Thus their announcements will have the grandest
display attainable in any Australian Newspaper,
and will be seen and read by more people than
advertisements in any other publication in these
Colonies.
Special rates on application.
THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 84.— New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20,1884.
Price—6 d.
Pailure of Law: Triumph of Justice.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1884.
The expression, “ plenty of law, but little
justioe,” whiob, owing to the refinements of
legal casuistry, was gradually assuming the
force of an axiom, has suffered a rude check
at the hands of the juries in the criminal
libel case of Pabkes v. Webb. The lesson
taught by these jurymen is one which,
read aright, is brimful of suggestiveness to
all. But it is to the lawyer and the states-
man that the lesson appeals with the greatest
force. Owing to recent judgments of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales—judg-
ments at variance in some important points
with late decisions of the highest English
courts —the law of libel became a mere trap
for the unwary journalist. In the publio
interest, he might comment on the shady
aotions of publio men, expose the motives
whioh resulted in such actions and by timely
warning do his share towards relegating to
obscurity those whose public actions would
not bear analysis or whose private lives
were a scandal. But if in so doing he hap-
pened to make a statement or offer a sug-
gestion—however irrelevant to the great
question at issue—and found when too late
the impossibility of clearly proving such
statement or suggestion, all the service done
by the really significant allegations he had
made and proved went for nothing. Such
MR. WILLIAM WEBB, DEFENDANT IN THE LATE LIBEL ACTION, PARKES V. WEBB.
a deoision coming from the highest tribunal
in the land meant, in the eyes of many, a
slavish adherence to the letter of the law,
and utter disregard of its spirit. It meant
that no publio service performed by the
journalist in letting in'the light upon equi-
vocal transactions, or in holding up to
deserved opprobrium the laches of those
who aspired to direot national affairs, would
avail in condoning a trivial slip of the pen
or a slight error of judgment.
Such was the law—such it remains. But
just at this point the most important factor
in English legislation—trial by jury—de-
mands to have a say in the matter. There
is little doubt that if a jury of lawyers had
been empanelled in the cause celehre which
terminated on Saturday last, there would
have been but a short retirement, if any,
from the box, and a touching unanimity on
their return. The letter of the law as laid
down in recent oases would have been up-
held in its entirety. But the juiies in both
cases consisted of mere ordinary citizens,
unversed in legal technicalities, unmindful
of the nice points so dear to the legal mind.
To them the faot that certain allegations
remained unproved was subordinated to
other facts of greater importance from their
standpoint. On each trial they heard what
was to be said on either side, enjoyed each
others’ society for days, retired to argue the
points at issue undisturbed by the pre-
sence of specialists, and returned to pro-
claim that their views were hopelessly
divergent, and the prospect of unanimity
hopelessly remote. Time out of mind, the
institution of trial by jury has been railed
at —sometimes with reason, sometimes with-
out. It was cumbrous, and frequently de-
feated the very ends it was instituted to
promote. But the late abortive attempt to
whitewash the commercial and public repu-
tation of a prominent politician and crush a
not very prominent writer has vindicated
the system in the eyes of many who made
no secret of their opinion that it had, in a
measure, outgrown its usefulness, and was
ill-adapted for performing in nineteenth-
century civilisation the offices it was so
fitted for in a more primitive society.
• * •
In the light of the juries’ disagreement in
the Parkes-Webb case, the comments made
by some of our contemporaries are instruc-
tive. The Sydney Morning Herald ad-
mits, in a half-hearted way, that although
“the character (private) of public men is
important, because men who are dishonest
in the counting-house are not likely to be
honest in the Cabinet,” yet “ nothing ought
to be used as a criticism on public actions
which has no direct connection with them.”
And “ whatever advantage his (Sir Henry
Parkes’) career may give to a private or
political enemy .... that advantage
must not be pressed beyond the line
that separates publio from private af-
fairs.” It goes on to draw a sad picture of
the depths which political life in the United
States touches, owing to this tendency to
mix up the publio and private lives of men .
These dicta laid down by our contemporary
are both odd and untenable. If they mean
anything, they mean that the community
has little or no concern with the private
conduct of those who aspire to shape its
destinies. Such guides may be dishonest,
immoral, intemperate; their commercial
careers may be so smirched that reputable
men may decline to deal with them; their
amativeness so ill-controlled that reputable
women endanger . their good name by
being seen speaking to them; their in-
temperance so notorious that decent pub-
licans forbid them their houses. Still
when they try for an entrance into public
life, or succeed in passing the portals, all
this is to be forgotten. They are to be
judged by their public aots alone, and any
journalist who alludes to their private record*
or hints at the absurdity of expeoting to
gather wholesome figs from such rank this-
tles, steps beyond his proper vocation, and is
guilty of spite and vulgarity. This is in-
deed, a doctrine startling in its novelty. It
is not in United States alone that such
a canon is set daily at dehanoe. In England
the growing tendenoy is in an entirely
opposite direction. There, writers of repute
freely canvass in important journals the
private doings of men who represent them
Were it otherwise—were a veil to be drawn
over the actions of men simply because
those actions had no connection with the
public life of the State—the injury to the
nation’s reputation would quite outweigh
the very problematical good. This, as we
said, is so well understood in the England of
to-day that no aptitude for publio affairs
is suffered to oondone tlagrant violations of
probity. If such were not the case, if the
Herald’s dictum were accepted as a safe-
guard in these matters, then the reputable
citizens who would bring to their country’s
councils the cleanness and decency which
characterised their private dealings, would
be placed on the same level as the rogues,
lechers, and drunkards entertaining simi-
lar aspirations.
• • •
In the Parkes v. Webb case two patent
errors appear to have been made by the pro-
secution. The first was in making the action
a criminal one; the second in taking any
action at all. That many think differently
from us in classing the latter as an error we
are well aware. But there is no such dis-
agreement in considering the former as a
palpable mistake. About its lolly there is
but one opinion. And it is little less than
marvellous how suoh an astute person as Sir
Henry Parkes could have been induoed to
commit a blunder so obvious. In adopting
the method which has so signally failed, he
probably followed the counsel of his legal
advisers—men learned in law, conversant
with all its intricaoies, and, in view of the
recent decisions already [referred to, confl.
dent of success. But, like the historical
clock-maker, whose clock was a marvel of
ingenuity only that it could not be made to
go, their ingenious anticipations ended in a
humiliating fizzle. Their mountain laboured
without even producing the traditional
mouse. As the watchmaker forgot all abou t
the spring so essential to the success of his
work, so Sir Henry and his advisers over-
looked the fact that before their venture
could be successful, it would be neoes-
sary to induce twelve ordinary citizens
to believe them. In this they failed. They
proved a good m any things, it is true: among
others that it was possible for a man to be a
great statesman and at the same time a
great—that is to say, an unsuccessful trader.
As we have already hinted, the whole pro-
ceedings were pregnant with useful lessons.


tie roPMR mm
OF
rrr^riT
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.— YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIEB
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
*
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
EM BOBU am,
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of tho
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alloy,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bud-time.
WT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
M. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Sigls Efttl: Bspartnent,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET*
where you can obtain for
©<fL
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of suoh a Quality that cannot bo surpassed at anj
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
BSD or WHITE, cnly 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
THB MOST W HOLSBOMS OW ALL BIVIRAGIS.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. Od. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHISKY
68. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S STAR «°» PALE BRANDY,
Ss. Od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
r/.
y
K
y
%
*1
GOWING BROS.
Have j list Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Ad., 35., 3s. Art., A 4s. Ad
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 498 George-street.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th December, 1881.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONAL WOODEN
BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for erection of an Ad-
ditional Wooden Building at the Leichhardt
West Public School.
Plans and Specifications maybe saen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydhey.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Leichhardt West Public Sohool,” must be
lodged with the Under Secretary. Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 1C o’clock a.m., on
Monday, the 29th December, 1881.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Foster 's Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S: EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE
The BEST ALE and STOUT in tta< Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINI 3
MERCHANTB.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
celebrated;)
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
HUBII ill CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
jy TIME PAYMENTS, IF REgJUIBE^-
To some people it may appear that the up-
shot was in direct contravention to a clear
and well-defined law, and they will lament
accordingly. But to the great mass of the
community the opinion that, if the strict
letter of the law has not been complied with
yet substantial justice has been done, is
likely to remain undisturbed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Advance Australia.
Whites a correspondent, apropos of the recent
Yass Hogging case:—lt is chiefly the Legislative
Council interest which maintains and yearns for a
further extension of the good old flogging system
in New South Wales. These hoary remnants of
the convict days are the men who would hang and
torture. In their ears the whistle of the lash is as
sweet music, and the creak of the gallows-trap as
the sound of a murmuring brook. Why should
these irresponsible curiosities be allowed thus to
emphasise the brutality 6f our unhappy national
origin, and eternally remind the world that this
colony was swaddled in judicial murder—that she
was born under the shadow of the gaol wall, and
baptised in gore ? Why should Australian citizens
be flogged for small offences, while the people of
England and America and Germany and France,
and every other civilized State, now revolt egainst
punishments belonging to the era of the rack, the
stake, and the scavenger’s daughter ? If flogging is
to be a permanent institution in New South Wales
it is evident that it must be because either our
people or their rulers are more brutal than the
people or the rulers of other countries. Here are
a few lines of not such very ancient colonial his-
tory, which tell us what New South Wales would
be, had some of the members of the Legislative
Council power to enforce their traditional and
hereditary ideas of justice “ I was sent for to
Bathurst Court-house to identify a man supposed
to have taken to the bush from the farm I have
charge of. I had to go past the triangles, where
they had been flogging incessantly for hours. I
saw a man walk aoross the yard with the blood
that had run from his lacerated flesh squashing out
of his shoes at every step he took. A dog was
licking the blood off tho triangles, and the ants
wore carrying away great pieces of human flesh
that the lash had scattered about the ground. The
soourger’s foot had worn a deep hole in the
ground by the violence with which he whirled
himseir round to strike the quivering and whealed
back, out of which stuck the sinews—white,
ragged, and s wollen. The infliction was a h undred
lashes, at about half-minute time, so as to extend
the punishment through nearly an hour. The day
was almost hot enough to overcome a man merely
standing that length of time in the sun; and this
was going on in the full blaze of it. However
they had a pair of scourgers, who gave one an-
other spell and spell about; and they were be-
spattered with blood like a couple of butchers.”
[ln everything. Australia is strange—strange in its
fauna, its flora, its geology. But, strangest of all
it in the direction its Democraoy is taking. Dk
Tocqueville is not by us, and our memory may
be defective: still, so far as we do recollect, one
of his impregnable positions was that the progress
of Democracy meant, in penal legislation at least,
the progress of humanity. And with the single
exception of British Australasia, his position is
still unassailable. With us, however, penal bru-
tality advances pari pasm with Democracy. We
pride ourselves on our indifference to the opinions
of strangers; but affeot indifference as we will, we
cannot blind ourselves to the fact that nations
numbering two hundred millions and justly claim-
ing to occupy the front rank in civilization, have
for years been busily employed In erasing from
their statute-books the media?val savageries which
we are as busily employed in replacing upon ours.
-Ed. B.]
♦
A Droll Proposal.
Mb. Firth (in the Houso of Commons):—“ On
Friday 1 shall ask the First Lord of the Treasury
whether in filling up the vacancy in tho office of
Chief Secretary for Ireland consideration had been
given to the possibility of securing the services of
any Irish member of Parliament familiar with the
requirements of the country, and able to inspire
confidence in the administration of the country.
(Laughter.)” The suggestion was received with
laughter. The idea of an Irishman being Chief
Secretary for Ireland was the funniest thing that
had been heard in Bt. Stephen’s for a century.
The oldest member confessed that there might
have been a joke like it a generation or two before
his time; but that since ho took his seat, the year
of Catholic Emancipation, he didn't remember
anything lit to bo bracketed with it. Well, it was
mirth-provokiDg—there's no denying that. An
Irishman swaying the destinies of Ireland! Yes, it
becomes funnier the more you think c f it. Let us
see. Where were we ? Oh, of course. Of this
laughter-moving picture, it is well to look at the
reverse side, which, believe us, is not nearly so
facetious. At the next general election, it is con-
ceded by his bitterest enemies that Parnell will
have a compact body of from 75 to t 5 followers.
Suppose, just for argument’s sake, that English and
Scotch parties are at all equally balanced. The Irish
members will have the ball at their feet, excepton
those rare occasions when Whigs and Tories
coalesce in presence of a common and implacable
enemy. To all appeals to patriotism and the
integrity of the Empire, those; malignants will be
as deaf as James to the solicitations of Monmouth
The bill of rights will not stop short at an Irish
Chief Secretary, but will include a local Parlia-
ment as well. The laughter then will bo of a
totally different kind from the mirth of to-day.
Should it occur at all, it will be forced and uneasy
a mere simulacrum of the spontaneous jollity of
1884. Will there be no course left, then, but to
placate those malcontents by conceding their
claims? Yes, there will be one—the one advo-
cated by a distinguished writer now nearing our
shores, whose autopsy on the writer of "Sartor
Resartus” is even now moving millions to laughter
and rage: to expel the Irish members, deny the
smaller island Parliamentary representation, and
govern it as a Crown colony the same as India or
Malta. It can be done. An unarmed people to-
day are, in a circumscribed area, powerless against
a force of fltty or even twenty thousand disci-
plined men. Even if armed and unanimous, their
efforts would merely end in shambles, while
their masters held all the strategic
and at short notice could concentrate a crush-
ing force on any threatened point. With a
much larger country in which to operate,
the armed but disorganised Spaniards of
75 years ago could make no headway against
Napodeon’s conscripts till they received succour
from over the sea. After Jena, the war-like Prus-
sians were ridden over rough-shod, till the retreat
from Moscow gave them a chancs of raising their
heads again. Yesterday, all the resources of
France beat idly against the circumference of the
iron ring surrounding Paris, once the regular
army was destroyed or captured. No. „ There
would be no difficulty in ejeoting the Irish mem-
bers from Westminster, aud making that island a
Crown colony, but for the fact, so frequently over-
looked, that the majority of Irishmen live out
of Ireland, but within easy haii. This is the
really awkward part of the business this is
the real hitch, the hitch ignored by the bril-
liant Fkoude and his uncompromising ad-
mirers. The astute land-owning English legis-
lators of a generation ago shook with mirth as
they saw the cabins of Connemara levelled, and
the occupants dying in ditches or sandwiched into
floating coffins for a trip aoross the Atlantic. The
equally far-seeing Scotch landlords of to-day re.
joice to see the crow-bar doing its work among
the hovels of the Northern crofters—rejoice to
think of the plump grouse and fleet deer the do-
oopulated glens will shortly harbour. But we
digress. Let us make Ireland a Crown colony, by
all means, We can do so. We are strong enough,
but—how the words of the greatest of England’s
sons Keep ringing in our ears—“ Better to bear the
ills we have, than fly to others that we know not
of.” We do not know, but we can guess them.
And as the ‘‘Crown colony” project—the only
one, barring local self-government, which will
shortly be left to fall back upon—would not alone
prompt all homo-living Irishmen, of whatever
breed (Celtic, Saxon, Danish, or Norm in) or faith,
to look to the East with hatred and to the West
with hope, but would stir American society to its
depths, it is questionable whether even Mr.
Firth’s proposal, ludicrous as it is, is not prefer-
able. Aud now ior a good, long, spontaneous peal
of laughter at the idea of an Irish Chief Secretary.
Hip-hip-hurrah! [Will it be equally spontaneous
five or ten years hence ?—Ed. B.]
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Correspondents who yive neither name nor no in- de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Volta”: You ask us what is the worst
conductor of electricity. A telegraph boy, to be
sure. If you had much to do with telegrams you
would know that “Inquirer”: What is our
opinion of the Parses and Webb case ? Our
opinion is—our opinion. We shall always be
pleased to provide you with information..
“Young Aspirant”: Your ambition is noble.
You wish to become a poet, and you want our
advice as to the best way of setting about it. This is
easy, Listen to us. First, you let your hair grow
long. Then you give up the use of soap: also
work. Never work, whatever you do, or the
divine inspiration will desert you. Let your
father work, and spend the day lying on
your back and watching the silken sheen
of the shimmering sea. while you crack peanuts.
Then the afflatus will come to you and you
can bottle it up »nd sell it to Alfred.....
“Majolica”: No. Our house is not furnished in
an resthetic style. Not now. It was. But the
bailitf—need we say any more ? We think not-
Perhaps you have been thete yourself ...“T.M.”
(Darliughurst): What do we think of your hand-
writing? As it is angular in style, we presume
you are a lady, and, therefore, all we can say is
that your writing-master deserves to die early and
have his epitaph written by A 's obituary bard.
Worse we cannot wish him... “ Poet’s Naseiatur”:
You ask us for an example of real, stirring, fiery
verse. You have come to the right quar er this
time. We happen to have just been turning over
an old scrap-book, and we have come across a
poem written by us (in the character of a Turk)
during the Russo-Turkish war. Here are two im-
mortal lines from it, which match if you can:—
“And Stamboul, flaming like a hundred hells,
Shall light their way across the Dardanelles.”
There is fire enough in this, we think. It
takes its?... “Horatio”: So that is your little
game, Horatio ? You would like us to give you
the address of a certain charming actress. We are
sorry that we can’t oblige you. But if you are
very anxious to get it, we can refer you to a gen-
tleman who should know and who will probably
have much pleasure in assisting you. We refer
to the lady’s husband. Anything more of the
samo sort, Horatio? “D. 8.” : Next week ...
“Curious”: You want to know “what we write
on.” Certainly. We write on paper. Excuse our
little sparrow-sharpness, bht we know what you
mean. We write on anything we can get. For
instance, on Saturday (dividend day) we write not
infrequently on RocdererorMoetandChandon. On
Sunday, Sazerac is sullicient lor us. On Monday,
dark brandy or whisky of an ordinary kind suffices.
On Tuesday, rum is enough. On Wednesday, rum
also. On Thursday, whatever we can get, down to
treacle and water. On Friday—well, on Friday,
we don’t write at all. It can’t be done. Do you
happen to be in any way connected with p, brew-
ery or a distillery ? If so—but to say more would
be indelicate. You know what wo mean. You
can send it to the offlee, carriage-paid, and we will
remember you in our prayers—that is, if we can
remember our prayers “ W.C.M ” : No, sir
“Florence”: We are eharmed with your little
note. You ask us what we writ* for, and seem to
anticipate that we answer “Fame.” Delightful
girl 1 But we must tell you the truth. Let us tell
it in a whisper. We do not write for fame ; but—
we blush to say it—for Hash ‘‘Nogo Dumps”
(Cudal) : We answer your inquiry with pleasure.
“Sic” means” so,” and is used whenever
a sentence or word is quoted which con-
tains an error in grammar or orthography.
You need not have been afraid of any of our staff
using your skull as a drinking-cup. They are not
partial to empty pewters —“Whip”: We are
much obliged lor your verses, but you are a whip
that is without a lash. There is no crack in you.
The Rates o» Subscription to Thb Bulletin
ar®—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per oent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Order 3 should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Austr&llaa
Colony may bo sent, u more cgnyeoientj


A Gorgeous Journal.
Let us say it softly— the Press is the Archi-
medean lever that moves the world. The more
there is of it, therefore, the more it will move the
world. And for this reason we are always glad to
sound the timbrel and pDy upon the dulcimer at
the birth of a new paper. We have now before us
the natal number of a journal which we have no
hesitation in saying is the most gorgeous produc-
tion which has appeared since the invention of
printing. You may believe this when we tell you
that, immediately we had spread it out, we had to
close the bliuils and look at it through smoked
glasses. It is printed in four colours-green blue,
bronze, and scarlet—a id bears the modest title of
the Irish and Australian World. The title is
justified by the sagacious proprietor choosing
such a central place as Narrabri to publish in,
though it may be argued that he would have
shown even maturer judgment in starting it
somewhere on the telegraph line half-way be-
tween Adelaide and Port Darwin. That would
have been more central still. (The proprietor is
an Irishman, and will pardon us this Boyle
Rocher.) But hia commercial astuteness and
far-seeing sagacity in adopting such a title prove
him to have a brain endowed with splendidly
practical ideas, and enriched with superb common
sense. It is very well and proper for humble
printers to confine themselves to a township or a
district, but not so for him. He, to mew his
mighty youth in a cooped-
up colony of hardly a
million people? Pshaw I
It takes two races to
satisfy him. Two races,
did we say? Half a dozen
races we meant,for his pa-
per will be read through
the length and breadth of
the land, and-very pro-
bably —in the depths
thereof. And, we will say
it honestly and fairly, it
deserves to be. There has
been nothing like it 6ince
the world began. We
would endeavour to de-
scribe it to you, if we
could—to use the words
of a gentleman who wrote
much poetry and drank
more gin wreak our
thoughts upon expres-
sion. But we feel it to be
impossible with the jour-
nal itself glittering before
us in all its unearthly
splendour. Words are
weak and vain applied to
it. Yet let us try to give
you a feeble idea of this
magnificent masterpiece
of genius and typography
Imagine, then, a thin and
gauzy sheet, of such deli-
cate tissue that even the
daintily-treading mos-
quito puts his legs
through it, in the fond
delusion that he can
safely pass across. Imag-
ine—but let us breathe 1
• • 9
Imagine on this spir-
itualised surface a sym-
phony in green and blue
Can you? We confess
we are making large
demands upon you, buu
our excuse is that this
anglish language of oun
is too weak and colourless
to paint the picture we
would make. But uuti
we have time to illumic-
ate it with some new ex-
pressions we must tako ii;
as it is. To proceed: At
the ton of the page the
title glitters in green arid
blur, 01 one side Thu
Irish, on the other and
AUSTRALIAN, With
World in the middle,
printed on tvbat seems to
be half of a pumpkin.
Shamrocks are twined
among the letters on the
Irish side, cornstalks on
the Australian side. Un-
der the shamrocks ssit an
old gentleman with one
eye in the top of his
head, which is bald, at-
tired in a bed-gown that
falls down to his feet.
There is much expression
in these feet. We can
almost guess w hat county
he comes from by these
alone. They arfe Ti -
perary feet, if there are
any feet in Tipperary. In
the distance is a bog.
The old gentleman ap-
pears at first sight to
bo making a bird-cage,
but, on closer investiga-
tion, we discover he is
playing a harp, which
T 8 curious, as he appears
to have only two
Angers on one hand
and merely an unassum-
ing stump of a linger on
the other. But he evid-
ently means well, for the
eye on the top of bis
skuil.is turned pensively
upwards, as though he
were endeavouring to
forecast from the look of
the sky whether it would
bea good potato season
or,, not. it is a touching
picture, and we have no
doubt it will arouse a fury
of enthusiasm in the
breasts of the Irishmen
about NarraDri. Under
the cornstalks on the Aus-
tralian side of the page
stands a damsel with a
crook under her arm,
herding oysters. That is
what you would put them
down to be at a hasty
glance. But they are not oysters. They are sheep.
This ends the symbolism of the title-piece. Below
this comes the reading matter—three columns in
green glaring across at three columns in blue, with
a white strip between them, to prevent them from
coming to hostilities we suppose. The interior of
the sheet is all in blue. In fact, the preponderance
of this colour wou ! d lead an ill-natured person to
observe that the proprietor entertained but a mel-
ancholy opinion of his prospects. The commence-
ment in green, too, would be suggestive—to a
cy.iical mind —of his credulity in starting upon
such an enterprise. But we are not persons of this
description. If there is anything gives us real
pleasure, it is to encourage new efforts in journal-
ism. The fourth sheet, however, has a more san-
guine appearance. Three columns are in bronze
and three in scarlet. The delight all this variety
must give to the eye of the reader, we leave you
to imagine. So iar for the artistic part of the pro-
duction. Now for the literary section. But we
must take another paragraph to describe this.
* * v
We said the proprietor was justified by the
style of his paper in calling it by the proud and
comprehensive title of the Irish and Australi an
World. Well, if you don’t think so by the
account we have given you of its appearance, we
believe, if you are human, you will agree with us
when we give you a resume of its news. First,
there is a public meeting about an aboriginal
Secondly, there is a police court case about the same
aboriginal—from both of which we learn his name
was Alick, and nothing more. We are sorry for
this, because we began to get interested ia Alick.
The “ General News ” is led off airily with a para-
graph about Upjohn, the ex-hangman. Then come
several sprightly paragraphs in succession, each
individual one of which concerns either an at-
tempted murder, a successful murder, or a suicide.
The last paragraph in this mirth-provoking page
has reference to a Chinaman who was struck by
lightning while cutting cabbages. The most con-
spicuous thing in the two inside pages of the
paper is an invitation (in biue) to “ drink Gunne-
dah beer.” On the fourth page we come suddenly
across the discovery that the gifted printer is a
Roet, and a very rampant poet at that. It speaks
braries for the future of this journal that this
should be so, and that he should make a set
at fame in the first issue It would hardly be fair,
now we have told you so much, not to givs you a
specimen of his verses. They concern Hanlan and
Beach. We take some Hues at random—all are
equally—well, equally equal. Here are four:—
“ So sang the great Hanlan, as o’er tho wide ocean
To Australia he wended his way;
His thoughts were of Laycock—he hadn’t a
notion
That Beaoh was inclined for a say.”
Four more :
“ Then out spoke Bill Beach with the pluok of a
man,
That Kendall Statue.
(FROM A DESIGN BY DAN. O’CONNOR.)
“Now you know, my dear friend, you have me altogether at your disposal, and on my return to Sydney, two or three months
hence, my very first concert will be given to the memory of Kendall, and then we will work till the bard who sleeps in sight of the
great Pacific shall have a noble and a worthy monument. This is all.—I am, my dear O’Connor, your affectionate friend Edouard
R EMEETI.”
Saying, “ Deeble, let us to the fore,
We must beat this Yankee lad (that’s if we can),
For he must not be king any more.”
We think that will bo enough. The gifted printer-
poet bears the historic and famous name of O’Con-
nor—a Dame which has always been as full of
poetry as a potato is full of starch. An article
cheerfully entitled “ A Terrible Tragedy.” and
another with the equally airy heading, “ A Cry for
Vengeance to Heaven heard,” with a chatty little
item about a police-sergeant who poisoned his eye
while preserving the head of a stolen bullock,
finishes up the list of interesting family reading.
What we have told you will let you see what a fine
discriminating eye for what pleases the public the
proprietor of this paper possesses. You can’t tell
him about what is popular ttresido reading. He
knows. The real news is cunningly hidden in the
last column. It is a fine description of the Treaty
of Limerick, and does great credit to the enter-
prise of the proprietor. From this we learn that
there was a treaty signed at Limerick a short
while back, in 1691, and that it was broken. As we
suppose there will be further particulars in next
issue, we will not go more into the matter just
now. In fact we only mention it as evidence of a
diaregird for expense in obtaining the latest
newo, which promises to be a chief characteristic
of the Irish and Australian World. And now
we think we have done our little part—even if we
have not broken a bottle of champagne over its
head—in launching the now journal on the (these
dear old drivelling phrases will haunt us till we
die!) stormy seas of journalism. We will only add
a quotation from the leading article, and then
catalepse for ever. If you have attended to what
we have taken the trouble to tell you, you will re-
member that the paper is printed in four colours.
rwJ 6 , rS* ? -Vn 0 w J lich m ay well be called the
l ease mille failtlie of races, engraved in a style
which it is not too much to say will be the despair
of art for ages to come, and that the first issue
contains an unrivalled selection of gleefully gorv
anecdotes, the latest news about the Treaty of
Limerick, and a poem by the printer himself.
N 2) v 'u t , hen are Prepared for the quotation,
which is: When our staff are entered on their
work, and each gets into his own place, greater
variety may be confidently expected.” This
finishes us. If greater variety is attempted, we
prophesy that there will be such a ghastly time in
Narrabri as will never be seen again till the
General Resurrection. And so, with a sigh we
waft this brilliant little journal on its way. With
all its glory, we see the haud of death on its brow.
We have seen so many bright and hopeful ven-
tures of the kind perish in their bloom, that we
K?P w t'k® mark. The baby-colfln is prepared. The
fitt e grave is dug. But what of that* Its end
will be glorious .It will go to the tomb with all its
colours fly iuq! We hope, however, that there will
be one more issue. We want to hear the rest of
tho stpry about the Treaty of Limerick. And then
, we can nervr ° ourselves to part for ever 1
with the Irish and Australian Harlequin.
AN OCTOGENARIAN’S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—lt gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant ltelief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Hurroo! the fight’s begun and the skin
and hair are beginning to fly already. Greek has
iu©t Greek at last to test who’s made of the sternest
stuff, and most fervently do the bystanders ex-
claim, “ Damn’d be he who first cries Hold,
enough!'' Speaking in reference to the Work-
house Act of 1863, Sir James Martin let out his left
and nearly grassed Sir ’Enry in the first round by
observing Irom his judicial perch: “This Work-
house act remained a dead letter till my retire-
ment from office, and then a gentleman, who
thought (I suppose) that he could thus cheaply
heap dirt upon my administration, brought in a
Bill to repeal this most salutary Act.” The blow
was skilfully stopped by the Fauleonbridge Chic-
ken, however, who, finding the cap fitted him so
neatly, at once replied through the press as fol-
lows:—“ I held office as Colonial Secretary with
Sir James Martin in the Government which car-
ried the Workhouse Act of 1866. I sat beside Sir
James Martin in opposition when the Bill was in-
troduced to repeal the Act. The member of the
Assembly who introduced and < arried the Bill to
repeal it was the late Mr. 8. C. Brown. It may be
doubted whether it is worth while to correot tnese
wanton misrepresentations; but the present is a
characteristic example of the painstaking care of
certain writers in the press to ascertain the facts
on which they indulge their love of detraction.”
l'irst blood is claimed for the Chicken, but the
friends of the Supreme Court Slasher are very
confident that their man will knock his opponent
clean out in the next round. However, it is a very
pretty quarrel as it stands at present.
Duelling is still far
from extinct throughout
the length and breadth
of the Continent, from
Stockholm to Naples,
lrom Moscow to Madrid.
In the palmy days of
Henri Quatie, 3000 gen-
tlemen are computed to
have been slain in single
oombat; now-adays, over
6000 duels occur annually
in France alone. In every
French regiment are to be
found two or three first-
rate swordsmen, com
monly called ties luteurs
whose especial businessi
to test the nerve of an
reoruitsuspected of ade
iicienoy of physical cour
age. In journalism an
society, an almost simlla
rule prevails, the weapo
used being the sma
sword. The issue of thes
encounters is, as a rule
anything but tragic :
scratched Unger or fore
arm being quite sufficlen
to justify the seconds i
declaring that honour
satisfied. Occasionally
when political or othe
considerations ronde
even a scratch undesir
able, pistols are resortec
to, but with peculiar pre
cautions. Thus MM. Gum
betta and De Fourtou—
the former being one-
eyed and the latter near!
blind—were put up in
dense fog at forty pace
(the favourite distanoeo
Bob Acres), to exchang
shots with very short
barrelled smooth bore pis
tols. Considering t h
highly erratic cours
likely to be taken by
bullet under such circum
stances, the courage o
their seconds calls fo
great commendation. In
cspaln and Italy duel
are very frequent ; th
sabre is universally used
though Italyfor centurie
boasted one of the bes
fencing-schools ir
Europe. The result is
that, while a fatal issue
is rare, the ugly gashes in
the face, the prospect of
which is said to have so
seriously disconcerted
Fompey’s oilioers, are
very common. In both
these countries the pen-
alty for duelling, as in
Franoe, is merely nomi-
nal. Tnroughout Germ-
any, including Prussia,
Austria, and the minot
States, a very different
rule prevails. The far-
cical “Sch lager” duels
between students are
still winked at, but en-
counters betweeu civili-
ans are punished with
considerable severity; the
ordeal of single combat
being aprivilege practic-
ally reserved for the army
Whentwo officers fall out
a regimental court of hon
our decides whether they
should fight, and should
either refuse to abide by
the finding he is dis-
missed the service. Pis-
tols are almost invariably
used, at a distance of
twelve paces; and, Ger-
man officersbeing as a rule
very good shots, fatal con
sequences are not infre-
quent. In the event of a
fatal issue, the survivor
is liable to suffer a term
of open arrest ;in a fort
ress varying from two to
six months. A German of-
ficer thus finds himself
placed in the dilemma
of refusing to fight and
being compelled to rotire
or of fighting and run-
ning the risk of being
placed under arrest
for doing so. The
Kussians are very quar-
relsome among themselves, and are constantly
fighting duels a la barrlere the opponents
being put up at fifteen paces, with liberty
to advance five paces each at a given signal, and
to fire at will. Should one of them fire and miss,
his adversary is entitled to complete his five paces
before returning the shot. This is obviously a
very businesslike form of duelling; and many
cases have been known in which a duellist, al-
though mortally wounded, has yet retained suffi-
cient strength to take steady aim and fire with
fatal effect. The great Russian poet, Pushkin, was
killed in a duel d la barrlere, after severely wound-
ing his antagonist. In the Baltic Provinces, a sys-
tem prevails which at first sight appears even
more murderous. The adversaries are placed only
three paces apart; the pistols are held with the muz-
zle pointing up wards,and are brought down and dis-
charged at a given signal. It may appear almost
impossible for two men to miss each other at so
short a distance, but this is not the case. Eaoh of
the opponents is so desperately anxious to gain the
least fraction of a second on his adversary that,
on the signsl being given, the weapons are often
brought down witn so hurried and violent a Jerk
that the bullets bury themselves in the ground.
At a duel fought last year at Riga, between an
officer and a student, in this fashion, no fewer than
three shots were exchanged without any result;
while at the fourth discharge the student had the
great toe ot his right foot cut clean off by bis op-
ponent’s bullet.


Personal Items
Died the other day in Armidale gaol a
party by the name of Gallagher. e
Tamworth Examiner long ago. First Journal-
ism. Then drink. Then, the gaol. And, last, the
grave. God help us I
The eldest son of the Prince of Wales came
of age last month. The telegrams say that it has
beendeoided not to ask Parliament lor any special
allowance for him until his marriage. We expect
to hear of his marriage by the next man.
Archibald Forbes says that the Claimant
might as well try to “ establish a o>aim to the free-
hold of the moon” as to the,Tlchborne estates.
There are those out here w ho think that thisi is
just what he ought to try—and take Mr. Archibald
Forbes into partnership.
Tawhaio the King is bowed down with
sorrow. It appears that while he was away in
London flirting with the nymphs of the, Alhambra,
one of his own wives forgot the dignity of her
station and became exceedingly ffiddy,
The injured monarch has taken no steps to right
himselt. He has only taken a few more wives
That Is why he is bowed down with sorrow.
It is with sincere sorrow that we learu
that Mr. Gerald M-ssev is ill. The viANNiNa
River Times, which is published in the district
where the Judge lives, says :—" He Is lyiDg at the
residence of Judge Wyndeter, and it Is very un-
likely, eveu if he should recover sufficiently, tba.
the people of this colony will again have the
Opportunity of listening to the utterances ot one
of the most remarhatde men who have vlsted Aus-
tr lia.” There arc few people whose sympathy
(we speak of those whose sympathy is wortn hay-
ing) will not go out to the earnest and noble
sufferer on his siok bed.
“ Who will rid me of this pestering pre-
late ? ’ said a King of Euglaod one day when he
was Irritated with Thomas A’Becket. And straight-
way twoknightswentforthand rid him of Thomas
(now a saint In glory with Bishop Barker) with
battle-axes. Similarly we would ask : Who will
rid us of this Hennlker Heaton ? Here he has
been playing the host at St. Stephen a Club tp
Major General Seratchley, the new High Commis-
sioner of New Guinea. The Major-General will
not have such a high opinion of the glory con-
ferred on him when he comes out here and dis-
covers In what estimation his former entertainer
is held. And when he sees Alfred s hat I Well, we
suppose he has looked into the cannon s mouth
aud will be able to stand it.
Cari Heunderschfeldt is the name of a
man who went through life with a ilea in his ear
for the past eighteen years. And yet all he pos-
sessed was wrapped up in the Anger of a glove
and stowed away carefully in his breeches poc-
kets. This one little item, however, happened to
be worth £130,000, it being nothing more or less
than the diamond belonging to Queen Victoria
which was stolen from a jeweller’s shop In 1860.
The jewel waß so well known and so liberally
advertised, however* that the old man who con-
fessed to being the thief—was afraid to offer it £o
anyone for sale* and so he died from sheer starva-
tion, although he held £120,000 in his pant’s pocket,
There appears to be a great moral lesson sticking
out just here, and our sky-pilots would do well to
make Mr. Heunderschfeldt's little episode the
subject of next Sunday’s sanctimonious sermon.
Sir Wilfred Lawson, the shining light of
the teetotallers .at home, seems to be but a
wretched creature after all. He made an attack
on the Duke of Norfolk lately. The Duke is the
head of the Roman Catholic aristocracy. Sir Wil-
fred made much fun of him “for dipping his
sickly heir in a holy well in the hope of curing
him.” The London Figaro says very truly of this
exhibition of blackguardismA drunken ruf-
fian' could hardly improve on such an example.
Hardly, we should think, and a drunken ruffian
would be the more respectable character of the
two. as he would have the grace to be sorry for
what he had said after he got sober. Bad as we
are in this country, the man who would have been
guilty of such brutality in speaking of a father s
weakness for his child, would have been horse-
whipped before be had been an hour older. Let
us hope this buffoon-baronetlhaslbeen horse-whip-
ped since.
Thoughtfulness! Phew! that’s far too
mild a term. We shall call it phenomenal conside-
ration. Last Tuesday week a young man from
the country district of Casterton, drove his buggy
into town for the purpose of bringing home a wife,
but on arrival, the would-be bridegroom found
the impatient lady had forestalled him. Having
met a discarded suitor, and rubbed noses once
again, the flokle fair one married her first love;
but rather than put the disappointed one to any
loss, she generously offered to buy all the furni-
ture he had provided in anticipation of his future
bliss, and furthermore, she offered him 30s. for the
loan of his trap to do a fly round In honour of her
present glad festivity. But the young man being
of a revengeful nature made use of language that
would sound better in a brewery than in a ctaurob,
and driving home burst up his household goods
with a borrowed axe. By and bye the axe will be
wanted by the other fellow.
Quite a big boom in a small way was
pulled off at the Greenwioh Pier Hotel, Watson’s
Bay, on Thursday last, the occasion being a com-
plimentary picnic given by the genial Dean Flana-
gan to the fair Kelly gang of desperadoes who re-
cently helped him to plunder the people of St.
Peter’s of a cool thousand pounds by means of a
church bazaar. After two hours’ steam round
the harbour, refreshments were served, and a
little speechifying eventuated, the Dean modestly
alluding to himself as the giant oak round which
the tender ivy (meaning the girls, of course) “most
lovingly did entwine.” No class of persons enjoy
a day"s outing with greater zest than the Catholic
clergy, and, as seven of the crow-plumaged gentry
put in an appearance at the Flanagan shivoo, the
fun at timea bordered on downriaht lunacy.
Dancing in the pavilion, getting lost (in select
couples) among the rocks, and such like amuse-
ments, helped to pass a pleasant day and tack a
few years on to the life of the jolly old octogena-
rian Dean of Bt. Peter’s.
It is reported that the other day at Com-
pagnoni’s a oertain mind-reader gave a private
stance to distinguished members of the Sydney
press, amongst whom of course was, it anything,
in rather assertive ease, the circumambient Allred,
Dr Garrao went up, and so far as he was con-
cerned. the professor was eminently successful.
“What did I think of,” said the learned doctor,
with his usual billiard-pocket smile. "You
thought,” returned the mind-reader. of the
15th verse of the 3rd chapter of Revelation, which
runs as follows:—* I know thy works, that thou
art neither odd nor hot.’” “That's wroDg, re-
plied the doctor, a poppy tint suffusing his ex-
pressive features. “ Shall I try you again ? said
the professor, suavely. “No, cried the worthy
gentleman, hurriedly leaving, * I can r wait; Ive
got to scamper up as far as Mount Moriah, and
pray.” The next candidate was the gifted pro-
prietor of the Jernlk. Egged on by Chris., he
meandered feebly up to the professor, aud said,
“Can you read my mind?" The man locked at
him long and fixedly. He replied, apologetically,
" Sir, I am sorry ; but it is impossible. ’
Sine Kay is dead at last. Who was Sing
Kay ? He was a Chinese prisoner in the Geraldton
Gaol, Geraldton, W.A. Perhaps we should not
have noticed bis demise much if it had not been for
the fact that he strove harder to get out or this
world than anyone we have ever known has striven
Io keep in it. He first tried to hang himself with
he waistband of his trousers. Discovered in the
ict. Tried to cut his throat with a piece of glass,
discovered in the act. Swallowed a quantity of
*roken glass. Not discovered till violent hoemor-
•hage had set in. Waspulled through that. Finally
le was removad to a small ceil where there were
10 apparent possible conveniences for shortening
ife at discretion. Nothing was left him except his
trousers, shirt, blanket, and coir mattrass. Next
norning he was found hanging doad from a bar
jf the oell-window. He had taken his trousers off
md tied them tightly round his neck, and fastened
the trousers to the bar by a piece of rope which he
had manufactured from his mattrass. As the win-
dow of his cell was nearly Bft. from the ground,
and he was only sft. 3in in height, he had to climb
up by placing his feet against the walls on either
side—3ft llln. apart-a piece of gymnastics which
showed he was in good form for the long leap he
took afterwards. Even in the matter of dying, the
yellow heathen displays more perseverance and
ingenuity than the Caucasian.
There is one thing about Alfred we like:
he is open to conviction. Being a careful, earnest,
and, we hope, admiring peruser of these columns,
it has lately dawned upon him that he is not quite
a “ Suffokels ” in point of classical lore, and he has
accordingly chartered a person in reduced circum-
stances, d’une mise Tieglig6e, to instruct him in the
lauguage, as spoken by the ancient Greeks, and to
throw a bit of gardening in. For the last three
weeks, behold Alfred, as he travels behind his two
chestnuts, crooning the following edition of
the alphabet:—"Alfred, Beetroot, Gammon,
Belt-her, Asylum, Eat-her, Beat-her, Theatre,
Ironmonger, Capers, Lamb’s-fry, Mews, '’hen
he had collared this portion of the Greek
alphabet, and thrown it with great violence,
he called Davies aside one morning and rehearsed
to him the whole performance. Davies, who had
never heard anything in his life, except about the
circulation of the Down and Gumtree Jernel,
We are glad to see the noble Red Man at last fighting the Pale-face with the latter’s
own weapons. The Chief of the O[?]bbeway tribe of Indians has arrived in London. He is an
ordained clergyman of the Church of England, and has been a missionary of the Colonial and Conti-
nental Church Society for over 21 years. The chief’s name is the Rev. Pahtahquahong Chase, and
he is understood to have completely burst up the Gitohe-Manito idea among bis people. How
superior must the Red Indian be to our shock-headed aboriginal. Just imagine poor Ring
Billy of Croagingolong turned into an Anglican parson! But we really can’t imagine it.
complimented Alfred with almost paralytic em-
phasis upon his newly-acquired accomplishment.
The classical “scholard,” looking carefully round,
and dismissing for the nonce the art-critic, who
happened to be grinding the ink, said: “ Mark you,
I am not agoin’ to stop here, now I have onoe
begun; and directly I can tome across a good
second-hand shovel at a moderate prioe, I mean to
have a go at the Greek roots.”
Professor Simon, the phrenologist, gave
some profound criticisms on a few of our public
men the other night. For instance, he said that
John Davies was “ ever ready to please—until he
had gained his ends;” that Dan O'Connor was an
“ orator of no mean order—a well-read man—a
good judge of science.” The Professor should
have added “ and of whisky.” We agree with
him that Dan is “an orator of no mean order.
He is of no order. Also that he is “a well-read
man.” He has probably read his own speeches
more frequently than any person alive. Further,
that he is “a good judge of science’ —in the
pugilistic sense. Mr. Htuart is described as * a
profound thinker.” This we have little occasion
to question—his thoughts so seldom come to the
surface. And Mr. M'Elhone, besides being “ free-
and-easy” and “ combative,” has a “ splendid
appetite” “ and is “an excellent judge of animals.
With regard to the latter gift, we all know that
his judgment is only skin-deep. Neat this, eh !
These criticisms ot the Prolessor will, ho wever,
show you what a searching science phrenology is.
Who, we ask you, could have made such discoveries
guided merely by common observation ? It is
well the Professor lives in these tolerant and
enlightened days. If he had shown such superna-
tural sagacity three or four hundred years ago, he
would nave infallibly been burnt as a magician.
If ever an engineer was hoisted as high as
the moon with his own petard, that engineer is the
Archbishop of York. Of late this worthy prelate,
having plenty of time and chalk on his hands, has
been going in bald headed for the drink statistics
of Great Britain, and, after much trouble, be 4is-
covered and declared to the world that the drink
expenditure exceeds the whole rental of the
country. Hardly had he Riven Up to his wonder-
ful discovery, however, before a certain drinker
wrote to Reynolds’ Newspaper in the following
pungent style Touching the figures lately given
on the drink cost of the land by the Archbishop of
York, let us take a far smaller sum—say, for in-
stance, the .£10,000,001) which he and his fellow-par-
sons appropriate—what would this not do ? It
would pay the school pence of the whole nation.
It would support alt the hospitals. I can imagine
a working man standing on the silent margin of
the other shore, and looking at the strange con-
course of people pouring into the City Beautiful
from every point of the cwmpass and in every
variety of credal dress. I can imagine him saying,
too, “ Heaven seems easy of access from auy where
and an.* how so long as a man is sincere, and yet
England pays ten millions a year to have one of
the little lanes thither pointed outl’ ” We venture
to think .'his Gra e is now exceedingly sorry he
ever spoke, and that he will be mighty glad to im-
mediately change the conversation.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher says—and
if he doesn’t know, who does?—“there is some-
thing of the nature of a God in all men. ’ That’s
all right. We have noticed the fact ourselves,
ever sinpe we touched the too-confiding time-piy-
ment furniture man for a 16-guinea pier-glass.
But, at the same time, we are forced to say that if
there were a little less of the god, and a little more
of the oyster about some men, the business of the
world would get on much quieter, inasmuch as the
aforesaid men would occasionally keep their
mouths closed. How, for instanoe, ther -’s the
Rev. Charles Strong, who has just returned to his
old Victorian haunts, and who had barely set his
foot on terra firm a before he began to orate in a
style that doubled up his former enemies in the
Lord worse than if’ a load of hay had fallen slap on
top of them. And amongst other important chat
fired off, we nofiloe the JRev. Charley says:—“l
don’t know how it has been with other people, but
I know that I have found on mv return to the
colony, the same kindness, cordiality, and sym-
pathy that I experienced here for many years
before. However cool other people may have felt
their seats on returning here, I have not felt mine
cool.” All of which leads us to infer that this un-
fortunate divine has either been taking; violent
exercise on a hard-trotting bare-backed horse, or
else ho accidentally sat down in a plate of hot soup
at his recent spontaneous welcome banquet.
Out of the palatial building in Market-
street, the other day, there might have been seen
emerging a man of distinguished mien, in a
shockingly bad hat. It was in the full glow of
noon-day; and his name (we conceal it for obvious
reasons) was • As he reached the corner
he was accosted by an individual with a bulbous
countenance, a fixed eye, and a suit of clothes
which had probably adorned members of the
Press for several generations. “ Sir,” he said,
accosting the journalistic proprietor, “ I am starv-
ing.” A gleam of pleasure from ■— s optics.
“Starving I” said he; “you’re not, really, are
you?” “I is,” replied the crushed one emphati-
cally. “ Starving 1” cried the Mogul of journalism
with a swing and a genial smile; fancy ! You ve
received some eddication, I suppose ? I m a
hundergradivate of the University.” “ Of where?
enquired . “ Dubbo,” replied the distressed
one. another glow suffused those features which
are alike renowned for their massiveness and
genially. “And you’re starving?” “I are,
repied the individual. “Come this way,” said
—. And he led him into tfie office, and
straightway enrolled him amongst the other crip-
ples. Next dav he found himself “down on the
book ” fora flower-show at Burwood. Being fur-
nished with current coin, representing something
under a million, he went conscientiously to do his
duty. . . . His report was brought round in the
blacking-bottle by the sub-inspector. ——’s
“cricket” bad got “53,, or tUI tbe rising of tbe
courtt”
Talk about the ruling passion being strong
in death. Bah! We know a real live man who
holds it powerful enough to turn aside the kiok of
a spiteful jackass. Not to give him away too
cheaply, we’ll suppose his name is Paddy Larken-
stein, and now l«t us observe that Paddy is not
only a thrue Papist from the sole av his fut to the
baldest patch on the top of his head, but he is also
one of the leading produce merchants in this city.
And being a good Oatholic, Paddy, of course, re-
cently visited His Holiness the Pope, imprinted a
hearty smack on the Pontiff’s favourite bunion,
and was afterwards shown all over the best rooms
in the Vatican. Amongst other treats, Patriok
was escorted through the rather gloomy, but ex-
ceedingly roomy, Catacombs of the Eternal City.
These seemed to rope his attention more than any-
thing he had seen since he left the Market Wharf;
and throwing up his hands with a wild exclama-
tion of true delight, he roared, “ Oh I be the howly
f brost, but it’s the Cattycombs that Id make the
sphlendid hay an’ corn sthores.” Before he left
for the City on the Seven Hills, Paddy was “ ban-
kettid,” as ne proudly states himself, and on rising
to respond to the toast of the evening, he planted
his right hand in the buzzim of his shirt, pointed
his left deflantly at the chandelier, and yelled,
“ Gintilmen and wlmin." This didn’t take q uite so
well as Paddy expeoted, but as the fluids were
plentiful, the “ wimin ” wiped the affront from off
the red-leaved tablets of their hearts with sherry
and soda, and joy reigned around, as Paddy says,
In “ th’ most profuse looxyourinse.”
TO ALDERMAN JOHN YOUNG.
“It is understood that Alderman John
Young has received the promises of his brother
aldermen that he shall be elected Mayor for the
year 1886.”— Evening News.
O Alderman John Young!
Permit us to observe
You have the coolest nerve—
O Alderman John Young I
O Alderman John Young!
Have you no douuts or fears
To parcel out tne years— ,
O Alderman John Y mng I
O Alderman John Young!
When Christmas comes again
You'll wear the Mayor s chain—
O Alderman John Young ?
O Alderman John Young!
By that time you may be
Only a memory—
O Alderman John Young!
O Alderman John Young!
’Tis ill to tempt the gods
They carry not your hods—
O Alderman John Young!
O Alderman John Young!
For this thing do not fret,
You may be Mayor yet,
O Alderman John Young!
The Rev. Dodd, of Dunedin, has put a
head on the Hon. Mr. Stout, the free-thinking
Premier of New Zealand. In a recent pulpit con-
vulsion he declared in effect, and in rnauy more
words than we have time to spell out, that the
colony was goiDg fast to the devil since it had
dared to place at the head of its affairs a man who
made it his boast that he did not believe in the
Christian’s God, and who consequently denied his
Saviour. Well, now we only want to say that we
also would like to squeeze a word or two in edge-
ways, and we will put it this way. Suppose that
both the reverent Dodd and the irreverent Stout
had been in the flesh and able to spout and act
eighteen hundred years ago, judging from what
we know of them in the pr sent day, on which
side would they be most likely found ? Would not
the Rev. Dodd be conspicuous among the Phari-
sees. And would not the sceptical Stout have
seized a tomahawk or a writ of Habeas Corpus
and rushed to the rescue along with the rqually
sceptical and valiant Peter, and slashed off Lord
knows how many long ears before there was time
to put an injunction on his proceedings ? No, Mr.
Dodd—reverend or otherwise-it won’t do at
this time of day. You just listen. In a
century or so, the chances are when you
find yourself strolling around Paradise hum-
ming the 119th psalm, you’ll come across Stout
trying on a pair of new wings and ready to start
on a celestial tour along with such boon com-
panions as Robert Burns, Tom Paine, Bradlaugh,
and Bob Ingersoll. They will probably make the
grand tour of the Milky-Way. round by Orion,
the Great Bear, past the North Star, and back
again by the Southern Cross. We don’t exactly
know how many myriad billions of miles they’ll
travel; anyhow, they’ll find there’s plenty of room
for more immigrants; and. if there are such places
as Hell and Ireland in tne future, they will do
their best to ameliorate the climate of the one, and
get Home Rulej and good seed-potatoes for the
other. And this reminds us that we have quite
forgotten to put out the milk-jug.
Distressful rumours were circulating
through Melbourne during the early part of last
week The major proportion of the womankind
of that city wore a deep-mourning sort of expres-
sion upon their faces, and went about with a far,
far away look in the eyes. Verdi, their own dear,
dauntless Verdi, was dead. On the journey from
Colombo to Caloutta, the brilliant baritone had
breathed his last, and ’neath the surging sea,
doubtless, the sweeet songster silently slept. 80
ran the rumour. For twenty-four hours all
feminine laughter was busied, all gone was girl-
hood’s glee. But at length came an augel-a
Herald angel—with the glad tidings that Verdi
was not dead, and the little birds upon the green-
wood tree recommenced chirping their little lays
much the same as usual.—
That Rumour.
There came the other morning
A whisper wild and warning,
And, like a house in mourning,
The city was a-hushed.
Young damsels, tender-hearted.
With eyes whence tear drops started,
Spoke low of dreams departed,
And hopes for ever crushed.
’Twas sad to hear them mutter
How he the “ too, too utter,”
Had never reached Calouttar,
But on the journey died ;
The stars, night vigil keeping,
Looked down on maids still weeping
For one who lay a-sleeping
Beneath the moaning tide.
But rumour false averred he
Was dead, for in a word, he —
The one and only Verdi—
Is well and all serene :
Soft cheeks but lately yellow,
Now blush, while velces mellow.
Ring gaily—Lucky fellow 1
This Signor William Green.
A man named Thomas stole a revolver,
and watch and chain. This was at Armidale.
Then he went and took a pop shot at a man
oalled Marshall, just to try the revolver. After
that, feeling some twinges of conscience about tne
watch and chain, he called upon a clergyman ana
wished to present him with them, stating at the
same time they were not paid for. The clergy-
man—no, it was the clergyman’s son, we find, on
reading the paragraph again—refused them, mis
touched Mr. Thomas to the heart, and be imme-
diately called round on Archdeacon Ross, ana
asked that successor of the apostles for money to
go to Olen Innee. Here he met with another re-
fusal. He then said: “Christ would not have re-
fused,” in a tone of bitter scorn, and stalkea
gloomily away. This opens up a curious question.
We wonder now if a Samaritan, or even one ot tne
tribe of J udah.had come up to Christ and after offer-
ing Him a watch and chain, explained that he naa
stolen them, together with a revolver, and wantea
the price of a railway ticket to Joopa. whether tne
founder of that Church of which Archdeacon Ross
is a minister would have answered him nay.
are not ashamed of believing tnat He would not
have done so. Then evidently Archdeacon Ross
was in the wrong, and is morally accountable mr
the position in which Mr. Thomas now stands. "J
refer to the dock. What the reverend gentleman
as a minister of the Christian religion should ha\ e
done is clear. He should have asked Mr. Thomas


Inside, gently drawn him out as to which sort of
wine he preferred, and wuetuer he took ice with it
or not, offered him a few cigars—Havannas, of
coiirse-pressed upon him to stay to dinner, ob-
tained him a railway pass to Glen Innes, after
mildly expostulating against his going away in
such a hurry, insisted upon his taking a few five
pound notes, with a repeating rifle and one or two
hundred rounds of cartridges, and then driven
him down to the station in his own carriage. This
is what we S jouiu eaii onristian conduct. But
there sre no true Christians in these days—or if
there are.t'iey are in gaol. So is Mr. Thomas by
this time, we suppose.
Chief Justice Li I ley sent an unfortunate
man up for twenty-four hours' stretoh last week
for driving a cart p sc the Supreme Court, Bris-
bane, during: the sitting, »fter he had been warned
by the police not to do so. The noise of the
street traffic is not as sweet music to the nicely at-
tuned ear of Sir Charles, and hence there was
trouble for the inconsiderate carter. Which re-
minds us that the late Judge Ball, who waslwell
known on circuit in the South of Ireland, on one
occasion opened the Assize Conrt in “ Cork’s own
town.” Tue Judge, though a charming conversa-
tionalist and a fine fellow socially, was rather irrit-
able, and, as he advanced in years, his hearing be-
came slightly impaired, which did not oonduoe to
his serenity of temper. Immediately at the baok
of the Court House was an anoient flour mill of
large dimensions, the owner being a litigious old
buffer named Bendeeble, and so close was the
building to the temple of justice that the noise of
the machinery grated harshly on the tympanum
of the Judge. “ What noise is that, Mr. Bheriff ?”
he thundered, as his face flushed with badly-sup-
pressed rage. “Itis a mill, my lord,” meekly re-
joined the official. “Then let it be stopped at
once,” was the imperious command. “I cannot
stop it, my lord,” mildly replied the Sheriff: “ the
owner is the only one who can do that.” “Send
for the owner, then,” roared the Judge, whioh
order was promptly executed. “ Stop that mill,
sir,” said the irate Judge, addressing old Ben-
deeble. “Throth, I will, your lordship,” was the
reply, and His Honor’s dictum was carried out
literally and unconditionally. The mill was
stopped, and it remained so long after the assizes
were over. Then the litigious old crank, Ben-
deeble, sat himself down and began to figure out
his losses through the s'oppage of his grindiag
concern, and he footed up a nice little bill, which
he smilingly handed over to the “ base and bloody
Saxon ” for settlement. And the Government
had to pay a pretty big figure before old Bendeeble
was satisfied. If there isn’t a “ pile ” in it for the
Brisbane carman, there's a moral or something to
be drawn from the legend—but we forget what it
is just now.
For a prime piece of newspaper slush,
commend us to a par. in London Society which
says tint, on the occasion of Mrs. Langtry's last
trip to England, a crowd assembled and cheered
her as she alighted at a certain country town,
upon which “a pleasant-looking old lady thrust
her head out of a carriage and said, ‘l’m glad you
like Mrs. Langtry, my friends, because I'm her
mother.’” We heard something of the sort be-
fore, only, instead of the “pleasant-looking old
lady,” it was a sour-faced man who poked his head
head out of a truck and roared, “Yah I I’m glad
some one likes Mother Langtry, but damme if I
do. I’m her husband.” And this reminds us that
the much-talked-of Langtry-Gebhard marriage
will be certainly pulled off before Easter. All that
stands in the lover’s way at the present date
is the obnoxious Mr. Langtry. This gentle-
man, it appears, parted from his wife some
three years ago, and no communication between
the tangled pair has taken plaoe until lately,
when a friend of the family interviewed the
happy husband and broached the subject of a
rivorce. Langtry gripped the trouble very coolly
and observed, “ Certainly, let there be a divorce.
But I must be the plaintiff.” It was explained to
him that this would be next to impossible to ac-
complish. His wife would never consent to act in
the position of defendant in such a suit, for she
would have to boar all the odium. “ Then let her
remain married until my death,” said Mr. Lang-
try; and he added, “ I am a pretty healthy man.”
Since then, however, compassion, or revenge, or
greed, has led him to believe that perhaps it would
be better for the Langtrys to permanently separ-
ate. How it will be for Freddy when the gilt
wears off his gingerbread is not related: but, any-
way, the male Langtry now deolares he will Dot
oppose any a tion the missus may take, providing
she does it decently. As if she oould possibly do
anything that was not decent. Joy filled the Lily’s
alabaster “buzzum” when this declaration was
first made; but rumour says that on learning Mr.
Langtry’s principal reason for release from the
marriage yolk was in order that he might catch on
to a new partner, the Lily went bucking mad, and
swore that the heartlessness and deceit of the men
now-a-days was enough to bring a blush of shame
even to the saddle-coloured cheek of one of the
mummied Pharoahs.
Here he is again. John Brook, late of the
Ist Battalion Grenadier Guards, and a man who
“fit” at Waterloo, has just died at Stratford Grove,
Putney. No one has been appointed as yet to take
his place in the ranks of the immortal and never-
ending list of Waterloo veterans, but there is
little danger of the post being vacant long. John
Brook was something more than a “skiter” of
Waterloo, however, for he was born in 1797, and
entered the Ist Foot Guards at Halifax in 1811. He
then went out with the army to Hollanl, and
served tnrough the campaigns of 1813-14-15; was
present in the action of Merxem, the bombard-
ment of Antwerp, and the battles of Quatre Bras
and Waterloo. In the last engagement, his knap-
sack was shot from his back with a cannon-ball,
which killed several comrades close to him. He
was present at the funeral of George IV., the
coronation and funeral of William IV., and the
coronation of Queen Victoria. After over 27 years
of service with the Guards, he applied for his dis-
charge, and received the medal for long service
and good oonduct. On the memorable 10th of
April, 1848, he had the charge of five divisions of
special constables under Viscount Chelsea. In
1851, through the influence of the Duke of Buo-
nleuch, he was appointed a Yeoman of Her Ma-
jesty’s Koyal Body Guard, in whioh capacity he
wag present on many State ceremonies, including
the marriages of the Princess Royal and the Prince
at Wales. And apropos of this, a veteran of the
wars of Napoleon has just turned up in Montreal
in the person of one Count Zowasti, a native of
the fair land of Poland, of “ Bohemian Girl” cele-
brity. According to his own chat, Zowaski is 93
rears old, and ha claims to have served under the
Little Corporal, and to have been Captain of the
lOist Light Artillery. He went through the terrible
retreat from Moscow, the brilliant cattle of Aus-
terlitz, and the fatal Waterloo, and recalls the
soenes and incidents of each in a wonderfully clear
manner. He took part in the Polish war for inde-
pendence in 1831; fought in Hungary, and was
banished to America in 1851. He was also a parti-
cipant in the American Civil War, since which time
he has led a wandering life, and was seeking meaas
In Montreal to enable him to reach France, where
he has friends. We right glad to have tumbled
over old Zo because, owing to the constant
perusal of obituary notices of Waterloo heroes,
we were rapidly growing into the belief that the
whole of the men who fought on that bloody field
belonged to the Duke of Wellington’s army solely.
We presume the bulk of our readers have
heard of “ The Last of the Tasmanians.” Well,
to-day we regret having to announce that ha’s
dead—dead as Julius Cnesar—and, what is still
more deplorable, he has been dead quite a number
of years already. Tima was when the last of the
Tasmanians, like the veteran wno fought at
Waterloo, used to die on an average about once a
week, but the thing grew monotonous, and the
Tasmanian Government shut down on the game
by declaring that n > more “ lasts ” would be re-
cognised when the present holder of the long ago
belt, one Fanny Smith, shuffl'd off her mortal ooil
and went to visit her friends iu the happy hunting
grounds of the Great Hereafter. Poor Bonwick,
who wrote a book called “ L’he Last of the Tas-
manians,” was badly cut up when Fanny was re-
surrected, as she plaoed his hero clean out of the
show altogether; but it now appears that Fanny
herself is only a saddlCHCOloured fraud and
Bonwick’s hero really was the very lastest of
the “ last,” after all. Anyway, a certain Spaniard,
peter O’Reilly by name, of Port Cygnet, Tasmania,
writes to Bay that the last aboriginal Inhabitant of
Tasmania was Truganlni, who stepped out on the
Brh May, 1876. Furthermore, Peter declares that
Danny Smith is only a half-caste; she says
so hersirlf, and asserts that her father was
one of the Straits “sellers.” When, in 1847,
the Government decided to remove the few
aboriginals left from the island to the
"W’ Faun y accompanied her mother, who
rejoiced In the name of Tangurootoord simply
that and nothing more—to th< station at Oyster
Gove, and there she remained till a member ot the
irrepressible tribe of Smith—with an “i”—came
along and towed her into the happy port of wed-
»?rnu , m , on F. other things, Signor O’Reilly savs,
there Is In the Port Cygnet township a man who
resided on the Oyster Cove station all the time
the blacks were there, and he often assured me
that Mrs. Smith was always regarded as a half-
caste. I have known her for nearly six years. She
resides within three miles of here. The cross of
blood Is unmistakeable. Her children, too, are
fairer than the ordinary Spaniard. It is true, the
Government gave her a grant of 300 aores of land,
and a pension of £5O a year during her life; but
this may be accounted for on other grounds than
the fact of her being a real aboriginal.” Persons
who have tears for the defunct Tasmanians, there-
fore, better shed them now, as It is no use wasting
time and moisture by waiting to spill them over
the grave of a half-bred duffer like Mrs. Smith.
We don t often weep for the fading away of our
unbleached friends, but when we do, it is a satis-
faction to know we haye turned our lachrymal
taps on the right grave. Anyway, lovers or the
romantic will be delighted to know that the de-
tested smiths are not going to fill every niche of
honour In the land, but that one little spot at least
will be reserved for the party who bore the far
more euphonious name of Truganini.
Commenting on the release of the Claim-
ant, Reynolds Newspaper (par excellence the
paper of the British people) says:—“ During his
lengthy term of imprisonment, the Claimant be-
haved in an exemplary manner, and what is more,
perhaps, to the point, nearly every one of the
Government officials, who have closely and inces-
santly watched him for years, are thoroughly con-
vinced that If he is not the real Sir Roger Ticb-
borne, he is certainly not Arthur Orton. To this
latter conclusion we ourse'ves arrived long before
the trial which ended in his conviction was termi-
nated. We had many opportunities of personal
communication with him. We narrowly scruti-
nized his every word, gesture, and action, and
could after this arrive at no other opinion than
that a person of evidently good and gentle breed-
ing, and whose manners had not been spoilt by the
roughness of colonial life, was certainly not the
rude and coarse Wapplng butcher, Arthur Orton.
Perhaps the strongest evidence la favour of his
being the real Sir Roger Is the conviction in the
minds of those who were most Intimate with the
young baronet that the Claimant Is the veritable
person ne represents himself to be. The late Lord
Rivers, a thorough man of the world, and about
the most unlikely person to be sharped by an im-
postor, (irmly believed In the Claimant to the last,
and his purse was always open to assist him. It is
the same with Mr. Quartermaine East, Mr. Bid-
dulpb, and many others who were very loth to
believe in the Claimant’s assertion, until his ac-
curacy had been tested in every possible way. The
Claimant was, moreover, singularly unfortunate
in many ways, His earlier counsel, Sergeant Bal-
lantine, being quite unequal to the conducting a
oase of such magnitude, and requiring so much
attention and research, made a sad bungle of the
whole business. Dr. Kenealy struggled nobly an i
resolutely to overcome the difficulty that faced
him In having to plead his cause before a judge
who had long since prejudged It against him.
Lord Chief Justice Cockburu was about the most
self-oplulonated and wrong-heided judge that
ever sat upon the bench. It was well known that
before he had taken his seat in court for the Tich-
borne trial his lordship had frequently pronounced
the Claimant a rank impostor. Cockburn was
about the last man to admit that he could possibly
be mistaken. His conduct throughout the trial,
and the tone of his summing up, displayed the
strongest and most virulent partisanship. Then
there was the almost incredible story told by Jean
Lute of having, in a passing ship, rescued the
Claimant from the wreck of the Beila. This story
was utterly discredited; and, perhaps, very pro-
perly so, on its being shown that Luie was a
notorious and convicted impostor, just fresh from
Chatham Gaol, where he had been undergoing a
lengthy term of imprisonment. But it must also
be remembered that the Claimant himself never
reoognised Luie, and when they first met distinctly
stated he had no knowledge of his person or recol-
lection of the circumstances he mentioned. There
were many other strong points In the Claimant’s
favour, all of whloh, however, the Lord Chief Jus-
tice failed to deal fairly with lu his charge to the
Jury.”
A few days ago, the Freeman’s Journal
unintentionally did a brace of honest, Industrious
men a gross injustice, and It happened thusly.
Copying from an Irish weekly of the reliable
Everooze stamp, the Freeman, after delicately
referring to the fact that the late not very much
lamented Alderman James Carey’s family were at
present engaged in the laudable purpose of drink-
ing themselves to death, observed: “ We may also
mention that M’Keown and M‘Kneny, the two
printers upon whose evidence Michael Fagan was
hanged, received not only £3OO each from the Eng-
lish Government, but were provided with passages
and outfits to Australia, and are supposed to be
employed in one of the official printing offices in
one of the colonies.” We have taken some pains
to bottom the facts of this case, and the result Is
wa find the men in question are now employed In I
the Sydney Morning Herald office as oomposi- I
tors; they have been over twelve months in the
said situations, and their character and work have
given every satisfaction to their employers. Their
connection with the notorious Joe Brady case came
about In this wise. Both men were on the staff of
the Nation at the time of the Burke-Cavendish
murders, and were on their way home through
Phoenix Park, half-an-hour after the assassins’
knives had done their hellish work. With the
stamp-pickers was a “Casile” soldier, and, as the
trio crossed the Park, M’Eneny, seeing Fagan,
whom he knew, sang out, “Hellol Mick; what
are you after here?” “ Goln’ home,” replied
Mick, and right there the conversation ended. A
year after, Mick went home via the gallows-tree.
Neither M'Keown nor M’Eneny thought anything
further of meeting Fagan, until the Carey disclo-
sures were made, and then the two comps, were
forcibly made to appear and give evidence against
Fagan. Both of them refused point blank to say
a word until Judge O’Brien threatened them with
twelve months’ imprisonment. About six weeks
before the trial they threw up their billets on the
Nation, and arranged to clear out for America
rather than be classed in the same list as Carey.
Being seized on board the steamer, however, they
were placed under the special surveillance of
a detective, who guarded them night and day.
When the case was closed they claimed £3O only
as compensation for their loss of time, &c., but
the Crown insisted on their taking £6O. Looking
round for a suitable boat to sail in, they accident-
ally struck the Pathan, and were three days at
sea before they were aware of the choice com-
panions they had on board. Strange to say, one
of the first men they met on landing here was the
very detective (now a member of the city police)
who in former days had his “ beasle heye” upon
them. Being smart, sober workmen, they were
taken on tbe Herald staff at once, aud naturally
enough they feel aggrieved at the foul insiauatiou
oast upon them. Apropos of this, we may mention
that a strong suspicion is now current amougst the
Fenian brotherhood that the mysterious No. 1 is
no other than an agent of the British Government,
the object of his game being to bring universal
odium ou the Fenian cause. A base insinuation,
no doubt, but then, as Hamler says. "There are
more things in heaven aud earth, &o.
Dan must oertainly be slain. We have
temporised with this conviction too long. We
have been generous even to feebleness with his
foibles. But wo are exhausted at last. There is
an end to ail things. And there must be a rapid
end to Dan. We do not object to his remains
obtaining Christian burial—say, In Dean Sheridan’s
hat. But he must die. That is beyond argument.
It is not oruelty to him, but the common instinct
of self-preservation, whloh makes us say this. For
if Dan lives, we shall die. His picnic speeches will
Kill us. And while he lives he will make picnio
speeches. But, you may ask, why read them ? We
cannot say. They have a fatal basilisk-like attrac-
c b9 r . U - wtlen we take up a paper they are the
first things that catch our eye. We know our
danger, and we struggle as well as we can to avoid
it. We re.id everything: else, even to the patent-
medicine advertisements, before we look ar, them,
nut as an absin'he-drinker, who knows that he is
drinking liquid death, dallies with every other
kind ot liquor as long as he can, yat finds himself
dragged b an invisible fiend to the baneful
draught so wo with the speeohes of Dan. They
have a morbid attraction for us, which we
cannot conquer. Therefore, we say again, he
must be seen upon the surface of this globe
no more. Two or three sentences from his
speech at the late Eight-Hours’ Dinner will,
maybe, make you think as we do. He was
presented with an address. In replying, he re-
ferred to “ the priceless address whioh your chair-
uiftn has just presented to in© in a, sp©©ch of sinpru-
ar power, sweetened by the tone of its exalted
liberality. And. with regard to his endeavour to
become “a worthy citizen of a free State,” he
said, ‘ How I have succeeded, this gathering, in
very sweet and duloet tones, tells to-night.” It Is
this saccharine oratory—this treacly talk—which
is slowly killing us. We wonder the flies do not
settle on the man when he is spe iking. Once
f?ore, referring to the address, he remarked,
Should I lose my place in public life, what a lofty
sense of consolation I shall find in this beautiful
and touohing address.” Extract the two most
salient sentences from this “priceless ” and “ beau-
tiful and touching” production: “More especially
was this—(support of the eight-hour principle)—
manifested when our brothers and co-workers
from Victoria. Queensland, and New Zealand
attended our demonstration of this year. You,
with splendid and truly British generosity, enter-
tained them at a picnic, by which the beauties of
the harbour of Sydney were viewed, and, at the
same time, the bodily comferis were lavishly
attended to during our memorable visit to Chow-
der Bay.” We consider these to be very
solid and practical sentiments, but Dan, look-
ing at them through his glorified glasses,
sees that they are “priceless” and “beautiful”
and “ touching.” It is his poetry, perhaps, but if
these are all that he says they are, then what ad-
jectives are left for a bill of fare ? And certainly
we will admit that we have known times when a
bill of fare has been more delightful reading to us
than lyric or idyl. But, thanks to (the good god-
dess Fortune, these occasions are becoming rarer.
However, this is trilling. We extract for you from
the same speeoh a string of mysterious sentences
which are no doubt pregnant with meaning if we
could but grasp it. They have danced a demoniac
dance in our brain ever since we read them, and
we want to try If we can—like Mark Twain with
theryhmeof the railroad-porter—get rid of them
by transferring them to you. Thus Dan “ Watch
well the unscrupulous demagogue who tries to
manufacture a grievance, or who endeavours to
disentomb prejudices, in order to obtain power
and position. A void liquors. They are nearly all
composed of the worst spirits in the community.
With all my soul I abhor those social and political
plague spots. I believe only in appealing to the
justice of the people.” Evidently there is some-
thing crooked here. If not, the remark that liquors
are “ nearly all composed of the worst spirits iu the
community” and that they are “ social and politi-
cal plague spots”—mark the political I—is naive,
enough for a nursery. What is all this pap and
syrup! about, auyhow ? But there is no use in
asking vain questions at this time of day. We
come back to the inexorable dictum—Dan must
die.
* * *
Among the gentlemen reoently elected
members of the Royal Colonial Institute were the
following Australians, New Zealanders, and Tas-
manians :—Mr. Charles J. Barclay. Tasmania; Mr.
Reginald Br«tt, barrister-at-law, South Australia;
Mr. Richard A. Biding, Melbourne ; Mr. Justin
M Carty Browne, Tasmania: the Hon. James F.
Garrick, Agent-General for Queensland ; Mr. F. S.
Grim wade, Melbourne; Mr. Pierri A. Gugeri, J.P.,
AVestern Australia; Mr. P. Stevenson Davis,
barrister-at-law, Melbourne ; Dr. W. Wilberforce
Dunklev, surgeon-superintendent of Queensland
Immigration: Mr. AYalter Henrv Pearson, New
Zealand; Mr. Nugent Charles Wade; Mr. Alex.
Henry M. Welwood ; Mr. B. C. Wood, J.P., Wes-
tern Australia ; Mr. Frederick AVyatt: Mr. AYm.
A. Lang ; and Captain Fredrick Le Patourel, late
of Melbourne.
* * *
“The Claimant ” has threatened the Times
with a libel action 1.... Fifty-eight officers and men
sat down this year to the annual Balaclava dinner.
General Sir E. Cooper Hodge presided, and the Earl
of Lucan, whose blundering caused all the trouble,
was present.... “ Thank God ”is repeated about 60
times in “ Chines© *' Gordon’s most recently-pub-
lisnwd letters. Gordon is as pious as Holy William
....Lteutonant Ludovisi, an Italian, who slapped
and insulted a brother officer, and shot him dead
in the duel which ensued, was tried by court-mar-
tial for the former offence and condemned to two
years’ military reclusion and the forfeiture of his
commission. The court-martial took no cog-
nisance of the duel; for whilst the penal code re-
gards duelling as a crime, though a very venial
one, the regulations of the Italian army compel an
officer to fight with any one who insults or chal-
lenges him, on pain of expulsion from the army.
....Henry Somerville, | the English dramatic
reader, who has just died, aged 73, could recite
from memory the whole of Shakespeare and
Dickens, together with over one hundred selec-
tions from Hood, Thackeray, and other popular
writers....“ General” Booth, we read, has of late
himself donned the red jersey which is now so
familiar as an article of attire at Salvationist
meetings. He has just sent one “Major” Smith
to America, “to ruin the devil.”.... An American
journalist, whose description is delightfully accur-
ate, says that the faoe of Edmund Yates reminds
him of an old-fashioned coffee-pot—narrow at the
top and broad below.
Wolfe's Schnapps is particular free from
fusel oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
The best periodical for ladies to take
monthly and from which they will receive the
greatest benefit is Hop Bitters. Bead.
“There’s nothing half so sweet in life as
love’s young dream,” and Horatio Fltzjuggins had
experienced this in its intensest sugariness. He
had clasped her to his manly breast, and had been,
for hours past, whispering soft nothings about
“the sweet by-and-bye,” which might lead to
matrimony or might end in smoke; in fact, he had
pass >.d through the several stages of the fever of
love. And the maiden was by no means coy; she
liked it every whit as much as he did, and, if she
didn’t say so, she looked it, which was quite as
satisfactory. Bhe promised—what, does not matter
—and the tender, half-sighed “ Yes ” that escaped
her lips, came originally from the bottom of her
overflowing heart. But she was artful, was this
love-sick-maid; she made a condition, did this in-
nocent damsel—she would have nothing to do with
him, unless he took her to the grand show at
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, on Christmas Eve*
Mark Twain having been asked to sub-
scribe something towards the support of an infant
asylum, offered to contribute two or three children
to the enterprise, provided they were all clothed
by Summerfield and Co., the great juvenile out-
fitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, who have a stock of
over 5000 boys'suits to select from, all of which
are manufactured under the supervision of tneir
London manager, and stamped with their brand.
Special arrangements for theChris'mis holidays,
including 60d picnic holiand prince suits at 2«. lid.,
and 500 linen drill man-o’-war suits, with collar
and badge, at ss. lid.; strong school suits from
Bliss’ West of England tweeds, at Bs. lid. and 10s.
61.; long trouser suits, in all sizes, at 215., 255., 275.
61.; pure worsted diagonals, 30s ; Eton suits, 45a.
Ladies resident in the country are respectfully re-
quested to write for our New World of Fashion,
containing full price-list and the newest styles,
sentpoBt free. Only Sydney address—Summerfield
and Co., the great juvenile outfitters, 235 and 237,
Pitt-street.*
An Appeal to the Belter Feelings
of Mrs. Mary Jones.
s rarely that we take up our pen to
h£ er K^ re ln .. con jug»il questions. Such interference
«f l lmc i Immemorial the fruitful
?H e “ f bloodshed and police-'cjurt cases. Yet in
[ni 8 i Btau { 3C we feel that we are justitted in bre nk
, wh j oh wt : shall not be in the least
ini?™? 1 k somebody w ill feel justified in break-
,\f K rh< u * hoftd s We might havr> ben afraid
f J a ."^ r . once ' but we smile at it since
w« our hat with ‘ CKO leaders.
lke to Be ?j W b2v fc °ould get through
h into We neve f couid * However, we must not
fiddle away our time with trifles Hereismir sub-
ject an advertisei; ent in the Evening News :
"9/7Jt£ E :~ lf my Husband, PAUL
n does not Return to melwithin
It days, 1 intend to marry again.
MARY JONE 9.”
Dear, dear, has it come to this ? And you will
only wait for him another fortnight. Mary, or—
we sawMniiV? stl i l !? a seml-free condition-may
°L y ? 4 nd can you so easily forget the
he used to lean against your back-gate
In the evening till people thought he was a
S2?£„ w * atohlnfir ,J or a glimpse of your fair
young face, waiting for a tone of your sweet
y oung voice. Afterwards, too, when the night
n™iTnrMu,’ Q a h d you bad to go In, and he wandered
hp?n^°oif e f h ke a shadow—at the eminent
}?“ oj being shot by your lather or arrested by
von? wiSh™ a burglar's spy-gazing at the light in
ca P you forget that ? Then the first
kiss on your rip©, r©d lips (vou b©© wg arG
andTherf th« «? U h . Mol i y » in the matter of graces)*
?? d f h ® n fbe sighs and vows, and the day he made
ara^o !»’ , a s d you whispered a honeyed af-
firmative, and let your shapely head slide down
h L B “ an ‘y ® boulder. (You will at once, per-
Moll, that w© have been there ourselves,
country.) Have you no memory
tor these things ? And the weuding day, when
you blushed so beautifully that the old lariy who
ooened the pews said you were “ a blessed pictur;”
and then the wedding-breakfast, where the happy
bridegroom was so lost la admiration of you that
be had no time to eat, and could only drink:
a £* d toa ? te i they gave, and the jokes
*i“ey made, which oaused you to blush again so
PlTifW that the enraptured bridegroom had to be
held down in his seat by the best man or he would
have hugged you betore them all; is there no
corner left in your heart for all these things?
WU not refer to your wedded life.
Better is the devil you know than the devil
you do not know, Molly. If we thought the
charms of verse could move your heart to give the
poor fellow another chance-say six months more
— F , TP BI L oI i I< L be better able to bear with the abuse
of the butcher and the taunts of the tax-collector,
la the consciousness that v,e had helped to keep
one weak fellow-female in the right path. We wiU
try, anyway. We are always willing to give ten
minutes to a good cause, nut, as we are giving
you our time, Molly, we beg that you will be good
enough to give us your attention and not willuily
steel your heart against the influenoe of the Muse,
w e will begin softly on a plaintive bed-key—we
mean minor-key. 8o:
O, Molly Jones! O, Molly Jones!
Just listen unto we,
And harken to the tender tones
Of witching melody!
Let us entreat of you to pause.
Ere having of your fling;
Not that we miud it, but because
It is a foolish thing.
For Paul, who sailed, or rode, or tramped.
Or scooted in a sleigh,
And—never mind the style—decamped
from your fond arms away—
This Paul he may have made a pile
A-working in Peru—
We'd wait another little while,
We think, if we were you.
Or p’raps he Is a diver, and
A-pieking up of pearls
That grow so gaily on the sand—
The prize of other girls.
The prize of other girls, ’tis true,
O, Molly Jones, they’ll be
When he comes back and finds that you
No more belongs to he.
Then he will ’neath your window Btand
At set of moon, alone,
And—if there is no “ trap ”at band—
He will as follows moan;—
“ 0, Molly Jones, 0, Molly Jones,
Ive gathered pearls tor thee,
A-raking among dead men’s bones,
All underneath the sea.
“ O, Molly Jones, my fate is dark!
That I should find thee thus,
Arter a-flghtin’ with the Bbark,
Likewise the octopus I
“ Yet, though I’m but a cast-off hand,
My grief shall not be mute
Beneath your window I will stand
All night and play the flute I
" You’ll And the doorstep when you’ve woke
Wet with the tears I’ve shed—
And when I meet your fancy bloke
I’ll break his bloomin’ headl”
This is, 0 Molly Jones, but an
I maginary sketch;
Yet it may be much fairer than
His real fate, poor wretch I
For maybe he is breaking stones
In Berrima the bleak:
Wait!—for perhaps, O Molly Jones,
Life time’s up in a week!
Give him a chance! for you can bold
This thing for sure and true,
As cold as you come to the old
The new 'Will be to you!
The proverbial schoolmaster is still “on
the wallaby,” and the little “jogrify” he belted
into some of our skulls is evidently on the leak.
Anyway, here s a genuine copy of a bona fide letter
which was recently received by the skipper of the
Klsea. Vnila!— Sydney, October 2nd; 1884. The
Captain of Elsea. Thurday Island. Dear Sir, I see
by the daily papers that you are on a trip to New
G uinea and surrounding islands. As lam a stamp
collector, you would greatly oblige me by sending
me some of the stamps from the above islands and
the other ones you visit if possible. So doing you
will greatly oblige yours truly, Tula
ooks as if our inspired system of State education
is a trozen fraud after all, and our pampered peda*
gogues could employ their time with more profit
by standing in front of public-house bars pitching
dumps at a mot ” for pennies than by trying to
drive lam in into some of their numbskull
pupils. [The only use the tow-headed Papuans
could find for stamps would be to—put them on
letters, of course.— Ed. B ]
August Flower. —The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
five per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two aiseases and their effects : such as Bout
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands of
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. It costs only Bs. od. a
bottle. Sample bottles 6d.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
BERTRAM WILLISON, Agent-Manager. At
liberty. Close contractor. Salary or share.
Write 27 Hunter-street.
Y A L
Theatre ro
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
Never Too Late to Mend.
Never Too Late to Mend.
Never Too Late to Mend.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
B. N. JONES
and the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
PRICEB: Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
This and Every Evening.
IMMEASURABLE SUCCESS OF
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in LUSCOMBE SEARELLE’S NEW OPERA
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast:-
Miss Grade PJaisted
Miss Minnie Desmond
Mr. Chas. Hardin*
Mr. F. Wentworth
Mr. A. Davies
Miss Frances Saville
Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. Oily Deering
Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUSCOMBE SEARRLLE.
Leader HERR KUSTKR.
BOBADIL. BOBADIL. BOBADIL
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Manager for Mr. Reeve .. Mr. G. A. Coleman.
THIRD WEEK
and
CONTINUED SUCCE3S
of the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT,
CARMEN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices; 55., 35., 25., Is.
Doors open at 7, overture 7.46.
H. TRBVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
T
H E
AUSTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
WILL OPEN on
SATURDAY,
December 30,
In
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite the Cathedral,
KREITMAYER and SOHIER,
Proprietors.
BERTRAM WILLISON has £lOO for any Hall
or Tent Show travelling. Write, 27 Hunter-
street.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
19th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tlon to „ „
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
It is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
500 people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
n A N C I N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 351
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all bo
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decoratioxis required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bullbtin
Office.
Cead Mills Fallthe!
Grand Irish Fancy Fair
GRAND IRISH FANCY FAIR!
IN AID OF ST. BENEDICT’S CHURCH
AND CONVENT FUND,
WILL be opened by HTS GRACE the ARCH-
BISHOP, in the Hall,
on the 21th DECEMBER, at 3 p.m. Mr, J. H, R in-
ford, together with several leading Vocalists, have
kindly consented to assist.
Amusements Day and Night! Great Attractions!
Admission, Is. Opening Ceremony!
Trams and ’Busses stop at the door.
M. E. O’BRIEN ) TT n „ ,
JOHN DELARGV f HON. SECS.
Life of Deniehy.
LIFE, SPEECHES, AND WRITINGS
or
DANIEL HENRY DENIEHY
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
STATESMAN, ORATOR, POET, AND
LITTERATEUR ;
BY
MISS E. A. MARTIN.
Favourbly reviewed by “Sydney Morning Herald,”
“Freeman’s Journal,” “Daily Telegraph,”
“ Evening Nows,” “ Sydney Mail,” “ Ex-
press,” and various other papers.
CLOTH BOUND, 10s. 6d. Sent POST FREE on
receipt nf Price.
M'NEIL AND COFFEE,
Publishers,
38, Clarence-street, Sydney.
NOW READY,
THE SYDNEY CHRISTMAS ANNUAL FOR 1881.
CONSISTING of short Tales. Humorous and
other Sketches, Poetry, Essays on Social
Topics, and some very interesting particulars of
the earlv days of New South Wale 3, with numer-
ous Illustrations. Price, Is.; by post, Is.Gd; Inter-
colonial, 2s.
TORTONVILLE and Co., publishers, 84 Batburst-
street, Sydney.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
|W“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZEB (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
PSSRRS&Oi
DKftieoßffs;
IiESSENCE^UFKI
'■
'/[he only infallible remedy for
ip //er/oils JjebiLijyC
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
865.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney ,l
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
street. On® Door from Georga-street South.
mo ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
tw TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP !
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
tST* Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6(1. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the enly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s.
|®“ SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, tbe world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
Department of Public Works,
Bydney. 16th December, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS aro invited for the fol-
lowing' Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Bates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Construction of Bection 3, Mur-
rumburrah-Blayney Railway
Construction of Shed, Lismore
Wharf
Erection of Stables, &c., Court-
house, Condoblin
Erection of Gaol, Glen Innea
Supply and Erection of Iron
Bridge with timber ap-
proaches over Snowy River
at Buckley’s Crossing
Bridge over the Billabong, at
Bourke
Construction of Wharf, Spec-
tacle island
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., at Bourke
Additions, &c., Registrar-Gene-
ral's Office
Conveyance of Coal, Shoal-
haven River, 1885
Bridge over Dangar’s Creek,
Road Singleton to Cooper’s
Flat
Construction of Wrought-iron
Flumes, Sydney Water Supply
Erection of a Post and Telegraph
Office at Bundarra
Erection of a Post and Tele-
graph Office at Condobolin
Contract 33n, Lane Cove road
Contract 34 and 35n, Park-road,
Field of Mars
Contract 36n, Gladesville and
Ryde
Bridges over Green's and Subia-
co Creeks on Parramatta, Road
Hyde to Parramatta
Tuesday,
33rd December,
at 11 o’clock.
Winding-, Regulating, and Re-
pairing Clocks and Watches,
G.N. Railway-
Erection of a building for the
Schools of Medicine and
Science, Sydney University
Erection of Quarters for Matron
Benevolent Asylum, Parra-
matta
Alterations to Scullery, Cook-
house, &c., Benevolent Asy-
lum, Parramatta
Alterations to Railway Bridge at
Pelican Plat
Erection of Telegraph Office,
Albury
Brecti jn of Cottage, Callen
Park Asylum
Erection of Seamen’s 1 Shed,
Shipping Office, Newcastle
Supply of Wharf Cranes, Spec-
tacle Island
Erection of Police Buildings,
Taralga
Emptying Privies, Victoria Bar-
racks, &0., 1885
Building Stone, Sydney Gaol,
1885
Building Stone, Maitland Gaol,
1885
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Windsor
Additions, &0., CarcoarQaol
Erection of Police BuildiDgs,
Hillston
Supply of Water Cranes, Loco-
motive Department
Erection of Court-house, Lock-
up. and Post and Telegraph
Offices, St. Leonards
Erection of Ladies’ Refreshment
Room, Botanic Gardens
Tuesday,
30th December,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Erection of Iron
Bridge over the Murrumbid-
gee Kiver, at Comins Crossing
(Tremas)
Bridge over Yanko Creek, Road
Yammato Urana
Construction of Wharf at
Bourke
Construction of High Service
Reservoir at Obelisk Hill,
Newcastle
Construction of Covered Reser-
voir at East Maitland
Construction of Wharf, Wool-
loomooloo Bay
Tuesday,
Cth January,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of byphon across I
Cook’s River, Contract, No. 111
Tuesday,
20th January,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply
160,000 Tons of Steel Kails.
of
10th February,
at 11 o’clock
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th December, 1884.
TENDERS FOR N '
TAR-PAVING, &c.
TENDERS are invited for Tar-paving the Foot-
path in front of tbe Castloreagh-street Pub-
lic School, and for repairs to the tile pavement at
the Sydney High School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving, etc.,
Castlereasrh-street Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o clock am., on
Monday, the 29th December, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICK ETT.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
Wm. Howard Smlth~& Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Ojticbb: 42 KING BTREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay l
every fortnight.
Fleet op Steamships:
BUNIN YONG
BAKRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEELAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
s
wm
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
f
MR- F. WARE
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
BT Teeth painlessly extracted by Laus-tain* Qa*
JSther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
n
fi
OM* \S/*/
©
* -9
o
&v Sydney & Royal Arcades^^
/^IRAPTOMANCY.— Character delineated from
handwriting, by an expert in the art. Send
specimen of writing, enclosing- 3s. 6d. in postage
stamps. Address: “Graptomancer, Box 045, G.P.O ,
Sydney.”
Christmas Month
at
THt ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
OUR PRICES
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON,
as we have already stated, are lower than they
have ever been in former years, and our Show-
rooms are tilled with nice Goods of every descrip-
tion, suitable for every class of buyer.
PRESENTS.
The West end of our attractive upstairs Show-
room is entirely set apart for the sale of Fancy
Goods suitable for presents. A present is always
most acceptable when elegance and usefulness are
combined; and perhaps In no other establishment
than a Geoeral Furnishing Warehouse can a more
suitable class of goods be f >und.
CHILDREN’S PRESENTS.
We have some very nice Children's Austrian
Suites. What could be a nicer or more useful
present than one of these-' The price of settee,
3 chairs and arm-ehair, is £1 13s;; or settee,
4 chairs, arm-chair, and rocking chair, £3
10s. The above illustration represents “ The
Little Girl’s Rocker ” a nice and acceptable
present. We also have Little Tea sets.
Boxes of Croquet, Parlour Table Croquet, Work
Boxes, Desks, &c. For a good Family Present,
our Euphonia is also very nice. The price of the
instrument, with one roll of music, is £1 133.6 c!.,
or with two rolls £ll7s. If, through living at a
distance, you find it inconvenient to pay a visit,
write for a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue, con-
taining House Furnishing Estimates, and lists of
reduced prices. It will bo sent post free to your
address.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
436 George-street, Sydney. Next the Royal Hotel.
-JurruMZv cU*cri*l&>o 4v 4?**l£2
Oi, r-K/ twtM 'Voun&y breUrs/tur^tt/
Z&#u£S tiojl jre^.


At the change of life nothing equals Hop
Bitters to allay all troubles incident thereto. See.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 1« Pitt-street.*
Here we are again! A merry Xmas to you
all I And it may be as well to mention that an ex-
ceedingly beautiful display—pleasing to the eye,
and artistic in its varied conception—is the exhi-
bition of majolica ware, vases. &0., and electro-
plated ware, at Bray Bros, 408 and 404 George-
street, near King-street.*
Probably no exhibition of Christmas cards
in Sydney has ever met with such enthusiastic
admiration and patronage as has been accorded
the beautiful display now to be seen at Puller’s,
385 and 387 George-street. Almost every conceiv-
able variety of design and form is on view, so that
even a bare enumeration is out ef the ques ion.
The visitor is perplexed and bewildered at the
very outset by the multiplicity of pretty nionacks
heaped together or scattered in studied confusion
over long counters. Altogether, it is a very pleas-
ing and edifying sight. Here, in a few, broad,
sweeping lines, full of boauty, is a gelatine card,
hand-painted; while there rests on an easel a
lovely tinted card with heavy fringe, ornamented
by a few appropriate lines in old English text.
The beautiful in art is everywhere visible.
For harmony and delicacy of tint, for rich-
ness in colouring, for graceful treatment of
seasonable subjects, this exhibition is replete, and
must be seen to be appreciated. It would bo im-
possible to catalogue all the pretty things to be
seen, and the general impression of the visitor is
that his admiration is more than likely to effect
his peace of mind, unless he purchase enough to
go round all his relatives and friends. There is an
endless diversity in the designs—there are liand-
painted cards, etchings, water-colour drawings on
line paper, and some very simple, tasteful devices
inlaid on wood,besides other kinds of various shapes
and sizes, too numerous to mention, too intricate
to describe. The names of the makers are a suffi-
cient guarantee as to quality, the list including
all the best English and Continental firms—
not to mention the celebrated American house,
L. Prang and Co. Of the English, perhaps
the finest selections are from Marcus Ward,
Raphael Tuck, Eyre and Spottiswoodo, Schipper
Bros., Delarue, Goodall, Saunders; in fact, every
one of the first-class manufacturers is here repre-
sented. There are not only thousands of cards of
all degrees, but in the matter of prices, all classes
may be suited; for the figures, which are remark-
ably moderate and reasonable, are from a half-
penny up into the guineas, and afford great scope
to choose from. The prices are adapted to the
person moderately circumstanced, as well as to the
more fortunate possessor of the world’s goous.
That the rooms are constantly thronged oy ladles
in queßt of tokens for the holidays is enough in it-
self to recommend the exhibition—and that each
leaves the establishment with one or more neatly-
wrapped packages speaks well for the character
of the goods on sale.*
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
Ghristmas Gifts! Christmas Gifts!
THE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY have,
with their usual thoughtfulness for the
general public, Imported, specially for the Xmas
season, a great variety of the most novel and ex-
quisite goods whioh cannot fail to suit the tastes
of the most fastidious. The goods, which have
been carefully selected by their agent from all the
best manufactories, are well worthy of inspection,
each article possessing some special charm of its
own, and nothing can be more adapted for grace-
ful and elegant Christmas Gifts than these beauti-
ful gems. .Note our price list, and
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, IBs., 205., and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., Os., 7s. 6d.,
Bs., Bs. 6d., 95., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies' very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
78. to IBs. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, IBs. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 20s , 225.
6d., 255., 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Kings, and
Fanoy Rings, from 2s 6d. to Bs. 6d. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless .. .. £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental «old double Albert
with slides and tasseiis £3 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
. These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert . .. £4 6 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balanoe,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£660
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Bilver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of add the saving thus effectcd-about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d.,
7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., and 10s. each ; Gent’s Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings. 7s. 6d.
and 85.6 d., each; Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, fiat broad buokle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &0., &0., from ss. to
Bs. Od. each; Gent's richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d., Bd..
Bs. 6d., 95., 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set|; same as
above, only half sets, 35., 4s , and Bs. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set: Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 78. 6d.. Bs., 95., 10s., and 12s. 6d. each ;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each ; Gent’s Oriental Gold Al-
berts, handsome patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made speclally k to our order, 17s. 6d., 205.,
255.,’ and 30s. each.
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, und
then only by the severestltests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to .those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
ofjthe Cosr of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest Inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
directly with the publio. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be uent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
alter Inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails aro few, by the first post
after reoeipt, and tho articles are not injured-we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return tho rest, and we will refund the
money for the articlesjiot retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you maylrequire.
The Oriental Gold Company have been ap-
pointed Sole Agents for the AUTOPHONE- price,
305.; also for the ROLLER ORtf AN—price, 40s.
No house should be without one of these charming
little instruments.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
• ~ -:
Ya
mix
m
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone !
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
COCK ID CUTLER.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
t
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
BECOND DOOR FROM GEORGK-STREET.
•f
w.
MATRIMONY
HEALTH and HAPPINESS.
Parents, the Newly-Married,
and those about to Marry, may
obtain much valuable informa-
tion,by simply sending a stamp,
ed addressed envelope for reply
to C.C.W., Box 766, Q.P.0., Sydney.
r
iMMb
!l L f i
170
IR.BURCIS.
1 TAILOR..
w
‘' J
rV'ii '
aw j
'lk" 1
II
Ipliii. l I!iWj'!l §
aJ'.iisfi, v®, l iiSfe m
* i "
fJfftJMt I^*ll
W Vkh Jti! n*. ' •- 1 ij.■' u
Iff
R B U.FZ C,t S
fIIRY BURGIS' £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d.. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This Is the cheapest bouse for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. IJO PITT-STKEKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scAV-meaauring
forwarded to any part of the colony
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
200 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
J. MASSEY, Jun.,
PIAIOS ME OEMS,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
.(gmpWtef A-v-yi at e
° DentistS°
markets: YD N EY.
C.c?&T75 < !£Ettk
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these Inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, bo received
in time for Xmas and New
Year’s amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and wo will forward the infant
as soon as received. Post free, Is. 6d.
-V
*
•V
'W'"’
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The M«ther-in-law;
I’m a Parder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter foUow him wherever he goes.
Is. Bd.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows .
New Challenge, Is. od.; New Favourite, Is 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart,, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one lSd. and
two fit In, each.
HORTON and. CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROTkir-" Never Too Late to Mend.’’p 8
Opera House—“ Bobadil ” ib.
GaietyTheatuk—Montague-Turner Opera.. ib.
Thursday Dight saw a dense and swelter-
ing house at the Royal. It was Mr. Goodman’s
benefit, and must have supplied him with a tidy
dot for his daughter (if he has one), unless he
wastes it in riotous living beforeshe comes of age.
Two volunteers (Myra Kemble and Mr. Rainford)
set the ball rolling with “The Happy Pair”—a
lively trifle entitled a "sparkling oomedietta ” by
the bills. It is the old story of wedded slang-
whanging succeeded by entire confidence—differ-
ing, in this respect, from the experiences of Lord
Lytton and others. It contains a useful moral,
too. for it shows the tendency of men to sit upon
their wives, if the latter will suffer themselves to
be sat upon. There were some neat speeohes,
which were made the most of, and some bizarre
situations which were not. Of course, the whole
thing is a wild improbability. Any young man
who could go through half an hour of it without
reducing his wife to pulp and cremating her in the
kitchen range, could never hope to come to any-
thing above driving a furniture-van or filling a
post in the Lands Department. “Hold your
tongue,” howled the mart. “That’s not in the
marriage service,” snapped madame, in a manner
suggesting that it made little difference whether it
was or not. And Myra’s re-appearance brought
back a crowd of old remembrances—Collins-street,
the United Service Club hostelry, pere Trump,
turning circus. Ah! ces beaux jours—ces beaux
jours.
* • *
“ The Royal Pardon” followed. It con-
tained a person who possessed many or the cardinal
virtues, being a tender husband, a fond father, a
perfect gentleman, and a publican. It is seldom
that a man of this description reaches the age of
30 without passing through a term of penal servi-
tude This fact alone makes us long for the com-
ing of that social revolution which cannot be put
off much longer. Conscientious men have no more
chance to-day than they had 100 years ago, when
thousands of them were shipped from England to
New South Wales for "put-up” jobs. So this
Paul Markham (Mr. Holloway) 1s “ lumbered ’ for
life for Just tossing an old sea captain (Mr. Leake)
over a cliff, having previously removed the best
pari of his head with an adze to keep the fall from
hurting him. There is very little real liberty in a
country where a respectable man is liable to be
seized by the minions of an effete tyranny for such
an action. We have known retired sea captains
from our infancy—have listened to their weird
blasphemy and inspired mendacity. And we
contend that hitting them on the head with a hoe
and chucking them over a precipice, in the absence
of a shaft, is not only the truest humanity to them,
but a duty which society owes to its law-abiding
citizens.
* * *
Of course Paul Markham had no hand in
the mai iner’s retirement. It was one Joseph Mill-
bank (Mr. Charles Brown) who seoured the old
sailor’s money, and then with Paul’s ad*e sent the
owner into his Maker’s nresence to explain his
share in some black-birding among the Islands.
We took to this Joseph Millbank at once. He ap-
peared to us the true type of a sooundrel—not one
of those hairy, loud-voiced, demonstrative ruf-
fians, with frowsy beards, doubtful linen, and
murderous weapons; but a quiet, unassuming
rascal, who robs, murders, conviots another of the
crimes’, marries the conviot’s wife, and settles
down into a life of well-earned content and re-
spectability. He was bowled out in the long run ?
No doubt. But think of the gorgeous time he had
before his luck turned 1 Fancv marrying the wife
of the man you’ve lagged 1 How common-place
and vulgar the so-called pleasures of an ordinary
life in comparison!
• • •
BMr. Dampier occupied a large share of the
canvas. Tt is mainly through him that Millbank
comes to grief. He Din turn a “ arunken school-
master” with rheumy eyes, a crushed trage-
dian” frequently playing Hamlet, but never
twice in the same place without an interval of
some years between eaoh appearance, and a
“ speculative Frenchman.” As the schoolmaster,
Mr Dampier succeeded in inducing his face to
assume a look of more hopeless imbecility, more
abiect idiotcy, than we thought possible to be
contained in a space so limited. He drinks be-
cause he likes it-so different from those mean
“ siviners” who greedily guzzle while protesting
all the time that they dislike it As Helen Mark-
ham, the oonviefs wife, Miss Novaro succeeded
in securing attention to a rather small part. Miss
Dampier made the most (which is saying little) of
Amv Csstleton ; while as Peggy, Miss Merton
showed a capacity for getting rid of objectionable
persons which is of the greatest service to ladies
employed about publ q-bouses. As Jonas Grim-
wood (a deformed boatman), the make-up of Mr.
Jones was—remarkable. About Mr. Holloway s
(the hero’s) fate, your mind was set at rest after
the first act. You felt that the man who could
sit a hen-coop through the Bay of Biscay, and
enjoy it, was not one to go under without know-
ing why ; so that when he came up the st-aight,
shot nast the winning post, recovered his faithful
but sorely tried wife, wiped the tears from his
affectionate che-i-ld’s eyes and obtained a fresh
lease of his “ pub.,” the general verdict was that it
w“ no m re than he deserved, after the quantity
oLßUspicious “ hominy ” he had vanquished in fair
fight. * * * *
“Maritana” and the “Bohemian Girl” car-
ried tho Turners over the first 5 nights of the seek.
The absence of Signor William Green was sorely
felt in both, and during “Happy moments.” and
"The heart bowed down, the thoughts of many
were away in the barbaric East, where that
modest artist was raising the market value of
curry On Saturday night “Carmen ” came on for
hearing. We have not by us the original libretto
of this fascinating production; but, judging by the
English version—the work of Miss Montague and
M Caron— it must be unique. Carmen!
suggestive—especially when erotxcum is morticed
to it We remember it well, for we are prema-
turely wall-eyed from a belt given us in childhood
bv our Latin tutor, one Tim GUlooley. whose
academy in Donegal was supported behind by a
turf damp, and protected In front bv an un-
fathomable bog-hole. There was a popular legend
connected with this abyss-that an entire Orange
Lodge seeking in ’9S for some “croppies” to in-
struct’ina new description of step-dance, had
Blinnnd into its gloomy depths and were never
SSto\etJro. One ».«..■
i£ueStSUP But °our thoughts were aw In
Alabama centred in the log cabin of Lucy
Neall“ahat affecting song had just come out) se
that when Tim looked over our slate the following
arrested his attention:
“CARMEN EROTICUM.
* habetouinoinen erat Neale.’'
We remembered nothing for months, and wo are
still wall-eyed. # m
S S£ d esru mpi of Sou’:
Old Red Sandstone, and will continue bicker long
alter Macaulay's Maori has bartered bis sketch of
“t Pauls for gin. With Carmen’s (Miss Mon-
tague’s) singing there was nothing to find fault,
not^midiry^lend^Uself
she (a reallv anxious to improve in this depart-
ment she should meander (under sufficient pro-
tection of course) down Woolloomooloo some Sun-
when she has nothing much on hand,
or some Sui day morning a couple of houtrafter
the barmen have pvt up the shutters. 11 this s
not Improve the maddening quality of her mirth,
there is nothin? left for her but a few months’
residence in Parramatta or Geelong. Once or
twice she sat on Don Jose’s (Mr. Turner’s) knee,
and more frequently on the corner of a four-
legged table. On each occasion an apprehensive
cloud passed over the faces of the timid and re-
spectable among the audience; but the feeling
wore off after a bit, when the word went round
that the table was of cast-iron, and that Charles
had had two pounds of underdone steak and a
quart of stout before the overture started. It
would be as well if these facts, trivial as they ap-
pear, were in future circulated, on proper autho-
rity, among the people before the rising of the
curtain. Nothing, however slight, should be
omitted by caterers for the publio amusement to
set their patrons at their ease.
• •
Mr. Turner’s Don Jose was spirited and
melodious, Mr. Brennir (specially engaged)
struggled successfully with Kscamillo. It was
chiefly through his warbling in this part that
Signor Verdi (ni Green) had to hire a brewer’s vat
to contain the billets sent to him by the Gwendo-
lines, Kuphrosynes, and Haidees of St. Kilda,
Toorak, and Woollahra. Two private secretaries
also were kept going day and night reading and
responding to the amorous invitations sent to the
brave Toreador to sport with Amaryllis in the
shade and take the kinks out of what’s-her-name’s
hair. [No wonder all Melbourne took to crape
when the news of the Signnor’s death (happily
unfounded) arrived—the women because ho died at
all, the men because he lived so long.—Ed. B.]
Yes. To a powerful baritone with certain physi-
cal perfections the world offers many seductions
denied to the Murruinbidgee Whaler and the Pope.
Well, this yere Brennir has a voice of very pleas-
ing timbre, and when he’d engaged and thrown
the Toreador’s song an encore unemphasized with
projectiles was the result But his success as a
Toreador appeared to be confined altogether to
Spanish bulls. How he would come off in a sin-
gle-handed set-to with a Celtio representative of
this useful breed it would be hazardous to say.
• • •
Dancairo and Remendado (Messrs. John-,
son and England) were the funny men, and you
felt that, underlying their “wholesome fun,”
there was a deep tank of potential Thuggism,
which was always on tap. Cut-thro»ts by choice
and profession, they had about them all the
mingled frowsiness and dignity of their ancient
calling. If the warriors of Philip even remotely
resembled them, it was, perhaps. Just as well they
never landed in England. They were not called
upon to sing much, but the quantity of “guiver ”
they had to work through before the final full of
the ourtain set them at liberty to satisfy a rather
protracted fast, was phenomenal. The English
libretto, as we said, is a joint production, ana a—
polished one. Still, these bandits had weak points, i
They are unaccountably weak in offensive wea-
pons. True, each one carries a braoe of horse-
pistols of apparently large calibre and antique
pattern. At least the stocks of those murderous
weapons obtrusively protrude from their girdles,
but you cannot shake off the suspicion that there
are no barrels attached—that the latter are away
on more important duty, possibly assisting in keep-
ing Tipperary rents low enough to enable strug-
gling men to live.
* * *
Having seen Charles as a Spanish dragoon,
one feels consumed with a desire to see his horse.
We suppose it is too late to secure a megatherium
for a night or two, but now that the British are
nearing Khartoum, there should be no insuperable
obstacle to securing a hippopotamus, or failing
that, a rhinoceros. As Zuniga, Mr Gordon had a
not very trying part, which was, no doubt, agree-
able to him, besides relieving the audience of some
anxiety. Of Mesdames Lome, Lambert, and Har-
per, we have little chance of saying much this
time, but will give them a show shortly. Miss
Lambert, by the way, carries a tambourine, and
Miss Montague performs the same offioe for a pair
of oastanets. Taken ail through, neither the Tur-
ners nor the public have much cause of complaint
with the season so far.
•* * *
“ Bobadil ” continues at the Opera House,
but the pace is telling on it; and if its friends are
at all concerned for its future, they will have
“ extreme unction ’’ administered without any
vexatious delay. The patrons are becoming fewer
and more apathetic. Th s might bo partly, but not
wholly, put down to the weather. Still the pro-
prietors have no reason to regret their venture.
It has had a success very rarely accorded to works
of a young writer in a comparatively small city.
We have more than once expressed our opinion of
it, and so further comment upon it or its repre-
sentation would possess neither value nor enter-
tainment.
** * *
A “grandrevival” of Charlesßeade’s “It’s
Never Too Late to Mend,” keeps most of the
“ Royal ” seats still unoccupied. There is now
little chance of a real revival taking place in this
popular theatre this side of the Christmas Panto-
mime.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Two horses were killed by lightning at
Parramatta last week. We have noticed it as a
curious feature in the characters of some horses
that they will run in the way of the lightning.
But that is merely an observation in natural his-
tory thrown out by the way. Several horses and
cattle were also killed by a cyclone up in the
Northern districts. It is said that the police there
telegraphed down to Sydney for the cyclone to be
arrested as soon as it arrived. We believe it is
still at large.
• • •
A gentleman of Burrowa said, at a ban-
quet held the other evening in that holiday town-
ship, “ that, when he Arst arrived in the district, it
JT .
7Z~ /ZZZ
As*'. A
C//AZ Z£ <£» *>-** -tc~ AjL-
iy
/ f &L- Ns^-
J c( Jk*ylf~ dU~ 5
'/%. &
jSs yfya/eo^rfr
ST*
'C&fisjb
%e/-Jdßy A^-7/^Y^
6?tlU> # &*Mjeu^&/<2*c/L
%j££A44*c7*ys&7£ntj . 7^*^/
9A&Z <£*uL JSSpk
y7&7~<y7Z&C
*-£V<U&4ouf
4itUAd*A*7L |
' Tty&dk
\7ttL<{<L(l frr<#£7 Summons. fffil
<*+*' \&<r
frmZt p&'&f*'
■<*j6 rt2<f ,
-J &24.0 C fr-C*Z
X Zr>
__ |
, iU~ (hfc*±6C\ ||<
/#£ g tin,
o< &b /fl-jr l; .
f-aJ Oc*S~4r~.y a«js! Ai£<M~y
\ tCl. Jcucct &/<£ cl. sfarr4ju2a<c
<zs- AU- fjgn^#*&****■'*
l&Sf
J
(a the Colony of Sew South Wolm. AJU&djtA* • dL/
Ajudr (UaoJU. /^//y 4 ...
Whereas tnibrffiatkm bath this da; been bid before the eodenlgned. one of
Her Majesty's Justices of the Peace In and for the said Colony al New South Wales
Cor that you did, on the day of .
ti.iTrixt. and for fourteen days previously, hoop within (ho boundaries of the Terms of m
-e— c-dojj not being \mdcr the age of
six months, without causing o (inscription thcrJsif to be registered
Those to command you, In Her Mojcstjrt name. to &• and appear, oo
tho j[ o j
Instant, at Ton of the dock in the Caroaoon, at the Police Office.
In the aaia Colon;, before such Justice or Ju3llcce ol the Peace (or (he sold Colony ai
omy then he (here, to answer to tho said information, too to o© :urtheu dealt vnib
\Ocoordinfi to law. /)
CITES undo, ffij Hand and Seal, thl» 4*j
u tha yeaj 0/ oiu Lord ooe
thousand eight hunored «t
In the sold Colons
ft
a, * f> £j- ru 7
&*&*&%
. < ,4l 'S<^S
W Xl eryJS^^
(/'"/X y
■ficruu _ 'aJvmJL ia*. /&J->
A Case In Point, but not a Pointer in the Case.
was quite a treat to see a female, and a man would
go several miles to see one.” Quite likely, and
the rule holds good still. We would, from what
we remember of them, go several miles to see a
Burrowa girl at any time—at least, to see her feet.
But this is Aippant and, what is worse, ill-natured.
There would be no necessity to go several miles to
see the feet of an average Burrowa girl. You
could see them before you saw the girl. We are
going up to Burrowa soon. This is why we take
the opportunity of previously ingratiating our-
selves with the fair sex of the plaoe. What sly
dogs we are I
• • •
A correspondent to the Nooze gives a
eure for lock-jaw. This is a thing of no public
beneAt compared with what a recipe for commu-
nicating lock-jaw would be. How we should like
to inoculate two or three of our everlasting
molasses-mouthed orators with the virus—if that
is the word—and consign them to dumb eloquence
for everl We consider that the man who dis-
covers and makes known such a recipe will de-
serve a monument from his bored and bleeding
country.
* * *
The Mayor of Wellington, N.Z., says of
tho City Council that it is “ the most diabolicaj
Council that ever met.” If he wishes to remain in
this opinion, he should never leave New Zealand-
If he came here, we could show him Councils-ah,
what Councils could we not show him ? Councils
where the Mayor has to preside over the proceed-
ings with a club, and has to hire two Corporation
men to see him safely home. Why, we know
Councils in which an alderman has to bo roped 4n,
or gagged, and sat down upon by the whole body
of his fellows, who threaten him with bludgeons,
before he will consent to become Mayor. The
Mayor of Wellington may, in comparison, con-
sider himself a happy man.
♦ * *
Says the Evening News:— “A curious
reptile, with two heads and measuring 13 inches
in length, was recently killed by a Chinaman at
Binalong.” This is altogether too thin. And,
more than that, it is ra?an. We know very we’l
that two-headed snakes and flery-eyed dogs with
bristled hair are seen only by News and Rum re-
porters. It is all very well, after wrestling with
the darkness all night and praying for the morn-
ing, to All up witn whisky as soon as the Arst
hotel opens, and then walk down to the offloe, ar-
tiQoially brave, and make a Aippant paragraph of
your previous terrors. But it is not fair to con-
nect them with a Chinaman. And always reAect
sweet reporters, if it is a fearful thing for you to
see two-headed snakes, what it must be for the
snakes to see you!
* * *
The Inspector of Nuisances for Darlington
was somewhat roughly used by the wigged wags
of the Redfern Court lately. It appears that, in
an ecstasy of zeal, he had summoned several citi-
zens for not attending to the sanitary regulations
of the suburb. But in one of the cases he met a
crusher. Says the local paper:—**There was over-
whelming evidence against him that the drain re-
ferred to ran up-hill, and the verdict went with
the balance of testimony.” The laws of nature, it
would seem, came off as badly as the Inspector.
They had little chance against a suburban Bench
of Magistrates. We shall not be surprised to hear
soon that it will be fineable for a man to publicly
deny in the streets of Redfern that the earth is
flat. The magistrates will, no doubt, judge of it
by their heads. Averse:—
Now, we would ask these ancient heads,
That wear the civic crown:
How much of whisky must fly up
That water may flow down ?
* * i *
Babbage’s celebrated old, calculating,
machine was good, but after all there's nothing in
the way of arithmetical spryness that can possibly
come up to the average hotel-waiter. Calling for
his bill recently, our Continental correspondent
was honoured by a most unctuous smile from the
John Davies-looking party in attendance, who
glibly observed: “ Billsir yessir—soupsir-one
shilling—chop, one shilling—that makes two*an’-
six—cheese ?—no cheese, sir. Three shillings.
Thank you, sir, much obliged. And, pardon me
for observing, sir, that I receive no salary here sim-
ply trust to the generosity of our patrons. Thank
you, sir—this will help me to relieve the dying
wants of an aged parent. The other gentleman
who has charge of your hat will, I am sure, be glad
to see you also.” These are the men whom our
all-wise Age ts-General class as desirable immi-
grants and ship down here to swell the ranks of
suburban aldermen.
* * »
Herberton is a happy place. It is yet in
that rude and vigorous young age when there are
no class distinctions and no differences of degree
such as there are in older towns. There your only
aristocrat and leader of men is the gentleman who
can empty the greatest number of pewters before
being mixed with the table-legs. Even the religion
of the place Is of a rough and unassuming kind,
which tolerates everything but ceremony—or, as
the natives more succinctly express it, “b y
side.” There is a genial mixture of the sacred and
the profane, which, although it astonishes a
stranger, is earnest enough in its way, and answers
all the requirements of the Herberton spiritual
ideal. For instance, the Oddfellows of the place
had a procession 6n last Prince of Wales’ Birthday.
Two men marched in front, one carrying a Bible,
the other a highly-ornamented billiard-cue. After
these came two others, one of whom bore a sword t
the other a tin tomahawk. Nobody saw any in-
congruity in this collocation of emblems. On the
contrary, everybody was much impressed by the
pageant—everybody, except one man who wrote
to a paper published in a town at a distance, ex-
pressing some doubt as to the propriety of the ar-
rangement. His friends have heard nothing of


him since. It Is not always discreet to trifle with
the holiest feelings of men who take their liquors
straight—and often.
* * *
There is a man in Bourke who is now
praying for rain with more vigour than all the
churches puf together. Does he want It to ferti-
lise the country and make the youDg lambs skip
like hills ? (It gives a tone to the paper to have a
Scriptural reference now and then.) Not much.
Does he want it to fill his tank ? No. What then ?
Well, he Is a storekeeper, and he entertained a
green and secret envy against another storekeeper
(a most uncommon thing, by the way). 80, there
being an auction sale held some time ago, he
attended and did bidjagalnst his rival, who finally
collapsed. The result was that the conqueror
Three to One on the Long 'Un.
ONE DOWN, T’OTHERS COME ON.
found himself in the possession of seventeen
dozen of umbrellas. That is why he is praying
for rain. He is not particular how much he gets.
He is willing to take a new Deluge on time pay-
ment. But he wants to sell those umbrellas.
• • •
The Norfolk Islanders and Pitcairn Is-
landers have led a happy, idyllic life-cheered
with psalm-singing and whale oil—up to the
present time. Now, all that happiness is to be
wrecked. Those who would like to see these Ar-
cadian islanders In their last days of primitive and
peaceful Joy had better 6t«rt at once. The Colo-
nial Treasurer has bought 100 copies of Judge
M‘Farland’s book, “ The Mutiny In the Bounty,”
and is going to send them out to the two doomed
islands. The seafarer passing them a few years
hence will see a few rows of little green graves,
with, perhaps, one or two emaciated creatures still
alive sitting each on a grave and gibbering idiotic-
ally over the pages of the fearful volume. We
don’t blame Judge M’Farland. He had to write
something, we suppose, and we suppose also that
he couldD’t write It any differently. But we blame
the Colonial Treasurer. He should have read the
book before ruthlessly resolving to devastate two
quiet and far-off islands with It. The Inhabitants
never did him any harm. We shall think less of
the humanity of Mr. Dibbs in future.
* * »
The Redeem? Times defends Bishop Barry
against a correspondent who accuses His Lordship
of violating the fourth commandment (is It the
fourth ?) by employing his servant to drive him to
church on a Sunday. It says:—“ We cannot follow
your corollary that because Wesley walked it, and
bush missionaries tramp It, Bishop Barry, under
different circumstances, should do the same. This
is the nineteenth century.” If it were not for the
flighty tone of the police reports in this influential
joi rnal, we should not hesitate to suspecr that
Bishop Barry edited it himself. And yet he may.
for all that. Who knows but the police reports
are written by the deacons? It looks dubious,
however you take it. Still, we cannot deny the
statement that this is the nineteenth ceDtury,
more especially as it reminds us that Christ has
been dead Just eighteen hundred and fifty-two
years come next Good Friday. The original assets
of the religion have therefore had all this time to
accumulate by compound interest and judic'ous
speculations among the heathen. We give in.
His successors have every right to increase their
expenditure according to their income. We are
only surprised that they are so moderate. If we
were in tbe position of Bishop Barry, we think we
should go to church on an elephant—or perhaps
two elephants, if it pleased us. And with regard
to the ridiculous argument about the employment
of a servant on the Sabbath, used by the obscure
heretic who wrote to the lledfern Times, we
should like to ask him does not the servant drive
to church ? And is not that the proper place to go
on a Sunday ? Also does he not take the horses
there ? And Is there no salvation for horses ? If
there Is not, hell will be full of newspaper corre-
spondents. We are glad to see that Bishop Barry
takes such a determined stand in his influential
organ. But we wish he would tell the office deacon
to gum the wrapper better when .he sends us a
copy in future.
* * *
A recent Evennooze states that a “ Wil-
liam-street poet” has “broken out,” but with
customary brevity neglects to say what place It
was he broke out of. From the style of verse
produced by the escapee, we should Imagine that
it is in Darlirighurst th-tt his “ little empty cradle”
stands, but the sentiment is redolent of Tarban
Creek. Gut, can it be that this is only a misprint,
and that Alfred is indebted to a “ William goat”
for the copy ? Wo shudder to think of the fate of
that goat, if he should happen to bring up more
copy when three or four of his literary brethren
are lingering on the stairs, for, assuredly, a tra-
gedy, compared with which the Mignonette affair
would sink to utter nothingness, would then ensue
to dim the glory ol Alfred’s entrance Into the new
premises. Oh, and this reminds us: Alfred says
“Gussy”:—
“ His parting bow to Sydney soon he’ll make,
Nor second term of office will he take;
What, what has caused our Gus. to change his
views ?
They say, because he read the Evening News.”
What do wo think of this ? We think
“ They ” truly say our Guv’nor changed his views
And yearned to go when first he saw the News. ’
Nor do we think this strange, for had he seen
This vesper catalogue of things unclean,
When first he came, not even for one day
Could he have been prevailed upon to stay.
We love him not, we willingly confess,
But yet we love the Scavenger still less;
Without much grief to him we’ll say*adlcu,
And wish the Alfred would but clear out, too.
* * *
The Guelphs are becoming quite a literary
family. Her Majesty wrote a book some time
ago which did more to Increase Republicanism in
England than all the writings of the Socialist
agitators. And now the so s of the Prince of
Wales have wiitten another book in two volumes
all about what they saw in Australia and other
places called at on thtir cruise. Poor things!
They have unwittingly put another nail in the
coffin ot their hereditary dignity. If the me rubers
of this family ot geniusis could only be induced
to write a book each there would be no need of a
political revolution to upset the throne. The in-
dignant readers would soon settle that.


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious Insects. Tina Is.*
He had come all the way to town, and was
waiting for a Waterloo tram, his arms crowded
with a large package, which gave him no little
ooncern. Our proffered assistance he persistently
refused, for, as ne explained, the bundle contained
a most valuable Christmas present—one of Bray
Bros, dinner sets, of which they have such an in-
finite variety at 402 and 404 George-street.*
BRIEF MENTION.
A country paper says that we “pretend to
crush humbugs, and do not.” It must be in a
hurry to die.
r A George-street bookseller disinfects hi
sbop every morning. He iB an agent for th
Evening News.
The Mudgee Independent say it “ can’t
live on the wind.” Curious —considering it has
been flatulent so long.
The Mudgee Independent talks about
“ wodUH vivendi." They are always inventing new
names for drinks up there,
A Soliloquy.
“I DON’T SEE THAT THEY LOOK ANY CLEANER NOW, THAN WHEN I COMMENCED.”
rfhe re is a little feeling in Bega Braise's
yet. He’s only going to issue one paper
,duringAfcjistmas week.
Seven recently advertised in Adelong
ifqr husbands. Another proof of the necessity
k of assisted immigration.
Tihe Edinburgh students are hard-
,up -tor anatomical subjects* Ware is a chance for
,aur iLegislative Council.
ftemenyi. the great violinist, (is g total
■abstainer. We can t understand how lie pasters
',t,he “ shakes” on the instrument.
A ,con temporary says .that pottery is car-
ried on to a great extent by the natives qf New
Guinea. Quite .probable. Missionaries are mostly
too fat to keep through months.
The Camden Times has an article on the
new nand Bill. In Camden they’ve just found out
that it has been before the House.
“ Wollongong is going in for a water sup-
ply.” So says an exchange. We should think it
would. Wollongong is a great town for dairies.
Mr. Dailey is suffering from a swollen foot.
He has our sympathy. But Mr. A. G. Taylor has
more of our sympathy. He is suffering from a
swollen head.
An evening contemporary says that
several of the visitors to the George’s River land
sale held lately had a narrow escape from sharks.
Of course—land-sharks.
A man named Hughes was dangerously
bitten by Hies in the bush, near Newcastle, on
Tuesday week. There is a great decrease in his
fcormysntyjrs since, through indigestion.
We Liaru ;that a gentleman recently died
of sunstroke in Bourke. A cousin of ours recently
died with the same thing, and seventeen empty
rum bottles were found under bis bed.
They can’t settle the bootmakers’ strike in
Melbourne. To prevent the whole “ push” from
starvation they’ll have to be sent over here to work
piecework on one of John D .ivies’ boots.
A man from the oountry was found lying
drunk in a street in Redfern tne other night with
£5O in his pocket. He didn’t lose it, either. The
bush missionary is ever under the watchful eye of
God.
Alfred’s “ brevity ” man thinks that more
wine would be exported from Australia to Eng-
land if the import duty were less. Great head I
His troubles, anyway, as long as rum enough is
kept in the country.
At a Blue Ribbon meeting held in the
Protestant Hall the other night, Mr. Ardill, the
Blue Ribbon secretary, casually remarked that he
had “the love of Christ in his body.” “Then the
love of Christ must have a strong smell,” muttered
one of the unregenerate immediately below him.
A Tumberumba correspondent to an
Adelong paper has found a “curiosity” out his
way. It consists of a parrot that ploks the feathers
out of its breast. This might be a curious circum-
stance, if we take into consideration the fact that
the correspondent never even picks them out of
his head.
Verbatim from an Evening News tele-
gram:—" Britain is to have the control of the
Lower Niger, while France will exercise supervi-
sion over the tipper Nigger.” Just so: —but the
ioke was not in the telegrams of that morning s
lerald. Surely Alfred has not begun to be
original!
So Mr. A. G. Taylor threatens to go home
and present himself before the Privy Council, if
his case is taken before that august body. If he
will only carry out his resolution, he will ma-
terially aid in the abolition of the House of Lords.
He will kill one section of the peerage-the Law
Lords—anyhow.
Says the Mudgee Independent One
of the greatest sins a man can commit in Bydney
is to show his teeth to a policeman, as it develops
into an assault case.” Of course, a Mudgee man is
meant, and it does not surprise us that such an
exhibition would develop into an assault case.
Even if the polioeman used a pile-driver, the laws
of his country would justify him under such cir-
cumstances. The human stomach is not made
that can stand the sudden unveiling of a Mudgee
man’s teeth.
The consumption of water in the city has
Increased during the last fortnight to an enormous
extent. The reason is a mystery to everybody.
We have only two guesses to hazard on the sub-
ject. 1. The increase of Blue Ribbon converts. 2.
The Rum reporters have taken to washing them-
selves. It is but fair to say that, of the two
theories, we think the former the most probable,
“ Why does this structure remind one of
the leading actor of the Theatre Royal ?” asked a
Protestant Standard man of an Express scribe
as they walked on the Manly pier after a shower
of rain. “Can’t guess,’’ snuffled the Express
representative. “ Well, because it’s a damp pier,”
said the Standard ink-slinger. Just then the
Express man slipped and fell full lengih on the
boards, and, as he Rose up, he extended his Lily-
white hand, and, addressing endearing terms to his
right hip, said he guessed it was the dampest pier
he ever came across.


So it was thought in days of yore, but the wonderful discoveries of modern science and the advanced state of intellectual comprehensiveness have quite put a new face on
the subject.
Cliristmas Presents, ’B4
Among the many choioe, chaste, pretty, neat, unique, recherche, sweet, thrilling, lovely, embellished, and irresistible articles now to hand for
Cliristmas Presents,
Are many things new under the Sun. By the good ship John Elder, lam unpacking all the LATEST CURIOS and NOVELTIES of the LONDON and CONTINENTAL MARKETS.
EVERYTHING NEW AND HOT FROM THE MANUFACTURER. Our purchaser has delayed this season >*o as to bring us quite on a footing with the good folks at home.
London and Continental Novelties will be FULLERS SYDNEY NOYELTIES.
Everything the Very Latest and the Very Newest, and the Very Lowest in Price. From the Needle to the Anchor. Everything Lovely and Beautiful. To enumerate them is
impossible. Let it be sufficient to say there is SOMETHING TO SUIT EVERYBODY.
For rich and for poor, for great and for small, For ma’s and for pa’s, and for sweet, pretty ba’s, For uncle and auntie, for sweet cousin Jack, For all sorts and sizes, who make but one call,
For young and for old, for short and for tall. For sons and daughters, the pets of mammas, For friends now departing, and friends coming back, This Christmas time present I’ue presents for ail.
WRITING DESKS, WRITING CABINETS, INKSTANDS, of every conceivable character, manufacture, size, shape, Form, and quality; in Ebony, in Walnut, in Rosewood, in
Mahogany, in Olive Wood; with Nickel Mounts, with Brass Mounts, with Silver and other Mounts. A Most Charming Collection.
SCRAP ALBUMS. SCRAP ALBUMS. Elegantly bound in Russia, in Persian, and in Cloth, beautifully gilt and embossed. All prices.
PHOTOGRAPHIC ALBUMS, the Productions of the World.
SEE THE WINDOW. Purses, Portemonnaies, Ladies’ Bags, Ladies’ Baskets, Ladies’ and Gent’s Card Cases, Ladies’ and Gent’s Dressing Cases, Magnificent Fans, Brackets
vFatch Stands, Reticules, Writing Sets, Plush Mirror Brackets, Necessaries, Toilet Cases, Cigar and Cigarette Cases. Faney Boxes, Scent Cases, Glove ana Handkerchief Boxes ’
Horse-shoe Toilet Stands, Card Trays, Horse-shoe Trays, in great variety. Illuminated and Musical Albums, Faney Frames of all sizes, Tea Trays, and a thousand and '
o»e other Novelties beyond enumeration, all for Christmas Presents.
Christmas Presents at Fuller’s, 385 and 38T George-street.
Fuller’s for Christmas Presents. Every article new and just unpacked. The Best and Cheapest House in the Colony.
DETTO-ller, Station, er’e 1E31a.11, 385 357 Q*ecrgre Street-
Five years have now elapsed since this great
national enterprise was inaugurated by the ad-
vertiser.
Prior to his advent into the metropolis, the great
and good custom of exchanging CHRISTMAS
GREETINGS by means of these art souvenirs was
almost a thing of nought. Now it is one of the
most popular national pleasantries.
Of course, other smaller houses have followed
in the wake of FULLER’S EXHIBITION, and
copied his ideas and so forth; but this is quite
legitimate; the smaller follow the greater, and it
is one of the characteristics of a broad mind to be
liberal and to impart instruction, and hence Fuller
can rejoice to benefit his weaker co-tradesmen.
FOR THE YEAR 1884.
Words more than the circumscribed bounds of
our English language are sought to describe the
enrapturing loveliness of the cards Fuller presents
to public view, »nd one sighs for the embracing
and complete comprehensiveness of classic lore to
half portray their attractions.
No. I.—FULLER'S IVORY SERIES.—In this series
magnificence, splendour, and art combine
to spellbind the critic. Prices from 2?. to
4 guineas.
No. 2.—FULLER’S SCENTED SACHETS.—The
gorgeous elaborateness (toned down by the
sweet tints of the painter's brush) which
weds the fascinating delicacies of this
year’s productions, renders them quite too
irresistible. Prices from 6d. to 255.
No. 3.—FULLER’S PLUSH SERIES—A wonder-
ful advance has been made on last year. The
tints, the hues, the multiform elaborations
which enter into their manufacture, must
enchant the fair and the gay alike. Prices
from Is. to 10s. each.
No. 4.—FULLER'S FRTNGED SERTES.-New em-
bellishments in the fringes, and a better
character of card, have added a new beauty
to these, which must command the market.
Prices from 6d. each, (is. each.
No.S.—FULLER’S GELATINE SERIES— Already
a favourite on the market; these have row
been improved to so great a height, that
they cannot fail to be popular. Prices from
Gd. to Os. each.
No. O—FULLER’S HANDPAINTED SERIES
If the product of the brush can enrapture
the delicate eye, then nothing is wanting to
provide for every taste this season. End-
less in colour, tint, design, subject, and
pattern, not surpassed in the world. Prices
from Od. to 20s. each.
Fuller’s Annual Christmas Card Exhibition, 1884.
JSTF[EET DIALOGUE.
€t ctf rnoTning */cAn y pooc?m ornznjr / )6u. S§*
/in /or C/u t ial}njx& dinner tend now- /tn.
off Id FULLER’S fer‘n& CHR/STMRS CARDS
FUU-ER'S
{^teaCEST.
-
T....
&
*7
7
&
e
r=3
i,
&
/
Ji
\
Y* u .
e
No. 7.—FULLER'S PHOTOGRAPH SERIES.—
By special favour of the manufacturers, ]
am this yoarbetterequippedto supply than
ever before. Fuller’s Photographs have
already won a world-wide fame, and this
year all the excellences of the past are sur-
passe ito ultra-superlative. All prices.
No. B.—FULLER'S EASEL SERIES.-Unfold and
behold the radiant beauty; unique inform,
beautiful in pattern, and exquisite in finish.
From 6d. to ss. each.
No. 9.—FULLER'S SCREEN SEIIIES.-This card,
only introduced into the market last season,
stands well to command public favour this
year. They are truly miniature pictures
and well worth keeping 1 as ornaments.
No. 10. FULLER’S IVORINE SERIES. —The
chastity of chasteness, in which elegance
and splendour combine. From Is. to ss*
each.
No. 11—FULLER’S PEARL SERIES, mounted on
hand-painted panels; gilt and bevelled
edges; designs in horseshoes, anchors
crosses, flowers, &c.; something truly mag-
nificent. From ss. to 50s. each.
No. 12—FULLER’S AUSTRALIAN SERIES,from
the manufactory of Gibbs, Shallard, and
Co.; alike creditable to artist and manu-
facturer; lovely in design, bright in tint,
original and uniqueiu conception, and alto-
gether worthy of Australia.
No 13.—FULLER’S LITHOGRAPHIC SERIES
This series is so endless in design, so ex-
haustless in pattern, so multitudinous in
size and shape, so innumerable in subject,
so world-wide in production, that I do not
propose to say a word about them. They
can only be appreciated if they are seen.
There are white and black, blue and green,
red and crimson, yellow and puce, pink and
purple, brown and mottled, golden and
silvered, grey and green, and, and—in re-
lief, in cameo, in etchings, in engravings
and in everything. Prices, from Bs. a gross
to 2s. (id. each. Millions and millions and
millions.
The above brief description of some of my
exhibition series this year is worthy of note, and I
confidently submit it to public favour, assuring my
readers that if the world can “turn out” cards,
and has done it, then FULLUR’S EXHIBITION is
the place to see them. Jf you do not see all you
want or what vou want in lo oking round the hall
ask to see others. All cannot be exhibited at
once.
WITH THE SEASON’S IJLBT WISHES.
FULLER’S ANNUAL KXHTRTTTON OF
CHRISTMAS CARDS,
385 and 387, Oeorge-st rest, Sydney.
33©©3ss I Books I Books I Special Importations for the Christmas Season.
PULLER’S BOOK DEPOT, 385 and 387 George-street.
A most Elegantly Bound, Profusely Illustrated, Richly Gilt, and Superb Collection.
ROUTLEDGE’S PRIZE BOOKS, WARNE’S PRIZE BOOKS, NISBET’S PRIZE BOOKS, R.T.S PRIZE BOOKS, GALL & INGLI9’ PRIZE BOOKS. WARD LOCK’S PRIZE
BOOKS, HODDER & STOUTON’rt PRIZE BOOKS. BLACKIE & CO.’S PRIZE BOOKB, NIMMO & CO.’S PRIZE BOOKS, SPECIAL GIFT BOOKS. POETS in Morocco ‘
and Cloth Gilt, MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS in Tree Calf, PEN and PENCIL, superior series; numerous richly and elegantly-bound Books in endlrss variety.
THE LATEST ANNUAL VOLUMES.—Chatterbox, Sunday, Boys’ Own Annual, Every Boys’ Annual, Quiver, Child’s Companion, Children's Friend.,
Friendly Visitor, Family Friend, Little Wide Awake, Little Folks, Bo Peep, Band of Hope, British Workman, Cottager, and sundry others too numerous to •particularise.
Puller’s Bools. Depot,
355 aad 387 G-EOEG-E STREET.


Mashers—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter. 653 Ooorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Think and Act.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dilm and Oertel succeeded In preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. ASrated-water works, 403
Pltt-street*
THE KOOKABURRA
John, our coachman must go!”
yr.oy* my dear ? Our only daughter is inar-
i e9 ’ hut—Johu, I’m not so very old my-
self, you kuow I”
Marshall Brothers have completed ar-
rangements to supply a lull set of Artificial Teeth,
hPR® r and lotver, at the enormously reduced price
PL*®’ J ,ert ii cfc a,J d quality guaranteed. Pain-
Icss extractionby Nitrous Oxide Gas. Please not®
address—MARSHALL BROS , Dentists, 104 and 106
Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.*
- 4 ,c'4£ e . t s e S* l * B locked up lor the night,
e * ‘Yes.” “Coachman chained?" “Yes."
Has the patent butcher-catcher in the front yard
been oiled so that it works well ?” “ Yes." “ Well.
tosleep b ” 88 Well cblurotorm Ihe gardener and go
of Abscondments.— Were
the fugitives from justice who chance to be
caught more summarily handled and severely
dealt with by the operations of law, the offences
would prove far less numerous. So if the pirates,
t^ e rG§^ ) ea !, oftrade, who steal thes mblance
of WOLFE 8 SCHNAPPS were despatched to
prison-house, this incomparable cordial would be
less open to larceny. Always ask for Wolfe’s
schnapps.
Smith: “And how did you spend your
honeymoon?” Brown: “ Well, you see, being m
business, my wife and I couldn’t get away from
town at the same time; so she went out of town
one week and I went the next I”
John T. Molnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham*
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. 13tr Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Bquatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. EST" Agents for the sale or purohase on
commission of Pure-bred Stook *
In torrid Bengal, people marry early, and
it is not uncommon for a bridgegroom of 15 and
a bride of 10 to own a baby. Hence, when a Ben-
galee youth of 18 went up for matriculation, his
examination papers contained the question—
What was the most remarkable event in the
Queen Elizabeth ? 99 H© promptly re-
plied, That she died a virgin.”
Mb. DeOottboy Browne (late Deputy
?£ the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book.”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals, ’Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-street. Sydney, w Mining Titles, a weU
proven speciality, &3T- Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Paddv, who had been in the “sarvice,”
attended a Salvationist meeting, and heard one of
the worst specimens of the tub-thumping divines.
Said the preacher, ‘ For 18 years I served the devil,
and then I deserted.” “ You fool,” yelled Patrick,
if you had served two years more you would
have been entitled to a pension ! ”
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
mgs, Carpet Bag's Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
oolour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
The old holy bourgeois “ pride-that-apes-
humility” platform wheeze, “Twenty years ago
1 was a poor boy: now I am, thanks to Divine
Providence, a rich, prosperous, and pious mer-
chant, has been slightly overdone, and has called
into existence this kind of thing:—” Five-and-
twenty years ago a poor friendless girl read In the
papers, on which she had spent her last sixpence,
that the Queen had been graciously pleas d to
send her customary bounty of three pounds to the
mother of triplets. She swore to herself that one
day she would receive the .same guerdon, and,
ladles and gentlemen,” continued Angelica Kauf-
drop, “lam that girl.” “Five-and-t weDty years
ago,” she remarked, “ a poor friendless girl swore
and a policeman Immediately ran her in, and she
was fined for using bad language. Ladies and
gentlemen, lam that indecent language.” “ Five-
and-twenty years ago,” ho hlccupeu, “a poor,
friendless lad, with somebody else s last sixpence
in his pocket, stood outside a certain gaol. He
swore that some day he would be in that gaol.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am that lad.”
In our advertising oolumns there anpears
a notification that Messrs. Wilson and Ward have
opened a hiirh-class tailoring establishment at No.
168 Pitt-street. Mr. Ward has had twenty years’
“cutting" experience in the most fashionable
London and Paris houses, and sufficient colonial
work tu know exactly the requirements of our
people. Mr. Wilson is a woollen-draper, and has
had large Continental and English experiences,
and went home specially to select the present
stock. The firm have secured the services of Mr.
K. S. Armstrong, late manager of the woollen and
tailoring department at Farmer and Co.’s, and the
combined taste of these gentlemen cannot fail to
satisfy the most fastidious person. The shop is
most neatly fitted up, and is well worth inspection.*
UP IN A BALLOON.—A STRANGE BTORY.
“ Ma, is that man going up to Heaven ?” said a
beautiful blue-eyed little girl who stood near the
balloon at Prince Alfred Park last Saturday. “ Oh.
no, pet. The balloon is tied, and nrill be pulled
back again.” Little Nell, innocently: “'Will he go
to Heaven if I should cut the rope ?” Ma confused,
and not knowing how to answer the child; but, on
reflection, said they would not be allowed to go in.
“Why, mamma, only angels are allowed, then?
What are angels; are they like us ?” “ Oh, no, my
child I Angels have wings and fly.” "I wonder if
you and I and papa will get there and fly.” “ I
hope so.” “ Don’t you think that man in the bal-
loon will get up there? Just see, mamma, he is
going up alive. What has he got in that basket ?
I know it must be something good. Just see how
he smiles. Watch his lios; he can’t keep them
still. I bet it’s lovely. It’s going up with him.
Let me go and see what it is ?” The dear little
angol peeped into the aeronaut’s car, and then ran
back to its mother delighted, her face full of Joy,
and with that child-like innocence looked into its
mother’s face, and said: “ Mamma, he will get into
Heaven; he has the Anheusar Busch St. Louis
Lager Beer in his basket. Won’t papa be pleased ?”*
A household perfume. Every family able
to apprecate and enjoy the pleasure afforded by a
really healthful and delicious perfume, should
lupply themselves with the genuiße Murray and
Lanwian’s Florida Water. It is the most delightful
and most lasting of all fragrant waters.
Kissing the Wrong Girl.—lt is dark.
He steals up to the garden gate. “ My own sweet 1”
“My dearest own!” Then the noi?e of kissing.
“Speak in whispers, dearest; the old man is not
ia ued yet.” " And do you love me? ’ “Do I love
you? I love you wfth a strengtn that would
knock Sullivan out in one round.” “These stolen
meeilig* are so lovely! Don t you thiDk so?”
More kissing. Then a voice from the house,
*• Mary I Ma-ry 1” “I m coming, ma’am.” There is
a rapturous parting Then the youug man, as he
steals off, soliloquises, “ ‘ Mary 1’ I guess 1 made a
m stake. That’s the servant girl’s name. But it a
my own fault ; I oueht to have worn my splendid-
fitting £3 3s. suit, made by Summerfleld and Co.,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-stieet, Sydney,
who employ eight high-class cutters, and guaran-
tee a periect West-end lit.” Biggest stock of
•woollens in Australia shown by Summerfleld and
Co. *
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
W'e inaH. be glad to nave this index pe*c«d up «’■
tewetartes of racing clubs and manager* of
n>orting events in general,]
RACING.
Warialda December 26.
Braid wood December 26.
Clarence Tattersall's December 28.
Mudgee Tattersall's December 26.
Denillquin .December 2s.
Wodonga December 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
A.J.C. (Midsummer),.. December 26.
Lithgow December 26, 27.
Wallsend J.C December 26, 27.
Moonee Valley (V.) December 27.
Canterbury Park R.C : December 27.
Rosebill R.C December 27.
Lismore January 1.
Braidwood January 1.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
Adelong J.C January 1,2.
Victorian Club January 3.
Bega January 14,15.
Sydney T.C .' January 26.
Lawrence J.C January 26.
Blayney January 26, 27.
New England February 4, 5.
Burrowa J.C February 6, 6.
Cootamundra T.C February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18,19,
Moree February 25. 26.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 6, 7.
Tumut March 25. 26.
Hawkesbury R.C March 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Gardiner Challenge Cup December 20.
Snail’s Bay Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 28.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)....April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS
Riverine Athletic Club Sports, Hay Race-
course . December 26, 27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney January 1.
SPROTING AND ATHL[?]TIC MEMS.
At latest, Fred Archer had won 215 races
out of 500 mounts.
Professor W. Miller was left £l5OO by his
father—at least, so we saw in a New Zealand paper.
Donald Dtnnie, in the Australasian,
offers to make a mixed wrestling match with Can-
non or any other man.
Two locals, Bourke and Agnew, ran 150
yards tor £3O, at West Maitland, on Saturday last.
Bourke won by some seven yards.
The Victorian Rowing Association have
no objection to Tasmania sending a crew for the
Intercolonial Eight oar race, but they will not
undertake to visit Tasmania in return.
The match—if suoh it can be called —be-
tween the University aud Carlingford Elevens
came to a conclusion on Saturday last, ’Varsity
winning by an innings and 151 runs to spare.
Mick Nathan states both his hands are
hors As combat, but in six or twelve months he
hopes to have them sufficiently patched up to meet
anything of his weight in the world. Good for you,
Mickey!
At Adelaide Oval, on Saturday week, G.
Giffen, of the Australian Eleven piaved for Nor-
wood against Kensington, and ran together 309
(not out) out of 398 for five wickets. Kensington
made only 90.
Tom Malone must indeed be a wonder if
he makes even decent time in the alleged attempt
to break the quarter record at the Agricultural
Soon ty's ground on the 27th. To attempt record-
breaking on such an execrable track is a perfect
farce.
Mr. Cyril Kingsley assures us he stood on
his head on two bicycles at his recent show. We
hasten to correct our error, if such it be, but no
doubt our reporter was a bit mixed when he saw
Mr K standing on his head, notwithstanding that
he was engaged on his feat.
The untutored Hindoo is acquiring a real
Norman taste for sport. For a “ last-to-win ”
pony race, stakes sixteen rupees, at an up-country
race meeting, nine enteeed. Objections were
lodged against the winner, as it was found that be
had squared all the other eight.
It is evidently no use sending over a
seoond-olass sculler to bring baok the amateur
ohampionship of Banaualand. Mr. J. O. Trimble
was easily defeated in the wager boat race at the
recent Brisbane Regatta by Mr. Uhlmann, a local
man. Brett had better go over next time and
make things.even.
Bays Loudon Bellas Life, in speaking of
W. G. George, the crack runner—*' Ho will be pre-
sented by the Lady Mayoress, on behalf of thB
L.A.C., with a gold medal, on which the various
reoords made by him at Stamford Bridge during
the present season will be engraved. George
leaves England for Australia in the early part of
next month.”
At the Brisbane regatta, held on Dec. 10th,
the champion four-oar race was won by the Com-
mercial Club of Brisbane by two lengths, with
Brisbane Rowing Club second and the Rockhamp-
ton crew third, the Maryborough crew, who neld
the championship, being last. The Maryborough
crew won the race for the senior fours, beating
the Rockhampton, Brisbane, and Commercial
crews.
Some time since the patch of ground lying
between the Association Cricket Ground and the
Rifle Range was handed over to the military men
for the purpose of forming a cricket ground. A
considerable sum of money was expended in the
formation of wienets, and several matohes were
played on it while ithe novelty lasted, but latterly
the place has resumed its primitive appearance.
Who is responsible lor this waste of the needful ?
We get this from the Irt3H and Austra-
lian Harlequin —a new jou.rnal to which we
have made a brief reference ini another column:—
“ It is time preparations were being made for the
reception of the English crio keters at Narrabri.
Subscriptions to defray exper.ses will be recieved
(sic) by Mr. Upjohn.” This looks ominous for the
cricketers. We make no furt her comment. This
is merely a small sporting item. There is an
elegiac poet on our establishq lent.
Au old gentleman of 70. named Tegetmeir,
Writes to an English sporting paper, saying (in op-
position to the doctors) that the more he rides a
trioyle the more vigorous he feels. The septua-
genarian add?■: ** I ride fairly long distances con-
stantly, and can assure my i readers that I have
never suffered, at least to m y knowledge, from
* hypochondria, hysteria, gat* traigia, agaraphobia,
or claustrophobia,’ and that even ‘ neurasthenic
dyspet sia Is practically unii uowu to me. Last
year I rode 10,050 miles.”
Says a New Zealand paper: “David
Livingstone, the well-known .long-distance ruaner,
who defeated t'Connor reo ently 1u Newcastle,
New South Wales, ran ten ml lea wituin the nour
at Invercargill, on Nov. 22. on the track of the
Southland Oaiedonlan Society . The attendance of
the public was very small. Li vingstone completed
his task, and kept faith n ifh the spectators,
running the distance in ss°c, IJe aid not ap-
poar to be distressed. He did tbe first three miles
in 15m. The Society, in view of the small attend-
ance, agreed to forego the charge for the use of
the grounds.
We kav- heard a probable meeting talked
abo t between an ex-champion light-weight
amateur boxer, of England, and a Sydney middle-
weight, for a trophy. Should the Britisher feel
eager for the fray, we do not fancy the Sydneyite
would be at all oaekward In coming forward. We
should like to s-m the affair eventuate, just to
show what chance our man would have with an
English boxer, whose reputation should make up
for the bit of weight he would have to give away.
So far as we are concerned, we have an idea the
Sydney man we refer to Is fit to box any amateur
the world can produce under 11 st. weight.
The inclusion of C. Bannerman in the
Intercolonial team looks like a huge joke. On their
first try the committee appointed by the Associa-
tion selected twenty players to practice, Banner-
man’s name not being amongst the number; but,
at the final selection, we find him figuring amongst
the chosen ones. Why is this thus ? Biannerman
had no practice from the time of selecting the
twenty until the final picking of the team, and we
must acknowledge we are curious enough to ask
the cause of their extraordinary change of opinion.
Charley has seen his day, and we think it is time
he stood aside for younger and better men.
Poor as the oontest for the Gardiner Chal-
lenge Cup will no doubt prove.it is a pity It should
clash with ths Mercantile handicap skifif race, on
Saturday next. The entries and weights for the
latter event are:—D. Fletcher feather, W. G. Brett
621 b, F. J. Bull 231 b, first heat; the second: C. H.
WllliamB 331 b, G. Merson 91b, H. B. Nowell 91b; and
third: G. Seale 481 b, W. F. Corbett 391 b, E. S. Deane
91b. 621 b is a big lump of weight to hump along,
but fit and well George Brett should win the han-
dicap In a canter. We think the handioappers
should have fixed upon a much higher impost for
the top weight, with (say) Brett at 751 b, they
could have worked down with a chance of giving
the lesser lights a show.
It seems Tommy Kelly has decided not to
lend his aid in the preparation of Beach for the
champion’s coming races. Tommy certainly
brought his man to the post very fit for the Han-
lan race, but if Kelly was sincere in his remarks
to the D.T. man when he srated that Beach was
seated too high in his boat, much against his
(Kelly’s) idea, we fancy it is as well for Beach that
Kelly has decided not to accompany him, as in our
opinion Beaoh would completely throw away his
chance if he made the alt' ration Kelly said he had
frequently urged upon him. But,after all, Tommy
may have only been “poking borak’’ at the D.T.
man. We have heard that Messenger is to go up
the rivet with Beach, and we consider the choice
a wise one. Messenger is second to none In fixing
a man up, and would be able to go out on the water
with his charge.
The Glebeites must be an easy-going
crowd to pass the boat Frazer pulled in the junior
race, on Saturday last. Leaving the dimensions of
the craft out of the question, she is fitted with
outriggers, and, although the swivels may not be
a couple of inches outside the boat, it is the thin
edge of the wedge, and should be put down with
an iron hand, for if two inches be allowed it is hard
to say where the limit is to be drawn. Durrell,
the local representative, and the only man who
covered the course without in one way or another
deserving disqualification, should have protested
against Frazer s boat, if only on the principle of
the thing. It seems extraordinary that the boat
we refer to could have been lying for hours on the
Glebe Kowing Club’s stage without the locals
noticing the way she is fitted up. No boat carry-
ing swivels outside her gunwale should be passed
as a “club skiff.”
Says London World:—With everybody, of
high and low degree, rushing off to the Tom Tid-
dler’s ground of America, It is not surprising that
Hutchens, the [fleetest runner England, and pro-
bably the whole world, has ever known, has
wended his way thither, the only mystery being
why he did not do so before. 'There boxers of the
lowest type may make small fortunes; so surely
such a wonder as Hutchens ought to reap a golden
reward. Jn America the running of 100 yards In
lOseo. is a feat accomplished by amateurs with ap-
parently less difficulty than in England ; so, as
Hutchens can probably give any American ama-
teur a start of five yards in the distance, he should
give us an astounding reoord, say He has
already done something very nearly as marvellous
as this, for he has covered 300 yards in 30seo. ex-
nctlv, this being, of course, at the rate of 100 yards
in lOseo. for the whole distanoe.
Our pig-skin straddlers are evidently In a
bad way, and a howl of lamentation is heard on
the happy training grounds. Two serious epi-
demics have settled down on our jocks, and in two
cases the complaint has proved fatal. Tom Hales
has been a martyr to asthma for years, and now
Miok O’Brien, the last Victorian Derby winner’s
pilot, Is laid up with a bad attaok of the same
complaint. By far the most terrible plague, how-
ever, is the matrimonial fever, whioh carried off
Bricky Colley not long ago, and which has just
numbered amongst its victims poor Paddy Pigott.
Paddy was turned off last week, and is now lying
In state at his new training stables at Hotnam
Hill. Jimmy Ashworth, we believe, has also
shown symptoms of the dread disease, and, ru-
mour says, will shortly steer a Coilingwood heiress
to the bridal goal. A slight nuptial rash has also
broken out on Donald Nicholson, but it is thought
that an opening diet and change of air will
speedily wipe away the trouble.
Several of the rowing clubs will be heavy
losers by the “modern exodus” from the Lands
and Survey Department. A very fair four-oared
crew are booked for Maitland—Messrs. Bremerand
Oxley from the S.R.C., H. E. Wilkinson from the
M.K.C., and Fitzpatrick from the N.S.R.C.—which
looks as If tbe Civil Service will rule the roast
In Maitland rowing cireles. The Mercantiles will
lose their captain In the person of Mr. Wilkinson,
and the Glebeites suffer the same fate by reason
of Mr. Ickerson’s removal to Moree, where the
genial Al. will, if all else fails in the aquatic line,
be enabled to paddle his own canoe in the sweat or
his brow. Mr. Capper, S.R.C, removes his house-
holy gods to Glen Innes, to whioh paradise Mr.
Michael—we beg pardon—Vincent Murphy is also
told off. But perhaps the greatest loss to aquatic
and athletio circles will be Mr. L. G. J. Bennett,
who goes to Dubbo. Mr. D. D. Middleton, the out-
rigger puller and champion miler, escaped by the
skin of his teeth, and is to remain in Sydney.
We are sadly afraid the future of the
gymnastic club, started under the directorship of
Mr. Garraway—a gentleman, by the way, whose
name is unknown to us In Sydney athletic circles—
does not show the promise such a desirable insti-
tution deserves. The high rate of subscription we
believe to be the trouble. Jb’6 per annum will
prove prohibitive to the very class such a course
of gymnastics, carried out in a judicious manner,
would prove of most benefit, our growing young-
sters just taking to the desk or a profession.
The gymnasium, or rather the vault under the
church in Liver pool-street, is ill-ventiiated, is not
large or lofty enough to allow of sufficient scope
for the paraphernalia, and is as unsuited to be
under a church, as the church Is to be over a gym-
nastic and boxing club. The charge in D’Har
court's time was twenty shillings a year, and we
have heard several of his old pupils state they o
not feel inclined to jump to £6 for the same i -
struction arid appliances. Maybe the tone of the
promotors may be like the subscription—a shade
too high. But, be this at it may, we feel assured
that as soon as the novelty of the affair works off,
it will be found necessary to lower the sub, or
close the show.
We understand Mattersnn is about to take
a lengthened spell lrom match pulling. The
Claieooe River lad has thickened out co siderably
»iuoe his maiden effort on the Parramatta, and
should he take anything like the rest he requires,
wc shall expect him to figure as a 12-st. man
In his next oontest. We understand Matferson
has on the board a trip to the tight little inland
Tasmania, where ho will no doubt pack on tbe
beef to a considerable extent Matterson is in
sge about six months the wrong ide of 20, stands
5 feet 11 in ncight, and weighs as he stands some-
thing under 12 st and a half. With a good rest,
and an improvement in his swing, Matterson may
bear out the promising prognostications made by
the sporting scribblers vnen he made his debut,, or
rather after he had won a couple of races on
metropolitan waters ; for if we remember aright,
we were tne only paper to notice him favourably
after his defeat of Nicholls. although we did not
attempt to put the lad off his head by at once
jumping to the conclusion tie would straightaway
rush his way to the championship. While wishing
the promising sculler every success, we are afraid
be will have to go through a lengthy apprentice-
ship before he reaches—should he ever do so—the
pinnacle of his aspirations.
The Glebe Rowing Club regatta came off
in Johnson’s Bay, and if we except the want of
punctuality In sending the raoes away, the day
passed off without a hitch. A stiff north-easter
blew during the afternoon, which completely de-
moralised the soullers in the open race for juniors,
in which event the starters were N.B R C,, J. Con-
nolly; S.R.C. 8, A. Tiley; B.R.C. A., Frazer; and
G. W. Durrell represented the looai club. Con-
nolly at once showed to the front with a command-
ing load, but owing to his wretched steering, Tiley,
who was piloted by his clubmen in a four-pair, led
when nearing the turning buoy. When close to
the flag, the wind took command of Tiley, and
blew him inside the buoy. Connolly and Durrell
fouled when rounding, and Frazer passed them and
chased Tiley home to the winning-post. Tiley was
disqualified, and Frazer was awarded the prize-
more owing to the hard luck of his opponents than
to his own efforts. This is the second race in which
we have seen Connolly throw away his ehanoe by
bad steering. The maiden double-sculls fell to
Flannery and Maitland, who rowed In very fair
form; Smith and Fairweather made rather an easy
win of the senior double-sculls; the maiden-fours
fell to Curnow, Young, Elphinstone, and Farran,
after a ding-dong race from start to finish with J.
Gjx, G. L. Macroady, C. M’Gregor, and L. Cock-
burn; and the trial-fours, wtaioh brought the sport
to a conclusion, fell easy prey to w. Wilson, P.
Maitland, A. lokerson, and F. C. Williams.
One good point about pedestrians is that
you never—well, that is to say, providing you are
very deaf—you hardly ever near of them being
connected with anything shady In the way of
sport. And this reminds us that A. E. Bird, the
crack long-distance sprinter, who visited Australia
with Topley and Sims Reeves Frank Hewett, has
been living for some ttme past in Tasmania, where
he has fattened up proper by following the {esthe-
tic profession of a fish hawker. Quite a downy
bird, too, is this master Albert Edward, At the
Hobart Athletic sports reoently, Bird was allowed
to enter, and some sportsmen took him In hand,
paid his lodginpß in Hobart, and provided him
with other necessaries to give him another ohanoe
He repaid his friends by telling them that he oouid
win the three events entered for, and that they
could back him at any odds and to any extent.
The days of the sports he came on to the ground,
refused to start for the first event entered
tered for, and in the second, after running a short
distance, ran off the course laughtng. He was
disqualified for ever by the committee, and next
day started for Sydney on the quiet. Bird had been
heavily backed, and some very interesting rumours
are afloat regarding the position of those who are
suspected of having “got at” the long-winded
one. However, he will be quite an acquisition
over here, and the sporting publio would do well
to rally up and welcome him with—a ton of bricks.
Alf. Greenfield is the latest pug. who looks
for death or glory at the hands ot the champion
slogger, Sullivan. Greenfield has been Invited
over to the Bt.ates by that enterprising newspaper
proprietor, Richard K. Fox, who guarantees tnat
the "purse” for which this “international fight”
is to be fought shall be worth at least £lOOO and
throws out mysterious hints that it may be as good
as £3OOO, Greenfield is, immediately upon his ar-
rival, to formally challenge Sullivan, who will
thus (says Mr. Fox) be driven into th 9 position
either of accepting the challenge or of putting
down his flag as the champion ot the world. Ar-
rangements will be made for the battle to take
place in Louisiana, within easy distance of New
Orleans. After the contest with Sullivan has
taken place, Greenfield, if still alive and vic-
torious, will be ready to fight Charles Mitchell for
a purse of probably' £3OOO. In any case, Fox will
back Greenfield in whatever oontests he may
enter. Knifton, an English pro. who dubs himself
“Champion of England,” stated throuirh the news-
papers that he would like to have a shy at Green-
field, or, failing that, to back Massey, a man Knif-
ton had recently defeated; to which Greenfield
replied that previous engagements would prevent
him accepting Mr. Knifton's kind offer, but that if
Knifton would only go out to America he (Green-
field) would bind himself to fight him anywhere,
anywhen, and anyhow. “In the meantime,” says
Greenfield, with scathing irony, “I would advise
him to have a little more practice with lads I
will try to teach him what a man can do with him.”
Knifton’s reply was both personal and autobio-
graphical. He traversed most of Greenfield's
statements, and informed him that he (Knifton) is
6ft. Sin. high and 14st. in weight; that he has
offered to run and jump anv 14st. man In the
world; that he has defeated a 14st. amateur obam-
pion, Queensberry rules, for erdurance 6O
guineas; .that he has never been defeated in a
match; and that he is open to box any man in the
world, any stylo. Tne corollary io these propo-
sitions is that Greenfield should try and take down
Knifton's Dumber before engaging with Bullivan.
To this end, Knifton declares that he will pay his
own expenses to New York, and will then box
Greenfield for £lOO, just to show the American
public what he can do.
It is notorious that racing men have al-
ways been blind believers in luck, and that, like
the men of Athens, against whom St. Paul uplifted
his parable upon Mars Hill, "they are in all things
too superstitious.” When the still-living mother
of the Duke of Westminster remonstrated with
Lord George Bentwick as to the name which he
had given to his flying filly, Crucifix, his lordship,
according to a story frequently told by old John
Day, the trainer and rider of the winner of the
Two Thousand, One Thousand, and Oaks, in 1840,
replied that if he changed his mare’s Cname he
might also change her luck. Lord Clifden, the
owner of Surplice, had a lucky cravat, and unless
he wore it round his neck he had no faith in his
ability to pull off a big stake. One of the most
fortunate hits ever made by what the author of
“The Chaunt of Achilles” calls a “spring cap-
tain,” who is, I believe, still alive, was upon the
occasion of Ellington’s Derby, in 1856. The young
officer in question was desperately in need of £lOOO,
and upon the night before the Derby he was walk-
ing along Piccadilly between the ends of Arling-
ton-street and St. James’-street, It wanted but a
few minutes to midnight, and, gazing upwards, his
eye fell upon the word “ Ellington ” blazing be-
fore him at the tip of an illuminated clock. There
was a door leading out of Piecadilly into the Wel-
lington Restaurant, which stood upon the site now
occupied by the Devonshire Club, and as the hand
of the clock suspended above this door approached
midnight, it covered the first letter of the word
“ Wellington.” Accepting the hint, the captain
went down to Epsom next day, and took 1000 to 60
about Ellington, the winner. A similar story is
told about a sporting butcher, who, as he drove
down to the Derby, in 1839, was stopped upon
Westminster Bridge—then a very different struc-
ture from what it is now—by a crowd of carts.
Provoked beyond endurance by the delay, he
drove right at one of the obstructive vehicles in
his way, and, vowing that he would indict its
driver, strained his eyes to discover the name and
address painted ou the shaft. All that he could
decipher was the word Bloomsbury, which haunted
him all the way until he reached the Downs. The
butcher was a dashing speculator, and, according
to Mr. George Tattwrsall. the author of “ The Pic-
torial Gallery of English Race-horses,” he hacked
Mr. KidsdaVs Bloomsbury, who started at 30 to 1,
to win £l2 000.


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &o.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest In
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, U a.m. Coffee in the Bar until II p.m
E. D, TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Mana^sr
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Boxing Day, 26th December.
AUCTION SALE, ON THE GROUND.
Will Sell by Public Auction, the remainder of that desirable
property, known as
ROSEBERRY PARK!
forming part of the Township of Riverstone.
{ST Terms—£l per acre deposit, balance extending over 2or 3 years. NO INTEREST.
GRAND BUILDING SITES ON MAIN ROAD !
SPLENDID GARDEN AND FARM BLOCKS I
THE LAND HAS BEEN GRACED, AND IS LIGHTLY TIMBERED I
I®* Special train at 850 a.m. Free Tickets. Luncheon provided.
Farmers. Gardeners, Storekeepers, Speculative Builders, and others, will find this a
grand opportunity to obtain large blooks of land at a nominal prioe. No Reserve.
PLANS, &c.,
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers, 90 Pitt-street.
3,4, and 5-Acre Blocks!
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY
Ol
a
%
fa,
•
'Hum
sa
J
COSJTS ivy 3 Faatm I*4l
MU wim '«2SLtHU>
COASTS But 5
F«\ •* «tij i* iB."
t»ch*otB to* •
FLOKI »T l 2 fowl }
sn, EGGS
fo*n
wtii
\ Mttfl AAr
AA£V*#r3 CUAIS\=
*f£AA4.r *Li P/iMAX
com*mo+r ro Aouir^r
f\££As for*lb f# ¥£ALTHr
CO/Vorr/O* t)
r/rs /motr Pmos/taoL£.
srot/y av thb. .
L
S£Ct/*lO BY tir7T*3 AArtffT
WILL MAKE YOTJR HENS LAY.
1
TURTEVANT,SJcPbpritior.I
auc cease ft re cm**.a aha** e? (
, 216 Stale Street
HARTFORD. CMJ.S.
Price-2oz. packets, 4s. «d. perdoz.; single pounds, *s.; 2V£lbs., 45.; 611 i. boxes, Bs.;
lOlb. boxes, 125.; 251 b. keys, 21s. 6d.
Liberal discount allowed to tbe trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
EUGfiNE KLOTZ & GO., 82 Bridge-st„ Sydney,
J. C. GENDERS & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
SOLE
AGENTS.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
1
S 3
ft
W.
INVALUABLE 'Xj
rriniNa O'/}
•u
t»» 0 !5
T°
jofl
L of 4
es
Ps
fit
s}erv
L U sh
jver
*ss
Ge
n c i
y.ral
r«
*PTiD FOR T
Colonies* 7
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERB,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COKLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs,
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES) OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Fac-simlles of Handwriting for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED PF
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
PR of"o /nyrcmng
y "a cut erxjra\?eb cip /^et
ci£ Ry jsßoto-ctpermcat nr\ea_ry.
9-C y rnountecj t/jsc Rigß ancL
car? §e /etl m yorny
aPucj printed j?rona any ordi-
nary yrinti'ncj prey * ajsrjaecLr—
cif)ce it \?ery
a tooob cut- anc| y infer? to
suyer/ede to a great* exter?tt
tftat <sPouo anc| 005 Tty nrtefft-ocd
oj? enq-raviruj . V/e oaip °f ) f er
cjreat 1 ncjucem.en.l/ to aft coßo
u/e cut/ Price
% f /> Carafoguer or
v!d\ferti/i ng j<*>ar|3<ye. our
it m.ate/ a.ncj ay
BP" RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
Tho Federal Art Union.
TO BE DISPOSED OF BY SUBSCRIPTION, ON
THE ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
£5OOO Worth of Pictures,
In 10,000 Shares of 10s. Each.
COMPRISING
LANDSCAPES, PORTRAITS,
AND OTHER PICTURES,
By the Best English and Colonial Artists.
The following Subscribers have kindly consented
to assist the Drawing Committee in the distribution
of the prizes
A. J. GOULD, Esq,. M.L A.; J. A. MACKINNON,
Esq., M.L.A.; F. J. GIBBES, Esq., M.L.A.;
R. M. VAUGHN, Esq., M.L.A.
THE drawing of the pr izes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected
by the subscribers, who will receive notice by
three advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily
Telegraph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon
as two-thirds of the subscribers have been ob-
tained. When the drawing day has once been
decided upon, there will be no further postpone-
ment.
Purchasers will be f ound for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in lull to the sub-
scribers.
WINNING NUMBERS WILL RE ADVERTISED
IN ALL LEADING PAPERS.
Amongst the pictures is a “ View on the Thames,”
by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50 years or more
in the house of the late Sir George Stephen, Knight,
Q.C„ Beputy-Lieutenant of the county of Buck-
ingham, from whose sole surviving executor it
has been purchased. Authenticity of this picture
guaranteed by certificate from the Hon. Sir Alfred
Btephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G., Lieutenant-Governor.
Send crossed cheques, P. 0.0., or stamps.
Apply to
J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
19 Hunter-street, or Box 606 G.P.0., Sydney.
Secure tiokets at once, so that the date for draw-
ing the prizes may be fixed upon.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCE 3 made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignment?.
VENETIA WALTZT.
Th* Air to 6# tcJ2 marked. OAROLim Oo^titlaW.
pp’&cantabill
M
! ad
w
nd
WILLIAM BULLARD baa the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c.
Printing.-Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAB CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instrument" ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygiapb, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
THE
I
u.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Bprings. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
83B'" Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co,,
Sole Agents,
G 74 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
4Jd. Fourpence halfpenny. 4M.
""will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 842 George*strict.


jjl ÜBWITPKI SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring- streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDB,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
, TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grunt variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedro.om suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
obuO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\j just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
_ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
riees, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
D
Prie-
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80a the pair.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM SIDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
DVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
[NG CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIIi-
Patented.
sfc
3 m
his chair adjusts itself to any position, from
bting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
ie occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
instruction; works automatically. The above
it represents only two of the numerous positions
tat can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
fort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
id gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
i anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
imp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired,
he frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
irable, and light, weighing only ten pounds cqm-
ete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
hen t< Jded. Prid 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
id LAM B (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
. 6d. extra. .
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
ve assortment in Chippendale, Early Engush,
ad other designs, whica can he upholstered in
ay materials to meet the taste and requirements
buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Valnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
lOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
>pen to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
AMB, Spring and O'Gonnell-streets.
BEDSTEADB, nickel-plated and blackandbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
• EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
- prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
bLL and Spring streets.
vv
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
PL ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
□T INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
jEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
FURNITURE.—A. very eompleU
Assortment ; best make, low est prices.
SOCIAL
A birthday ball was given to a number of
his friends on the 12th by Mr. E. D. Tollemache,
well known as the manager of the Comnagnoni
Coffee Palace Catering Company. About 150 were
present at the ball, which was held at West’s
Rooms, and Mr. Tollemache received his guests,
as well as the expression of their good wishes, a 3
they entered the door. Dancing began at 9, and
as the night was warm, the ample space available
was much appreciated. The programme was a
very chaste little affair in white, blue, and gold,
each one bearing a different device. Eight waltzes
were down, and eight other dances, added to
which were a few extras, and good music was
provided by the band in the corner. A few fond
couples could generally be seen in the conserva-
tory, who found their low voices music enough
for all immediate purposes. It was quite ex-
cusable, considering the heat; and it was rather
agreeable to watch the others. A married lady’s
pink dress was exceptionally handsome ; so was
a cream spotted net, nicely fitted and suiting its
fair wear Gr. Two sisters, one in white and one in
black, drew a good share of notice. A neat little
dancer was Miss Rainford, and a petite lady in
heliotrope moire was both pretty and piquant.
Mrs. Henden graced the floor in black. One
costume was most peculiar in style : the
fabrio was cream and blue Madras laee, but
the contour was of that primitive shape so much
in favour with the mathetic section a short while
ago. The hair of the young lady—who, by the
way, was both pretty and interesting—was quite
moppy, and must have been done that wav so as
to be in keeping with the rest of toilette. Yet,
Though her hair was rough, she was nice enough,
And most undeniably sweet;
And that cream and blue, though simple, it’s tiue,
Just suited that fair aesthete.
But as dresses to-dav shoot out suoh a way,
As worn by our gay
It is fair to observe that an absence of curve
Seemed to render her inccmplete.
Among the gentlemen present were Messrs.
Kahlo, J. Hardie, W. Targett, M.P., Mr. Inspector
Anderson, Mr. J. H. Rainford, Mr. G. Coleman of
the Gaiety Theatre, Mp Henden, the aeronaut, &c.
The supper tables were spread in a way seldom
equalled, every delicacy being supplied, and the
run on the strawberries and cream did credit to
the ladles' appetites. During the night, Mr. Fred.
Gannon mom ted a chair, and, in a short speech,
proposed their host's health, Mr. Tollemache re-
plying in a style even briefer still. The ball was a
very pleasant one, and the m<>re so because it was
not drawn out to a fatiguing length.
• • *
For many years it has been the custom to
have a Juvenile ball at Nithsdsle every December,
and the ball marking the close of the classes for
this year was held last week. Two hundred were
present. There is something essentially pretty in
the sight of ohlldren in fancy dross; in their un-
affected enjoyment they forget to be stiff as their
elders often are, and the quaintness of old-
fashioned attire, and the precocity of infant
noblemen, or the occasional glimpse of a little
bhildish, perhaps pardonable, pride, are all ele-
ments of interest to those whu stand aside and
'•eat* the harvest of a quiet eye. On Tuesday night
*7eek, then, the rooms, with a host of extra deco-
rations, flowers, and flashing lights, looked their
gayest afc the bail opened with a polonaise march.
Mrs. Bentley and Mr. Herman played the music,
and the evolutions aa all marched round gave a
chance to have a good view of the dresses. After-
wards, the usual programme proceeded, and both
rooms wore tilled with dancers, while from boudoir
and conservatory parents and friends looked on.
Very handsome looked Miss Zlotkowski as Stella in
‘‘Tambour Major,” and her short dross of white
with blue faoiugs was chastely pretty. Her sister
Miss Adrienne, took the character of Lurline.
The tiniest girl was little Olive Taylor, of Balmain,
os a Fairy: just one of those mites that you see
step out of a pie-melon in a pantomime, a fluffy
ball of tulle, sparkles and wings. Her sister,
Daisy, Was in pipk, aud Miss L) »lly quite a load-
stone for lovelorn youths in white satin. A Ger-
man Peasant was well personated by a visitor
from North Shore. A voung lady was nicely
quaint iu a cream Mother Hubbard skirt—ouly with
o tinge of that variety which since the days of Bve
has characterised one sex, she couldn’t make up
her mind to bo entirely plain and old-fashioned,
so she weut to the cupboard and got some bits of
cardinal whioh were artfully dotted around her
dear shoulders. Three small daughters of Mr. J.
H. Davies—Mabel, Lily, and Linda—looked deli-
cious in white dresses touched with colour and
veils which they wore when officiating re-
cently as bridesmaids. Nothing like an early
training in these important duties. A young
lady never knows what moment she may be
called to the altar. Rudolf Samuel was the
Earl of Shrewsbury in pink and blonde wig; he
was particularly early at the supper table. Gertie
Hordern was a bright Ued Riding Hood of more
than hordernarv attractions; Cissie Harris was a
tiny brunette, who came as Christmas in England,
dressed in snowflakes and tinselled ice, among
which nestled small red birds. From Wooilahra
came the neatest young Sailor, all in white; and
from Petersham a Captain of the Line. Lily V alen-
tine was very pretty in white, and pink ribbons—a
valentiue some young man will be awfully glad to
get some day. A conspicuous character was the
Soroeres3, in black, ruby, and gold, taken by Miss
Braun; as the young lady is a jeweller’s daughter,
of course she was a gem, and a good deal watched.
Miss Lily Davies was good as Gertrude in the Loan
of a Lover”—Lily ought to have no difficulty in
negotiating a loan of that kind. Richard Zlot-
kowski wore a curious costume of red, edged with
white fur, and a hat with an eruption of red
cords from its peak, which had a peakuliar
look; he took the character of Drummer to
the Pope’s Swiss Guard; while the Captain
of the Guard was Alf. Zlotkowski—not ’alf bad,
either. Master Harris was a Spanish Nobleman iu
blue and black. Miss Unwin proved a chubby
Patience, and with great discretion didn’t cover
up her arms. No less than four Miss Ryans came
from Wooilahra, and all charming girls. What a
fortune for a father! Mabel in white and cardinal,
Laeta in orange pink, Blanche in blue, and Char-
lotte in white; it almost takes one’s breath away.
Amy Brown as Nancy Lee was as cheery and naive
as a nice girl could want to be at her maiden ball.
A city surveyor's young man was a Middy. Charm-
ing looked Miss Spencer in cream figured net with
little sprigs of black chenille round the shoulders,
the toilet as nice as the wearer; little sister was in
white. Three Misses Swan of Ashfleld wore white,
and two Misses Robinson of the city looked be-
witching in blue satin bodies with silver loaves,
long blue silk gloves and cream veiling skirts.
Miss Eva Thompson danoes as nicely as she
plays, and it’s hard to think of anything nioer
than that ; and her sisters wore pink. Miss
Florrie Clarke was a Spanish dancer ; Miss
Gallagher wore a lovely pale nink silk and
net • Miss M. Bentley black, and Miss Joe white ;
Miss Arline Wood a dainty white, and Miss Sarah
Forsyth, of Manilla House, white, and crimson
ribbons. From Urquhart House were two excel-
lent fancy characters, Jessie Forsyth as Miss
Hardeastle in “ She Stoops to Conquer.” and May
Forsyth as Red Riding Hood. Miss Grace
Buchanan appeared as a Tyrolese Peasant, and
her sister Miss Jet sis, though far too modest for
a real Pirate Lass, was Dretty enough to make an
exquisite imitation. Indeed, some thought her
the prettiest character in the room. Miss Bertie
Emmett looked elf active in cream with blue trim-
ming's ; Miss Ltrcomhe in a somewhat similar
toilet; Miss Adelaide Gough, from Boncra, was a
gentle blonde, who cheerfully wore a garnet
satin polonaise and blue skirt ; and Miss Altona
Bohrsmann was a kind of rob you-of-your-sleep
brunette in pink satin and tarietan. made in good
style—that is, with a dua prominence given to the
proper part. Supper was a constant source of
attraction to the young folks, and during the
evening Mr. Needs and Mrs. Baird produced a
cargo of toys, which were distributed to the juve-
niles’ great delight. About midnight ended one
of the best children’s balls yet seen at Nithsdale.
• * •
Eight enterprising young ladies gave a
party in Mrs. Martin's academy on Thursday last,
and. despite the warmth, dancing was heartily
carried] on all night. Music was provided by two
sons of sunny Italy, and a sybaritic supper was
spread by the fair ladies themselves, iu really ex-
cellent style. Misses Kenyon and Bowdler did
everything to make the evening pleasant for their
guests, receiving them on entrance, and distribut-
ing programmes prepared by their own artistic
hands. Just a convenient number was present,
and the floor not crowded, a little vocalisation also
giviDg the danoers a chance to get their cheeks
cool. It’s hard to say whether the big girls or the
little ones have most advantage these warm
evenings. The very juvenile fairy can always
wear her dross very short at the bottom,
whereas the big girl must have it decorously
touching her shoes, but can, on the other hand,
have it cut short on top. And the shorter it is. of
c mrse, the better a big girl can cope with a heated
atmosphere, and convey to the male mind a cor-
rect idea of her actual value. This party gave a
treat in the way of some pretty toilets. Four
Misses Kenyon were pleasant; one in blue, all
decked with strings of snowdrops, Miss Charlotte
in lavender and fawn; and two juveniles in blue.
Four Misses Bowdler also diversified the scene
with toilets which dazzled like the stars of the
firmament and differed from one another in glory:
one was shaded blue satin, Miss Amy in cream
and ruby sash, and Misses Ada and Florrie in
bodices of shaded crimson satin, and white muslin
skirts with the flounces crimson-edged, and look-
ing very nice. A Darlinghurst favourite danced
well in white; two Oxford-street sisters were
named after an English king, one wearing
satin and veiling of French white, and Miss Mona
a white-flounced (linen and a belt that seemed in
the brief intervals when it w isn’t covered with a
ooat sleeve to be heliotrope. A Waverley girl was
alluring all in white, and her cousin sweet and
sylph-jike in white veiling and gold ribbons.
From Watson’s Bay a young lady looked neat and
quiet in black broehe garlanded with white
flowers; and from Paddington came two gentle
girls whose dainty pink veilings didn’t disguise a
charming marble whiteness kindly given by
nature. A trio of sisters appeared from Glenmore
Road in light attire. A saucy-looklng vision in
floating tulle, as white and light as an eddy of
snow, was daughter of a captain in Victoria-street,
with a shell necklace, and a satin-belt, and a pair
of eyes that—if anything happens to the gas-lamps
—will do to light up the whole street. The floor
was in good order, and, except that one dear little
damsel sat down with a suddenness that made her
face as pink as her dress, all went well.
* * *
The Industrial Exhibition is most inter-
esting. A little shoppy, of course, but still there
are things there not seen in the shops every day.
Singing of an evening, too, wtiich scarcely any-
body can hear amid the shuffling and buzz of the
crowd. Some arrasene work, wnich looked to our
uneducated eye like crewel work done on plush,
was pretty and useful; it serves as hangings for
shelves, or mantels, screens, music cases, toilet
bags, and it seems to afford a better opening for
young ladies than some of the things they worry
at. There are beautiful cooking-stoves, too,
which might, with advantage, be studied by some
of the fair creatures who persecute the passive
piano. Hordern sends a model of a full-dressed
lady, and some young ladies who were not models
were putting her into shape, which was rather
interesting. In the refreshment Jine, the teetotal-
lers seem to have triumphed, and the masher
youth who spend their substance in riotous liviDg,
had to remain steadfastly virtuous on raspberry
syrup and other products of the crystal fountain.
Pyroteobnics have a grand show, crowns of can-
dles, pillars of Are, national devices and mottoes,
Catherine wheels, rockets, and all kinds of explo-
sives suoh as Nihilists love, were all erected in one
grand paraphernalia that only wanted a match to
set it off. We d have given anything for a match.
There are lols of photos and models, lolly stalls,
and the inevitable man with the turning lathe and
the sinuous saw. There are splendid stuffed birds
in sublime colours, also skins of snakes which wex-e
caught and skinned by the exhibitor. He’ll meet
one snake too many some day. The paint stall is
one of the largest and most important. We stood
looking at the piles of tins for several hours before
discovering that they were not preserved meat.
Brasswork, woodwork, glasswork, shells, needle-
work, pneumatic bells, fossils, models, inlaid work,
electroware, brushware, some charming matting,
and a model of an invention that gently removes
suicides and other obstacles from tne tramline are
among the items. Some floral designs of dull
brown, formed entirely with skeleton leaves, are
really as pretty as anything. As we hazarded last
week, the exhibition is a pleasant lounge, with im-
proving tendencies; it is well lighted, and easy of
access. But there is a good refreshment stall
wanted, and where, oh I where are Quong Tart and
hia tea ?
• • *
Melbourne Town Hull has been fashioned
into a huge snow cave, with smaller caverns bur-
rowed out of the seeming snow on each side; there
are icebergs, stalactites, crystals, apd falling waters
—in fact, Melbourne has hit upon a real novelty.
The thing is wonderfully got up, and the young
women who dwell in the caves and prey upon the
young men who venture in, are the pick of Vic-
torian beauty. The most curious thing is that,
instead of being dressed as Esquimaux, or some-
thing in that line, whioh would be suitable, the
cave girls are ail attired in Sbakesperian guise.
This idea, per Be, would be a pretty and effective
one; but in a polar cave, though lovely, they are
incongruous. After a procession of over 200 had
walked round, Mr. T. Lempriere dressed as Shakes-
peare, road tne opening address, a number of
fashionables being present. Mr. T. C. Russell is
managing the snow show, which is being run in
aid of a Balaclava church.
* * *
Miss Ethel Allen’s marriage was a very
important affair, and at least 300 of the Hite of
Sydney thronged the Toxteth chapel by invitation,
to see the ceremony. The building was adorned
most apnropriately with ferns and flowers, the
latter all white, such as camellias, dahlias, car-
nations, and lilies, and the fair bride with her
sky-llke eyes who enterod on the arm of her
father, Sir George Wigrain Allen (late Speaker of
the Assembly), looked enchanting and gentle in
her beautilul Parisian dress, which was white
satin with an immense train and trimmed with
white feathers. A brilliant-hued carpet was laid
the whole distance on the green sward from
house to church, aud along it the guests marched.
Lady Alien, the bride's mother, wore a rich black
moire antique, with lace shoulder shawl; and Lady
Allen, senior, on Sir Alfred Stephen’s arm, wore a
black velvet robe and bonnet to correspond.
Miss Minnie Allen was attired in a handsome brown
silk and velvet dress, hat to match, and the num-
ber of stylish dresses among the spectators was
legion—some, however, being merely plain. The
company was so large that contrast was rather
an advantage. The choir sang as the bride
(who used to play the organ in the church)
entered, followed by her six bridesmaids,
all of whom were dressed In cream lace,
with Swiss belts of satin, aud wore cream
lace hats decked with cream feathers and cloth of
gold roses. Two of them were sisters, Misses Ida
and Mabel Allen; and two little ones were nieces,
Misses Dodo and Caroline Allen, from the Lodge.
The Rev. Mr. Law, chaplain of the Nelson, offici-
ated, in full vestments, and among the spectators
wore a great crowd of Nelson men, in naval uni-
form, who determined not to desert the gallant
lieutenant at such a critical moment. Out of
compliment to the bridegroom’s position on H.M.S.
of war, the bridesmaids all tied their bouquets of
flowers with dark ribbons bearing the word
“Nelson.” Otf leaving church, all were photo-
graphed, and when, shortly after, the bride and
bridegroom left for the train, they were so fiercely
bombarded with rice that it was almost like a
Chinese war, and the carriage en route drew a
good deal of notice from the fact that two small
satin slippers being prominently displayed on its
back. The bride’s travelling dress was of violet
silk, with bonnet en suite. The bridegroom is
Lieutenant Everard E. Maxwell.
• • *
Riverview, the residenoe of Mr. J. C. W.
Hinsch, at Glenfleld, was the scene of a great jolli-
fication on Wednesday last week, when Miss Emily
Hinsch was married to Mr. J. G- Hunt. The
morning train from Sydney brought the relations
and intimate friends of the happy pair, as well as
that big gun—Canon Moreton. Shortly after ar-
rival the Canon discharged his duty by transform-
ing Miss Hinsch into Mrs. Hunt. About 40 sat
down to the breakfast, which was laid out in splen-
did style in a pavilion on the banks of George’s
River. Usual toasts were drunk, and, being a hot
day, this was a pleasant and cooling proceeding
with the aid of plentiful ice. A good deal of cool-
ing is required on such occasions. Amidst a shower
of rice and old slippers, the happy twain departed
for Moss Vale by the afternoon train, and the com-
pany, which had been augmented by more arrivals
from Sydney, settled down to solid amusement.
At dark, the grounds were illuminated with
Chinese lanterns, and, later on, with a grand
pyrotechnical display. Dancing and singing were
varied with refreshing and sentiment, and some of
the party danced all night so as to be up early in the
morning. The bridal dress was of cream satin
broche and nun’s veiling, and was one of those
intricate compositions which a man can admire a 3
ineffably tasteful, but would grow grey and care-
worn if he rashly attempted to describe. The two
sisters of the bride, who acted as bridesmaids,
wore white costumes, with Burgundy silk trim-
ming and silver flowers. The mother of the bride
was attired in black grosgrain and silk broche.
Mrs. F. A. Hall, sister of the bride, was dressed in
rich black corded silk, trimmed with Spanish lace,
the jabot of lavender satin and cream lace looking
extremely tasteful; Misses Florrie and Lillie Hunt
were charmingly costumed in black, and the wife
of the City Surveyor was similarly attired, whilst
her two attractive daughters wore pure white. A
young lady from Balmain looked refulgent in
silver grey; and a cream and cardinal costume
was gracefully worn by a sedate young lady.
Some of the party returned by the 8 train to Syd-
ney, but the majority waited for the midday,
which brought to a close about 36 hours’ con-
tinuous festivity.
• • •
A little variety was given to the usual
breaking-up party for the Christmas holidays at
Kingsley College, Burwood, last Friday night. For
the last three months the pupils have worked like
little soldiers for the purpose of getting up a sort
of Fanoy Fair in aid of Mrs. Jefferis’ “ Home for
Destitute Children; ” so dolls, handsomely dressed,
children’s frooks and pinafores in endless varieties,
pin-cushions, smoking-caps, and numerous other
useful articles, all worked by these nimble little
fingers, were arranged on several stalls in the
large school-room, and the little maidens in their
white muslin caps and aprons, found no dearth of
purchasers for their clever work. During the
evening, several of the pupils recited, and Miss
Eva Thompson contributed two or three vocal
and instrumental solos. Mr. and the Misses Ross
expect to have quite a comfortable contribution
to hand over to the “Home” on their own and
their pupil’s behalf.
* * *
Instead of the usual dinner, the Engineer-
ing Association held its celebration this year in
the form of a picnic at Correy’s, Cabarita Point.
Two or three stoamersful went down, and the
Balmain Coldstreams played for tbe danoing.
Oysters were the first thing, and coffee and ices
the last, and between the two was the luncheon,
whereat Mr. Henry Davies, president, took the
chair. During the speeches, Mr. Dibbs, alluding
to the presence of ladies, said that, taking an en-
gineer's view, there was not a finer piece of
mechanism in the world than a handsome and
well-proportioned woman. As Mr. Dibbs has both
a hobby for engineering and a considerable num-
ber of “pieces of mechanism,” he is qualified to
speak. A number of healths were proposed and
dances executed, and all came home at dusk. The
picnic idea was quite a success, and members
wonder they never had ladios before. The man
who imagines that ladies don’t understand en-
gineering has landed himself in the mazes of il-
limitable error.
* • • /
Last Saturday afternoon, the Eastern Sub-
urbs Amateur Athletic Club picnic was held at
Tennyson. They had a splendid attendance, nearly
150 tickets being taken up, and the picnic was as
private as it was pleasant. Most of the active
young men whose names are household words in
athletic circles, were present, and so were their
sisters, and a number of other nice girls who stand
in various relations to the said young men. About
2.30 p.m., the Invincible steamer left the Quay, and
the fine music of a section of the City Band was
greatly admired as she steamed down the harbour.
On arrival, dancing at once began; but, although
the young ladies were dressed in the most summery
style, the heat was very oppressive for a while
A race, 125 yards’ handicap, was run in one interval,
the racers being nominated by ladies, and Mr. E.
Lupton won the prize. It was a pretty gold bracelet,
and at the tea-table it was duly presented, and
Mr. Lupton had the pleasure of affixing it with
gentle impressment on the arm of his fair nomi-
nator, Miss Hayes of Cockatoo. Later in the after-
noon the weather cooled, and dancing was really a
pleasure with such good partners and lots of room.
Strolling, football, swinging, etc., all divided atten-
tion, and the programmes were the neatest little
cards possible. Mr. H. B. Hughes was hon. sec.,
assisted by other members of the club, and the
steam home in the cool was very comfortable.
Indeed, in some cases,, that short sea voyage might
be termed ecstatic.
• • •
Being a complimentary performan je, the
Lotus Club had a large audienoe of over 700 in the
New Masonic Hall oh Friday. The first playthey
attacked was a comedietta called “ Uncle s Will,
Mr D. Clyne and a lady amateur being the best
characters. Then followed Byron’s comedy of
“Uncle” in three acts. Mr. J. R. Allens
make-up as Uncle was good, and his manoeu-
vres with Sarah Jane indicated much natu-
ral aptitude for such parts. Mr. L Qwist took
Paul Beaumont’s part, but heaven knows whose
voice he took. Mr. J. T. Eldridge was Peter
Fletcher, and Mr. T. Williams acted Puffin. The
characters of Mrs. Beaumont, Barah Jane, and
Emily Montrose were done by lady amateurs. All
through thero was plenty of applause. A per-
formance has to be fearfully bad when a compli-
mentary audience won’t applaud.
• • •
Glebe Town Hall was again gay on Friday
night with a social, which was given by a number
of gentlemen to their fair friends. Evening dress
was the rule, the one exception being Miss King,
who wore a fancy toilet. But then a “ king can
do no wrong.” Some good dancing was enjoyed
un till 4 o’olock, when all made for home
well-satisfied and rather fatigued. Miss M’Na-
mara looked admirably well in cream veiling
and lace, and Miss Morgan’s darkness was suited
with black broche and cream lace. Miss Orchard
was a fair girl in black velvet, Miss Cripps wore
black with a plaid sash, and Miss Crawshaw a
pretty pink llama. Miss Jackson was a slim and
sentimental maiden in blaek, trimmed with forget-
me-nots. Two Miss Batons in cream muslin, with
blue and cardinal respectively, were attractive.
r rhe polonaise schottische was a pleasing innova-
tion on the usual list.
** * *
The Fairlight Garden Party was a frost.
. .Miss Jennie, daughter of Mr. George Cunning-
ham. M.L.A. of Victoria, was married on the 10th
to Mr. James Wilson, son of the well-known racing
(For continuation of Sociai* soa next page.*


is
a
V
*
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest JBelle,— It invariably occurs to me
whenever I oome across one of those splendid
American magazines for children, St. Nicholas,
that the little folks of to-day are having better
times than fell to our lot. How we should have
gloated over the charming pictures and natural
stories 1 For, in our times, the heroes and heroines
were dishearteningly good, whilst the bad boys and
girls wore fearfully wicked. Ordinary children
like ourselves, who were neither supremely good
nor, I hope, down right wioked, had no place in
these books; in fact, we were entirely ignored.
But we recognise ourselves in the St. Nicholas
stories, and read that it is possible for children
to quarrel and light, and make it up again, with'
out being considered past redemption. We could
have loved these St. Nicholas children, for the
Bimple reason that they were as one of us, and we
could have sympathised with them in all their
8 orapcs, and rejoiced over their good times ; but
those unnatural little prigs in our story books,
whose perfect conduct we were urged to imitate,
were dreadful bugbears to us, weren’t they ? And
I see thatat home Lady Egerton has been superin-
tending a doll show. F$mcy 1 a doll show! Why,
we had to be content with either those perfectly
hideous painted wood affairs, or perishable wax
ones with impossible flaxen ringlets ; whilst now
the variety is so great that a doll show is justifi-
able, and never in my life did I so much long for
children’s days to come over again as when I read
about this show. Oh I yes, they certainly have
better times than we had ; but the worst of it is
they don’t know it, and take everything as a matter
of course.
*• oh, dearl this heatl I am sure it must be about
150’ in the shade. Fain would I lay aside my pen
and endeavour to be deaf to the voice which is
for ever calling out, “ What news ? what news?”
But, no; I will try and forget that, in a cool, shady
nook at the bottom of the garden there is a tiny
fountain playing and a “ triumph ” chair spread
out invitingly, on whioh are lying all the latest
periodicals ; besides, I fancy I hear from a distant
part of the house the swish, swish, of the ice-
cream machine, and I am almost sure they are
making some delicious fruit ices for a surprise for
me. Although they won’t be a surprise, they will
be very acceptable, and I will do my very best to
feign astonishment when they bring some in to
me. With these good things in view, then, I will
brace myself up to tell you all the news I can.
I think everybody was out of sorts on the Sydney
Liedertafel night, for we found fault with the
music, heat, and even the dresses. It may be we
are becoming hypercritical concerning these con-
certs. I don’t know, but certainly, I, for my part,
could not work up any enthusiasm about any-
thing. I think I may except Chopins funeral
march, which was arranged for voices and instru-
ments by Herr Vogrich-yes, I certainly do ex-
cept that, for it was truly beautiful, Madame
Vogrich singing the solo part charmingly. The
giand. sad music drew from us a series of Byronio
sighs, whioh relieved our feelings a good
deal and made us feel ever so much better.
I had been feeling very bad during the per-
formance of Hummel s Septuor, for the flute
was so distressingly sharp that it spoilt the rest.
The player tried to remedy it before commencing
the second part, but wasn’t quite successful. It
was a pity to spoil the whole thing just through
careless tuning. The piano part of thjs selection
was very brilliant. The ‘ William Tell overture,
which made such a good impression at a former
concert, was, to my astonishment, very coolly re-
ceived. It is true, the clarionet was substituted
for the oboe, but then the flute in this case was
very good indeed, though still just a trifle sharp.
The violins, too, were capital, yet it did not seem
to satisfy so fully as the lormer rendition. But I
am not goiog to say another word about the
music, excepting to remark that the cuoruses
wore fairly sung, and the conductor looked dread-
fully tired when it was all over—he seems to me to
exert himself too much. I have heard people say
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully deoorated with
flag and floral deoorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Bydney.*
Messrs. Thorpe and Cross, manufacturers
of “ Mirror Blacking,” at thelßurdett Works, Parra-
matta Wiver, have put Day and Martin’s (of black-
ing fame) noses out of joint, by placing before the
public a blacktng which equals, even if it does not
surpass that of this world-renowned firm, and at
less than half the price. We can vouch for its ex-
cellence, as since using it we have been able to
entirely dispense with looking-glasses. It is only
necessary to put our feet up against the wall, and
there we have a mirror as true as it is cheap.
Being a new industry, this Arm should be encou-
raged, especially as it would be a saving to patronise
them.*
Christmas brings many happy reminis-
cences, but when at that season we receive kindly
reminders of those who think affectionately of us,
the season itself is doubly endearing. A grand
exhibition of Christmas and New Year cards—
perhaps the best in the city—is to bo seen at Mr.
Morison’s, 85, King-street, Sydney. There are
plaques, with embossed flowers and mottoes,
mechanical cards showing flowers in full bloom
in forget-me-nots, roses, &c. There are photo-
graphs in every conceivable design, prominent
among them being hands clasped. ladies and
gent.’s hands offering bouquets of flowers, &c. ;
and for cheap cards there are beautiful cards at
from 6d. per dozen. Taking the exhibition alto-
gether, It is a most superb one ; and those wishing
to see as good a selection, as it is well nigh possible
to see, should not fail to call and view for them-
selves such works of art—which are offered to the
public at ridiculously low prices. Morison’s, 85,
King-street, Bydney, near George-street. Look
for the red flag.*
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydaey, 11th December, 1884.
TENDERS FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO SITE.
TENDERS ore invited for improvements to the
Pubiio School site, at Gleumoro Road.
eians and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Improvements
to site, Glenmore Road Pubiio School,” must b
lodged with the Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a m., on
Wednesday the 34th December, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
ATHURSTST
HAVE YOUR OLD
O* ®
REPLATED BYR.HELYE
iju
fUEY WILL WEARBEPTER THAN NEW
Department of Publio Instruction,
Sydney, 12th December, 1881,
, TENDERS FOR CLASSROOM.
TENDERS are invited for ereotion of a Class-
room at the St. Leonards North Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Classroom. St.
Leonards North Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Mon-
day, the 2f)th December, 1881.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRTCKBTT.
.NiNAf A
I
•A
fiX
* it
entiji
<Jus> opened by
LANG,BROS
<54- & s(a> Wi LU^tM
PLENDID REFRESHMENT IRoOM FORJ LaDIES&(
Tfje PaslTy“. Tea. Cream JRefreshmenfs IjljiJ:
are unequallled,
-A A‘-A -A-Va ~ a.
The Cafe & Refreshmenf daily from SAM taII.3QP.M
On SunP II P.M.
Orders
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
H!U
Y
AT
IEs
r V ’■
V2
ff
If.
i'll
Mi
39
°tH
JW
y '-Hr ‘i
ACC NTS FOR
BAKER
BUY P
LATE*
castor i
for Infants and Children
Castoria euros Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhcoa, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children thni
I recommend it ns superior to any prescription
known to me.” 11. A. Archer, M. D., ,
111 Oxford Street, Hew York. 1
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
The most
Suitable
11 1
For a Lady
or Gentleman
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies' ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle made.
or
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADULTS
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Iticijcle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been offered in Australia.
OUR BOYS’ BICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Range from £5 5s • for Juvenile sizes
io 30 guineas for our highest styles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Range from Q guineas for Hogs' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
We send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in the Colony. Write for it.
James MARTIIT i C OMPY -
Opposite Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
man of St. Alban’s. The affair was quiet, the
maids being four—two sisters each of the bride and
groom. ..Members of the Law Institute had a
dinner in Melbourne.... Master butchers going to
give a banquet to the Mayor elect, Mr. T Playfair...
Lady Loch made another little speech at the open-
ing of a convalescent hospital cottage, Brighton.
An elder sister of the recent blue-eyea bride
goes to the altar soon The Sao Minstrels gave a
pionic on Saturday afternoon to a number of
friends. The company was all young, and beautv
by no means scarce. Tho Meteor left about 2.30,
conveying the picnickers up Middle Harbour, re-
turning early, so that the evening could be finished
by a dance in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Woollabra
Mr. Buchanan, of Auburn, gives a ball this Friday
night — Albert Park Road, Melbourne, has been
duly consecrated to the fashionable world for a
carriage drive. It was formally Inaugurated by an
assemblage last week with musioal eclat... Fine
new Protestant Hall just completed in the Illa-
warra Road, Marrickville. ..Surplus of £4O from
the Mayor's return ball, which will be dedicated
for a souvenir of the event to Mrs. Hardie. Quite
right Two reoent Melbourne marriages are
noteworthy, because each bold bridegroom is so
well knowD, each bride is a “ Minnie ” and an
heiress, and each naughty happy pair eloped. Mr.
Murdoch has certainly married a lady with a rich
papa; but on dit that Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield has
fallen into more ready cash, with Miss O'Gorman,
who inherits much by her father’s will. She is the
only daughter of Mrs. O’Gorman, of Carlton An
Auckland father has married three daughters on
separate occasions within twelve months
Messrs. Needs’ annual ball will take place on Fri-
day night, and is sure to be well attended. Even-
ing dress only will be worn, and there is no
pleasanter reunion anywhere than that of the
pupils in Nithsdale rooms as each Christmas draws
near.
SOCIAL FIXTURBB.
Mrs. Martin’s Juvenile Ball December 18.
Messrs. Needs’ Pupils’ Ball Deoember 19.
Cumberland Band Ball (Parramatta)..December 19.
Banquet to Ministry (Town Hall) Deoember 23.
Irish Fancy Fair opens (St. Bene-
dict’s) December 27,
Commercial Travellers’ Dinner (Town
Hall) Deoember 30.
Highland Society’s Sports January 1.
it is a good fault, though it makes me feel awfully
fatigued to watch him oonduct; but then, not
everybody’s nature is as sympathetic as mine.
And now you will want to know what fault I
had to find with the dresses. Well, it seemed to
me as if some had dressed so hurriedly that they
had not given themselves time to see whether
their [colours harmonised. For instance, I saw a
crimson satin bodice over a lace skirt, below tho
hem of which a deep pink satin frill asserted itself.
Now, without the frill it was right enough, but
why, oh 1 why was that frill there ? And, again, a
pink jacket over a deep heliotrope skirt
was not at all nice. Quite a relief to t*e eye,
however, was a lovely pink silk, cut very
low, showing pretty shoulders and nice arms,
but I felt sorry for the train, for I knew it would
not escape damage. Madame Vogrich wore white,
with long Spanish lace jabot and natural flowers.
The soft whites and creams looked best, but a
flowered French muslin was sweetly pretty also.
And I liked a cream oashmere with faint dashes of
pale lavender satin ribbon here and there. But
where is the use of singling out any when, per-
haps, the very best weie lost upon us in the crowd ?
I dislike mittens very much, but if the weather
continues to be as hot as this, I shall be glad
enough to wear them in lieu of gloves. I noticed
many wore them upon this occasion, and in doing
so they showed more sense than the rest of us,
who preferred torture with elegance to comfort
without it.
I promised myself tho pleasure of going to the
Amateur Athletic Club’s pionic on Saturday, but,
somehow, we found ourselves on board the Fair-
light bound for the Garden Party at Fairlight,
Manly. I don’t know when I spent a more unin-
teresting afternoon, for, besides the weather being
most oppressive, the Garden Party was such a
dismal failure, that it was most depressing. It was
very kind of Mr. Fltz-Stubbs to lend his grounds
for the occasion, and I cannot imagine why the
affair was so unsuccessful. We looked in vain for
the sports tennis tournament, lady’s cricket
match, and so forth; but, certainly, there was an
Aunt Sally. I suppose there were about a hundred
people there in all, who did little else but stand in
groups and deplore the failure of their scheme to
add to the church fund. I was glad to see Mrs.
Fitz-Stubbs sufficiently recovered from her recent
dangerous illness to be able to saunter about
the grounds; and her fair daughters, both mar-
ried and single, beautifully dressed, did their
very best to make things a little lively. But
it was a sorry task, and no one seemed to meet
them half-way. we were not quite broken-
hearted when it was time to skip over the ditches
and bend our steps homewards, and I must say I
was never at a funnier Garden Party in my life. I
have come to this conclusion, viz., that there is no
money to bo made, either for church funds or for
broken-down musical societies by either Garden
Parties or matinees. I would suggest either a
baby show or an amateur circus.
There was more enthusiasm shown at the seventh
Vogrich Soiree than at the previous one, and I
think the audience was a trifle larger. But it can-
not be denied that these concerts are inclined to
be monotonous—the same players, the same singer,
and the same style of music. No doubt it hurts a
man’s pride to play down to the public taste, but
he must do it sometimes or the public won’t be
played to at all. It will rebel, and give music up
as a bad job. I think if Herr Vogrich were to
coax his audiences by giving them a little trash
occasionally, it would be well; and he could do it
without losing any of his dignity, for we should
know his object was to please others at consider-
able self-sacrifice. But, no doubt, he knows his
own business best. Madame Vogrich was in her
very best voice, and rooeived several bouquets. I
suppose when these Soirees are over we shall have
a musical famine, for I have heard of nothing to
take their place as yet.
I was bo glad to bear Verdi isn’t dead, weren’t
you ? For although I never admired his singing
very much, as he always adopted that objec-
tionable vibration which, I am sorry to hear, is
quite common now amongst singers at home, still
he looked so nice that we forgave him the tremolo,
and tried to ma ke ourselves believe that he couldn’t
sing out of tune if he tried ever so; and I always
forget to tell you how very popular that tiniest of
prima donnas, Miss Gracie Plaisted, is becoming.
Her acting is very piquant and graceful, and she
and Mr. Harding have a good deal to answer for in
the success of “ Bobadil,” which is still running,
and is likely to do so for some time.
And now I think I have fairly earned my ioes,
don’t you ?
Ever your loving
MAB.
P.S.—To err is human. lam human, and I have
erred in thinking I heard the icecream-machine at
work. It was the new washing-machine they
were trying in the laundry but it sounded from
the distance exactly like the ice-cream machine—
or, at all events, I imagined it did. When I dis-
covered my mistake, my heart was too full for
words, so, with a suppressed sigh, I turned away
and went to my book, tint, lo! another disap-
pointment. There I llnd lazy Ned fast aslei'p in
my chair, and I knew quite well if I wakenod him
he would have been as cross as a bear and very
likely have refused to take me to “Carmen,”
which would just have been the climax of my
woes to-day. Ho I left him alone in his glory, and
soothed my troubled breast by trying on for about
the twentieth time two lovely new hats my god-
mother sent me last week, And it was to tell you
about them that I added this P.S. One is of pure
white lace, “La Coquille ” shape, which has a
sharp upward peak in front and fits close over the
ears. One beautiful bunch of red currants orna-
ments the side. The other is the “Mother Hub-
bard” shape, with a very, very high peaked
crown, lined with black velvet, and the sole trim-
ming a beautifully coloured silk kerchief. I iike
these kerchief trimmings; they are so simple and
yet so graceful when properly arranged. Now, if
I don’t nurry and send this off to the post it will be
too late, and you will never, never know all I have
suffered this afternoon for your dear sake.
M.


Cleanse the Vitiated Blood
Whenever you And its impurities bursting through
the skm in disfiguring blotches, torturing humors,
boils, *nd sores; cleanse it when you are feverish,
bowels constipated, urine high colored and scanty,
because it is in an inflamed and fermentive state.
Cleanse it when languor, debility, sleeplessness,
and a tired worn-out feeling pervade the system.
Cleanse it when you lack your accustomed vigor.
Keep the blood pure, and health will abide with
you. To accomplish this great work none of the
ordinary sarsaparilla blood purifiers can possibly
equal the Cutiouba Resolvent, the great blood
purifier, diuretic, and aperient.
Political
Points
The South Australian Supreme Court has
upset an election because a candidate had posters
Btuck on his omnibus.
The South Australian Treasurer is busy
with the Distillation Act. And all through Aus-
tralia quite a number of people are busy with the
results of distillation.
P Mr. Whereat has been elected speaker of
the Tenterfleld Debating Society. And Sir Henry
Parkes . Oh, well, now he has a chance as a
private citizen of taking part in discussing the
welfare of the country.
It was Lord Byron who said “ I have now
simplified my politics and am opposed to all exist-
ing forms of government.” When next the Alli-
ance are discussing a suitable platform for Domain
orations, let them adopt Lord Byron’s, pure and
simple.
Last week twenty-three notioes “ to abate
nuisances” were served upon residents of Paradise.
Let us hasten to explain that this particular Para-
dise is in South Australia. When Abigail dies and
gets a trumpet there will be complaints in another
Paradise,
Our drummer starts for a little private
practioe.
Exhausted by the march he leaves his
instrument for a refresher in cooling
streams.
“ What ting am dis, I wond’r ? ”
Deeper inquiries.
“ Yah, yah! Berry good place for
sleepy.”
Right-hand practice. Echo: “Oh,
golly! dat’s thunder!”
“Yah! Who’s dat knockin’? Kumin!”
Left-hand praotice. Tableau!
The Tragedy off a Drum,
(FROM [?]OUAKIM.)
The Supreme Court decision in Mr. Tay-
lor’s case has given great satisfaction—to his con-
stituents. It was felt to be a curtailment of the
liberty of the subject, that a man who could damn
his own or another's eyes with impunity could
not '* damn the chair.”
The New Zealand Hansard is now issued
to subscribers in any part of the country, post
free at 2d. a number. As a result its circulation
has risen from 100 to 1400. Whether this is a cause
for joy or grief is a question. There are as yet no
records of fatal results having attended its
perusal.
That was a curious “special telegram”
published in the Echo, but suppressed in the
Herald, about Sir Julius Vogei and some great
Telephone Company in England. Was it true or
false? If the first, it should |not have been sup-
pressed. If the second, it should not have been
published.
The Rum reporters should not be entrusted
with political work. The change to champagne
from the meaner drink is too much for them.
Thus one of them, who went with Mr. Abbott to
Bourke, saw “ white sandy ” soil, where, in reality,
it is nothing but black soil after the red land has
been passed. By this time he has seen snakes.
They are telling a story about Harry
Levien, M.P., which was once told about the Due
de Morny. Lately, the member for Tamworth has
been thinking that his style of dress, especially his
hat. was of too giddy a kind for a member of Par-
liament, So he consulted his hatter. “ Make your
mind easy, Mr. Levien,” said the hatter. “ We can
make you one of a serious shape, but with a little
gaiety in the brim.”
A Queensland M P„ Mr. Midgley, would
have no higher salary paid by the State to anyone,
not even to the Govern >r, than £3OO a year. This
is outting it a little too flue. There are certainly
Governors (in Barataria, let us say) who are dear
at £5O a year, and Dr. Ross in office would be dear
at £2OO. But, then, look at Burdett Smith. Why,
£l5 000 a year would be cheap to get him for. His
hair alone would be worth the money.
A proposal has been made to the New
South Wales Government to adopt Dean Swift’s
suggestion and to establish a “ Bank of Swearing”
before next session of Parliament. Should the
session only last four months' it is anticipated that
careful collections in the smoking and refreshment
rooms would produce over £2OOO. Sir John Robert'
son is to be asked to take the Chairmanship of
Directors, and will be counted as a wholesale cus-
tomer. In many other cases considerable discounts
will be allowed.
Conservatism has most discreetly given
way in Tasmania, and the representative system
of Government there is no longer an Australian
anomaly. The suffrage is now practically a man-
hood one, and the Legislative Council themselves
reduced the qualification for their electors from
£lOO proposed by the Assembly to £3O. Next’year
the number of members of both Houses will be
increased, and the principle of triennial Parlia-
ments established.
The Victorian Secretary for Agriculture
has received four notices of competition for the
best reaping and harvesting machine—prize of
£250. One of these is from South Australia, two
are Victorian, and one is from London. New
South Wales is out of it, of course. And yet look
how Sir John Robertson’s Act has developed the
farming industry. If it was the best machine for
dummying that was wanted, now, New South
Wales would be In it up to her neck.
The Viotorian Government purpose con-
centrating their efforts next session on a new
Rabbit Act (amongst other things). A very short
Rabbit Extirpation Bill is being rushed through
tnis session. This is a mere stop-gap until bunny
is fairly tackled. It is no wonder, these things
being so, that an answer to one of the questions at
the recent junior examination of the Sydney Uni-
versity should have rather astonished the exa-
miner. He wrote: “ What is the principal political
question throughout all Australia and New Zea-
land to-dav.” As an answer he expected ** Fede-
ration.” He got "Rabbits.”
The state of affairs in Belgium has lately
been attracting a great deal of attention in Europe.
“ It is not unlikely that Belgium will be annexed
to France before long,” says a gentleman who is
in a position to form a good idea of tne situation.
“ The Republicans are getting very strong in
Belgium, and a change might take place any
moment.” In our opinion, however, Bismarck
and Germany would offer effective opposition to
any project for the annexation of Belgium to
France at the present moment, no matter how
great the ascendancy of the Republican party in
Belgium may be. or how strong may be their
desire to unite with the French Republic.
Another Maori embassy to England is in
contemplation. This time Katane wants to see
Effrl Derby on behalf of the Ngapuhi tribe, Bay of
Islands. The Ngapuhis want focal self-govern-
ment; that is, they object to the Pakeha’s rates
and taxes. By the way, the Maoris have a very
terse way of putting official requests. Nearly
twenty years ago, some of them wrote to a New
Zealand Governor“ O, Governor, greetings.
You have sent unto us a surveyor, one H . He
has brought with him two intruments, his theodo-
lite and a rum bottle. Of the former he makes no
use, of the latter too much. Pray remove. That
is all.” (And the signatures.)
“Mr. Parnell is moving heaven and earth
against nationalisation of the land, and is at dag-
ger’s drawn with Mr. Michael Davitt,” says a cor-
respondent in London who is behind the scenes.
“ It is expected by the Parnellites that owing to
the influence Mr. Davitt has acquired, the
labourers’ vote in the next election will be against
them. Parnell is the farmer’s champion ana does
not care for the labourers. Mr. Arch, too, does
not much like nationalisation. Both prefer
peasant proprietorship ; and it is really a fact
that a majority of the country people themselves
still prefer peasant proprietorship; also, they don’t
understand the “ nationalisation,” and rather
seem to dislike it, thinking it suggestive of the
tax-gatherer, and that under it they might feel
themselves to be even less masters of their own
houses than they now are.”
Here is a terrible revelation. Says Car-
coar Mary, with reference to an episode of the
Baker election:—“The proceedings, as described
to us by an eye-witness, were of a most disgrace-
ful nature. Gin and whisky are said to have been
provided, and freely used within the polling-booth.
We purpose getting at the truth of the matter, if
possible.” A very patriotic resolution! It is just
as wed to get at the truth when it is too late to get
at the gin and whisky. But what a shocking thing
it is, after all, to think that the free and en-
lightened electors of sunny New South Wales
(how we love these withered 010 phrasesl) can be
corrupted by gin and whisky I Now, if it had been
champagne, or even three-star, we could nave
looked with more leniency on the affair. But gin
and whisky, and probably bad gin and whisky at
that! Pah 1 it is too degrading to dwell upon. We
are not so surprised that these degrading stimu-
lants were “ provided,” but to think that they
were “freely used” prostrates us completely.
The state of morals in Oarcoar must be desperate,
indeed. Anyhow, Mr. Baker, in addition to his
other complimentary titles, will in future be
known as the member for Gin and Whisky.
The Executive have had under careful
consideration Mr. Russell’s report on the recent
hot wind and dust storm. It will be remembered
that the Observatory recorded 943 miles of wind
as having passed within 24 hours, and that 50
miles an hour were noticed during some hours.
The dust carried was tremendous. Now what
the Executive think is this. That if during next
session of Parliament Mr. Russell could take
measures for accurately recording the wind
wasted by hon. members, and the comparative
quantity of dust raised by eaoh of them, some
scientific data of the utmost importance from a
political point of view might be formulated.
Thus it was a disputed point during the late long
session whether Dan O'Connor or A. G. Taylor
expended most wind. To be sure the West Syd-
ney man was at first thought to have had the pull
of the Mudgee favourite because of his selection
of fine long words that, as an admirer said, “ tuk
the breath out av wan.” Indeed, when Dan called
a snail a’gusterspadous mollusc, he was considered
well in it. But Taylor’s address to the Judges
brought him even. However, Mr. Russell is not
to observe simoly for the benefit of the leading
wind-raisers. MeDill9 and Abigail, and Garrard,
and our only other Buchanan (one of ’em’s on the
bench), and Poole and Oliffe, and, oh, a lot of them
that expend wind and raise dust, will be looked
after. ,
Young de Montmorenoy was showing his
English cousin round Bydney on Saturday last, and
it so happened that they were near the statue of
the late T. 8. Mort at a quarter to one, the hour
when Government clerks swarm out of their re-
spective departments. The visitor put up his eye-
glaes, and, looking critically across Bridge-street,
said, “ 1 see the-aw—people are vewwy—aw—
fenerous heah; the most handsome Soup-kitchen
evah saw.” “ Soup-kitchen 1 ” said Y. de M.,
horrified; “why, that’s the Lands Offloe.” The
visitor apologised, “ Oh, I wegwet the ewwor, but
really I thought if was a Chawity, from the style of
the-aw-fellors ooimng out." He wasn’t far wrong,
either ; viewed as a public charity, the Lands
Office can knock spots off anything this side of the
equator,
“ ’Tis the will to God to be pretty, so long
as you’re not lop-eared,” used to be the trite ex-
pression of a Tirana philosopher of the bush type,
when complimented on his beauty by the local
rustics. And we might just here remark that the
Urana philosopher was not in the least lovely.
Still, it would appear that professional beauty has
its inconveniences. For instance, the editor of
the Yarrawonga Chronicle (Vic.)—who, to
judge by his paper, may be a wombat—finds it
necessary, owing to his personal attractions,
doubtless, to instruct one of his contributors, a
local fencing master (chock and log), to in-
sert the following notice:— **The editor of the
Chronicle desires me to state that if those young
ladies who visit the window of his ofllce at night
time, when he is writing at his editorial slab, really
desire to amuse him by tapping at the window,
then laughing and running away, and returning
and repeating the performance, he is very grate-
ful to them and publicly thanks them lor the
same. But he wishes further, to state that their
conduct is more distracting than amusing.” What
giddy dogs these country editors are, to he sure I
It is not such a bad thing after all to be
well-connected, True, to be well-oonnected seems
in a great many instances to be a good passport
into gaol, but then you see, on the other hand, it is
a mighty convenient lever with which to open the
doors of the prison again. These solemn reflec-
tions have been induced by the case of that sportive
lawyer in Adelaide, Mr. 8. G. Kingston. This lively
law expounder was having a good time recently
driving round the city in a cab, but after a while
that amusement kind of palled on him, so he made
a target of the cabman, and playfully inserted a
bullet in Jehu’s cobra. For this little escapade he
was sent up for six months,and the oabman took a
front seat in the hospital. Had Kingston not been
well connected, he would still have been languish-
ing in a dungeon cell, but after ** doing ” a few
months, the Government have been graciously
pleased to order his release from prison. Oh, and
now that we come to think of it, there is a gentle-
man named Chas. C. Kingston in the South Austra-
lian Go verament, and by a strange coincidence he is
just at present filling the office of Attorney-
General. But then it is only a coincidence.
Lord Wolseley’s present command is the
fourth he has held since the Bed River expedition
of 1870. In 1873-4 he commanded in Ashantee ; in
1879. in the closing operations in Zululand ; in 1883,
in Egypt. He entered the army r.s ensign in the
12th Foot in 1852, and served in the Burmese war of
’52-53; took part in Sir John Cbope’s expedition
against the robber chief Myattoon, in leading a
I storming party against whose stronghold he was
severely wounded ; distinguished himself in the
Crimea, where he got his captaincy, and was badly
wounded in a sortie ; was present in the Indian
campaign of 1857-59 at the relief of Lucknow, the
defence of the Alumbagh by Outram, with the
various engagements connected with it; the siege
and capture of Lucknow ; and with the Oude field
force in the actions at Baree, Nawabgunge, Simree,
Fyzabad, Sultanpore, at the passage of theGoom-
tee, and in the Byswarra, Trans-Gogra, and Trans-
Baptee campaigns. In 1860-1, in the China war, he
was present at the landing at Pelitang, at the
assault and capture of Tangku, at the battle of
Sinho, at the assault and capture of the Peiho forts,
at the battle of Palichan, and in the advance on
Pekin. He wears eight medals for aotive service.
“ Why does a man marry a woman, and
cling to her through life ?” was the rather start-
ling prize conundrum which a Northern gospel-
sharp of a philosophical turn of mind recently
flred off at the heads of his puzzled congregation.
And as none of the faithful seemed to know, we
have gone into the trouble with a vim, and are
in a position to give the faithful some information
on the subject that will positively make their
heads ache. Imprimis, a man marries a woman
because she belongs to a sex which is peculiarly
adapted for marriage purposts; and he only mar-
ries one at a time because sufficient for the day is
the evil thereof, and if he doesn’t happen to be
aware of that fact when he opens up on the marry-
ing biz , he’ll speedily grow into a full appreciation
of it. Some marry for love, which is good; some
marry for cash, which is a far better thing to live
on; and some marry because they are a restless
lot, and detest a life of monotony. Touching the
hinder part of the pastor’s query, “ Why does a
man cling to his wife through life ?” we can only
say that one very good reason is because the hellish
tyranny of the British law compels him to do so,
as long as the Missus acts square, and doesn’t cut
up rough after the style of giddy old Mother
Potiphar. Alfred Bougeart, who lives in Rue de
Something, Paris, has successfully wrestled with
this trouble, however, and in his ** Une Physiologic
du Mariage,” Parisian Alfred says: "One holds to
his wife through love of the comfortable home,
just as he would to any serviceable kitchen
utensil, or to a cozy old arm-chair which
is always ready for him when he returns
home.” This is neat, for a native of the most
gallant nation in the world, but Alf. forgets to say
which cad of the arm-chair—the leg, the arm, or
the baok— is always ready for him when he returns
home, and this at times makes quite a considerable
amount of difference. We like Alfred better when
he gets more into the sap of his subject, as it were,
and tells us that a man sticks on to his better three-
quarters “ for economy, as a servant-girl costs him
twice as much, and does not do him half the service,
or he sticks through self-respect as to a bad bargain
which he would not give it to say he had the folly
to make, or through human respect—what would
the neighbours say ? or through Imitation—every
other man has his wife and keeps her; or because
to be married fixes a man and gives him pose ; or
because he is vain of his strength of character, and
agreatsoul should know how to support a distress-
ful condition without complaint; or from manly
dignity he must respect his name; or because of
the scandal, the law, or religion; or from philo-
sophy-all women are alike; or as a penitential exer-
cise-through my fault, through my fault, through
my most grievous great fault; or through vain-
glory—* what a handsome woman 1* they say of his
wife; or from conscience—* poor woman, after all
it is not her fault if I have grown tired of her;’ or
through malioe—‘well, here I am in the trap,
let me not prevent others getting trapped as well.”
There are a few other reasons given which we
will hold over until the present sultry weather
cools a trifle, contenting ourselves with Monsieur
Bougeart’s wind-up, which says "Apostles of the
religion of the family, find me menage. I have
searched in vain these twenty years, so that I may
hasten to add that, after a few months of married
life, a man seldom holds to his wife because he
loves her.” That’s all, dear girls; and now the
sentence of the Court is that Alfred Bougeart |be
strapped up to a dressmaker’s dummy witn corset-
strings, and flogged to death with pink garters.
O-o-o-oh, the brute I


DISFIGURING HUMORS
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
xibeum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
Bad BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Ctttictjra Remedies.
HUMILIATING BLOTCHES
WILL MCDONALD, 2542 Dearborn-street, Chi;
cago, gratefully acknowledges a cure of
Salt Rheum on Head, Neck, Face, Arms, and Legs,
for seventeen years ; not able to walk except on
hands and knees for one year ; not able to help
himself for eight years ; tried hundreds of reme-
dies ; doctors pronounced his case hopeless ; per-
manently cured by Cuticura Resolvent inter-
nally and Cuticcra Soap externally.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are the greatest medi
cines on earth. Had the worst case Salt Rheum
in thi3 country. My mother had it twenty years,
and in fact died from it. I believe Cuticura would
have saved her life. My arms, breast, and head
were covered for three years, which nothing re-
lieved or cured until I used the Cuticuba Resol-
vent internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap externally. J. W. Adams, Newark, 0.
ITCHING TORTURES
CHARLES EAYRE HINKLE, Jersey City
Heights, N.J., writes: “My son, a lad of
twelve years, was completely cured of a terrible
ase of Eczema by the Cuticura Remedies. From
the top of his head to the soles of h*s feet was one
mass of scabs.” Every other remedy and physi-
cians had been tried in vain.
MR. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBINS, Belch fi„
town, Mass., write: “Our little boy was
terribly afflicted with Scrofula, Salt Rheum and
Erysipelas ever since he was born, and nothing we
could give him helped him until we tried Cuticdra
Remedies, which gradually cured him, until he is
now as fair as any child.”
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Core (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair,*yid beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICtJRA SOAP, an exquisite Bkin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, BO cents; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, #l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
■4 f\f\C\ DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP P Eli & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency.
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, Ac., kept in
ttock.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
§assed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
1
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
1
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICAL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
856 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
181 King-street (near Tramway), Sydney.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns of Dresses, Mantles, &c.,
And Weigel’s Journal ov Fashions,
Containing the latest styles, are sold at the above address, and by the following
agents :
Chippendale—Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, 131 Regent-street.
Newtown—Mrs. Griffiths, Milliner, &c., 335 King-street.
Parramatta -Mrs. Chapman. Fancy Repository, Church-street South.
Sydney—Miss E. Kay, Fancy Repository, 107 Oxford-street.
Waterloo—Mrs. S. Waller, Milliner, 34 Elizabeth-street.
Principal Retail and Wholesale Business—l6l King-st., Sydney (near Tramway).
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st, Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANo JEWELLER
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Faotory i COWFESWHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 60, Is. fid.; 100, 2a. fid.
LADIES’ 60, 28. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, fid. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. fid.; 250, 6s. fid.; 500, 103.; 1000, 15a.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE MET SUM HO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney,
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Messrs. ROSSM, LLOYD l CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
VW~ A Mairnlflcent NEW STOCK was seleoted by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland
H
FIRST G
SHOW OF DREBSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND BHOWOF TEA GOWNB.
* .. ... - ... o m „ FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety or Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children's
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BRAGHI
IRISH HAND-MADE PNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CREMIBES AND NIGHT-DRESBES.
&r An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for Illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
'
Forwarding , Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
v~ ■ •
HEAD OFFICE J
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
80UTH WALBBJ
BRANCH OFFICES.
Bouthbbh District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yasa
Bownlng
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamun
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
wistrr* District, N.8.W.:
missis
2?eT*sfsa.
Nyngmn
Forbea
Condoblln
Nymaßoe
Cobar
Coonambla
Bourke
Northmrh District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Hrewarrinn
Tamvorth
Uraila
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lun:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cam
booya
Central Lin*:
Cape 11b
Comet
Roc]
ktiampton
antungan
erald
Northern Line
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswoo& Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
■: : i
V* Agencies in all parts of the world.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
T
IHB OBly Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
•P**. v* t vudubwj, Cl V UUO HVCL V/UIH'
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
ruwer, menwi ana rnysicai uepreL ,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
_ . ■ Health. *'
recruits and re-establishes
mended by the MedicalFaculty.'“fS^^lfTlCJN^
rmT j T " uuw Anouivni xavuiii/* |rr/ VA.U Xlviii™
The indubitable proof of the great value of Df
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
U P* Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
—-, , >r Dr. Bright’s 1 ,
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
nts: ELLIOTT.
tutes. Wholesale Agents:
) BROTHERS.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &o. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Burgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 62 Castlereagh-stroet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
Coo/a/ta Wines,
VERY CHOICE, FOR CHRISTMAS.
ITOCK, Muscat Sherry, Claret, Burgundy, and
J.A. Port. Also, at the Bodc&a, the above
Winesi in quart jars. Jars allowed for when re-
turned.
John A. Wilkinson,
•354 X GEORGE STREET.
DC
MAS
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore


MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
169 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
I have tasted the Bavarian Hop Bitters;
they are palatable, and being aware of their oom
ponents, I should say wholesome, and suitable for
those conditions of the liver and stomach that
require herbal stimulants.
J. H. WEBB, M.R.C.S., Eng.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK
If you are sick, HOP BITTEBS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptio, or are
Buffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a oure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemio, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTEBS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they oure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not oure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, oosting but a trifle.
- Will you let them suflfer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And yon will have no siokness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakWervousMen
*
Whose debility, exhanited
POWt'r*, premature decay
and failure to perform Hfe’a
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfeot and lasting
restoration to robust health
manhood in
no.
lARST.O
i'uiuuoi Bton
instruments.,
either stomach drugging
.ynis treatment of
V-' j. nißtreatment of
g KKii&’.ViUM?
£^te4ss^:.wa,s?s!as
onahneM, Full information and Treatise free
Addsess Consulting Physician of 1 e ‘
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 62SMtlimgh Bt., Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
J"UBT RECEIVED, a Largo Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watohes, from £2 IQs.
Gent.’s Bilver Watohes, from £8 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C. GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
884 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
SANTA CLAUS’ HEAD QUARTERS.
u want to
ness
For the
WK/ One (
B
ft on
tu^uon
A<»N
4<
&
IIIJVJED
mtmim
o„ e
nf^ '<lc/(Ji'e.ss
aj
T
V
BJIMS
• *»«
5555^.'
» ,
ZA
■A
i
0
usfralia
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
JACK
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
W N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
ROYALHQTOT,
BOXJRKE,
Is the largest and bast-appointed Family Hotel in the Western TMstrict. The Table and r
cannot Be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. Fbrct-class“talffl.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms”are the
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Grandest in Australia.
benefit of the late Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Mslxageb.
f ,3
' V »'> *-. 41
3
w
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HA6R BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
AI3AIXISOd TIIM A3HX
CURE
Nervous Headache in & minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes I!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp 1
Promptly Arrant Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
No. 1 Hair Brush .. ss. 03.
No. 2 Hair Brush .. 7s. 3d,
No. 3 Hair Brush .. Ss. 63.
No. 4 Hair Brush .. Us. 63.
No. 5 Hair Brush .. 13s. 63.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES. PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
ushed, and their Testimony added', did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
oducin e a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
upon tile Ira, 11, Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which asoompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, und has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHlLL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bnndolph Chvuchill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
tr bend, tor Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, <t Belts
for Ladies' and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, G< F WILLB> M . D>> M-R . c .g. Bi
From Dr. Lemprikrs, D.0.L., Ac., St. John's College, Oxford.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved A Mounted-
Dec. 28, 1881.
domestic appliances
are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money.
Yours faithfully,
C. Lbmfribre, D.C.L., Ac
The
These Brushes oiin be obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Blorckoepers.for will be forwarded
direct to any part of N.B.W. or Queensland 'upon receipt of prices namcd» with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made In Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia. Kee that the name of Dr. Scott is on thelß ox, without which
none are genuine.
p :
ALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
.0. BOX 22!.
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
We read that “ the crematory planned fo
Chicago is to cost about $25,000, and is to hav
three retorts, one for men, one for women, a»c
on® for children. The projectors say they w
allow the remains of no malefactor or pauper
disreputable person to be incinerated in them
No pauper, indeed! If the American paupers ar
at all like the English paupers, they’re not f
enough to burn. The Porkopolites evidently thin
to burn Dives in this world, so that poor Lazaru
won’t have the laugh at him in the next.
“Satan and the Sword” is the title of
little pamphlet written by S. Donaldson, of Mya
Park, Liverpool Plains. It bears throughout or
dence of being the work of a man who has no
enjoyed the advantage of a liberal education, an
who has not learned to arrange his thoughts
coherent form. But it equally indicates that th
writer has thoughts. His text is that “ unjusi
land laws are the foundation of Satan’s kingdom
and “ the Sword the administrator of Satan’s laws.
The argument is not methodical by any means
but its drift is plain enough, and affords evidenc
that among uninstructed men of natural abilltie
even in A ustralia, where the evils of land monopol
are less telt than in almost any country peopled b:
Europeans, the principles of social reform are en
gaging attention. Mr. Donaldson has looked ou
several significant texts, which he commends to th
attention of clergymen and statesmen. Here
one:—" ‘ Woe unto them that join house to house
that lay field to field till there be no place-thai
they may be placed alone in the earth.’—lsaia
c. 5, v. 8.” And here’s an application of it whic
strikes Mr. Donaldson (and ourselves) as apt:—
“‘Who owns Great Britain?’ Five men ow
one-fourth of Scotland ; one duke owns 98,000
acres in Derbyshire, besides vast estates in othe
parts of England and Ireland. Another with es
tates all over the United Kingdom, has 40,000 acre
in Sussex, and 300,000 acres in Scotland. (Thi
noble park is 15 miles in circumference.) Anothe
duke has estates which the high road divides fo
23 miles: a marquis who can ride 100 miles upon
his own land; a duke who owns almost an ontir
oounty, stretching from sea to sea; an earl who
draws £200,000 yearly from estates in Lancashire
a duke who regularly invests £BO,OOO a year.in buy
ing up lands] adjoining his already enormous es
tates; a marquis enjoying £1,000.000 sterling and
£160,000 a year from land. The inoome derived
from land by one ducal family is £1,600,0001 whicl
is increasing every year by the falling in of leases
One hundred aud fifty persons own one-half o:
England ; seventy-five persons own one-half oi
Scotland; thirty-five persons own one-half of Ire
land; and all the lands of England, Scotland anc
Wales are owned by less than 60,000 persons.’
Mr. Donaldson is of opinion, as we are, that the
clergy lose their hold upon the masses because
they (the former) have lost their grip of the true
spirit—the democratic and communistic spirit—ol
Christ’s teachings. “See whom the Prophets im-
peach. They impeach the rulers, and produce
facts to justify their impeachment. Missionaries,
reformers, and evangelists impeach the sufferers,
but produce false assertions, whioh I will en-
deavour to prove from facts—facts are indisput-
able evidence. I have read the outset of a great
many reformers and evangelists, and their boast
was, as a rule, that they plunged into the dens of
infamy and crime to reform or Christianise, and
bring the people into a state of repentance; but
those evangelists never asked themselves what
caused those dens of infamy and crime: first seek
the cause, and then apply the remedy. I have
watched the progress and success of those re-
formers; many terrible things whioh they have
reported I have found on inquiry to be true—of
suffering and misery—of starvation and death:
but they laid all these troubles at their (the people’s)
own doors, impeaching them with drunkenness
and impenitence—and that God sent those visita-
tions on them for their wickedness. . . Crime is
fruit—by tracing the fruit to the branch, from the
branch to the trunk, and from the trunk to the root.
. . The land laws ere the foundation of injustice,
and this oausesthe whole structure to be unsound.’ 5
In this connection the pamphleteer adduces the
following texts:—“The priests said not,where is
the Lord ? and they that handle the law knew me
not of it; the pastors, also, transgressed against
me: and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and
walk after things that do not profit.’—Jeremiah,
c. 2, v. 8. “ All ye beasts of the field come to
devour; yea, nil ye beasts ir the forest. His
watohmen are blind, th<. y are all ignorant, they are
all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying
down, loving to slumber; yea, they are greedy
dogs which can never have enough, and they are
shepherds that cannot understand; they all look
to their own way—everyone for his gain from his
quarter.’’—lsaiah, o. 56, v. 9, 10, 11. “ Behold, the
day will come, saith the Lord, that I send a famine
in the land; not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for
water, but of a hearing of the words of the Lord;
and they shall wander from sea to sea, and from
the north even to the east; they shall run to and
fro to seek the word of the Lord and shall not find
it.”—Amos, c, 8, v. 11 and 12.


THE
IGNO
SPiaa©.©.
w
sjMMUMHNpF
:
FAMOUS
PIAJbTO.
IyrEVER previously did any piano win such a ho
s*-i °n the public as the Mignon has done sin<
its introduction. Our competitors have no dou
&S® their level best to rival ua-blazoning fori
their bald imitations with a tremendous flouris
of trumpets. What result have they to shot
excepting to point to the gradual death of all the
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferi<
instruments, with showy exteriors, have bee
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on tfc
public. But the right-thinking public will ha\
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mignon Piani
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its wav into every town almost of a
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wale
from north to south ; to the far north of Queeni
hind; in New Zealand, from one end to the othe
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmani
THE JJIGNON
canbc found, and its name is really a househol
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
riohness of tone.
full description
of IHE MIGNON and all other good instruments
on application.
nigholsoF and CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
NOIILTUrS
FRUIT
,S?r r r LA^ N ’ r Positively cured by MOULTON'S
nun 1 ii/Lb. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
e can prove what we say. There are no failures and
disapiOTmtmcnts. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
t>iT>?l^ IOUSNESS » P re v ent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
LPsia, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
t L 1 VEft > regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
" BLOOD. Tho Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit>.
J-hey are as nearly perfect as it i 3 possible for a Pill to be.
*oI«l Everywhere, Price 1.. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
tonic nervine
A„ . „ REGISTERED.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
■toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidnej
Domplaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
ana soothing etfeccs It at once removes ail craving
tor Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONic NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the wnole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERB..M.P.B,
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
IUJ' Marfceh-street. near Hyde Park, *vdney, and
Circular-quay. TAKE NO SU BBTI-
JTALIAN emporium
FANCY CHINA WARE,
__ . „ _ comprising:
TEA BETS, DESSERT SE i S, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS. & c .
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk ans, Ladies’ Relts, unshades Dolls, &o.
1 he Lati at Novelties alwaj s oil baud
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 410 George-street.
PAINTS.
OILS.
0
O
£
0
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Patterns and Price# #ent.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
HOUBEB FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED i
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescript on
jWch CUR* him. Address,
stamped envelope—
PR. E. A CLARKE, PO. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL nr«
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair- it Wm'
tains no lead or mineral ingredients eon '
be also had in a golden ool™
B B on^Ho r ur a si Z^ gOldon - haired ChildreD l ffi
ROWLANDS’ XALYDOR is a most cool,
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the fnr>«
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free froms™
mineral or metallic admixtures- it any
freckles, tan, prickly heat, red ness? pi mples Ifc?"®"
BOWANDS’ ESSENCE OPTYMprc
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grev
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a ?] ssy and per
manent brown or black, whic’o colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowland!’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
(Two Doors from Compagnoni's.)
T H ,I?.HH 1 ?.HH£ erBi F t3e<l , recognising the want of „
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTa nr
MENT, have OPENED the premises Jatoivo
pied by the Bank of Australana at Ik/pit-t"
STREET (THE WEST END HOLS’*) where tW
intend to carry on a High-class and ['ashionabie
The public may feel assured that we shall ho
able to maintain a high standard, when we slate
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ pvl,il te
in the best houses in Lo.idon, Paris 8 as web m Vn
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely Farmer
and Co. 8 and David Jones and Co.’s. tarmer
Our Mr. Wilson has had fullv 20 venra’
rience in the Australian trade, and J has juft Re-
turned from England, where be‘visited - sntho
principal Woollen Mills, including, that ofHud
dersfield, as w»ll a b Wert of England nnd
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarfntee that he
tastes and requirements of the public will r 00«.,,«
the attention they deserve. 1 receive
In conclusion, we desire to say that wo hnno
obtain a fair share of patronage, in retum fo?
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in tte latest
London and Paris styles. tte latest
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON
k HUGH WARD, ’
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
166 Pitt-street, Sydney.
-<k.'br©,±a.a,aaQ.’s
nils
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
slinbteat P andf>llon ' and free from the
„ * 0 of mercury or mineral substance,
tnti . «?°P la , r medicln ® of the nineteenth cen-
thnLnih? mpie * yet “P 8t elective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully nre-
;erf. d nP: epa^tion ’ and th « resuft of practical Ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
i hSmo*\ of.the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
ImSuMef. 0 " * h “ t thW h *« not •*“**
434 GEORGE STREET.
'JAMES MACGREGOR,
tar 808 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLEAGENT
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
HAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
CB LIST
APPLICATION.
WT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELMBKATID
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
m
OOMFORTABLE teeth
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
? nt i£® f S®edom from toothache and decay of the
vii • here are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red 81ik Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops Instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to poisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
tney will not only never suffer again, but will priv
teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
fraudulent imitation»,
Label bean the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-etreet, London."
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
tailoring establishment
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-stroßt,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEBT-ABBORTBD
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
0T Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
ruatanteed.
HiaaiN’s
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained drst honours
at every Dairy Bhow Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
A. A C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
Iff" The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
~9 n ®P f J h ®*® Cigarette* gives immediate relief is
J?ont attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronohitie,
of. Br ®ath. Persons who suffer at nlghi
Phlegm, and short breath, find
£ h ®™ Invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
£ re VQSP* harmless, and may bS
patient# ° y ladleB ’ chJidren * * nd moat delloate
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendor*.
Caution.-Tomiard aaaintt fraudulent
fS? bM ?» th 6 mm of “ '
00., 399 OxfortUetreet. London."
11 i- 3 axVE W TOR PKESENTATION plate.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
a
©
soWjjto
3*
£
.
Kop.nntecyt e '«'tfcci
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
£5587?* SQATSj OF S, AND_CUJ BCO LOURS ENAMELLED.
*371x0 lESolio/Toio 33’\jLg'gpiLoi3 !
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AME R,c AM^ARRIAGE^*IBACHIMERYTREPOSITOhY,
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Ea.torn Backboard Waggon, ?
MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK


Wiliams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea eakee, and pastry. 1 *
The London Echo, which has very good
intentions, is under the impression that Otago and
Southland are in Australia. New Zealand just now
is getting all the free-advertising in the London
Press, which has been actually gushing, to the
extent of scores of columns, about the enterprise
of the N. Z. Shipping Co. and the glories of Maori,
lard. The fact is, that though N.B.W. is strong
enough in herself to command respect in London
business circles, Queensland and New Zealand
appear to be considered the most “ gentlemanly
and “ fashionable ” colonies to settle in.
“ By Jove ! Noake has really a startling
novelty in the tobacconist line (if we can call a
tobacco-box a novelty), for this really is one. That
little place in Hunter-street that Westgarth and
Sal way used to occupy as a law shop has now gone
through a transiormation, and, by Jove, boys!
you wouldn’t know it. It is one of the prettiest,
neatest, and, I might say, the most unique to-
bacco stores you ever saw in all your lives. It is
the most tip-top, stylish, out-of-the-way kind
of thing that we have ever seen since we have
left those big shores in the Atlantic. It puts us in
mind of going down the old streets of New York,
and I have seen something like it when I was
travelling in the little village of London. It does
one's heart good to see a man like J. Noake having
the pluck to go into a venture ot this sort. We
understand he intends making it a real box shop;
but I was very much surprised to hear irom one
of our fellows that he could purchase anything he
liked, from a box of matches to a live-pound box
ot cigars; so that be does not intend to shut us
poor fellows out of seeing his pleasant face when-
ever we like to call. Now, knowing Jack as well
as we do, from old acquaintanceship—and always
found him straight—and with the assistance of
another well-kuown man, Mr. G. L. Goodman,
‘one of the boys,’ if they don’t make a success it
must be their own fault. Wishing them all the
luck they are entitled to. they will not require to
be in business very long."*
HAKD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, June 26,1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to
inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent relief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness ani
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a case simi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
cure, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory, headache
—a troublesome symptom in this class of malady—
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence in
its use 1 experienced a gradual return of health
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe my-
self completely cured.
If this testimony is of any service to you, use it
in any way you please.
Faithfully yours,
A. THOMAS.
[lf every individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent
and ward off its attacks, there would rarely be any
use for cailiDg in the aid of the physicians. In all
ordinary derangements of the stomach, bowels,
liver, or kidneys, you need only a few doses of
Emil Frese's Hamburg Tea.]
<? sons
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Woman Items
“ Can you refuse, darling, to pay this little
bill for the wife of your bosom’’ “ Wife of my
bosom, indeed! why, with all these expenses, you
seem a great deal more like the wife of my chest.
An old couple living near the Black Forest,
childless and alone—their chlldr n having preceded
them to the grave—reoently celebrated their dia-
mond wedding. It was roally a touching sight to
see tnem sitting together at their cottage door on
thOx occurrence of their seventieth wedding-day.
They were both comparatively well, and quite
enjoyed the influx of visitors attracted thither by
curb sity.
A publican, who has already buried two
wives, and is in his eighty-flist year, presented
himself at a Nottingham church with his intended
bride, aged forty, who has recently been his
housekeeper. An interested party, coming to
Nottingham by the same train, discoveied that the
wedding was about to take place, and arrived at
the church just in time to stop the ceremony on
the ground of informal publication of the banns.
A funny thing happened to an American
belle at Long Branch. On her first show, she wore a
beautiful bathing suit of white flannel, with red
silk sash and dainty cap. Everyone looked at the
charming little picture, and thought how pretty
she was. But she made the sad mistake of going
Into the water, and when she came out, blushing
vividly as she saw how scores of eyes gazed on the
spoilt! drees, which now clung to her outline like
wet tissue! paper, she sobbed out to a friend: ‘ Oh,
I didn’t know—l live in St. Louis, and I never
bathed before except in a tubl” Sweet sim-
plicity I
Theieason Englishwomen join, the Mormons
Is that they can't get husbands in England. One
woman recently said that out of 100 women folks
between the ages of 20 and 35 in her native village
there were husbands for only 58 of ’em. Fourteen
of the other 44 had owned husbands once, but they
had died. The remaining 30 never had any, and
had no hopes of getting any. She seemed to have
made a study of the question, for she said that
there were less than 4,000.000 women between 20
and 40 years In all England and Wales, and of them
nearly 2,000,000 were unmarried, in short, lovely
woman takes a share in a Mormon husband on the
half-loaf-better-than-no-bread principle.
Jersey is a veritable home of pretty women.
The island, wrapped in soft white mist every night,
has a magnificent climate; but wages ar« so low
that men leave it in shoals, fe w but the very young
and very old remaining to work. It is the women
who work, and their active life gives them grace-
ful, sinewy strength, rare complexions, and match-
less health. Small women are the exception; most
grow to ripe, full figures, having dark hair and
©yes, and never know what It is to feel tiled or ill.
The glory of Jersey is ilB beautiful women. And
the crowning glory of a Jersey woman is that, if
she gained ten shillings all in one v«Bt sum, it
would make her happy for six months afterwards.
When God makes women like he does in Jersey,
they don’t want grand toilettes.
“ Zamiel ” tells this significant little story:
—“ Marv was well educated, and, as she stood in
the prisoner's box and the Magistrate asked,
* Were you drunk ?’ she said, ‘Certainly I was, sir.
Mary was tall, well developed, with a face tbatwa6
dreamily pretty. The tine was pronounced.
• Where's mama ?’ muttered the young girl, look-
ing round'from the box, in her blue dress, and a
Lady Hamilton straw bat, wreathed with corn-
flowers, iover a face and head that might have
done for Psyche. She had been to a dance, taken
brandy and lemonade until she fell, and the con-
stable picked her up and pillowed her aching, be-
wildered. handsome head on the stones of the cell.
A few months ago, Mary was a Sunday Bobool
teacher-now she is dancing mad, like some other
young Auckland gins. Drunk 1 So fair, and not
yet twenty 1 ”
All girls look best in white, and this season
white is “ in.” If any girl has oaptured a parcel of
that scarce commodity, the eligible man—it was
her white dress did it. Even elderly ladies look so
fresh and cheery in their blanched raiment that a
man might be pardoned for the temporary error
of supposing a few of them may make to erable
mothers-in-law. And scrawny scraps of antiquity,
long hopelessly on the shelf before this white mania
came with its blesßed ray of hope, look actually
nice as they float round in soft white flannel, or in
bishops lawn with three flounces and a flower at
the throat. It lends an nrerest to her etiolated
face, and almost rounds off the selvage of her
sharp shoulder blades. In white, a pretty woman
can kick this helpless globe as she likes, anditgoes
before her passively. The material doesot matter
much—cambric, cashmere, or the voile of the pious
nun—white brings out all the charms and contour
she has, and it softens the minute defects which,
ay-hol even the loveliest women are sometimes
heirs to.
If Mrs. Lockwood bad been elected Presi-
dent, she would have had seven lovely virgins by
her side as Cabinet Ministers. Then there would be a
picnic. Imagine President Bely®. calling her
Cabinet to order: “Now, girls, she will say.
“now, girls, we must discuss the affairs of the
country and ” The Secretary of State: And
It was Bkirted in front and had three pleats -
The Secretary of the Interior; He is simply
horrid. He didn’t take her to the matinie a single
” The Secretary of War: What, that horrid
thing? Why, her nose is simply Hgly, and that
wig is seveu shades lighter than Ihe Post-
master-General: ” Half-a-crown each, and they
have two yokes, and the flounces —- The Presi-
dent: “The affairs of the country—- The
Attorney-General: “And they do say she went
with him when her husiand swore he would
The Secretary of the Navy: lour shillings a
vard! Why, at W 's, I can get it for
three.” The Secretary of the Treasury: He
treats her shamefully and beats —- The Presi-
dent: “Girls, please let’s meet and have a talk
over •> The Secretary of the Navy: No: it
was brocade, and then ’’ Th« President: Well,
girls, I think you’re horridly mean, and I wont
play, so there, and the meeting’s adjourned. Who
wants to go shopping with me ? Chorus: ‘ Me.
There are some queer things in Max
O’Reli’s “Les Filles de John Bull.” Max affirms
of his own knowledge that he has known many
English fathers, easy and even wealthy in their
circumstances, wbo have conducted their daugh-
ters to the altar” with no larger outfit than six
innermost garments and a dozen pocket-handker-
chiefs, aDd have then bidden them bonjour.
The daughters of Johu Bull who have affluent
papas must, Indeed, be in evil case; but perhaps it
may be their mammas who look after their ward-
robes for them. M. O’Kell further remarks that
nether garments, which in trench are colloquially
termed “ indispensables,” are in England spoken
of as “unmentionables;” and that if, in an assem-
bly of English ladies, an allusion were made to Mr.
80-and-So’s “ irreproachable trousers, all faces
would be veiled, and insistence on the topic would
cause a veritable panic in the room. Max is
deeply shocked and scandalised by what he con-
siders to be the indelicacy of the homily addressed
by the officiating clergyman to a young couple
when they come to the altar to be joined together
in holy matrimony. Some English readers may
be able to appreciate the keen wit and > philosophic
insight of Count Xavier de Maistre s Voyage
autour de mt Chambre but they fail to see the
humour of M. O’KeU’s txoursus on the furniture
and fittings of an English lady’s bedchamber—if,
indeed, the apartment can be called a lady’s when
the chronicler tells us that it closely resembles the
sleeping-room of a female domestic servant in
France. Monsieur O’Rell admits that English girls
are often very pretty, although he finds his highest
standard of female beauty among the barmaids at
the London refreshment buffets. Those damsels
are, in the opinion of M. Max O’Rell, “superbly
lovely.” Judging from the muster of Australians
at Spiers and Pond’s bars, most of the colonists
who go to London are of M. O’Rell’s opinion.
A bull-fight of a novel kind took place at
Tarragona recently, the performers being women
clothed in the male torera suit. The bulls were all
young and full of fire. The first one let into the
arena made straight for one of the toreras, and
sent her spinning in the sand several yards off. A
second torera rushed to the rescue with her capa,
which she waved before the bull to draw off his
attention from her discomfited colleague. The
bull accepted the challenge at once, and with a
rapid twist of the neck caught the banderillu and
sent her flying. She fell onner face, and followed
the previous torera in her retirement, bleeding
from several scratches. The third torera then ad-
vanced ; but no sooner had the bull caught sight
of her than,he bounded towards her and tossed
her. After this the bull took a quiet walk around
the arena, waiting for fresh sport. No further
competitor appeared: the crowd clamoured for
their money back, the cashier bolted with the
takings, and it required three companies of in-
fantry to quell the resultant riot. The most extra-
ordinary part of the affair is that, undetorred by
the fate of the first company of toreras and their
managers, who were marched off to prison besides,
the workwomen of the tobacco factories of Madrid
are preparing to give an exhibition of their
prowess, and a troupe is organising to do the
round of the arenas in all the principal towns of
Spain.
Girls as ushers have just been intro-
duced into one of the New York theatres,
This pretty reoeption dress, with double apron drapery, is of sky-blue ottoman cord,
with white lace bodice and trimming. The box pleat trimming is seen nearly to the
waist on each side, as only the upper part of the front drapery is joined to the hind
breadths, while the lower soarf disappears. Narrow ribbon velvet bows of a deep blue
colour are on the sleeves, and the same is intermixed with the cascade of lace down
the front of the bodice.
and the advantages of the change, especially in
regard to civility, seem to have impressed a
reporter, who gets quite enthusiastic in his de-
scription of the girls and their quiet method of dis-
charging their duties. “ Would you rather seat
an audience of ladies or of gentlemen ? ” was one
of the questions asked. “It is altogether imma-
terial to me,” the young lady answered, “ whom I
seat, so long as they do not insult me. Of course
ladles are inclined to be more particular than
gentlemen, and to require more attention, which I
suppose they received at the hands of male ushers,
but as a rule they do no fault-finding. I find it
harder to bear the stare of the lar ies, because, ’
and here a roguish gleam lit up her eyes, “ it is not
altogether displeasing to a girl to be looked at by
gentlemen. And I think it is only right, if ladies
receive more attention from male ushers, that
gentlemen should be shown a little favour
at our hands. Don’t you think that’s fair ? ”
After an emphatic acquiescence in this de-
claration of principles, the young lady was
asked if she had been annoyed at all by that class
of mankind familiarly known as “ mashers.”
“Mashers!” she exclaimed; “well, you should
just have seen them flock here the first week we
were here, after you newspaper men had an-
nounced the change- My! but they made me tired.
They would stand in the lobby, watch us and
smirk as they twirled the few hairs on their upper
lips, and try to look as sweet as pie. But when
they found we would take no notice of them, they
soon began to drop off. I settled one of them one
evening. He had been grinning at me, and when
he finally handed me his coupon, he caught my
hand in his and squeezed it. I looked at him, and
then, so that every one around me could hear, I
told him that if he insulted me again in that
manner I would report him to the male usher. I
then walked down to where his seat was, but when
I found it he was not to be seen. He had evi-
dently lost all desire to see the play, and had left
the house.”
One of the inspectors of public-houses in
Victoria is handicapped with the name of Herbert
Yorke Rattray, but, nevertheless, he struggles
manfully with the difficulties that obstruct the
conscientious revenue-officer whose business it Is
to sample the snake-juice retailed in that colony.
A week or two ago, Herbert (we must dispense
with the rest of the name, as our “ copy slips ” are
running short) was nosing about Ballarat in search
of inferior “James Hennessy,” when he rambled
into the Mallow Hotel, where the fair Mrs, Barry
and the beautiful Miss Kate Finnegan (of German
parentage) dispensed the soothing beer and mellow
whisky. The eagle eye of the acute grog officer
“spotted” a couple of bottles on the shelves
which were not labelled as the Act directs, and he
forthwith swooped uDon them. While entering
up the particulars of this important seizure in his
note-book, he left the bottles standing on the
counter, and when deeply immersed in the forma-
tion of the necessary pot-hooks and hangers for
recording the case, an old bar-bummer staggere d
in, and, unwittingly or otherwise—it would be vain
fer us to say which—fell against the bar-counter,
and, to use the words of the Irish bard,
“All the sweet butthermilk watheredtho plain,”—
the precious liquor, which diffused an arotra like
unto rum, sloshing over, and irretrievably ruining
Mr. Rattray’s best Sunday pants. The ladies could
hardly be expected to suppress a wicked smile as
H. Y. Rattray wandered forth smelling like a dis-
tillery; but .they had to face the music at the
police court a few days after wards c arged with ob-
structing the revenue-officer while in the discharge
of his duty, and, after some pretty steep swearing
on both sides, the bench 1 grew undecided, and the
case went by the boardß, as the gentle Kate blush-
ingly stated that the cause of the breakage was
Herbert’s unhandiness when sealing up the grog.
Which goes to show that even the man who daily
revels in tasting spirituous liquors on the cheap
has “ little troubles.”
Notwithstanding that a paper known as
the Distress is frequently published in Corowa,
the talented editor of that melancholy sheet does
not entirely rely on his own brilliant efforts to
rescue the “ little town on the border”—of civili*
sation, we presume—from permanent oblivion.
His soul was sad when he became aware that wc
had some trifling difficulty in “ placing ” the
“ little town,” as he fondly calls it; but his gloom
vanished like an evanescent summer cloud, or a
bottle of rum before a country editor, when the
local fire brigade girt up their loins and started
for Botany to win undying fame and make the
name of Corowa a household word in every
English-speaking community on the earth a
name that would scintillate with greater efful-
gence than even that of Dapto or—Howlong.
This is how the gifted Leslie throws his immortal
soul into prose on the occasion:—"The teams
from the Corowa Brigade left for Sydney by the
morning train on Wednesday. This year’s trial is
to prove a decisive one, and to the men who left
for Botany is entrusted the task of sustaining the
reputation of the little town on the border, so far
away that even The Bulletin, which is fond of
poking into holes and corners, could not find it
without a deal of trouble. We may flatter our-
selves that whether our men win or lose their per-
formance will be nothing to be ashamed of, and
that the popular captaiu is ‘bossing,’ as good a
team as ever slung hose together or showed water
in the winning time.” But the fates were against
the noble warriors to whom “ the task of sustain-
ing the reputation of the little town,” &C., was en-
trusted, for they didn’t even secure a place in the
big event at Botany. Consequently, the editor of
the Distress is plunged again into unutterable
woe, and the popular [captain is wrapped in a
mantle of gloom.
The Chinese cut off the heads of the
Frenchmen killed in battle. Twenty-two heads
were brought into the Celestial camp after the
Tamsin affair, and were stuok on poies—while the
twenty-two deceased frog-eaters were shrilly
chaunting in the celestial choir or howling else-
where. The girl whom the Chinese Tommy At-
kins “leaves behind him” (unlike the Puritan
maiden, rriscilla, who averted her face when the
head of the 4 brave Wattawamat” was brought
home and placed on the fort at Plymouth, and
who “thanked God in her heart she had not mar-
ried Miles Standish”)—the Mongolian Mary Anne,
we were going to observe, being aware of the
boastful character of the gentleman who is so
familiar to us all as a vegetable-seller, likes to
have some tangible evidence of the valour of her
beloved Ah Sin. This head-hunting episode of
Tamsin reminds us that in the "good old days” a
not inconsiderable trade used to be carried on
between New Zealand and Port Jackson in pre-
served Maori heads, which were sold at high prices
to European and other museums. Before the
white man’s advent in N.Z., the Maori used to pre-
serve no heads except those of his friends kiiled
in battle; but when it was found that the pakeha
would give a price tor preserved heads it occurred
to the chiefs that much coin could be made out of
the trunkless brain-pans of their enemies. By
and bye, the price of heads fell, and there was,
owing to the glutted condition of the market, a
much smaller demar d; so it occurred to the Taw-
hiaos of the day that it would be well to keep the
heads of enemies as trophies of victory. These
ghastly relics, which were most carefully and
ingeniously preserved, were truly horrible
objects, for the features and tattoo marks
were admirably kept the hair and beard
were uninjured, and nothing was lost from the
countenance save the eves, which were closed up,
and gave a more death-like appearance to the
whole. Taunting language was made use of to
the heads, as though they could hear and under-
stand. “ What!” a Maori would say to 1 hese sense-
less objects, “ you wanted to run away, did you ?
But my meri overtook you, and after you were
cooked—you were made food for my mouth. And
where is your father ? he is cooked; and where is
your brother ? he is t aten; and where is your wife '(
there sho sits, a wife for me; and where are your
children ? there they are, with loads on their backs
carrying food, as my slaves.” The head-hunting
business came to a linal end in this wise: A gentle-
man—a perfect gentleman, he was—from Sydney,
whose New Zealand head-quarters were at the Bay
of Islands, had been to the southward, where he
had purchased heads to the number of twelve or
fourteen. These heads belonged to chiefs of the
Bay-and neighbourhood, who had been destroyed
only a few weeks before. Some Maoris were on
board his schooner, when the inhuman wretch
went into his cabin and brought out a bag which
contained the grisly trophies and emptied them
out in the presence of the natives. Some recog.,
nised their fathers, others their sons; some their
brothers and other near friends and relations. The
weeping and lamentation caused by the indignity
thus put on the relics of the departed were appall-
ing, and all the Maoris vowed revenge, which they
would have taken at the time had they not been so
few in number. But before they could do this, the
enterprising Sydney gentleman weighed anchor
and sailed out of the bay. However, he was sub-
sequently several times fired on, and had to leave
the North Island. The heads were carried to Port
JaGkson and sold; but when the matter was repre-
sented to our paternal Government, an order wag
promulgated forbidding such a degrading traffic in
this colony. When the order came out, the Gover-
nor was virulently attacked by some of the Sydney
head-merchants. And these are the people from
whom we are descended 1 No wonder that a lot of
us want to be peers and hide our names I


Ingham’s
I
!|
Cure
Asthma, Bronchitis j.
Coughs,
NO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
Prepared'only, sv; S
Thomas Ingham
Rockhampton
%
m
m
a-B
«SiftU i
am
UMBRELLAS
RB&OVEBE&
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
enW
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
83P” A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
m GEORGE STREET,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
HATS MADE TO ORDER.
Ale the Best London Makes Imported.
438 GEORGE STREET,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received toy
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGE «JT.. 408 BYDNHY.
3>
4
x
o
c
o
MARX
TRADt
to
Qr
*</
-X
*»V
-O
<?•
?>
i/Ncs
CROS?
<
o
O
N
D
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling-, healthful, refyesbibg, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
isaoraa Et’ivsa'iOHAV
IT
SUV9I9 JO xoa V
s Ainvioaas Hno
•Anojoo am cq
sxNawaiimftaH .saaaows aNv ooovaox
JO JU9UI
-jaossy pais jsa&nri eqj jdaij aq aiaqAi.
‘siaqmuqo sjißSJajjßX JxaN
OO
‘IIYI r I r IY<I
jb ‘saspnaij pajnnjis
-A[ißJjnao pm? Matf aaNHiO ‘suoijvd TIT
snoiauma jo jsanbai aqj jb ‘st?q a>IVON ’H J/lL
‘sjdGiq
ao aaiaoawi
‘a^gYOKE j£ _
T. L. SMITH,
Royal Book and Picture Promenade,
418 and 399 Gcorse-street,
Near Royal Hotel.
“A thing of beauty i@ a joy for ever.”
CALL and view the Works of Art displayed iD
Christmas and New Year’s Cards.
Christmas Cards. Christmas Cards.
The Largest and Choicest Variety ever
Displayed in Australia.
Hand Painted, Ivory Gelatine, Satin, Plush.
Photographic Cards, and a host of others, too
numerous to particularize.
Cards from 2d. per dozen to 103. each.
H
fo:
PEAPES & SHAW, George Street,
ERBBY NOTIFY THAT THEY HAVE JUST RECEIVED, EX MAIL S.S. ORIENT AND
MIRZAPORE,
The Most Beautiful Assortment of Fancy Goods
it has ever been their good fortune to have to submit to the Australian Public, suitable
IB H HEW W HUTS
The Useful as well as the Beautiful.
SUITABLE WEDDING PRESENTS ! SUITABLE CHRISTENING PRESENTS!
CHARMING BIRTHDAY PRESENTS!
It is simply impossible in an advertisement to enumerate the endless variety, we therefore respect-
fully invite our friends io inspect our Windows and walk through our Showrooms and Shop, where
they will always And attentive and obliging assistants to attend them. -.
PEAPES and SHAW have also opened a charming variety of White, Cream, 1 icelle, and Cqloured
LACE GOODS; Beautiful Fabric and French KID GLOVES; An Exquisite Assortment of Ladies’and
Children’s LONDON and PARIS COSTUMES. * * T * * . m.-.* JT .n™
We shall land by the Lusitania a Special Shipment of Infants’ Children’s, and Ladies’ UNDER-
CLOTHING, for the Christmas trade.
Peapes and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw’s “ Standard ” Ready-made Clothing.
SPECIAL NOTE.—We were the first to adopt the word “Standard as a brand, together with the
Mercantile Flag as our trade mark. We have, however, been copied by several other manufacturers.
We suppose we may take that as a compliment to the excellence of this particular class of goods. We
would simply suggest that customers should see that our name is on the ticket, as well as our trade mark.
355., 425., 455., 505.,
555., 635.
GENTLEMEN’S SUMMER
“STANDARD” TWEED
SUITS, EXCELLENT CUT and
WELL MADE
Tweed Sac Coats, 18s. 6d., 215.; Tweed Office Coats,
65.6 d. up „
Black Alpaca Sac Coats, 10s. 6d. to 15s. 6d.; Cash-
mere ditto, 18s. 6d. .... „
White Linen Duck Coats, military* [collars, 7s. 6d.
to 15s. 6d.
White FJannel Cricketing Coats, 18s. 6d. each
Ditto ditto Trousers, 13s. 6d. pair
China Silk Sac and Dust Coats, from 153 6d. to 21s.
Nicolle’s Frock Coats, Nicolle’s Walking Suits
Nicolle’s Summer Overcoats, from 365. to 50s.
The New “ Antipluvium” Waterproof Coat, weight
only 7 ounces, the lightest waterproof made
White Linen Vests, 9s. 6d. each. 3 for 275.
The New “ Masher” White Dress Vest, button low
Oxford Dressing Gown, specially suitable for this
climate in the summer.
PEAPES and SHAW, GEORGE STREET,
PEAPES and SHAW’S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweed Sac Suits, from 31s. to 85s.
Boys’ and Youths’ superior Worsted Suits, 395. (id.
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweed Trousers, 7s. 6d. and
Bs. 6d. pair
Boys’ & Youths’ Alpaca Coats, 7s. Bd. & Bs. 6d. each
Boys’ and Youths’ White Duck Coats. Hs. 6d. each
Boys’ Man-of-War Trouser Suits, 98. (id. to 18s. (id.
each
Boys’ Blue Serge, Cheltenham, Imperial, Norfolk,
Military, and other Fancy Tweed Suits, new
shapes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
We have now the latest Shapes for tl*e Summer
Season, made specially light for us* to suit
the climate.
Black Silk Hats, Drab Pullovers, Drab Shells
Black, Drab, Brown, and Slate Felts, from 7s. 6d.
to 13s. 6d.
Soft Felt Hats, in all colour's and shapes
RUSTIC HATS, all colours, suitable for cricket,
Lawn Tennis, Boating, &c , Is, Bd. each
Cricketing Caps, Travelling Caps, Polo Caps, Fez
Caps.
PORTMANTEAU DEPARTMENT.
Travelling Trunks, Dress Trunks, Iron Trunks
Portmanteaus, every size and shape
Gladstone Bags, fitted and unfitted
Brief Bags, Deed Bags, Satchels. Bug Straps
Travelling Rugs, Silk Wraps, and Mauds.
PR APES and SHAW, George-street.
BA.IJI VLA.NN*
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
- Aie o;pe:tnL_
Barry’s Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow on bald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry’s Florida Water!
The Original and the Best. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
W. H. JLriell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 601 b.
and 3001 b. bags,
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34,34, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &e.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT'm.cSLerta.leer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten (10) years.
years; also,
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MiiE SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street,
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Reuairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D R 'RIDCE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AMD INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
r THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTF
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
T- V. WAREHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY '
t&~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t"o.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sol© Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
300 Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled In bond for Ex> *; rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When youask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT oir PARLIAMENT, l#”
Paid-up Capital £300,008
Reserve Fund.. £138,05
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chainn
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.G.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
General Manager: j Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Es
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,'Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
ENERGY. * Vfff M
GREAT BODTLY STRENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH!
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the U 8(
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC? I
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression
&c., Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Cnest affections
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold bi
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPEK and Co., London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
PEPPER’S
TARAXACUM
AND PODOPHYLLIN.
A FLUID LIVER MEDICINE, MADE FROM
DANDELION AND MANDRAKE ROOTS.
Of Great Value for the Colonies.
Good lor Liver Disorder, Indigestion, Dyspepi
The best; Antibuious Remedy. Without a parti
of Mercury. Safest and surest Stomach and Li'
Medicine. Clears the Head and cures Headac
Regulates the BoweJs. Removes Heartburn i
tulence, Tepidity. Bottles, 12 doses. Sold
most Chemists. Insist that Pepper's i$ supplied
XjocQ^srer’s
SULPHUE
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made ifi London.
★insure*
//v T/J r
ACCIDENT
INDEMNITY CO Y (LIMITED j
• JL
MOON Manager
nicer te


The London nmd lRfotch Compony?
r%
/'
5 I
»w;
S7 7 27
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRANCH at
the above address, where the people of New South Wales can
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’ PRICE.
First-class, Sound, Strong, Sterling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capped and
Jewelled, for £3 10s., warranted for 5 years.
27 27
THE LONDON AND LIVERPOOL WATCH COMPANY.
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR EEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT 1
DRINK IT 1
DRINK IT 1
DRINK IT 1
f
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.^
S GEORGE-ST ■
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.)
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
rp HJS Hotel is centrally situated, n^co^mercial'Gentlemen and Spirits!
IgagagssSfer— ■—
St. PAUL’S LAGER BEER
Sole Agents —LESLIE McLAREN, & CO.,
247 George Street.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
COCOA
S. FRY & SOETS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.-LANCET.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
OKW£
Him©
V.O
is&s
Ut-nUM
UM
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should he carefully compared, aslarge
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Champagaie
Hcidsieck & Go’s.
BUY M9NOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHAIttBS & Co., London.
role Avfntf 3 for Heidaiecfc A Vo.. Reims.
Jjj 1 PEMEIII/S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
n Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is G UARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA PLOUS MILL,
831 Georse-strcct, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
HEW
furniture warehouses,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
limited,
•i
HIBIHX3
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
E A R T HEN WARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T. GAYEN’S
Sobnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburg n Pale 4ie.
AFTEfI OEFOR
Copyrighted .
HOUSTACHE and wmsms.
Boyd*s Beard J'lvxir did this, and
< trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 toiwceks and never
fails , 2»),000 young men already
tcear full beards, having used 1 to
tEFOns AFTER
23 E
Copyrighted
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets I*. 6a.
each 3 for 3*. *yl.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent , Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney ,N.S.W*
Robert butcher & co:
(Late William Long),
|ar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOBITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attent
GOOULTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS*and BODEGA.
\ ■
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS *
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS J
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
BLEND
JMAB&
TRA
.Ji
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This ig a BLKNP
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining- fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
3ES. BOWI<A.9irDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vfgorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER, STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gain Medal for grated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, &c.
