

1334= IOT NOVELTIES. ISS4=:
TMMT HOMED k SOUS,
Jthe largest drapery warehouses
Ife AND
fee Most Spacious Show Rooms
IN
TEEIE HEIvIISEHEEE.
THE LATEST FASHIONS FROM PARIS AMD LOMBOK BY' EVERY WAIL STEAMER.
PONY HORDERN AHD SOHS,
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
■5 i
A SXHG-LE chair at wholesale phxce.
Specimens c£ otlx XT' soz£tcll Cli^lxs,
ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS,
gp- thesr CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG AND DURABLE.
•We are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased specially for the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of IS
NEW COSTUMES, and NEW MESSES. A Magnificent Display ot NOVELiIES
in every department, at prices lower than any other house in Sydne y.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR °NLY ADDRESS:—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
*sc ‘jyvas aooAi ‘cIOJj itnaa
The Bulletin New Series


m
HUNT
JbL mg
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMEK GOODS.
JOHN HUNTER lias much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the
[)f England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Roots and Shoes, embracing the l;
aovelties for Ladies’, Gent/s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The enp rlD
ncrease of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of assi^ a
md those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
BBSS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO.. LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON—Head Office: HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &e., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &e.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons —Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Prancisco—Quicksilver.
Pels gnd Company, of Patras and 1 Corfu—Currants.
Thosrßell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &e., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Mayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel f encing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Pire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Srunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine,
übos Preres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, P. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Pry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hinckg.
lar* INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produee received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
2v£a,rtln ZEsZeesl^stm.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A 8 no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BOTD.
the patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, oarefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS .
Bogs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to hia ,
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Depart^
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stoek of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirit®* i ' e ‘ i ' ]ll , l e' v
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently r '"| 0 f
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a sb* 11
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. .. 6 (i
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***> 6 (3
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5 6
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. .. 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 6 0
Martell's Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impc-
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..5 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 3 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2 0
Better 2 6
Still Better 3 0
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 5 0
No. 2, „ „ .. ..4 6
No. 3, „ „ .. ..4 0
No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3 6
Flasks ■ .. .. Is 9d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALE.
Very Finest ..4 0
Red Heart 4 3
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 6
Ettamogah, red „ 2 6
„ Muscat „ 2 6
„ Reisling „ 2 6
Fallon’s Shiraz .. ~ 2 6
„ „ pints 1 6
per
PORT WINE.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** graoe
****
No! *** ”
No. ** „
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s ...
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry)
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Impei’ia) quart "j
BRITISH WINES.
1 1*
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine ...
Orange Wine •**
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s ***
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burk _
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky fl uil
Jameson’s 38 ,
Dunviile’s
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
.Tnmpftnn’ft , . n (i
” ZB W *
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ", ... SB
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial quart
Flasks 28
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva... . •“
Celebrated Key Brand, very large si^;'
bottle,containing mon Gian a quart
Flasks Key Gin - 18
Jameson’s
Flasks
40 ah
d a®
'6d ah d
5
A v
t a
i
11
ear
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, ail
allowed for. 1&r Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. WO^ 1 '
'P. it. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of £3, the f 0 «
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case \fJl,i,v''
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, F Quart SUP BRIG" '' v
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, " " - *
OR FOUgfl'y'
6 Quarts W EST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUP 51 til OK SH®
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality's,“ s t
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every iustance. To prevent delay, please make ‘
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Olliee.
Kindly Note the Address— ,
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant &
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket,


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 44.—New Series
SATURDAY, MARCH 15. 1884.
Priofr—6d.
Jurors and Judges.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1884.
Between the theoretical conception of Trial
by Jury as grandiloquently defined in con-
stitutional law-books, and Trial by Jury in
practical operation in New South Wales—
between the phrase and the fact, the word
and the thing—there is in reality an exceed-
ing great gulf fixed. In the constitutional
law-books, as in the language of those gush-
ing young fools, who, in the debating class,
take a Sapsean view of things, Trial by Jury
is the Palladium of Britain, the bulwark of
English liberty, “ the noblest invention for
the support of justice ever produced ’’;
while, as for the position and status of the
juror, it is said to be one of peculiar dignity.
He is a judge of the facts. To assault him,
even to threaten him, is a high misde-
meanour and gross contempt of court. The
verdict that he and bis mates deliver is un-
controllable ; and though it be apparently
contrary to the evidence, or to the direction
of the presiding Judge, thoy are not in any
way punishable for it. He is to have no
other rule than the belief which results to
his individual mind from the facts alleged
on both sides before him, from their proba-
bility, from the credibility of the witnesses,
and even from all such circumstances as he
may have a private knowledge of. Moreover,
he and his colleagues are presumed to re-
present the worth and common sense of the
community.
v * *
But, in the actual procedure of our Courts
of Law, what do we find Trial by Jury to
be ? A Palladium ?—or a wooden horse ?—or
a something betwixt and between?—a bul-
wark of liberty, or a shield of brawn ?—“ the
noblest invention,” &c., or a scurvy mockery?
Do we find the juror treated as in any sense
the equal of the Judge, or as ihe Judge’s
chattel, liable to downright bad usage if by
misadventure His Honor’s temper hath been
stroked the wrong way ? Do we, as a rule,
find the Jury representative of the worth
and common-sense of thecommunity? Why
should we trouble to reply to these queries ?
Is it not a fact that Trial by Jury in New
South Wales., is fast becoming a laughing-
stock? Is it not a fact that ill-bred and ill-
taught Judges have grossly insulted, not
only individual jurors, but whole juries, for
venturing to act upon the principle thus laid
down by Hale: “In their recess, the jury
are to consider the evidence, to weigh the
credibility of the witnesses, and the force
and efficacy of their testimonies; wherein
they are not precisely bound by the rules of
the Civil law, viz., to have two witnesses to
prove every fact, nor to reject one witness
because he is single, or always to believe
two witnesses, if the probability of the fact
does upon other circumstances reasonably
encounter them: for the trial is not here
simply by witnesses, but by jury— nay, it
may so fall out that a jury, upon their own
knowledge, may know a thing to be false
that a witness swore to be true, or may
know a witness to be incompetent or in-
credible, though nothing be objected against
him —and may give their verdict accord-
ingly ?” is it not a fact that the body of
jurors from whom the panels are struck
cannot honestly be deemed representa-
tive of the worth and common-sense
of the community, mainly on these two
accounts: (1) that the jury list i? very
imperfectly made, the names of many quali-
fied persons being left out, virtually at the
discretion of the police, who, in numberless
eases, stretch that discretion under pretence
°f excluding persons whom they consider
favourers of crime, on account of their con-
nection with convicted prisoners; (3) that
well-to-do persons, naturally disliking the
unnecessary inconvenience and discomfort
of the “box,” as well as reasonably dread-
ing the risk of beiag “ Judas Iscarioted,”
snorted at, or otherwise, more or less,
brutally insulted by vulgar, bumptious
J udges, prefer rather to p ay a flue than to at-
tend when summoned? Can, then, the resi-
duum who answer to their names, be deemed
truly representative of the worth and coin-
monsenseof thecommunity ? Here, again,we
need not to reply—the answers being so
evident.
* * *
The jury of twelve ought to contain (and
would do so, were the jury-lists more fre-
quently made out, and were those sum-
moned subjected, on attendance, to better
treatment) a sprinkling of members of all
MR. NORMAN SELFE, C.E.
the law-abiding classes, fairly representative
of the several interests of the respectable
population—the intellectually superior ele-
ments naturally exercising a leavening
influence. In theory, the right of challenge
is extended to the prisoner, on the principle
that since his fate entirely depends on the
twelve men who compose the jury, he should
have a share in the choice of them. This
surely implies that the list from which the
selection must be made shall be a broadly
representative one. If the list be restricted,
either by imperfect collection in the first in-
stance, or by the subsequent evasion of well-
to-uo persons who have been summoned, his
interests are without doubt seriously endam-
aged. The result of the jury lists beiDg so
restricted is to give the nightman far too
great a “show.” If the institution of Trial
by Jury is to be continued with any hope
of retaining the confidence of the people, it
must be reformed. At present it certainly
seems as though it were the object of the
legal authorities—of Judges, official prose-
cutors, and sheriff—to degrade it in the eyes
of all men. Unless, indeed, such be their
object, their conduct with regard to it is in-
explicable. In everything that concerns the
relations of Judges and barristers the mutual
etiquette is exigeant, though in Court the
latter (despite their rights of audience) are
subordinate to the former. In everything
that regards the relations of Judge to juror
—the latter being temporarily the former’s
equal in rank, his assessor-colleague, in no
sense his subordinate—the “ mutuality is all
on one side ” —not the juror’s side. It is here
the reform should begin. We believe that
the institution of Trial by Jury, once rea-
sonably reformed, would be likely to prove
serviceable for years to come, if not precisely
as a Palladium, at least as a substantial pro-
tection against legal hardness, strained judi-
cial interpretations, and prejudiced prose-
cutions.
* * V
The juror requires to be treated with more
respect. His remuneration should be higher.
The salaries of the Judges are handsome, and
their allowances for travelling, &c., liberal.
So should be those of their colleagues. The
quasi-penal treatment to which the juror is
now subject—the locking-up, the food-
docking, the directing him not to listen to
this or to read that—must be abolished.
Then, again, since the main object of Trial
by Jury is “to guard accused persons against
all decisions whatever from men invested
with permanent official authority,” it must
be so ordered that the deliverance of the
jury shall henceforth be a verdict strictly
“uncontrollable” and not
for a single moment to be questioned or
officially criticised by the Judge. “Not
Proven ” might advantageously be added to
the two forms of verdict which alone jurors
cau now deliver. And verdicts, instead of
having to be unanimous, should be by
majority, either by bare majority as in
Scotland and the Channel Islands, or by
two-thirds majority as in France. Last, but
by no means least, the collection of the jury
lists should either be entrusted to other
agency than that of the police, or (if for
convenience it be continued in their hands)
subjected to a rigid sorutiny by some special
tribunal of an elective character—the
magisterial benches being not sufficiently
independent of Government control, besides
being too lib with the police authorities.
Some such reforms as these would probably
secure to Trial by Jury a large measure of
its theoretical importance, by popularising
it afresh. Its present hold on popular
favour is not only weak, but daily weaken-
ing more and more.
The Premier of Queensland seems deter-
mined to leave a name in history. Mr.
Griffith is leader of the party in the
Northern colony which styles itself “Li-
beral.” As though to testify in liow slight
a degree classifications of that nominal sort
represent the true spirit oi the men who
employ them, Mr. Griffith, the liberal, has
scarcely settled himself into his own seat,
and his distinguished friend Mr. Groom into
the place of honour in the Assembly, than
he puts into practice a device for crushing
an opposing newspaper—a device worthy of
Lord North, and, in reality, borrowed from
the era in British domestic history which
witnessed Defoe in the pillory, and Dr.
Woolcot (Peter Pindar) skulking to escape
a Government prosecution. If the gratuit-
ous insult flung upon all Queensland by the
selection of the fellow Groom to fill the
position of “ first gentleman ” in that colony
should not suffice to stamp Mr. Griffith’s
present tenure of power with ignominy, his
revival of obsolete and justly infamous pro-
cedures, discarded from British tactics since
regal and oligarchical power has been con-
trolled and curbed by successive political re-
forms, would serve to disfigure the record.
In our own colony, the usefulness of the
Press as a protector of the publio-against
political, commercial, and social impostois
has been dangerously crippled by the iysc-
dixit of a Chief Justice who appears de-
sirous of brooking no rival near his throne .
but as yet the public security and popular
freedom have not been assailed by the pro-
digious political iniquity which Mr. Griffith
has inaugurated in the neighbouring colony,
• • •
If the remarks and comments of the
Courier— the leading journal of Queensland
—were characterised by any abnormal fero-
city or coarseness, or by any unprecedented
unscrupulousness of allegation, there would
have been slight occasion for surprise had
the angry Premier retorted by exceptional
proceedings. But, as a matter of fact, there
is nothing singular or exceptional in the
Courier’s comments. The article stated
that two members of the minority in the
Committee for Elections and Qualifications
were so disconcerted that they had sent in
their resignations, and one had since stated
in the Assembly his conviction of the hope-
less|partiality of Jthe Committee—their deci-
sion being governed, not at all by evidence,
but wholly by party considerations. Fur-
ther, it was alleged in the article that “it is
understood that the Election Committee,
which merely executes the Premier’s will,


The Kates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34a.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch;
special positions in the f paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be senti it more convenient.
By way of consoling Mr. Larrikin Brown,
who was recently flogged in Bathurst, a local
editor bids him remember that “although his
punishment was great, that of the Son of God was
greater.’’ That certainly ought to take the sting
out of the cat’s claws a trifle; but feeliDg in a more
than ordinary Scriptural humour just then, the
charitable scribe continues“ Christ was charged
by the Jews as being an imposter, liar, &c., and
was taken before that inconsistent crawler of
a police magistrate, Pilate, who, after examining
the accused, said, ‘ I And no fault in this Man .’
Yet Pilate smote Him, and banded Him over to
the mob to be crucified. There was a hot sardine
of a police magistrate for you.” We venture to
think that the likening of the Roman Governor to
a hot sardine has never been equalled for poetic
beauty even by Capting Canty or the honorable
member for the Horsewhip Bend, and that the
idea of drawing a parallel between a dirty, un-
natural blackguard and the noblest moralist and
social reformer who ever suffered from the con-
servative malice of orthodox bigots, is one of the
most infamous ever conceived.
Booth, the temperance man, made a
■ convert ” last week, and one too rejoicing in the
rather intoxicating name of John Collins. John
was charged at the Melbourne City Court, with
drunkenness,and as it was onlyabout his hundredth
appearance, he pleaded hard for “ one more
chance.” Mr. Call (who is almost womanly in his
gentleness) gave him the optiou of joining the
Blue Ribbon Army, and honest John journeyed
ii i * rom the Court House, took the oath of
allegiance, and returned to the “beak,” with the
nit ot blue in h s coat and tears of gratitude in
his eyes, to thank him for his leniency. It is
worthy of remark, mind you, that Mr. Call
(questioned. John as to whether he had partaken of
just one on his way back, and points to the
fact that he was sceptical of John’s stability of
cbaracter. And when we mention that the two
old inends had another meeting—under the
usual melancholy circumstances within three
days of John s“ conversion,” it shows that Mr. Call
is a clever judge—of humanity. Still it is satisfac-
tory to know that the name of John Collins will
be included in the list of Mr. Booth’s converts for
tho year.
Sias determined to quash ’’—another election
mot yet actually dealt with. This may very
well be true. But it would be hard to prove.
Many true things are hard to prove.
Imagine Junius called upon to prove to the
satisfaction of a law court, all his charges
against the administration of his day! But
true or false matters little as to the political
morality of the Queensland sham Liberal’s
revenge. Any journal could be forced to
choose between prudential silence and ruin
by prosecutions such as Mr. Griffith
has set in motion against the Coubier.
Everyone knows that it is not the mere ver-
dict which a litigant cares about, now-a-
days. A man may be ruined by successful
litigation. A bill of costs as between lawyer
and client is a tremendous instrument of
destruction. And when the purse of the
community is pitted against the pocket of
private individuals, there’s no doubt about
the ultimate result. Mr. Liberal Griffith
has degraded the name of Liberal onoe
again.
PLAINS ENGLISH.
Sauce for the Geese.
The “loyal” Orangemen of Jamberoo, in
solemn conclave assembled, have unanimously re-
solved that they are “ of opinion that the question
of Scriptural instruction in Public Sohools wil 1
never bo placed on a satisfactory footing until the
Bible itself is read daily in every Public School in
the colony—subject, of course, to the proviso that
bio child shall be compelled to join in Bible lessons
if its parents object.” If the view of these Orange
Jamberoos be accepted by the Minister of Public
Instruction (which we don’t for a moment suppose
it will), how will he be able to resist consistently
the equally legitimate and reasonable contention
(should it be made) that Tom Paine’s “ Age of
Reason,” or Mrs. Besant’s “My Path to Atheism,”
be read daily in every Public School in the colony,
subject, of course, to the proviso that no child
jWI be compelled to join in the Freethought
essons if its parents object. The complete secu-
larisation of the Public Schools must be urged on,
notwithstanding the shrieks of the Presbyterian
and similar organs of sectarian bigotry. If the
Orange Jamberoos want Orange Jamberooism
taught, let them at their own cost provide teachers
and buildings for the said proselytising process -
The Roman Catholics act consistently in this
matter. They stigmatise the Public School system
as godless, and go to work as if they believed it
was so. Let the Orange Jamberoos be only equally
honest, and we won’t care if they support a teacher
in every parish. But they must keep their hands
off the non-seotarian organisation of the Public
School system.
4
Larks for Larrikins.
One faotor of the larrikinism now so
prevalent is undoubtedly the lack of wholesome
recreation for the lower orders in the larger centres
of population. An absurd Puritanism is answer-
able for this. No social reform will ever reach the
larrikin strata, unless it be a reform divorced en-
tirely from the Puritan spirit. The “ move on ”
gospel will not effect a cure ; neither will the
gospel of the Young Men’s or Young Women’s
Christian Associations, nor that of the City Mis-
sionary. The means of wholesome recreation, not
only in the' shape of parks, but in that of music"
halls and dancing-saloons, must be bountifully
purveyed to the lower orders if larrikinism is ever
to be put down. Puritanism can’t see this. Even
a man like John Osborne, who professes to be
“ broad,” sees in ooeroive legislation the only means
of battling with the larrikin. “ I would put down
dancing-saloons,” says he. We would put them
up. “It seems a distinct pity that youthful spirits
should be repressed or turned into a sour and
morbid channel through a mistaken notion of the
vice and folly of dancing.” Thus Lady Greville,
in an able paper on “ Social Reform for the
London Poor ” (in the January number of the
Fortnightly). We agree with Lady Greville.
“ Father ” Mackonochie’s Church Dancing Saloon
was a really grand idea, though evangelical bigots
hounded him down for thus (as they yelled) pander-
ing to Belial. A well-conducted concert-hall and
dancing-saloon, where propriety was insisted on
and where cheap refreshments could be procured,
in every parish of the metropolis would be the
focus of a moral improvement subtle as leaven in
its operation. Life wants making brighter. The
Puritan would make it duller. With more bright-
ness would come more refinement. There’s no-
thing like hearty, jolly, amusement to brighten
life; and, perhaps, no amusement so re-invigorat-
ing as dancing. Well did that honest and truly
broad ” thinker. Norman Macleod, recognise this
when he sang those stirring stanzas—
“ Dance, my children, lads and lasses,
Cut and shuffle, toes and heels;
Piper, roar from every chanter
Hurricanes of Highland reclsl
Make the old place shake with laughter,
Beat its flooring like a drum,
Batter it with Tullochgorum
Till the storm without is dumb!
Sweep in cycles like a whirlwind,
Flit across like meteors glancing,
Crack your Angers, shout in gladness—
Think of nothing but of dancing!”
Mr. Norman Selfe, M.I.C.E., &c.
Mb. Norman Selfe, whose portrait appears in
our issue this week, is probably better known in
connection with colonial engineering than any
other engineer in Sydney, and, indeed, in the
whole colony—if we except the three professional
heads of the Government engineering depart-
ments. Mr. Selfe comes from a race of practical
people. His father and grandfather both gave
evidence on the Parliamentary Committee on the
London Water Supply; and in leaving for this
colony in 1854, his father gave up a business which
had been carried on by his ancestors at Kingston-
on-Thames for at least 300 years—the old vellum-
covered account books being preserved in the
counting-house. A rain water-head of most
elaborate design, made for the ancestors of the
Duke of Norfolk in 1677, was brought back
to the works nearly 300 years after, in perfect pre-
servation, and was exhibited at a meeting of the
Surrey Arohicological Society, shortly before the
subject of our notice left England. Mr. Norman
Selfe was educated specially for an engineer,
partly in his native town, and afterwards at St.
Margaret’s, in Kent. Arriving here, he was ap-
prenticed to Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co., in whose
service he rose, by the sheer force of talent and
industry to the very highest position, the Arm then
being the principal engineering firm in Australia.
Some thousands of designs for steam engines and
mill plans passed through his hands. Afterwards,
Mr. Selfe became the engineer for the Australian
Mineral Oil Company, and for the Western Kero-
sene Company, designing and carrying out for the
former the works at North Shore, and for the latter
the great refining works at Botany. His railway
designs at the Hartley Vale works brought him
the highest encomiums. Subsequently Mr. Selfe
erected the extensive works of the Sydney Gas
Company, Miller’s Point. He now accepted an
offer from Mort’s Dock and Engineering Company
—in the first instance to design the mail steamer
Governor Blackall, and he was afterwards ap-
pointed scientific engineer and chief draughtsman
to the company. Mr. Selfe’s success with this
company received signal recognition from the
leading English engineering works, costly illustra-
tions of many of his designs appearing in these pub-
lications—notably the Crown-street pumping en-
gines and the compound engines of the Bell-bird
said to be the first compound launch engines made
anywhere). The improved plan now adopted
for the berthing of ships at the Circular
Quay is undoubtedly an unrecognized adop-
tion of the scheme proposed by Mr. Selfe
a few years ago. The plan now adopted
saves the conntry at least £lOO,OOO. Very important
wharfage work has been erected by Mr. Selfe for
private firms ; he has likewise been the designer
of the Government torpedo boats (eighteen miles
an hour), the patent slips, the great cranes at
Darling Harbour, the new harbour steamer and
the more important sugar works of the colony.
In 1880, Mr. Selfe was elected a full member of
the Institution of Civil Engineers, and also of the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers. He was one
of the founders of the Engineering Association of
N.S.W., and was three years President. He was
likewise one of the founders of our prosperous
Technical College. Besides alt this individual
work, some of the most promising young engineers
have passed under his training. In 1873, Mr. Selfe
married the eldest daughter of Mr. John Booth, of
Balmain. It is quite impossible to refer in detail
to even the principal works designed by Mr. Selfe.
Nearly every warehouse or faotory in Sydney
owes something to his great skill and industry,
and no man in the country more thoroughly
deserves the spell which he now proposes to give
himself in his intended trip to England.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to home their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Port. Macquarie You say surveyors are
laying' out the proposed railway route between
Maitlsnd and the Clarence, and want to know when
the line will be open for traffic. What’s the use of
asking: us simple questions like this ? Give us
something hard. Now, if jrou asked when there’d
bo a gas company at Milparinka, or a social purity
society at Cooper’s Creek, we could understand it.
You know as well as we the reckless activity
brought to bear on railway construction in N.S.
Wales. The line you mention will probably be
open when the colonies are confederated and the
Pacific Islands chawed up....“ V.X.O. 4 ’: We do
not know the Sydney man, but believe him to be
identical with a man of same name who once came
to us when wo were editing a Queensland country
paoer, and tried to coax a free ad. An unmistake-
able quack, that one. Some of these quacks know
as much of the special complaints they undertake
to treat as the qualified doctors know. But some
know nothing, except that mankind is gullible,
and almost all are apt to turn the knowledge they
get of delicate matters to their own advantage by
blackmailing their patients. You have always more
security for proper treatment from a regular prac-
titioner, and you are sure of confidence being re-
spected.. “Dicky Sam” (Newcastle): The expression
“bigoty and virtue,” which kinder raises your
gall, is an old “goak.” It was originally laid at
the door of Mrs. Hudson, the “railway king’s”
wife, when, as a nouvelle riche, she was nightly
astounding London with her malapropisms. As
for salted articles, newspaper matter should be
salted—with the best attic “Culex”: Your
MS. received. Have not yet found time to read
it. Looks formidably long “Subscriber W.”
(Maitland): We refuse to insert any such rubbish.
....“ T.M.”: Very good sense, in sound colloquial
English —“C.J.Q.”: Thanks; very acceptable
“Unfortunate Native”: See reply to “Y.X.0.”
Of those you mention, No. 3 is probably the most
reliable. He is only a licensed apothecary, although
he styles himself “Doctor.” “F.R.”: Thanks;
used.
Political
Points
The Age declares that the fate of Mr.
Dibbs’ property-tax proposal is the clearest and
most convincing' proof of the grasping greed of
the N S.W. Conservatives, and of the folly and
supineness of the Liberals in that community.
In view of the great interest which at-
taches to the vacant portfolio, we are happy to be
I in a position to announce, by authority, that Mr.
John Davies, C.M.G., will be appointed Minister
for Education when the month J-a-n-a-r-y comes
round.
Sir Robert Bright, over whose head
Connaught was appointed to the command of the
Meerut division of the Bengal Army, has been
given a “ distinguished service ” reward of £lOO a
year. Bright probably thinks that were the
Army authorities just before they were generous,
it would be all the better.
Arthur Wellesley Peel, M.P. for Warwick,
was ejected Speaker of the House of Commons, on
the 36th ult., without opposition. The moderate
Conservatives refused to countenance the putting
forward of a rival candidate out of fear lest a
contest should so exasperate party feeling as to
destroy all prospect of future occupants of the
chair being considered the “ mouth ” and oracle of
the whole assembly.
For a 11c w way of writing about an election
Alfred is unrivalled. We note with admiration,
on polling-day, this brilliant flight“ Krom an
early hour the supporters of each candidate were
busily canvassing the electorate.” Also this in-
vigoratingly original period:—“ Of the chances of
the respective candidates there were, of course,
different opinions.” No wonder it is hard to en-
gage a “sandwich” advertisiug-man now-a-days.
“The Duke of Argyle is about to writ© a
book in confutation of Henry George’s ‘ Poverty
and Progress.’ ”
So the Campbell is coming to tilt against George,
In a mighty big funk lest he have to disgorge
Ail those thousands on thousands of acres ho owns
By virtue (or vice) of ancestral “ bones.”
Will he meet him, fair-fronting, in logical style,
Or to precedents trust (like a duko) d la guile ?
It would be interesting to learn from old
Luscombe what was the meaning of that confer-
ence which his confederates held with Sydney Bur-
dokin just prior to the nominations for East Sydney.
Did his patriotism overcome his ambition ? Did his
courage ooze out at his fingers’ ends at the last
moment. In fact, was it patriotism or what,
which induced him to clear the path, so that
Sydney might win East Sydney We suspect it
was—what ?
Among the public works to be omitted
from the revised estimates, the item appears,
“Tanks and wells to be reduced from £60,000 to
£30,000.” This is leaving well alone with a ven-
geance. By the bye, we learn from the Wjlcannia
Times, that a tank 15ft. deep and otherwise of fair
dimensions, has been constructed at the Dry Lake
in such a high position that no water can get into
it. For such Mining Department mercies it is
difficult to feel thankful.
“If Friday be given up, private members
would be relinquishing some of their most sacred
privileges.” Thus Buchanan. “If lion, members
looked at the records of the Assembly, they would
And that for the last twenty years during which
Mr. Buchanan had been a member of the House he
| had seldom failed to be absent from a division on
a Friday night.” Thus Abbott, proving the rant
of the learned member for Mudgee to be nothing
at all but absolute fudgee.
Henceforth the Lords-Lieutenant of
Ireland, on their arrival and departure from
Kingston, are to honoured with a full Royal in lieu
of a Vice-regal salute. Surely this truly Liberal
measure (of gunpovvder) ought to satisfy Erin;
and yet we fear that like many another similar idea,
it will end in smoke. Perhaps this arrangement is
preliminary to the development of a little court
job now hatching, viz. the appointment of Lorne-
cum-Louiee to the Lodge in the “ Phaynix.”
The Radical section of the Gladstone ad-
ministration has triumphed 1 The County Fran-
chise Bill, providing for a uniform qualification in
England, Scotland and Ireland, has been introduced
in the Commons by the Premier; while it is not
intended to deal with seats redistribution till next
year. The Whigs, like the Tories, were for put-
ting the cart before the horse—redistribution first
and reform of franchise afterwards; but Chamber-
lain, Dilke, and Co. have been too many for them.
A contemporary observes : “ Canada’s
national debt is, in proportion to the population
higher than that of any other country, and is
rapidly growing.” This is inaccurate. The debt
of Canada is 33 millions to a population of 4)4
millions, or something like £7 per head. The
debt of Cape Colony is 15 millions to a population
of 1)4 million, or £l3 per head. The gross public
debt of the British possessions in Australasia is
98 millions to a population of say 3 millions, or
nearly £33 per head.
Sir James Martin urges the re-enactment
of his Workhouse Act of '66, which, through the
neglect of Parkes, his then colleague, was never
carried out. He asserts that its operation will
prevent much misery to hundreds of drunken and
dissipated persons, unable and umvilling to help
themselves, and leave the police some time to
attend to matters of greater utility than picking
up drunkards and vagrants from the gutters.
Perhaps; but the term workhouse is decidedly
objectionable.
Hiep-hoa, late King of Annam, was more
than four hours dying. The poison nearly failed.
Advantage was taken of this to make him sign an
act of abdication, in which he declared himself
incapable of ruling, and unworthy to live, that is
why he dies. Before his death, he used his last
hours to abdicate in favour of his well-beloved
Tai-phu (the new King). When the Regent of
Annam (Viam Ninh) was asked to breakiast the
other day with Iv.Tricou, he accepted and went
—but would touch nothing on the table 1
The Duke of Argyle (God bless him !) is all
for justice, strict justice, if you please. He has
proved to the complete satisfaction of—the Mac-
cullummore—that those wretched crofters on his
estates never had any right of possession or con-
tinuity of tenure—that they are, in fact, tres-
passers on his God-given rights. As for the
abstract rights of man, or the particular rights of
a crofter in actual occupancy of a holding to live
and not perish of sheer starvation, these are
matters which His Grace treats as trifles light as
air. His land is not to be trespassed on. Sic wit.
siejuhet. Well, we shall see.
The India Office, without the knowledge
of the local Government of India, some little white
ago granted a concession to a coal company, by
the terms of which they are virtually inve, d
with sovereign rights over the harbour of Perun
Island and the adjacent shore. Now that war is
imminent, the folly of having made such a con-
cession is evident. Perim, a place naturally of no
strategical value, could be evacuated at a moment’s
notice but for its being a coal depot. Should hos-
tilities break out, either tho coal must be burnt
(when the company, Lucas-like, will want com-
pensation), or the harbour fortified. Ripon has
protested against the absurd action of the' Indian
Office in the most peremptory manner, to Kimber-
ley’s huge disgust.
Standing Order No. 100 of the Legislative
Council contains these words: “The prayer of
evsry petition must be at the end thereof.” Stand-
ing Order No. 19 of the Legislative Assembly is
somewhat similar: “ Every p itit.ion must contain
the prayer of petitioners at the end thereof-”
AVhen a petition to either branch of the Legisla-
ture clearly states its object in respectful terms,
why on earth should it be deemed necessary, nmv-
a-days, that it must conclude with the lie, “and
your petitioners will ever pray ?” There’s a lot of
dry-rotting precedent that Wants being cut out
of our parliamentary procedure.
The Radicals who howled with delight
over the Grand Old Man’s “pamphlet” on the
“atrocities” of the Bashi-Bazouks, must be stag-
fered by the intelligence that Lieutenant-Colonel
tewart is now leading a force of 2000 of those
troops in Egypt. Things must certainly have
changed since “ seventy-six;” but it is to be hoped
that the English Conservative party will not worry
the grand old gentleman, now he’s enjoying the
sweets of office, with references to the “ Mid-
lothian campaign” and “Opposition” orations.
Of course, he didn’t know, then, that he’d ever
want Bashi-Bazouks on his side.
The Victorian Railway Commissioners are
looking into things, and now and again lift up
a little matter, venerable with the du9t of anti-
quity, mb the dust off it. and knock it down with
their wand. The other day they found a by-law
which empowered all officials with screws over
£4OO per annum to ride round the colony without
purchasing a railway ticket. The by-law was a
relic which the colony didn’t seem to have ex-
amined very minutely in the past, but which the
white-wristed officials prized as a sacred privilege.
The commissioners held it up for a while, gave it a
lick of their wand, and, 10l its foolishness and in-
justice were scattered to the winds. The oifioials
were horrified, but the people laughed.
On the Bth January, 1885, Prince Albert
Victor of Wales will come of age. Of course, a
separate establishment is already being talked
about for His Royal Highness; and we mav be
equally certain that the bitter outcry which is
sure to be raised against a definite proposal of the
kind will be set down to Communistic ruffians
consumed with the burning desire to destrov
England’s greatness. Inasmuch as the annuities
at present payable to tne Royal Family (exclusive
of such “ perks ” as full colonelcies, naval or mili-
tary commands, rangerships, travelling expenses,
&c., &c., &c., &0.,) tot up to £556,000, wo think that
his relations might club up enough between them
to prevent the poor lad going on the parish.
The Pavoriten Quarter of Vienna is princi-
pally inhabited by working men who have a
a shrewd knowledge of the way in which poverty
demoralises their class; when, therefore, one Sun-
day in January a Jesuit missionary in the local
church of St John sought to impress on them the
“Glory of Poverty,” they would hive none of
his making the damnable appear the blessed. “ We
will have no Jesuits ! ” they cried, and with some
roughness they hunted him out of the pulpit. In
the panic which ensued, several persons were hurt.
When priests preach the Gospel of Discontent, and
the glory of a social transformation which shall
ameliorate things for the poor here on this side
the blue, then perchance they may win the ears
of the toiling millions—but not till then.
Says the courtly Whitehall Review
“Our social system has its evil features, and
poverty is not unknown among us (considering
that England has 803,719, Ireland 465,646 and
Scotland 92,618 absolute paupers the W.R’s'not
unknown ’ is hardly ingenuous), but on the whole
our people have a general interest in maintaining
the institution of property on its present basis.”
If by “ our people ” the W. R. means its special
clientele, we dare say it speaks God Almighty’s
truth; but—and’tis a but of big import—we are
confident that outside of that “ whole,” the mil-
lions in the United Kingdom are for such a whole-
sale agrarian reform as will irrecoverably shatter
the present basis of property, and substitute for it
something that shall at least possess a semblance
of equity.
The South Australian Licensed Vic-
tuallers Gazette, is, as might be expected, in-
tensely and densely Podsnappish. “ Instead of
conferring titles (acknowledging the Mahdi’s right
to assume the title of ‘ Sultan of Kordofan ’), Eng-
land,” shrieks the crow-eating victuallers’ organ,
“should have proclaimed El Mahdi as a traitor and
a murderous hound for whom the halter was too
good.” The stupid shaliowpate who indited that
bit of rot doesn’t probably know that the Mahdi
owes no allegiance to England (nor, for the matter
of that to the Khedive either), and, evidently can’t
see thaq so far from being a hound, the Sultan of
Kordnfan is a gallant warrior and able diplomatist,
and, though by bad luck England’s enemy, a foe-
man worthy of her steel.
Thus the Riverine Evening Star not
unreasonably (only the Government couldn’t com-
ply with its suggestion without an Electoral Act
amending Act): —“ The Lower Murrumbidgee is
a squatter’s land: the Upper is the future home of
the agriculturalist. Each requires representation
peeuiiar to its different elements. The people of
Wagga Wagga have only to press their right to a
borough member and no doubt the Government
will accede to their request. The Government in
doing so would please every one of the 5000 electors
of the present immense district; for in granting
a borough member to Wagga Wagga they could
also so divide the electorate as to give Narandera
an opportunity—which it does not now enjoy—of
electing a member thoroughly conversant 'with
the wants of the district, of whicli it is the rapidly
growing centre.”
Mr. Hugh M‘Coll came down from Man-
durang to Melbourne, quite lately, and travelled
around the office of the Chief Secretary, his poc-
kets stuffed out with papers, and the initiation of
a canal in each eye. When he turned the handle
of the door and got up against Mr. Berry, the
latter trembled for the fate of the Coalition, and
said, softiv, “Don’t, Hugh, don’t, and I'll do any-
thing.” “ Will iyer, first, puta tellygrapli offace
at Sebastian ?” demanded Hugh. “Iwill, Hugh,
1 will.” “ Will yer, second, lift the Pyramid Hill
post-off ace over the way ?” I will, Hugh, I will ”
Will yer, third, stick that fifteen hunaerd into the
shift?” “I will, Hugh, I will.” Then the great
Hugh wired to the Mandurang people that toe
Coalition Ministers were the greatest and best
Victoria ever possessed, and Berry stretched him-
self and exclaimed “ Ha, let Mirarns come on. I
have Hugh on my side.”
Christian August Selmer, one of the two
Norwegian Ministers of State, has been condemned
by the High Court of Justice on the charges of
delict preferred against him by the OdelsthiDg, and
sentenced to be deprived of all his offices under
the State, with ail the costs of his impeachment.
The S.M. Herald, in referring to the matter, says
he was tried before “ the Rigoret, or Upper
Chamber.” In Norway, there is strictly no Upper
House. The whole legislative of the realm
is vested in the Storthing, which, when assembled,
divides itself into two houses-the ‘ Lagsthing”
and the “ Odelsthing.” •• The Storthing (says
Martin) can also form itself into a High Court of
Justice for the impeachment and trial of Ministers.
The bill of accusation must always come
from the Odelsthing, and be brought from thence
to the Lagsthing, sitting for the occasion with the
Chief Court of Justice as ‘ Rigsretten,’ or supreme
tribunal of the realm.”
Tom Slattery should be mighty proud of
the following flattery, which we ciip from the
Burrowa Nuisance: “Mr. James Stevenson, slop-
shop assistant to his brother Isaae, says Mr.
Slattery will be returned for Burrowa in spite of
any opposition that Mr. Burns could give him.
We trust the day is far distant that will make
precious to his return the a sistance of Mr. James
Stevenson or his brother, or any evil-minded
Stygian pug-featured voter. Mr. Slattery cannot
forget the hellish sectarian cry that Stevenson
tried to raise against him when he first announced
himself for the Burrowa electorate, or when he
accused him of being the puppet of ‘some
mysterious organization in Sydney.’ ” Ah ha !
That knocks the slop-assistant out in one round.


Some of the English regimental balls are
splendidly managed; the soldiers, faultlessly neat
and fully armed, form guards of honour both out.
side and in the porches and staircases, and there is
invariably a display of silver plate belonging to
the regiment. At a late ball, the room was hung
with richest yellow silk from India, under a
canopy of which the scarlet coated band were
stationed, making a brilliant contrast. The room
walls were blaxing all round with burnished hel-
mets, swords, and bayonets, while rendevous were
made with names of the famous battles of the
regiment, from the “ Peninsula ” down to “ Egypt,
1883.” Amid such brilliant surroundings, impres-
sionable young girls can easily imagine every
scarlet-coated young noodle a magnificent hero,
Nowhere is the “pomp and panoply ” of war so
effective as when it is utterly separated from any-
thing that is really like war.
MIL FRESE'S HAMBURG TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventitive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and eertain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING a packet. W hole-
BROThSh!. Sydnesf” S ° U,b
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
tar PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
C L Y N E L I S~h" WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
And Tom’s fervent prayer is that the Uurrowa
iokslinger may soon be committed on a charge of
libel. «o that he will have a chance to show his
gratitude by defending him.
Thus “Constant Reader” to the Armi-
dai.k Chronicle: —“ In your artiole on ‘The
Annexation Question’ the following passage
occurs:— ‘ Very little, if anything, except a great
deal of talking, has been done towards this con-
summation (confederation) since it was first sug-
creitel by Sir Hercules Robinson.’ Will you kindly
allow me to state that Sir Hercules Robinson was
not the first to suggest the subject. Years before
hi 9 arrival in Australia it was introduced into the
Victorian Assembly by Sir Charles G. Duffy aud
discussed at length by that body; it was also re-
ferred to in our own Assembly about the same
time.” The A. C.’s “Constant Reader” has evi-
dently forgotten (if ever he knew) that long prior
to Duffy’s first arrival in Australia (in ’56) the
question of federation had been broached over
and over again. In 18)3 the committee appointed
finally to prepare a constitution for N.S.W. made
a variety of of suggestions on the subject.
TAMWORTH TO EAST SYDNEY - .
Fair Sydney East, surprised, we hear
That you must have our member dear,
You cannot really estimate
His value to a free, young state;
Or, in your h ghoit moments guess
The sort of treasure you'll possess;
So, with a true, becoming grace,
We yield him to your fond embrace.
In making this groat sacrifice,
We really wish to see him rise
Body and soul into the skies!
For heaven made him at his birth
Oblivious of all things of earth.
To raise him from this obscure hole,
We’d send him to the Arctic pole,
Where ends the world, wild, vacant, bare—
Perchance he might bo useful there;
Dr, should he 'ancy warmer lands.
We'd place him in El Madhi’s hands.
That was a curious crowd which stood
around Sydney Burdekin on the balcony at
Punch’s Hotel, after the declaration of the poll
for East Sydney election; but it was very sugges-
tive of the nature of the forces by which the
victory was won. First, there was the rugged and
unclassical John M'Elhone, “too full for utter-
ance,- ’ but still actuated by that venom which he
go often mistakes for virtue; then there was A.
G. Taylor, M.P for Mudgee, whose brilliant and
sarcastic speeches hgd been no small factor in the
fight; on the left was the energetic and terribly
earnest E. W. O’Sullivan, whose power of organ-
isation and unremitting activity, so grossly mis-
directed, had turned the scale in favour of his
candidate by cajoling labouring men to vote for
a representative of the capitalist class their
worst foes: beside him was Jessep, the secretary
of the Orange institution, and at the back of them
all. smiliug like Mephistopheles, was the once
great John Davies, who with cast-“iron” cheek
also attempted to address the spectators. It only
required the presence of Father Mahony to make
complete the extraordinary combination by which
George Houston Reid was defeated for the seat
where he had so often headed the poll. No doubt
some of these men worked with an earnest desire
to vindicate their principles; but, if the truth
could only be elicited, we hear that others of the
number had joined in the hunt merely to satisfy
private spleen or serve some paltry end.
It would be well were all heads of Govern-
ments as resolute in resisting encroachments on
the rights of the people in the matter of parks,
harbour foreshores, &c., as “ Pam.” was in regard
to the “ exclusive ” proposals of his colleague,
Sir Benjamin Hall, with reference to the enclosing
of the Green Park (London) into shrubberies ana
keeping the people off the gras. As “Pam’s”
letter to Hall on the occasion we refer to is a
perfect model of prime-ministerial firmness, we
subjoin it in extenso for the rpecial behoof of
Stuart and his successors:—“ 94, Piccadilly, No-
vember 12th, 1857. My Dear Hall,—l have been
much surprised this morning at seeing a party of
labourers employed in trenching a large piece of
tie Green Park. As Head of the Government, I
have a right to expect that essential alterations
should not be made in the spaces allotted for the
enjoyment and recreation of the public without
my previous sanction and concurrence, and I en-
tirely disapprove of the restrictions which you
are imposing upon the free enjoyment of the
Green Park and Hyde Park by the public. Your
iron hurdles are an intolerable nuisance, and I
trust that you mean shortly to remove them. To
cut up the Green Park into enclosed shrub-
beries and plantations would be materially to
interfere with the enjoyment and free recreation
of the public; and I must positively forbid the
prosecution of any such scheme. As Head of the
Government, I should be held by the public to
have authorised these arrangements, and I do not
choose to be responsible for things which I disap-
prove.—Yours sincerely, Palmerston.”
Politics in Victoria have been very calm
late y, but it appears that they are not likely to
remain so very much longer. The developments
of the future will show that a new party will
spring i into existence ere long that will make
matters rather lively for the Servicc-cum-Berry
administration, which has enjoyed the sweets and
emoluments of office with such undisturbed quie-
tude. An organisation is in the course of for-
mation whicn promises to take the country by
surprise. The head centres a' e the Hon. W. U.
bmith, the gallant and wily Major who is noted for
the possession of such huge beetle-crushers that
peopie have to keep clear of him when they hear
bis footsteps, and Mr. James Mirams, the member
of Parliament of such diminutive stature. The
garrulous David Gaunson is to stump the country
on the new programme, i he Major is to open fire
at Ballarat previously to the opening of Parlia-
ment, Little Mirams is to follow suit; and they are
to be seconded by a number of aspiring politicians,
amongst wh m may be numbered Mr. John Fisher,
ex-M.L.A., Tom Bent, the astute and enterprising,
J. P. T. Caulfield (who is to be secretary to the
new association), John Andrews, late member for
'vest Melbourne, Councillor Leonard, solicitor,
the facetious T. E. Healy, the defeated of West
Bourke, and Jack Woods, M.P. The prominent
plank in the platform of the new party is to be
the denunciation of the Railway Commission
appointed by the Service Ministry. The leader is
to be chosen from either Mirams or Major Smith.
Ibe former gentleman will probably be selected,
and the man with the big feet has expressed his
rival asßs to play second fiddle to his less gigantic
“With certain exceptions ” says London
Bunco, “our hereditary title-bearers in the
upper House’ have sprung from soldiers of
tortune, ‘ sharp ’ tradesmen, ‘ smart ’ lawyers, or
ladies of humble birth. This raw material has
been refined by generations of Eton and the
universities; but, in spite of this, the residuum
u® ry frequently gives unmistakable evidence of
th rat u er coarse origin. The ‘ common ’ features,
rne shop-counter simper, the stunted artisan
fi^ Ure all tell of extremely plebeian blood. But
these are lost sight of in the glamour of high
nr, o , . n Earl, if he is an Earl, looks every inch
nn i ’ ia B P ite of his squint, and a Duke, it he is
"j;! 1 * 1 0’ appears to be specially worthy of a coronet
the regulation strawberry leaves, even
tw uga his finger-nails do not strongly testify
T,ili r ,? , '£S er ’ 8 enthusiastic love of personal cleanli-
m ® 88 - There is a lot in that. So there is in the
in*i, e B P ee °h Put b' our London contemporary
a J„e ?? o uth of a model peer, a portion of the
sii£h£ atlon which is as follows:—“ From this
j confession you may imagine that I am
suorant, vicious, mean, and grasping. Well, lam
a ?? more, for lam an ass mto the bar-
hnnJ j Sldes this, 1 have no birth to boast of. A
swan, years ago or so, my great-grandfather
row?:* crossing’, and h's wife dealt in hare and
huT-o *t. Balns ’ But what matter the past when we
ana 1,7+1 P reßen t before us! lam crassly ignorant
as b r D^°i e r ab y offensive, but lam a Lord. And,
imvo* ’ 1 can ive you what laws I please, or
end*®’ 0 near the House of Lords from one year’s
Si o anoth . er ’ 1 generally adopt the latter
orih« ’ .9®P t when the interest of my own class,
mv w?Ai heat-ion ol - a fad, causes me to perform
“ y responsible duties.”
A correspondent writes under date Feb-
ruary 38, from Wilcannia, the very heart and soul
of the great Separation League This important
scheme originated in the brains of about live in-
dividuals, who are endeavouring to ‘seek the
bubble reputation,’ not, however, in the ‘ cannon’s
mouth.” They can’t lose anything over it except
a little breath occasionally, which is doubtless
beneficial; and should they by some miraculous
fluke get what they are trying for, of course they
are made men from that day forth. They have
thoir respective billets cut and dried already.
Wouldn’t we shine out here as an independent
colony ! First item, railway from Hay to Wilcan-
nia. Second, lock the Darling from Bourke to
Wentworth. No more cockies ; no more money
sent to Sydney in the shape of rent, duties, &c.
But, seriously, at least eight men out of every ten
I meet ridicule the bare idea of it The fact of it
is there's no unanimity (first time I used that word,
but I think it fits). One-half of the stations
belong to men residing in Melbourne and Adelaide,
a few to Sydneyites, and the remainder are worked
by the owners. These last are the men who want
separation. About the Land Bill, no one up here
believes it will ever pass. I defy the wisest states-
man that ever lived to frame a comprehensive
Land Bill that would suit the whole colony ; why,
you can't go 50 miles in any direction without
going through country different in every respect
to what you have left behind you. Out here, some
patches there are that will almost carry a sheep to
the acre ; go on a few miles and you will get into a
scrub of mallee pine, or something else that
wouldn’t carry a sheep to 50 acres. And as for
water, the Great Desert of Sahara can’t touch some
of this country. The rainfall is from six to ten
inches per annum ; sometimes not a drop for four
months. Try to sink wells, you may strike salt
water a dozen times before you get any fit
to drink, or you may sink six hundred or seven
hundred feet and get no water, either salt or fresh.
If the present Ministry think they are going to
replenish an empty exchequer by skilful squeezing
of the squatter fraternity, they’re simply out of it.
The squatters of the Western Division, I know
can t stand it, for the simple reason that most of
them are ‘ brokers’ already. Anyone interested in
this matter can form a fair idea of the value of
this country by finding out how much purchased
land there is on the runs. Perhaps 320 acres, here
and there, on a few; no more. Let this District
plod along for (say) twenty years as it is, and then
there may be a chance of increasing the revenue
by a new Land Bill. Why should poor beggars out
here have to pay for bad legislation and mistakes
in the past ? It’s like locking the stable-door after
the steed is stolen. The finest pastoral land in
N.S. W. is now all freehold, through the stupidity
of the persons in power. Look at Tonganmain,
Groongal, Burrabogie, Cobran, and dozens of
others—each from 100,000 acres to probably 300,000
acres—all freehold, and in solid blocks—and in-
creasing annually, too, by buying out the 4 cocky!’
These gentry sell out down below, and now a
paternal Government wants to palm them off out
Mr. M‘Elhone has announced his intention of going to England next month. He
will, doubtless, meet with a warm reception.
here on 10,000-acre blocks as miniature squatters.
Jean tBee rhyme, reason, or justice in that.
What the Government should do is this: put some
sort of a tax on these overgrown estates, as they
did m Victoria, and don’t come grinding the mar-
row out of us broken-down wretches. Because a
man may hold a block or two, he should not be
considered fair game. He has, in most cases, to
borrow money to improve it; he pays good wages
to men who work for him; he has to [jolly well
stan e most of his time, living up here with the
thermometer 108” in the shade at 2 p.m. for weeks
at a stretch, waiting patiently for rain for months.
Believe me it’s not all ‘ cakes and ale.’ And what
is it all for ? What is the return for all this hard-
ship and worry ? Probably to be wound up by the
Bank, and have to clear out and join the Salvation
Army, or take a contract selling matches, or some-
thing in that line.”
* * •
Victorian Lands Department about to
survey the undefined 5 mile stretch of the 36th
parallel (from Lake Hindmarsh to S. A. border)...
Queensland Parliament prorogued this week : will
probably be called together again in June. [By the
use of the technical term “prorogued” we mean not
the slightest reflection on Speaker Groom]... The
Contractors’ Debt Act is exceedingly faulty, in
that by it no power is given to institute quasi-
criminal proceedings against original contractors
for the non-performance of acts by a subordinate.
The Act wants amending in the interests of the
navvy No adjournment motion moved in the
Assembly last Thursday. Chalk it up The
“Works” have Wright-about-faced back to old
scale of railway rates Minister Abbott attends
to Mines and Public Instruction as well. As he
said tor should have said) to the resigned Reid,
“I’ll look after meum (mines) and tuum.”
Sir A. Stephen, Cadell, Marks, Dailey, Flood, Hill
Jacob, King,Macintosh, and Stewart,M.L.C.’s, form
form the select committee to report upon the best
means of repressing, by lengthened incarceration
or otherwise, relapses into crime by offenders twice
or oftener previously convicted, and especially of
dealibg with cases of relapse after two or more
commitments to gaol for drunkenness and other
minor offences.” President Hay is undoubtedly
right in ruling that for the Council to so alter a
Bill sent up from the Assembly as to extend the
incidence of tollage therein enacted would be
to offend against the spirit of the Constitution
Burdekin, 2138; Reid, 2098. Majority of forty,
worked by the forties. Altogether, troppo forte,
... On 81st Dec , 'B3, estimated population of Vic-
toria, 931,785 ; of New South Wales, 869,310.. ..Not
m°ro than about a dozen personation cases at late
East Sydney election. About a dozen too many....
Minister Abbott personally approves of the ap-
pointment of a Royal Commission to investigate
the facts re the introduction of scab into the
interior.... The Queenland opposition M.P.’s bow
to the Speaker back part first. They would have
suited the ltump Parliament down to the ground.
.... £2OOO cash paid for a corner piece of land near
the new railway station at J unee junction. G uess
somebody knowssomethiug about some “ resump-
tion” looming in the distance . ..Yes, dear Ninny,
there is a soup<;on of inconsistency in the circum-
stance in the whip of a free-trade government pro-
fessing ultra-protection. It is as t bough the secre-
tary to a Unitarian Church Board were a
vehement Trinitarian There are scores of horny-
handed laborers, who, though they applaud denun-
ciations against Dibbs for employing Chinamen,
and Stuart for employing coolies, invest a con-
siderable proportion of their earnings with Celes-
tial vegetable hawkers and furniture vendors,
which, not to put too tine a point upon it is precious
inconsistent Mr. Secretary Wright, loquitur:
The Commissioner for Railways has no power to
issue free passes without the authority of the
Minister, and if it can be proved that he has done
so. I will very soon bring him to book. I deny
that the Commissioner, or any other officer, has
authority to give free passes, and deny that they
do so.” Does Mr. Wright expect any one who
knows the ways of the Works” to believe that?
* * *
Trevelyan to be transferred shortly from
the Irish Chief Secretaryship There is a report
to the effect that the Duke of Edinburgh (now in
command of the Channel fleet) is engaged—not in
warfare; no; but on an opera, the libretto of
which is to be written by Bret Harte. It is
well known that the “juke” is great at fid-
dling; but we don’t want any fiddling with the
fleet Mr. Gladstone has attained his 74th
year. It is notable that at his age, his
former chief, Lord Aberdeen, and also Lord
John Russell, retired from political life
Under a recent local Act, the county of Midlothian,
in which a great many working-class votes were
placed, has been electorally incorporated with the
city of Edinburgh. This circumstance, in eon-
junction with the fact that the Bucoleuch agents
have been busy in the manufacture of hundreds of
fagot Tory votes, renders it uncertain whether
Gladstone would be safe to secure his return for
his present seat at the next general election. As
he must not be a candidate without certainty of
success, it is not unlikely that he will stand for
Edinburgh instead of Midlothian Twenty of the
Liberal newspapers in England are owned by a
syndicate, with an American millionaire at their
head, Headquarters at Birmingham, whence the
editorial manager boasts he can speak to two
millions of people a day —Folks who are ac-
quainted Avitb the current of political opinion in
Spain think the monarchy may possibly last a
couple of years looger. The army is republican
at heart, and at the least provocation will pro-
nounce against Alfonso. ..Throughoutlndia.the
Order of the Indian Empire is known as the Split
Tomato Order. ...A British resident of Cairo,
writing on the day that Baker Pasha started from
the Egyptian capital.for Souakim, says : “ At Zig-
zag I saw on the platform half a dozen black men
chained together by the neck, and guarded by a
fendarme. These unfortunates were volunteers
or the Soudan army. They were part of the
result of a regular man-hunt, which had been
going on for some days in the neighbourhood.”
“Volunteers,” eh? We wonder what sort of
fellah Tewflk would admit to be a pressed man
The loaders of the English Conservative party are
actually advertising for candidates to contest con-
stituencies. . In the post offices in the United King-
dom £37 worth of brickcoloured bottle wax, £250
worth of string, and £45 worth of stamp-obliter-
ating composition are consumed weekly
Russia has now, it is said, joined with Germany,
Austria, Italy, and Spain, in the Holy Monarchical
League ag unst Republican France In the event
of an English Vicerov of Egypt having to be ap-
pointed, Dufferin, or Northbrook, or Goschen will
get the billet, say the quid nuncs England’s
wisest policy as regards Egypt would be (says
Truth) “to leave Khedives, pashas, eunuchs,
notables, fellahs, and prophets to stew in their own
juice.” To this we say ditto....An agitation has
been commenced in England against the carriage
tax, the almost only surviving tax upon labour,
which cripples the carriage-builders, and the chief
incidence of which falls rather on doctors, and
commercial travellers than on the wealthier
classes—A tenant farmer is to contest East Glo’s-
tershire next general election. The Tories think
this the beginning of the end The average pro-
duct (agricultural and manufacturing) of each
individual in the United States is £62, in Great
Brit dn £30... During 1883, Great Britain spent on
new ships and naval improvements thirty millions
sterling, France eighteen millions, Russia eight
millions, Italy eight millions, Germany eight mil-
lions, and the United States less than three-
quarters of a million On 9 out of every seven
members of the British House of Commons is a
placeman, either drawing a salary from some
branch of the public service, or in receipt of a
pension for service rendered in the past.... Sir
Arthur D. Way ter, M.P. for Bath (son of the
adroitest of Parliamentary " whips ”), declined the
Governorship of Victoria. So did Morley. Only
fancy the Governorship of the Cabbage Garden
going a-begging!
A magniflcient portrait in oils of Lord
Melbourne has been purchased on account of Sir
w. J. Clarke, of Victoria.” Thus a recent London
(probably Henniker-Heaton inspired) cablegram
to theNooze. How the original of the portrait
one of the most exclusive even if one of the most*
genial of Whigs—if in his "second state” his
ransom’d reason ” have regard to things done
neath the glimpses of the moon—must squirm to
think of a wealthy parvenu (that abhorrence of
true Whigs,who are mainly parvenued themselves)
making social capital out of the purchase of his
portrait.
There’e a party of noodles, including
M.P.’s and parsons, howling at the fact that the
old Irish National School books are being super-
seded by another and more modern series.
“ There’s not as much of the’oly Scriptur’ in the
latter is their cry.” Perhaps not —neither is there as
much exploded “ bosh ” on almost every known
science and art, nor so much murdered English in
them. But what do the Abigailites, and that ilk
care for truth, as long as their bigoted passions are
gratified ?
What cares the genus Abigail
If all tuition’s false or stale ?
No good in teaching aught they see,
Save their own narrow bigotry.
The story of the breakdown of the White
Star steamer Celtic, a day after leaving New York
18 not without its pathos. For eleven lonj? days
had the Celtic been rocking on the broad Atlantic,
when a horrid dread fell upon the passengers. The
whisky and brandy were running short. On the
eleventh night drinks had to be curtailed ; the
smoking-room steward, with tears in his eyes,
begged of his customers to reduce their orders for
‘cocktails,” and to try to cultivate a taste for
bottled beer; and thirsty passengers began to
offer that officer heavy premiums for extra drinks.
But drooping hearts revived on the twelfth morn-
ing, when the good ship Britannic, also of the
White Star line, oime to the rescue of her sister
vessel, and. preview to taking her in tow, sent off
a boat with a further supply of whisky and
brandy. A great shout went up to heaven from
the parched throats of the Celtic passengers as the
little boat came alongside them. They were
saved !


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Evening News states that the rumour
that Emelie Melville had been divorced from Mr.
Derby, as stated by the New York Clipper, is
“ entirely without foundation.”
Way up on the Herbert a man named
Mullins told his mate, Lacy, to put the muzzle of a
pistol in his (Mullins’s) mouth and pull the trigger,
which he did, not supposing the blamed thing was
loaded. Lacy now swears he’ll never do the trick
again, and Mullins is apparently of the same
opinion.
A series of letters that passed between
Bradlaugh and C. J. Abraham, late Bisnop of Wel-
lington, N.Z , and now Canon of Lichfield,have been
published in the National Reformer. Bishop
Abraham had made a public statement, which re-
flected on Bradlaugh’s sincerity and courage. The
prelate finally withdrew his imputation, and
expressed his regret that “he did not on h s own
part do justice to his (Bradlaugh’s) character.”
Lord Reay, whom it is said Gladstone
wishes to have appointed Governor of Victoria,
though an English and Scotch Baron, is by descent,
birth, and education, a Dutchman (suitable for
New Holland, you know). His father, Baron Mac-
kay D’Ophemert, vice-president of the Dutch
Privy Council, succeeded to the Scotch title in ’75,
and died in ’76. The present lord (born in ’39) was
naturalised in ’77, and created a peer of the United
Kingdom in ’Bl.
Twenty-two years ago Nubar, Tewhk’s
Prime Minister, was an Armenian interpreter,
earning some £lOO a year. Then, Ismail taking a
fancy to him, he became a minister. In negotiat-
ing loans, much lucre stuck to his fingers. He is
now wealthy, while Egypt is ruined. Cause and
effect! “ Why,” remarks Labouchere, “ except
on the principle of set a thief to catch a thief, this
most successful marauder should be appointed, by
our influence, Prime Minister, it is hard to say.”
Jovial “ Billy Richardson ” joined the
majority last month. He was a native of
Binalong, and one of the pioneer gold-miners of
N.S.W.; owned the first water-wheel erected (on
the Buckland) for gold mining purposes in
Australia: in’62 went to Queensland, wherefrom
’67 to’74 he was successful as a hawker: in ’74 lie
formed a cattle station on the Cape River, which
a few months back he sold, intending to start in
biz. in Herberton, whither he came—to die.
Aneurism of the aorta.
Young Pym got “one stretch” with hard
labour for prigging that £97 from the G.P.0., and
would probably have got more, only the jury
recommended him to mercy on account ot' the
temptation held out to him by the looseness of the
management of the postal department; so you
see, Milford, this crime can’t be either directly or
indirectly traced to tightness. We are anxiously
awaiting a report from Lamb ton, pi’oving to his
own satisfaction that the N.S.W. G.P.0., is (for
management) the boss G.P.O. in the universe.
Let us chroniole the departure of a dis-
tinguished citizen—Mr. Edward Perkins whom
certain privileged people were wont to call Ned.
Perkins kept for a long time the Exchange Hotel
(now J. D. Young’s), and was celebrated for several
things. At certain periods he was the finest
amateur billiard player in Australia. Perhaps,
too, Ned gave away more eighteenpenny cigars
to civil servants than any other known man;
and if passing round the Bourbon gratuitously to
well-connected loafers can send him to heaven,
why »t. Peter had better get his key oiled.
Mr. F. W. Haddon has been made life-go ver-
nor of several public institutions in Victoria. He's
still unsatisfied. Life-governorships seem to be like
green fruit—tempting, but a source of painful
uneasiness. He wants, and lugubriously wants, to
get on the list of the Benevolent Asylum, and last
week pleaded fervently for the luxury. He gave
them £6O. But the committee say tho money was
old Calvert’s. F. W. admits that, but rejoins that
old Calvert gave him plenary powers in the dis-
tribution of it, and that wherein it pleased him to
donate £6O to the Asylum, the honour is his due.
The matter is wonderfully small, but it’s a small
world altogether.
At a meeting held at the London Mansion
House, on March 3rd, it was resolved to erect a
suitable memorial to Waghorn, tho pioneer of the
overland route to India. Should more money be
subscribed than can be expended upon the me-
morial, the balance will be handed over to Captain
Waghorn's sisters, who are understood to be in
want. How eminently “ Podsnappish ” that cart-
liefore-the-horse suggestion! A couple of aged
ladies understood to be in want, and, if in some
future more or less remote, there should be a bal-
ance from the memorial fund, they are to have it!
The better preliminary to the movement, and
of itself a kindly memorial to the enthusiastic
lieutenant to whom India, Australia, and Britain
are alike indebted, would be placing beyond a
doubt the comfort of his sisters, “ who are under-
stood to be in want.”
Is there no old title anywhere, even a
battered C.M.G., to bestow on L. L. Smith ? The
way that man works is a caution. Tne way he
drags his colony around the world, from capital to
capital—one time with a basket of grapes under its
arm, another time with a bag of potatoes on its
back, and at all times with a label on its forehead
imploring all people to look into its heart —is full
of bizarre pathos. He is at present in the throes
of angry indignation because Service will not send
samples of Victorian food to the London Food
Exhibition. Service doesn’t see the great gain to
be derived from the exposition of a cake of damper
and a junk of salt-horse. But L. L. sees it. He'd
have every chance of being chairman of the thing,
whatever shape it took. And is not that a dis-
tinction ? And don’t distinctions lead to something
grand ? And doesn’t L. L. yearn to be something
grand ?
Recently before Justice Patterson, of New
Fork, Robert Solomons, dealer in diamonds
from South Africa, accused Henry J. Rioe, Jem
Mace’s manager, of haying cheated him out of
$2709 at cards on board the Cunard steamer Servia.
Solomons said that he had made $125,000 deal ng iu
diamond in South Africa, had lost the money in
New York in gambling, and had then gone bac<c to
Africa. There he made more money and he had
come back in the Servia to New York to open a
store. As she dropped anchor at Quarantine, he
went into the smoking saloon to play cards.
Somebody there gave him something to drink
with a drug in it, and he and the others began
matching sovereigns. They also played cards.
Rice won more than $2700. Justice Patterson de-
cided that the Court had no jurisdiction, and,
advised the men to settle it among thems Ives,
and they did so. Solomons paid Kice’s lawyer $5O
aud his expenses, and received $2780.
The humour of Mr. Purves, the much-
vaunted Melbourne barrister, is more refined than
that of most gentlemen who fatten on criminal
practice, and his jokes are as subtle as a circus
clown’s. Only the other day, the great Purves,
while engaged in his usual occupation of defend-
ing a prisoner, waxed wrath with one of his pro-
fessional brethren, Mr. M ‘Kean, for assisting the
prosecuting counsel with the loan of a magnifying
glass for the purpose of examining some marks on
jewellery. Mr. M’Kean not being engaged in this
particular case, the great P. determined to wither
him right up for his officiousness; so, after asking
“Who is this tall gentleman?” ho indulged in a
piece of scathing satire on Mr. M‘Kean’B height.
Said he to the witness, “Is this glass a kind of
telescope to show whether a man is run up by
contract or built like an ordinary man?” After
being dazzled by such a brilliant flash of wit, it
was not surprising that “ Mr. M’Kean left the
Court at the first chance.” Under the same cir-
cumstances, most men would have done so—but
they would have returned with a pole-axe.
Henry George was born iu Philadelphia in
1838 ; he began life as a compositor in that city ;
afterwards worked at the same employment in
Bau Francisco ; and became subsequently a re-
porter on the Sacramento Record, editor of the
California Times, and proprietor of a small
newspaper of his own. As long ago as ’69 he issued
a pamphlet on the land question. A series of
letters on the same theme were subsequently
published by him in the New York Tribune.
But it was not till 1877 that he applied himself to
writing the book which won him the great repu-
tation which he now enjoys. The author experi-
enced great difficulty in getting a publisher for
his work. None of the publishing houses of New
York, Boston, or Philadelphia would undertake to
produce it on their own responsibility. He was
therefore compelled to get the book printed in
San Francisco, Appleton and Co. agreeing to take
charge of the publication. It ran through no
fewer than fourteen editions in less than four
years ; was translated into German shortly after
its publication ; and has since been reproduced in
Spanish and other languages.
REV. CHARLES BADIIAM, D.D.
Turn down the lights. The student's task is done;
The last lino written with the last word right.
Tr, is the night-time, and for once he sleeps
Who made the shadowy Hours believe the sun
Was shining full into their vacant eyes.
For he was wont to sit, sti-ong-sighted, through
the night,
With thoughts ablaze, when from the silent steeps
Slow breath and dreamers’ dreams rose to the
skies.
Turn down the lights No more his genius keeps
Tho shadowy Houts alarmed with quiv’ring forms,
With ghosts of old dead poets, clang of rhyme,
With storm of echoing words lashed into storms
Of passion crowned with flow’rs, as in the time
When men went mad with Passion crowned with
flow’rs.
Turn down the lights. He sleeps now, and the
Hours
Can pass and whisper: “Lo, they’ve quenched the
light!
The lights are out: ’tis night, ’tis night, ’tis night.”
Joseph Mackay, wno started more news-
papers in New Zealand and burst up oftener than
any other publisher in the colony, was ar-
rested at Timaru last month on a charge of
annexing a sum of £1 Is. 6d., the pro-
perty of the N.Z Government Insurance
Department. .Toe’s latest newspaper venture,
the Southern Free Press, having gone the way
of all its predecessors, this enterprising rag planter
has been reduced of late to do odd jobs in the way
of canvassing and collecting for the Government
Insurance scheme, and in that capacity, it appears,
he has quarrelled with the heads of the depart-
ment about the management of the concern. He
even went so far as to inform the Colonial Treasurer
that the wholeaffair was past redemption. Having
relieved his feelings in this way, Joe s.*x-aightway
started canvassing for a rival institution, and then
suddenly found himself locked up on a charge of
embezzlement. Whether Joseph forgot to account
for the £1 Is. (id., or claimed it as a lawful per-
quisite, time will show. Meanwhile, by latest ac-
counts, the case against him stands adjourned, and
Joe is out on bail.
Effect of the “ad valorum on tobacco” upon a “government billet” young man.
Mr. Dibbs will have to raise the wind in some other way—discharge a Woolloomooloo
policeman, or something.
Old Dr. Singleton, of Melbourne, who was
a doctor once, but is now a teetotal apostle and
an evangelist, has, at the Harmy's request, written
his life. It is light, pleasant reading, but it is not
flippant I The doctor’s age is about 1740; and his
latter days have been embittered by the fact of
when visiting the gaols, and giving the prisoners
tracts, they invariably asked him for tobacco.
“ When in deep mental distress,” says the doctor,
“I fasted,” a proceeding which must have satis-
factorily met the views of his landlady. Dr. Single-
tou is a wonderful-looking old man, with a long
white beard, tall of stature; always dressed in
black, and carrying in his hand a tall gold-headed
cane. The doctor has really tried to do a lot of
good ; and, if giving away demi-octavo sheets
bearing the title “ Bobby and the Apple ” can have
had any beneficial results, the old gentleman must
have converted countless people. There is a legend
in Melbourne that the doctor is immortal, and the
undertakers have long given over following him
about and anxiously enquiring after his health.
The doctor has many harmless little peculiarities,
one of which is, when visiting a lock-up, to take
reporters for prisoners, and give them the tract
“Reflect!” with the sub-title “ To be read in your
cell.”
The will of the late Thomas Aitken, the
well-known proprietor of the Victoria Parade
Brewery, East Melbourne, was proved last week,
which shewed that the value of the property that
he had accumulated was something over £93,000.
He was a native of “the bonnie hills of Scotland,”
and had acquired a knowledge of brewing in his
youth. He arrived in Melbourne about forty
years sgo, like thousands of others, without as
much capital as would raise a jingle on a tomb-
stone, and set to work at the first job offered. He
soon put together a few pounds, by practising
economy—in fact, the latter characteristic was
shown to such a degree that he used to relate, with
evident pride, that he married his first wife in
order to curtail the weekly expenses of washing,
&c. Having accumulated sufficient capital to start
on his own account, he erected a brewery in Mel-
bourne, which he carried on for some time, and
afterwards shifted the scene of his operations to
Geelong, where he remained a few years. Busi-
ness prospered with him, and be l’eturned to
Melbourne and established the Parade Brewery,
which has since developed into one of the largest
concerns of its kind in the colonies. A distillery,
which he subsequently erected inCollingwood, has
also proved a financial success—in fact, whatever
he touched seemed to turn to gold. His funeral,
which took place about two months ago, was the
largest gathering of publicans we have seen,
except on the annual licensing day at the city
court.
Mr. Walker Redmond is the surgeon of the
Tambo Hospital, Queensland. On the publication,
in October last, of his medical registration in
New South Wales, our observant contemporary,
the Protestant Standard expressed a desire to
know whether he was in any way connected with
the Redmond brothers, their mission, or their
lectures. Similarity of name no doubt suggested
the kind inquiry. The following is an excerpt
from a letter received by us from Mr. Redmond a
few days ago :—“ I wish to inform that paper that
I am in no way related or connected with them—
that I am connected with no secret society, not
even being an Orangeman, though the son of an
Ulster one, who, though he sat in a lodge for thirty
years, advised his sons to avoid them. Tn my
opinion, the Ulster Orangemen are the outgrowth
of profound ignorance and fanaticism combined.”
This tallies so exactly with our own views regard-
ing tho society that, more than any other, has
helped to keep open wounds which might have
been healed generations ago, that we thought it as
well to publish it for the information of the
Standard and its numerous readers. To it is
mainly traceable the fact, disgracefully unique
among civilized nations, that a battle fought and
won on British soil two hundred years ago by a
foreign Prince, in command of foreign merceue-
ries, should to-day be instrumental in keeping up
a morose exclusiveness among neighbours in a
small European island, or hounding them to fly at
each others’ throats.
The present Mayor of Townsville is H. B.
Le T. Hubert, who has been said, on the very best
authority, to be descended from some ancient
Norman Baron, who married an aunt’s grand-
mothers cousin of Rollo’s mother-in-law’s friend
Until the last general election, this blue-blooded
representative of a noble but extinct aristo-
cracy was engaged in the royal occupa-
tion of hotel-keeping, which he forsook with
alacrity, when he found that it prevented
Griffith from conferring on him the exalted
honour of J.P.-ship. He contested Townsville at
the late election against Macrossan, but unhappily
the people were not aware of his splendid descent
until after the case was decided, and so they put him
on the wrong side of the poll in a trifling minority of
something over 500. But the magnanimous Griffith
in one of those) transitory SDasms of gratitude in
which he is ever ready to lavish honours that cost
him nothing, elevated his defeated nominee to the
magistracy, and at tho same time took off J. W.
Cirroll, of Townsville, one of the best-hearted,
most intelligent, and straightest white men in
North Queensland, whoso deadliest offence in
Sam's eyes, probably, consisted in enthusiastically
supporting Macrossan. Following the J,P.-ship
came the elevatian to the mayoralty, and when we
read over the names of the majority of the Towns-
ville aldermen, it is at onco apparent that the
choice of Mayor was singularly appropriate. Long
may Sam’s chosen J.P. and Townsville's chosen
mayor continue to occupy the positions he is so
eminently qualified to adorn.
The “ genuine Arthur Orton ” is again ex-
pressing his willingness to go to England for £lOOO,
and “clear up the mystery.” The “genuine
article” doesn’t make the offer personally, but
through the medium of a friend, a Mr. Fossey,
who describes him, in a letter to the Melbourne
Herald, as “the only link now wanted to com-
plete the case.” Now, what on earth can Mr.
Fossey mean by that ? Does the good gentleman
imagine that the production of a dozen “genuine
Arthur Ortons” can make the Claimant other
than a fat impostor, or that the appearance of
this “missing link” in person at the Tichborne
trial would have kept the “ unhappy nobleman ”
from “languishing in gaol ?” No, Mr. Fossey must
provide us with a “genuine Roger Tichborne ” if
he wants to do any business; there’s no doubt
that a “ Roger T.” would be in big demand at a
£lOOO, but “Arthur Ortons” are a drug on the
market-they’re not of any use at all. Mr. Fos«ey
himself, though, seems a good deal more like the
“link,” according to his letter, in which he states
“ At tho time the steward of the Osprey brought
Roger Tichborne, the carpenter and sailpr of the
late Bella, to Sandridge in the late Bella’s jolly boat
that saved them from a watery grave, myself,
Captain Chessell, and Lieutenant Crawford, the
pxlice magistrate of fandridge, were present, and
were greatly Interested in Roger Tichbox-ne.”
Now, considering the unhappy nobleman's friends
moved heaven and earth to find a record of any
Osprey existing at the period stated and couldn’t,
it’s a pity if Mr. Fossey won’t be “ the link.”
There is a neat little township on the
Queensland Central Railway, and a few miles dis-
tant is a station belonging to a frog-in-the-fable
sort of politician, notorious throughout the
colonies for the bumptiousness of his deportment
and the vigour of his lauguage. The brother of
this important person, who resembles his distin-
guished relative in many charming respects, is
manager of the station, and when a Jockey Club
was formed in the township, he was elected presi-
dent. At the first race meeting he volunteered or
consented to act as judge, but after the first race,
it became apparent that a man who used glasses
could not be depended on to see clearly enough
either the post or the horses which passed it fore-
most. So the stewards suggested that as the
weather was hot, and tended to a condensation of
moisture on the glasses, it would be as well to
divide the duties of judge with another. For three
days the races lasted, tho rosy flowed and universal
fraternity blossomed, so that when the “judge”
departed he promised to any of the stewards who
might visit the station a welcome that would as-
tonish them. And he kept his word. Two of them,
some weeks afterwards, took a run over his way,
partly to look after some horses they had in that
direction and partly to enjoy a Sunday's outing.
Being in the neighbourhood, and troubled—the day
was a snorter—with a profuse perspiration, and a
thirst a bar-bummer would not part with for half-a-
crown, they determined to surprise their “judge ’’
and take pot-luck. But the surprise was all on their
side, when, after kicking the door for half an hour
the host appeared and asked them with the family
courtesy who the blank they were, and what
the blank they wanted. But why con-
tinue ? They asked him for a drink of water
and he pointed to a tank with a pannikin on
top. Sorrowfully they rode back ten miles to the
nearest pub. and drowned their temper and their
thirst in beer.
During the reign of the M'llwraith Minis-
try, an “ Inspector of State Forests’’ was appointed
in Queensland, and the chosen official was J. Vivian
Williams, a brother-in-law of Charles Hardie
Buzacott; but, of course, it would be blasphemous
to insinuate that C H.B.’s influence had anything
whatever to do with the appointment. It was an
experiment, and Williams was the selected experi-
menter. He went North with as clear an idea of
his duties as King Bambalo Cumwudgery has of
the movements of the heavenly bodies. After
wandering about the Northern seaport towns,
critically examining the surrounding forests from
his bedroom window and other points of vantage
and interviewing old timber-getters famous for
their unrivalled lies, he recommended timber re-
serves in localities which no one has ever been able
to discovex - , and which no one but Williams ever
heard of, and sent in a report which QUed the
whole department with a whirlwind of blasphemy
and turned the Government Printer’s hair prema-
turely grey in a hopeless attempt to llnd out what
it was written about. When M‘ll wraith read it, he
saw at once that a man of Williams’ magnificent
abilities was scandalously wasted in the solitudes
of the Northern scrubs, and so John was ap-
pointed police magistrate in a remote Western
township, where he can have leisure to fathom
his great problem of the difference between an
iron-barkanda swamp-oak, and settle the momen-
tous question of the relationship said to exist
between tho Geebung and the Crockabummie.
Every year the senior partner in the firm
of Swallow and Derham, sugar planters at Cairns,
goes to Melbourne with his family until the
Northern wet season is over. Before leaving this
year he called together all bis retainers, paid and
unpaid, to inform them how the management
would be conducted in his absence. Among the
“audience” were several colonial experience
young men, who are amassing mines of know-
ledge about plantations before starting their own
estates, and chief of these were “ Bob Sturt,” and
two young Parkes, whose sire is well-known in the
Bank of New South Wa.es. When these future
sugar leviathans heard the old man say he would
leave his son “Tom” in charge, as boss of the
whole caravansary, they went outside and dis-
cussed the subject in language that withered tho
surrounding vegetation ana set Are to a heap of
dry megass. Then Bob Sturt, a good-hearted
manly young Australian, went vo old Swallow as
ambassador plenipotentiary from the other revo-
lutionists, and informed him that they were all
prepared to strike with gi’eat enthusiasm if he
apoointed Tom as commander-imcbief. But the
golden syrup and Canterbury cake dictator re-
mained unshaken in his original resolve, and so
Sturt, Parkes Brothers, and Co. girded up their
loins, got the balance of their paper collars and
their other shirt, and struck a bee line for Cairns,
where they have since formed a tremendous
attraction to the hotel girls, who are now praying
for strikes on all the other estates, so that the
young men will flock into town and ass'st them to
while away the dreary lite hours of the tropical
nights.
Sir ’Enery Parkes’ views on the subject of
an “Australian Peerage ” have evoked a big burst
of invective from the Melbourne Herald. Says
the Herald:—“Just at the very time when sen-
sible Englishmen are blushing with shame that
despicable rascals like the present Dukes of Marl-
borough and Hamilton, &e., and others of their
notorious kind, should rule the destinies of the
empire, and monopolise the honours m the gift of
the Crown, Sir Henry Parkes comes forward to
deplore the fact that under present circumstances
the colonies cannot be conspicuously disgraced in
the same fashion.” Without going into the merits
of the “ hereditary legislators” question, or touch-
ing on the well-worn subject of the Duke of Marl-
borough’s chastity, it’s yet just as well to inform
the Herald that the other dear Duke (Hamilton)
isn’t altogether a “ despicable rascal.” He hasn’t
figured in any divorce cases, and he lives on good
terms with the “ missus.” The Duke of Hamilton’s
principal “ rascalities ” have consisted in losing
hundreds of thousands on tho turf, with a smiling
face, and invariably lending his signature to any
impecunious friend. In spite of having lived all
his life in a fast set, this “ peer of England, Scot-
land, and France” is still very boyish in many of
his tastes; but he’s a remarkably burly boy, and a
first-class boxer. If he were to call in at the office
flourishing that “article,” the Herald wouldn’t
find him in the least “despicable.” And, by the
bye, as to the bearing of the goodness or badness
of the present batch of peers upon the “ hereditary
legislative” question, the present Duke of Marl-
borough’s heir may turn out a model of piety,
whereas the very next Baron Tennyson might
prove a “ despicable rascal.” As a matter of fact,
many of the worst specimens of the “House”
wear coronets that were granted to their ancestors
for conspicuous ability and orthodoxy. Nor does
the House of Peers altogether “ rule the destinies
of the Empire.” When Mr. Gladstone procured
the Royal warrant on behalf of the “Abolition of
Purchase in the Army,” the peers had very little
to do with the Empire’s destiny.
Mr. Richard Sneieht, the new Victorian
Railway Commissioner, who left a fine position id
the Midland Railway Company to take his present
billet, has a brother, T. W. Speight, also in toe
M.R., and who is a litterateur «s well. He was a
yrotegi of Dickens, and used to contribute rather
bad stories to All the Year Round. He pro-
duced a play once, too—“ The Ebony Casket
which was damned with great success at a Gaiety
matinee ; and he has likewise written some serteis
for Chambers’ Journal,. Now that Richard has
left the Midland, you will of course say that there
is now a little less Speight in the department. At
least, you can if you like. This is a (compara-
tively) free country.
It is curious, that with all their domestic
virtues and Scriptural attainments, the Herald
Eeople cannot learn to review. We should d®
appy to impart instruction to the stall in tD .|,
branch of our profession; and, our services wu
be at the disposition of these good people to
moment we are in a position to purchase a rotary
knife-cleaner, We feel that in using a shoe in
we are painfully behind the ago ! The efforts o
Australia in the reviewing line, which at tiff®


IS YOUR SKIN
Covered with Itching, Scaly, Pimply, and un-
sightly Humors and torturing disfigurations, which
cover you with shame and roh you of rest and
strength? The Citticura Resolvent, the new
purifier, will cleanse the system of acrid humors,
coo! the blood, open the bowel-', and render the
perspiration pure and unirritating, while the Cuti-
CURA and CnTiCURA Soap, the great skin cures and
beautiflers, instautly allay Itching, subdue Inflam-
mation, and clear the skin and scalp of everv evi-
dence of disease.
The ELDRED'G E
NEW YORK
Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
' FOB, THE LEADING
SEWIfIrG MACHINE OF THE WORLD,
I'ull particulars, catalogue and prices
.mailed on application.
US. A.
SEWING MACHINE CO.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 0.P.0.. Sydney.
□Tlbya USolAaftolo 33 "uLgpgpies I
1
r
w
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
best MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
i T'' l i . l '=i-|-. I ,
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
AND]
BRUCE.
H
m
"mm
—i! ii-
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITEJ
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE FOR 1884
Has been further Improved and Lightened in weig
The SPECIAL CLUB has always stood at the
bead of the trade, and as now improved
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been offered.
Our SEMI-RAGERS arcstron
enough for Road Riding,
and light enough for
the Track
OUR BICYCLES
The Special Club /
The Australian C lub
The Universal do.
The Boys* Own
<s>
w m
A
a
cjM'
I Xli®
Cheylesmore
The imperial Club
The Humber Fatten*
&e. t &e.
OUR TRIPLES
FOR 1884 combine all
the improvements that were
suggested by the experience of
1883, and as each style of Machine
has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our TRIGYGLES will be even more
popular in 1884 than they were during 1883.
Our Ch.eylesm.ore and Imperial. Club Tricycles!
dpcorate the Evening Alfred, have, of course,
in them, much of the spirit of sewing-the Tenor
tading, and vou never read one without being
"‘minded, somehow, of tea-cake. But “ A.” is, as
rpfl-ards general style, superior to the rev, writers
nf Hunter-street, whereas in point of critical
acumen thev arc about equal. If ever any of
them had ariy acumen, it has been mislaid. In
Saturday's Herald appeared a notice (it is called
‘■areview”) of Lord Lytton’s life of his father,
.nd a mild attempt is made to throw the blame of
the separation between Bulwer Lytton and his
wife upon the latter. The Herald gravely assigns
aV the cause of the domestic trouble, a reason
ffiven by the author, who, it must be remembered,
Sided with his father all through. Says the bio-
grapher “ This distaste on my mother’s part to
the household functions devolving on a poor man’s
wife and in my father’s habits a curious mixture
nf refinement and frugality, was a latent source
nf future disappointment on both sides.” This is
•’funny—very.” Nothing about the gross extra-
vagance in his pleasures, counterbalanced by a
narsimoniousness in his household expenses which
bordered on the miserly. Why, is it not a matter
of history that this man “who had the head of a
Diogenes on the body of a grasshopper ” (see the
novel “Chevely”) put upon her every indignity
that cunning could suggest, every insult which
malignity could devise, until ho drove her shriek-
ing from the house to dirken its doors with her
nresence no more. Bulwer, as a matter of fact,
like all geniuses, wanted more of everything than
anybody else—more wives, more money, and os
necially more adulation Dickens was the same,
and Eugene'Sue, and Balzac. Imagine, for in-
stance. Dickens whining piteously to Forster, be-
cause he had not cleared more than £lOOO over one
of his Christmas stories. “ T am sick at heart,” he
wrote, “and grievously disappointed.” We can
sympathise, though, with these straDge traits of
tne great and gifted. That’s perhaps why the fire-
shovel is so often poised in the air, and one patten
is on the colonial sofa and one in the yard.
So far as fertility of imagination is con-
cerned Mr. Leroy Strickland can tie up one leg and
then dance rings round the most gifted descen-
dant of Ananias that ever slung a war correspon-
dent’s lecture. “ In a dimly-lighted room of a
sailor's boarding house,” says the New York
Tribune, “Leroy Strickland told the startling
story of his adventures among the cannibals of
New Guinea.” Mr Strickland, it appears, was
barely earning his “tucker” at Temora, about
four years ago, when he ran up against the letter
of a French surveyor, who had just escaped from
the man-eaters, and who “gave a glowing account
of the country, and said that there wore gold
pockets all along the coast and mines inches in-
terior.” Fired by this thrilling tale, Leroy and his
ten mates fitted up two heavy life-boats, and “set
sail from Temora to Cookstown ” (sic). From there
they rowed to the Fly Itiver w here they found gold.
Before they had time to congratulate tbems rlves
however, 2DO howling savages rushed upon them,
and William Giteau was at once killed by a “ wadi-
wadi,” which is probably a sort of yam, or a bottle
of patent medicine, or something else, which
evidently disagreed with William. After this, the
truthful Leroy, with a voice tremulous from the
recollection of the fearful scene, continued
thusly: “ On our way to the shore George Johnson
was killen by a boomerang, and as I was crawiiDg
into one of the boats a boomerang struck me on
the head and I lest consciousness. When we were
once in the boats we were safe, but then we saw
what a terrible fate had befallen our dead com-
panions. As we rowed away we saw the cannibals
seize the bodies and strip them. Then they carried
them to the top of the bluff and built a fire,
around which, as the Tames grew fiercer, they
circled at a maddened pace. They howled and
shrieked in exultation at their victory, and after
they had exhausted themselves they squatted
about the fire and threw our companions into the
flames. I noticed that the human flesh burned
with a blue flame, and the sight was such a horrible
one that I fainted. When I recovered I saw them
tearing the flesh from the hones and eating it
amid the most discordant sounds I ever heard, and
after they had finished the fearful repast they
jumped to their feet again. As wo passed around
a curve in the river they were still shrieking like
incarnate fiends.” Just here the Tribune man
uncorked a flask, and the New Guinea explorer
soon felt well enough to declare that the only
manner in which the country can be civilized is by
annihilating all the natives, a suggestion whicn
our missionary friends will no doubt speedily put
in practice. The natives along the coast are not
dangerous, because, as Mr. Strickland observes,
“men-of-war shell the hush every few weeks,”
and, of course, a dead nigger is seldom trouble-
some except in hot weather. Taking it altogether,
we are of opinion that if New York ever lacks
soap while Leroy is there, it will not be for want
of a good supply of lye.
One of the smartest men in New Zealand
at the present time is undoubtedly “Valparaiso
Jack” of Christchurch. V. J.’s autobiography is
now in the boiling-down works, and when com-
pleted and published will form one of the most
amazing records of adventure extant. Some of the
episodes of this history have occasionally leaked
out—usually after 11 p.m., under the opening in-
fluence of a few whiskies hot. One or two of these
items we will take the liberty of publishing in
advance. Many years ago, when Valparaiso Jack
was in charge of Her Majesty’s malls at Lyttel-
ton, one of the steamers started away without
taking her mail bags ou board. Jack, who was at
t*'at time in prime of his manhood, started in
pursuit by land, so as to intercept the steamer at
the “ heads.” Although he walked at the rate of
ten miles an hour, by a short cut, he was too late,
and lound the steamer had cleared the heads be-
fore his arrival. Nothing daunted, V. J. plunged
into the breakers, and swam after the vessel with
the mail-bags on his back. After swimming five
miies he overtook the steamer, hut could not get
her to stop, as the captain and crew were all sober,
and under such could not hear
him from the want ot proper stimulants. Jack,
however, was equal to the emergency. Seizing
the screw with one hand, he forcibly compelled it
to Btop revolving, and speedi'y brought the
steamer to a standstill. Then he handed up the
mail bags to the astonished captain, took his re-
ceipt for the same, remarked that the weather was
warm, and, bidding the crew bon voyage, calmly
turned him on his back, and kicked himself home
again at the rate of ten knots an hour. One of
Jack’s experiences in South America is equally
instructive. He was in Valparaiso during
°ne of those terrible convulsions of nature
which turn up periodically to re - adjust
the scenery and shift the survey pegs of that
Peculiar country. When the earthquake, on this
occasion, had shaken the city into a yelling dust-
heap, Jack found himself deposited on his head in
the great square, surrounded by a crowd of scream-
ing Americans in every conceivable condition of
junk and despair. Just as our hero had succeeded
in re versing his attitude, and had spread his lengthy
nether limbs across the street till his No. 12 boots
were about half a chain apart and firmly planted,
the earth opened between them in a Jong yawn-
ing gulf, which swallowed up nearly 2000 people
along the whole length of the plaza. When the
next convulsion started work to close this horrible
grave over the struggling mass of citizens below,
•lack at once twigged the earthquake’s little game,
and saying “No, you don’t—not this time, cocky,”
Planted his feet firmly on the sides of the gaping
“itch, and straining every muscle to its utmost
mansion, succeeded in keeping the orifice from
c 08i ng. Again and again did that exasperated
earthquake gather all its forces to the task of
concluding its funereal contract, but each time
aac]£ § iron limbs withstood the terrible strain; ans
the Destroyer retired from the struggle,
tap people were all jilted out of the pit and
uvea happily ever afterwards. This is why V. J. is
„ "°wn in South America as “ Jack the Deliverer,”
and well has he earned the title.
Augustus Glover sends us a note from the
opera House. You remember, how last week, we
expressed so ne doubts as to his being a French-
man. Not, mind you, that it makes any real
vp « co whence he comes. We know him as a
" ne actor only—one wo can always hear with
and, occasionally, with something re-
enthusiasm. But now that he has
f ""°" re d us with a billet, we find that, we are ol I
amio the family (the do FivasO-not personal
"us, but through the Grammaire dcs Gram-
mctires published by his father M. de Fivas ever
so long 1 ago. We are half sorry he mentioned his
real patronymic, for the name calls up unpleasant
memories of the indignities we suffered through
those terrible French genders and irregular verbs.
Now, however, that he has mentioned the matter,
we might as well tell why we received with such
academic faith the statement That he was a Gaul.
Our doubts should be rather flattering to him than
otherwise. It was alt along of his accent. To hear
our English come so trippingly from his tongue
suggested to us that'it was the language he took
in with his mother's milk. And, even now, we
make bold to remark that he could say “ it'i as hot
•w to-day,” at just as tender an age as he could
blurt out “ilfait chauda.mme — an.jouril'hui." De
Fivas per 6, like a good mauy more French gentle-
men accompanied Charles X. to Scotland, when
the Revolution of July made things a little
“ mixed ” for that Monarch in beautiful, treacher-
ous Paris. Holyrood Palace was placed at the King’s
disposal while he lived, and a little colony of
emigres, nobles of the ci-devant court, planted it-
self around in the Scottish capital. No counter-
revolution ever came for them. Louis Phillippe,
the traitorous betrayer of his kinsman's trust,
clutched the crown he was charged to guard for
another. Then his turn came to flee. Next the
Republic again, then the Prince President, the
massacres in the streets of Paris, and the bastard
Empire. These changes occupied long and weary
years. Charles X. died, and his little Court of
Exiles had to make shift for a living, dreaming the
while of the old ancestral estates and stately
chateaux in beautiful France. M. le Vicomte
Victor de Fivas was among these unlucky faithful
ones. We did not know him, but we knew and
hated the Orammaire des Grammaires, which he
produced after a while, when he had taken to
teaching tor a living the language in which he
had conversed with his peers in the Court of the
Tuilleries. Augustus Glover, “poor player,” is
the Vicomte's youngest son. And, while we
think of it we may say the Grammaire was, youth-
ful prejudice noth withstanding, an excellent
woik, clear and methodical—so that the Vicomte
must have had good brains of his own, besides his
noble fidelity to a fallen master. Although we
had no personal acquaintance with M. de Fivas, we
remember well some of his cotemporaries. There
was our dear old teacher —M. Cbaumont was his
business designation. Really, his title was M. le
Comte de Chaumont. Him wo remember es-
pecially well, because there was a close intimacy
between our families. M. Chaumont lived in a
"flat,’—that French fashion oi dividing houses
horizontally, which Edinburgh had long before
the Union been taught by her allies and constant
visitors, the French. There Madams the Comtesse
and Mademoiselle Anna lived in simple fashion
But, ye gods! what a perfect gentleman M. Chau-
mont was, and how perfectly stately the unaffected
manners of Madame and Mademoiselle ! M. Chau-
mont conquered us, we remember, by sheer in-
fluence of gentle but lofty dignity. We woidd
chatter in class. He requested us to leave the
room, and towed us out. No grimace about it.
His bow was not a farce or a piece of mounte-
bankery. It was the grave salute of an offended
gentleman. We stood this treatment twice, we
remember—offending the second time more from
thoughtlessness than intention. And a third time
we were bowed out, with a few words of grave
remonstrance from M. Chaumont that we should
so lightly esteem him-so slightly respect our-
selves. We were not outside five minutes that
that time. We couldn’t stand it. We marched in,
respectfully advanced to the true gentleman, and
with an attempt to adopt his own courtety,
formally apologized to him in the face of the
whole class. It did the lot of us good, that little
scene. After that, there wasn’t a lad among
us who wasn’t restrained by the sense that to
offend that master would have been to figure as
a sort of underbred oaf. Then, again, there was
M. le Marquis d’Egville—also a member of la haute
\ noblesse. JVI. d’ tit v.lle had been an amaieui if
music, and played the violin. Madame la Mar-
quise and the two young ladies played the piano,
of course. M. d’Egville and family taught danciDg,
We learned from Madame and Mademoiselle. But
it is so very long ago, and we were such a very
little chap, that we don’t remember much about
it- Our liveliest- recollection of the d’Kgvillesis
later, that they drove about to their professional
visits in a barouche, and dressed more splendidly
than was usual in the canny Scottish capital. Our
juvenile impressions wero somewhat coloured by
surroundings. The d’Egvilles were to us aggres-
sively' frog-eating French dancing people, and,
as “ Papists,” mysteriously dreadful; and it
plunged our youthful ideas into the wildest con-
fusion when, on the Queen’s visiting Edinburgh and
holding a and drawingroom a-. Holyrood,
the d’Egvilles were among those who were re-
ceived by Her Majesty.
* * *
Captain Barker, step-son of Governor
Broome (W.A.), succeeds Bagot as private secre-
tary. ... John Hayes, the oldest Tasmanian, cocked
up his toes last week ; born in 1805 at Risdon, the
site of the first settlement, about live miles from
Hobart Old Jack Stokes, who, from ’37 to ’Bl,
lived a “hatter,” on his bush farm, in Kangaroo
Island, died on,the 28th ult, aboard the hulk at the
Semaphore (S.A.) School Inspector Murray, of
Parramatta, exchanges districts with School In-
spector Thompson, of Wollongong Professor
W. J. Stephens to perform the duties of Professor
of Classics until Badham's successor has been ap-
pointed. Stephens is a good scholar... Father
Colletti will lea ve Brindisi for Sydney next week.
Hcnniker Heaton defends the solvency of
Australia in the London Times. Australia may
honestly say “Thankee for nothing.” Late j,
G. Francis’s will sworn at £178,000. We consent to
be sworn at for half the amount Dr. Milford’s
experience is that out of ten deaths occurring in
N. two are the direct and three the indirect
results of drunkenness Thomas Gainford.
minister of the Mariners’ Church, Sydney, and
chaplain of the Bethel Union, died last week. A
Cumberland man by birth; sailor for a while, then
an at Sheerness Dockyard ; in ’53 came to
Sydney, and got contract for constructing P. and
O. wharfs ; in ’55 went with the rush to Victoria •
next superintended erection of patent ship at
Newcastle, N.S.W., where, a little later, he ac-
cepted pastorate of the local Congregational
Church ; from there to the Woollahra Church,
and thence, thirteen years back, to the
Mariners’ Church. A good friend to Jack.
Dean, a storekeeper on the Lila Springs station,
Bourke district, died suddenly on Tuesday week,
partially from the effects of the intense heat up
there. He was the lucky man who drew Martini-
Henry in Miller’s last sweep for £looo....Johnny
Morgan was a fireman on the Auckland railway
up to the end of February last, but where he s
“ firing” now is not exactly known. It appears
that on the 27th ultimo Johnny’s best “guri” went
to a picnic with another fellow, and Johnny at
once decided to stay at home and have a quiet
little picnic by himself. So he locked himself in
his room, put the business end of a gun in his
mouth, pulled the trigger with his big toe, and dis-
tributed his brains all about the ceiling. Johnny’s
“ gurl ” has therefore had the pleasure of attend-
ing a picnic and a funeral all in one week; and if
the other fellow has any grit, there ought to be a
wedding party also to cbeer her up before the
mouth is o ver.... That young man Keast, who went
into a trance, visited hell and heaven, and received
from the last-mentioned place a commission to
preach the Gospel, has been “ remanded for medi-
cal enquiry ’’ at Geelong. No wonder, poor fellow!
What he went through was enough to turn any
man’s brain. Evpn the varied experiences of the
“ much-tyavelled ” p-ile into insignificance as com-
pared with those of Keaat’s.


Last Sunday week, the parish ‘‘praste ” of
a town out West announced from the pulpit during
the service that there would be two meetings held
in the adjoining schoolroom that day-one meeting
to organise.steps to clear the debt off the church
to, be held immediately after Mass; and the other
meeting, to be held at 4 p.m., for the purpose of
ai r inging a programme for the athletic sports and
• divarshuns ” set down for St. Pathrick s Day-
Only two turned up at the first meeting-the Driest
hnnselt, and the local carpenter, who had an eve
to future contracts. But when the meeting to fIV
the spoorts” cam© on, the committee hnd tn
scratch the paint off the schoolroom walls and take
the locks off the doors, to make room for the
programme! JIU mto worry U P St - Pathriok’S
THEATRE ROYAL—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
THTS THURSDAY EVENING,
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in
RIP VAN WINKLE !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 7th March, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Completion of Works, Trial
Ray Prison
Additions to Quarters, Fairway
Leading-Light, Newcastle
Purchase of Muntz Meta), Fitz-
roy Dock
Tuesday,
18th March,
at 11 o'clock.
Additions Police Officer’s Quar-
ters, Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Offices, Paddington
Drainage, &c. Boatman’s House,
Newcastle
Erection of Police Buildings,
Carcoar
Erection of Court House, In-
verell
Fencing Recreation Reserve,
Waterloo
Construction of Masonry Dam,
Cataract River
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Menindie
Laying on Gas, &c., Callen Park
Asylum
Erection of Fencing, &c., Pro-
testant Orphan School, Parra-
matta
Erection of Sheds, Closets, &c„
Hospital for the Insane, Par-
ramatta
Tuesday,
1st April,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Cottages, &c., Callan
Park Asylum
Tuesday,
8th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Ladies’ Refreshment
Room, &c., Botanic Gardens
Additions to Court-house, Mer-
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Engine House, Ac, Goulburn
Water Supply
Engine, House, Ac., Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Tuesday,
15th April,
at 11 o’clock.
: c
0 N T I N U A T I o N SALE
of this
VALUABLE ESTATE,
SATURDAY, 29th MARCH, 1884,
ON THE GROUND?
Auctioneer,
63 Royal Arcade Chambers, Pltt-street.
Free Train. Long Credit. No Interest.
MARCH 15th, 1884.
QLADESVILLE AND HUNTER’S HILL.
HANDSOMELY-FINISHED COTTAGE
and
CHOICE ALLOTMENT OF LAND
.in both these fashionable snlmrbs
FOR AUCTION SALE, O’* THE GROUND, bv
PR. HOLDS WORTH. ' DJ
Busses will leave Royal Arcade, Pitt-street. at
3 p.m. 8harp.
NEXT SATURDAY NEXT
TOONGABBIE, SEVEN HILLS, for Private
Sale, in Lots from acre to31) acres, to suit
nroharHa™ \ wel1 ? da P ted for homesteads, villas,
orchards, vineyards, or poultry and dairy farms
th? v'Ti prices, and most liberal terms, viz., 2s. in
8neoffl ( l le tm S m C ; k alaace - 18 monthJ y instalments, or
terms can be arranged. Close to Railway
shamiimi , fresh wate . r - band cleared and
stumped. Immediate, possession if desired. Title
oationto P anS and turther information on appli-
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
uo -D , Auctioneer,
63 Royal Arcade, Pitt-street,
MARRICKVILLE. Sydenham Road Sub-divi-
_ sion. Far Private Sale. Lots situated mitf-
W£7 between train stoppinglp/ace 8 and^farriet-
il ne - Immediate
ville railway
possession. Land cleared. Sydenham rond°m«li
become the high road of traffic for luSro
Easy terms, „s. in the £. Deposit balance Is in the
£ per month. Further information
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
Auctioneer,
63 Royal Arcade, Pitt Street.
o
E R
H O U S
E.
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
THTS AND EVERY EVENING,
Grand production in Australia of Sardou's
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora
MAJERONI MAJERONI
MAJERONI MAJERONI
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st.
Prices Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 2s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
it
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “ coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY!
n NATIONAL ME,
Smith’s Gardens,
BOTANY.
STB OF ALL ■!
Dancing, Music, &c., &c.
rt
GAIETY THEATRE,
IN THE EVENING.
The following artists have been engaged
MTSS MARTE ST. CLATR,
MRS. RILEY,
MISS MOON,
MRS. RYAN,
MISS MADOLTNF, ST. CLAIR,
MR. HALLEWELL,
MR. PERCY SHANNON,
MR. GORDON,
MR. CHARLES HUENERBEIN.
&c., See.
Nearly
£100 given in Prizes !
For particulars, see programmes and daily and
weekly papers.
D. U. MITCHELL, \ Hon * Secretaries.
30 ROYAL ARCADE.
God Save Ireland!
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
SO 7X2AM PUMPS.
H. P* GREGORY & CO.,
17 1PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
are SOLE? agents for the above,
and hSE', ve ’ n Stock and to arrive—
FlRJFf PUMPS*
B 01LER*FEI50 PUMPS
TANK OR LldBR T SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS!
COMBINEDAEI&& CIRCULATING PUMPS
TANNERY pum®»
SUGAR-HOUSE tPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINlfiNS 1 PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES LL PARTICULARS.
CATALOGUES.'U'ORHIH* FREE.
Os. Od. 7s. Od. ss. Od. pep pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
, . . Markets),
has J* r °bleni of the season, and pro.
Vidos EXQDIbirE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
wL'S « I . d s a , , v”e‘seSfSt(S2 .S'ffiS:?’
ORIENTAL dl ,„ ovetf
h .avo been thrown into the shade hv
this triumph ot modern science. Articles of
! rien/al Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished lrom the costliest wares of the irold
So noble is this meta), that no tawdry
THE VERY
«n.M.
eo _^ Bl their;uro K ductron C in , 'B“teGi , ng metal
side by side, the one article cannot bt
and, placed _ „,
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTaI
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE L
when compared with identical models of sterlin
Q <y ~ IDOtfllt
egooiB i 8 are counted with the
an other masterpiece of the chemis
of the nineteenth century-artificial stones whir*
e<iual the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter an
rival them in hardness. K an
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with ear*
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy
Sovel o t?es 0 by o evefy omail 0 mail. WhiCh 18 rep,euiBhed wit
CALL AND INSPECT-EXACTLY OPPOSITJ
„ THE MARKETS; *
9 r ; “ ® resident of the country, writo and nsk-
friend to do so. Visitors are always made weiconn
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know thatn
one has ever yet viewed our goods without bein
astonished and delighted with their variety eh
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and sue
am ° ng ac< luaintances° < tlo U u
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
p^,r of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. fid. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gera Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Esthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
-Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases-a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
eharin.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
Wo want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— If the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the mouey, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by *
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company-
-474 George-st., Sydney, op. Marked
FACT AND FANCY
FOCUSSED
Contractor Cooper committed for the man-
slaughter of Margaret Bennett, on whom fell, the
week before last, the wall of a house at Padding-
ton that aceused was taking down. A Building
Act, with stringent clauses re scaffolding, hoard-
ings, pulling - down operations, &c., much re-
quired Clara Archibald, alias Thomas, the
dress-lifter, sent up for six months’ hard labour
lor stealing a purse (containing fifteen bob and a
bender) from Edith Bay ley, at Quong Tart’s.
Here's another illustration of the wisdom ol' cir
Alfred’s proposal. Had Clara been hauged, drawn,
and quartered for those dresses, she couldn’t have
“touched” Edith for her mopus-bag. Q.E.D
Uniform tor oflicers of the Volunteer Eaval Ar-
tillery Navy blue cloth, with silver distinction
stripes; cap, sword, belt, and buttons, same as
Iloyal Naval Volunteer Artillery, with distin-
guishing letters of the corps A Morpeth and
East Maitland Corps of New South Wales Volun-
teer 1 nfantry to be formed. The four companies,
with head quarters at Newcastle, West Maitland,
Singleton, and East Maitland respectively, to form
an administrative battalion styled the “4th Regi-
ment of New South Wales Volunteer Infantry. .
Office of Minister of Public Instruction removed to
the Colonial Secretary’s old office in Bridge-street.
Arrangement concluded between R. A. Ritchie,
railway carriage manufacturer, of Newcastle and
Parramatta, and Hudson Brothers, Limited, amal-
gamating the two firms— Wollongong Volunteer
Fire Brigade formed last week Yet another
journal—the Walgett News. “ Wal-come,” little
stranger: trust droughty seasons won’t say “ Wal,
git.”... Last week, before Gunnedah bench, two
boys, named Jackson (under 10) and O’Donoghue
(under 8) found guilty of attempt to commit in-
decent assaults upon a girl under 8 years, and
sentenced each to three months’ imprisonment
Chr, nic state of ruction between a section of the
six-and-eightpenny branch of tire legal profession,
and the Master in Equity. State of affairs very
unseemly. Now then, Cohen! Te Kooti, it is
said, is about to disband his armed followers and
turn farmer There are some thirty reserves for
aborigim s in N.S.W , the largest being one of 1800
acres in the county of Cadell Ex-Deputy-
Registrar Duff sent up for four years Wagga
Public School closed: typhoid fever Last week
ai:)804 was paid to the Wagga Bridges Company by
the Government. All tolls were abolished on
Friday —A. G. Ralston, M.A., admitted to N.S.W.
Bar last week. . Eightrecruits for the Devil's Own
last week, to wit:—“E. J. P Birch, F. V. Smith, R.
Higson, H. W. Williams, J. F. Hughes, T. Pearce,
J. R. Stocks, and H. Cromwell Typhoid fever
is prevalent in Noumea, although mild, several
have already succumbed to it; otherwise the
health of the town is very good Reay taking
time to consider offer of Victorian Governorship.
Dutch, very; and not un-rtay-sonable either
Daily Northern Argus (Rockhampton) now
sold for a penny... A4t't. Sin. seam of coal (more
than 3ft. of which is a good solid article) found at
Mirboo, Gippsland. Victoria tfte-monte in conse-
quence ; think it will put a semi-colon if not a
lull-stop to the chances of N S.W.’s commercial
supremacy.... J. Dank’s tender accepted for two
million permanent way spikes to be made in
colony... Wagga gaol full up: seven females in
one ce11.... An emu recently laid an egg at Wood-
ward’s Gardens, ’Frisco ; laid to be the first emu-
egg ever laid outside of Australia.... An epidemic
among the lish in Cuba Cuba Creek, Manning River
uistrict. Hundreds of thousands putrifying. The
local times says “We have heard of no reason
except the prediction that the Perihelia would
produce epidemics among the finny tribe.” As,
however, the eels are not effected, the Perihelia
doctrine won’t wash.... Bill Silva, who shot at Miss
Powell, his sweetheart, goes up for five years with
hard labour... The N. 2. Government mean to
abolish the Architect's, the Public Works, and
Engineer’s departments in the Middle Island
N.Z. railway goods tariff to be raised so as to make
the lines pay 3 per cent, on cost of construction
Old man found drowned in Farm Cove ; no marks
of violence, but a Sydney Morning Herald
discovered on him. Evidently suicide; had
pocketed the Herald to make sure of sinking
Cause of recent interruption of overland telegraph
com ini’ ideation: line cut 130 miles from the Peake
station by a man in the agonies of thirst; the
t pairing party found his semi-decomposed body
some TO hours subsequently, close to the break in
the line; his dead beside him. .On dit, Yateel
j'.M. to Maitland ; T. A. Browne P M. to Armi-
dale; Caswell P.M. to Dubbo—Horsham branch
of London Chartered Bank robbed early last week
of £5OOO in notes and £5OO in gold. Detec-
tives in galore have been buzzing around ever
since; but still no clue.. .University lectures to
quaiify lor a degree in art being arranged for-
whole course to extend over fl,ve years. Butler
lecturer in classics; G.oggs in mathematics; Smith
in experimental physics, and Max in French 3
cwt.of specimens from old Eqreka claim, Hill End
estimated-to contaip 700 oz. gold. Rich finds also
at Mudgee and Hargraves.... Cobar water supply
dicky .. Johp Maguire trammed to death on
Saturday evening near Belmore Gardens.
• • •
Brisk trade in women (for immoral pur-
poses) betwixt Hongkong and ’Frisco ... The Greek
Cretans and their Mussulman Government verv
much at two... In Gibraltar, the Gpvernor’s salary
(£5000) is paid by the rents of low pot-houses y
Warlike armaments continue in Japan- Govern'
merit about to order two more men-of-Var from
England A native of Manilla has discovered a
plant, the juice of the fruit of which stuns fishes
when it is thrown into ttie Water where they
abound; in tact, it bursts thp intestines of the fish
and makes them iltjat on the water Thus Dr
Heid, Fleet Surgeonat the Naval Hospital, Haslar :
llie Contagious Diseases Acts have not been in'
operation (in England) since last May, witheffects
most disastrous. Men are pouring in on us hire
luge numbers of whom have to be invalided out
ol the service as useless.”....Explosion aboard ss
Aoerdeen, in London (chartered for Adelaide)
Captain Matheson and his second officer mortally
injured... The Messrs. Parker, o' Bedford Row
London, absconders; big liabilities.... Graham has
recovered the guns Baker lost near Tokar Tnri««
threaten to try and intercept supply if Grand Old
Man declines to explain his Egypt-cum-Soudan
policy.... Osman Digna preaching a holy war &Q
No active measures to be taken to relieve garrison
at Iva3sala, as ’tis hoped it will be able to withdraw
without molestation... .Admiral Hewitt on sDe.oal
missionEto Abyssinia to arrange for declaring Mas
sowah a free port. K
The quarter-deck of that now historical
old dug-out, H.M.S. Galatea, is the scene of this
silvery legend: It seems H.R.H. had been told
some curious stories of the skill with which one of
the cirpenter’s mates on board handled that ugly
instrument yclept an adze; and, at length, one tine
morning the man was called aft and told to prepare
to exhibit his favourite and most daring feat
before the Prince. Returning in a few minutes
with his “ crooked axe ” (as the West Coast niggers
have it), he asked the assembled “ after-guard ” to
lend him a two-shilling piece, and after a lot of
fossicking, “Alf.” at last tossed him the coin,
which laying flat on the deck, under the ball of
the big toe, and exactly level with the p ojecting
edge of the nail, the ‘‘offside” chips, with one
tremendous circular sweep, brought his weapon
whizzing down, apparently doing his level best at
self-amputation; and as the lookers-on instinc-
tively prepared to collect the pieces, he stooped
down, and extracting from beneath his foot two
shining flat discs of silver, he advanced and pre-
sented them to H.R.H. The florin was as neatly
severed, horizontally, as if done by a machine. This
happened before the days of Australi m visits, or
"Alf.” would undoubtedly have issued the now
famous mandate to “Pack the lot up carefully,
please." As it was, he only remarked, “De-ah
mel how nice!”


Eucalyptus wine is good to taste and com-
forting to the soul, say the monks who make it.
It is made at the Ahbey delle Tre Fontane, in the
heart of the wild Campagna, some miles from
Rome, on the very spot where, it is said, St. Paul
was martyred. The malaria of the Abbey site
was so bad that men could scarcely live, so
the eucalyptus was planted to absorb the
pestilence from the atmosphere, with the result
that it is now tolerably healthy. And the monks
support themselves chiefly by the sale of then-
eucalyptus wine.
This, though it occurred not far off, hasn’t
been published yet. A barber in a large town
favoured his lady clients with New year cards,
and to each he affixed his own name, in a cramped,
foreign hand. But the great feature was a large
assortment of circumflex accents, distributed with
such a lavish impartiality as to adorn o’s ,I’s and
w s as often as the usual privileged letters, besides
occasionally decorating an empty space. Being
questioned why he had sown circumflexes with
such a very free hand, the tonsorial artist replied
that he used them for “style;” he only served the
aristocracy, they would understand.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “ Rip Van Winkle” p 8
Opera House—“ Fedora ” ib.
“Fedora” is still drawing good houses.
The story, as you must be aware, is a sad one,
with a very sad termination, but there are a few
bright pages in it, and the brightest of all is Miss
Maggie Ford. She is a page you linger on and
regret to part with. Her appearance suggests hqw
nice i must be to have a large establishment, with
footmen and pages by the score, tumbling over
one another to do your bidding. And yet how dull
even this is compared with the pleasure of seeing
an elderly man of high station, heavy weight, and
known piety slip on an orange-peel in a crowded
thoroughfare, and send a flag six inches below its
proper level with the emphasis of his caress ?
•• • *
.Apropos of Fodora: Watching the
movements of a lithe, well-dressed woman
suggests the oddest thoughts. We know
the dress she wears so becomingly would bo
thought hideous a year or two ago, and evoke
laughter—boisterous or well-bred, according to
the manners of the observer—next year or the
year after. What looked so ravishingly seductive
as the crinolines as big as a ball-tent, introduced—
but not for the first time—by Eugenie, when,
through who was as much a Bona-
parte as the Wagga butcher a Tichborne, she oc-
cupied the place in Europe since “jumped” by
one Bismarck ? And this minds us of the spicy
things Frenchmen are so fond of saying of the
terrible German who fired them out oi the Con-
tinental stage-box a few years ago, and slid into
their place, while they had to put up with the
stalls, and feel thankful they weren’t sent to the
pit. You will remember how Frederick the
Great, incognito, kept himself by sticking to a
lam D-post, from sitting in the Ber-
lin mud to laugh when he saw a
bill-sticker pasting up a flaming
placard before a frowsy, delighted
crowd. The notice imformed his
loving subjects that their Monarch,
although speaking French like his
guest Voltaire—which was wrong—
was probably the biggest rascal in
Europe—which was certainly right.
“Ah,” said the robber of Silesia,
when his equanimity came back
with his second wind, “You see they
say as they like, but by I do as
I like.” Well, you see, that’s just
the position of France and Bis-
marck to-day. Not, of course, that
the Prince is a political rascal. Far
from it. Still he could tie a good
many in that line, and it’s not quite
safe to disregard his opinions con-
cerning European frontiers, bound-
aries and—for want of abetter term
—“tiddly-winking.” So now it has
been discovered by one of those
Gauls who started a Berlin in the
Summer of 1870, and, with a few
hundred thousand of their com-
rades, somehow missed their road,
that, when Bismarck once visited
Paris, he brought with him, from
beyond the Rhine, a wife rejoicing
in the biggest leet in her own
country, and a daughter who fol-
lowed in her mother’s footsteps.
* * *
You get used to female dresses.
When a man is really “ gone ” on a
woman she might be clad in sun-
shine, like New Hebridean princes
of the blood, for all he cares. Just
think of the mirth that would find
vent in the tongue of Aristophanes
if some of those old Greeks, to
whom we pretend to be indebted for
all our ideas of the “beautiful” in
face and form, were to see a modern
ladv stiuggliog under an improver!
And yet, when “Fedora” appears
with a development suggesting- that
a neighbouring orchard had been
robbed, or that an extensive fire, at
which she was present, had occurred
down Anthony Hordern’s way, you
feel satisfied that perfection in
feminine adornments had been
reached at last, and that there was
nothing now left for our wives,
mothers, and belle-meres, but to copy
as closely as their purses or physical
angularities will permit. Ah! there
is the danger. Think of it—picture
it—a fat, fair, stumpy, large-boned
relative with weak eyes, provincial
patois, and shuffling step, dressing as
the princess ! We shall not pursue
the subject. The vista of madden-
ing- possibility it opens up, cows us-
prompts us to entertain with calm-
ness the prospect even of becoming
a civil servant, or a gaol inspector.
* * *
We care little about surroundings.
Hearing Bellew, Montgomery or
MiBB Dargon read, was enough of a
treat without the accompaniments
of gorgeously-dressed flunkeys or
.esthetic boudoirs. Still, when men
and women have to appear on the
stage in evening dress, it is just as
well that their clothes shouH fit
them, that they should not hang on
them as they do on drapers’ dum-
mies, or undertakers’ assistants out
of a job. There is this to be said,
even for those supernumeiary
males who attend Fedora’s recep-
tions, and have little to do except
venture an occasional common-
place about the weather, or become infatuated
with cartes in a photographic album—that it re-
quires no great stretch of fancy, to imagine them
oi dinary, well-bred men of the world, to whom
the drawing-room of a princess is more familiar
than a seat behind a three-penny bar, or the lront
form in a rat-pit. And the orchestra too. It is
pleasant during the intervals to hear judiciously-
chosen selections from the works of standard
composers, instead of the stuff fired at you by the
two fiddles, cymbals and wry-necked fife, compos-
ing the oi dinary orchestra. There is not such a
temptation to sneak into the bar and “rastle”
with the fiery “ swill.” for which Sydney is so in-
famously famous, when a company of good per-
formers is busy with tit-bits from Bellini and
Donizetti.
** * *
On Thursday last a card was sent us, ask 1
ing us to look" into the Glebe Town Hall that
evening and say what we thought about the
“grand dramatic and musical entertainment” by
the “ Sydney Amateur Comedy Company ”—a
combination rejoicing (according to the bill) in the
patronage of Lord Augustus Loftus and the pre-
sidency of D. O'Connor, Esq., M.L. A. We not only
looked in, but, at the invitation of a fair-spoken
official, took a chair and waited for circumstances
to develop themselves. The hall was filled. The
funds of the Derwent Cricket Club were to benefit
by the plunder, and the “ Deal Boatman,” fol-
lowed by a musical melange, and terminating
with “The Quiet Family,” was the piece chosen
for representation.
* * *
We always like this piece. Of course we
don’t know what it’s about, but this only makes us
like it all the more. Like eternity it appears to
have neither beginning nor end, but to be all
“ middle.” There is a boatman, or at least a per-
son who lives in the neighbourhood of the sea, and
skims the water for his Dread. He is of the ortho-
dox pattern, and has as strong a liking for undi-
luted spirits, and as great an aversion for the letter
“h” as most men of his class. But his ’art is in
the correct place, and thoroughly sound. Most
theatre-goers must have noticed that when a per-
son appears before them on the stage with a “sou’-
wester ” hat, a large muffler and a blue cotton
guernsey—when he is preceded, accompanied, and
followed by an odour of fish in an advanced stage
of decomposition—when he swallows raw spirits
by the tumbler—and, above all, when there is
some pale-faced, meek-eyed female waiting for
him at home, or rousing him out of public-houses
when he sells his fish—he can always be relied on
to be sound at the bottom, however much his con-
duct and conversation may tell against him. Well,
this Jacob Vance (Mr. C. L. Qwist) had a daughter
or niece, Mary (Miss Alma Fairfax), who is engaged
to one Mat Brambur (Mr. C. Purdue). As soon as
you see Mat and Mary, you know there’ll be
trouble—he is such a lout, and she such a morsel.
She is darning stockings when the curtain rises,
and running away with a strange man when it
falls. But, whether sewing or “scooting,” she is
the daintiest little body that ever made a man’s
occur belt his ribs like a Kerry mob a tithe-proctor.
Nothing that we have said must put it in Mary’s
little head that she is a Rachel or a Majeroni. No;
she is simply a shapely, handsome girl, heavily
handicapped in the way of relations and lover. We
have seen men struggle against adversity, police-
men, and tram-conductors, but the struggle of
the Glebe audience to keep themselves from stuff-
ing their mouths with their superfluous clothing,
when Mat Brambur was before them striving to
kiss the girl who was shortly to be his wife, re-
flects the greatest credit on the control the citizens
of that thriving suburb have over their feelings.
* *
Jacob Vance, the boatman, is a mariner
possessing many peculiarities of manner and voice.
The passage of half-a-dozen full-grown blood-
hounds through a tortuous thoroughfare, each
attached to a damaged kerosene tin of road metal,
might tie, but not surpass, the maddening discord
of that voice. Of course it is assumed, for, except
in the lower register of a Scotch bag-pipes, it
would be vain to search for anything resembling
it. It is when he sings that you regret you are not
near him with a life-preserver. Mary, like a sensible
girl,has two strings to her bow. We have referred to
The Majeronis at the Opera House.
one. The other is Edward Leslie (Mr. A. J. Perdue).
He is a haughty young man of the Vere de Vere
set. He makes the best part of his running while
she is preparing her trousseau for her marriage
with Mat. When the time for the ceremony
arrives there is a slight hitch, as the bride has
“shoved” with Leslie. To a wedding as to a
quarrel there must be two persons. This elemen-
tary fact at last dawns upon Mat and Jacob, and
the first act ends with the temporary triumph of
vice. We know it was but temporary for on
leaving we asked at the door whether things would
come right and were assured that they would. We
had to leave, as a wife and children are depending
upon us for a living, and we felt that the second
act of the “ Deal Boatman” would about settle us.
We therefore cannot speak of the “musical
interlude,” or.the farcical comedy of “ The Quiet
Family,” but have no doubt they were gone
through creditably. On Saturday morning we
just glanced through the police news to see if any
assaults of a murderous character had occurred in
the vicinity of the Glebe Town Hall on Thursday
night—if any of the audience had waited on the
company with a crow-bar—but found that beyond
some badinage of a slightly personal nature, the
peace had not been disturbed. We have hired the
front row of chairs for all subsequent perform-
ances of this troupe, and will go better prepared
for contingencies next time.
** * *
Dear old Emily Soldene, the inside of
whose mouth (it’s the grandest on the stage) always
possessed such a strange fascination for us, seems
to have retired finally from opera bouffe, and to
have returned to her early love, the music-hall.
It was as Drogan, in the English version of “ Gene-
vieve de Brabant,” that she made her first appear-
ance as a prima donna, and great was the astonish-
ment of the London public on discovering that
the new “star,” Miss Soldene, whom all the town
was rushing to hear, was none other than their old
friend, Madame Soldeni, a ballad singer at the
music-halls. Unfortunately for Emily, her chance
of distinguishing herself didn’t come as soon as it
might; and although it caAt be more than four-
teen years ago since “ Genevieve de Brabant ” was
produced at the Philharmonic Theatre (as it was
then called), she is almost an old woman now, and
her voice is terribly worn. Still, if her notes are
not as silvery as of yore, her mouth, no doubt,
retains its ancient “ comprehensiveness,” and
Soldene’s old admirers will get just as good a view
o f the roof of it as they did in her best days.
* * **
“ Blue Jackets in Zanzibar,” a comic
musical opera, in 3 acts, will probably be produced
for the first time at the Tivoli Opera House, San
Francisco. John Knell is composer of the music,
and Hector A. Stuart, the Australian poet, or
“ South Sea Bard,” author of the libretto. The
romantic opera of “ Otumba,” libretto by
the same writer, with music by Wilhelm
Borchert, of the Conservatory of Music, Ber-
lin, is also promised ia staging at Dealdn’s
Academy of Music, Milwaukee. These are both
pronounced works of unusual merit, and likely to
create a sensation.
** * *
English, the pantaloon last Christmas at
the Brighton Theatre, was convulsing his audience
with laughter while his wife was being burned to
death at Portsmouth. Two days alter he had to
attend her funeral and then hurry away to don his
pantaloon dress for the night's performance.
*-*•**-
Wi.son Barrett, it is declared, has been
offered a six months’ engagement in America, at a
salary of £l4OO a week. What howling bosh this
is. His noble self, and the whole of his London
company thrown in, for £l4OO a week, would prove
a bad spec, for any American importers. Barrett
is a “horse of quite another colour” to Irving,
and his best things—“ Lights o’London,” “Romany
Rye,” and “ Silver King ’’—have already been done
to death in the States. “ Claudian,” certainly,
which he has just produced at home, is admittedly
a high-class play; but, like most “high-class”
things, it’s rather too slow- and wouldn’t pay very
well at £233 Gs. Bd. per night for the leading man.
“ Those newspapers will say anything.”
Luscombe Searrelle seems to have left
America for some considerable time. The legacy
he has left to the States is one of the most splendid
legends on record. Here it is, just as it was hurled
at and probably nearly killed a N.Y. Mirror re-
porter :—“ I have been offered a position as
manager of one of the Estrella companies playing
in the English provinces. The opera is doing well
there, and I have just received news from Sydney,
N.S.W., that it has likewise made a great success
there. I had three offers to remain in the States,
but would rather go back to England. I have
been very kindly treated here, but misfortune
followed me, and the Standard fire was fatal to my
success.” With this enthralling item, we will
give you—we don’t know why—a list of the attrac-
tions, etc., Messrs. Allison and Rignold have
engaged. The whole of the Madison-square Com-
pany (!); “In the Ranks,” by G. R. Sims; the
fifteen Chicago champion baseball players; the
American tragedian, T. W. Keen, for an Austra-
lian tour in 1884-5, and purchased “ New Babylon ’’
for production in the States. While in New York
Mr. Allison purchased the Australian right of
the following plays: “Young Mrs. Winthorpe,”
“Young Folks' Ways;” “ Belmont’s Pride;” “Tom
Planter’s Wife;” “ Dollars and Cents;” “ Stranglers
of Paris;” “La Belle Russe; ’ “Under the Polar
Star;” “Pulse of New York;” and “May Blos-
som.” But the big things are yet to come! Mr.
Allison has purchased the right of “ Glad Tidings,”
a melodrama by Willing; and here is the bonne
bouche : “ Mr. Allison has also commissioned Mr,
A. P. Martin to write an original character drama
for Mr. Gus Williams, the popular American
comedian.” Mr. A. P. Martin, it will be remem-
bered, was the very big man who used to write
the very little sonnets in the Melbourne Review.
With respect to the report below referred
to, and mentioned in our issue of Feb. 17th, we
observe the following in the Lorgnette, pub-
lished in Melbourne:—“Miss Emelie Melville: We
have been given to understand that a paragraph
that appeared in our columns some short time
since, stating that ‘Mr. Derby had obtained a
divorce from his wife, Miss Emelie Melville,’ and
which was copied verbatim from the New York
Clipper, a high-class theatrical journal, is entirely
without foundation. We are satisfied of the un-
truth of the statement, from the tenor of recent
letters received by Mrs. Derby from her husband,
in which she is addressed in terms of the greatest
affection and regard. We regret any annovance
that might have been felt by the accomplished
cantatrice, and feel sure that on her re-appearance
in Melbourne shortly, she will receive a deservedly
warm and enthusiastic welcome.” Like the Lorg-
nette, we copied the statement from the New
\ ork Clipper, and we, too, have therefore to
express our regret that we should have been inno-
cently misled into giving additional publicity to a
statement which is not correct. We tender Mrs.
Melville-Derby our apology for the mistake, and
regret the annoyance which it may have caused
her.
** * *
Mr. Berry h«3 directed that the police are
to promptly report any case in which it may up-
pear to them that the manager of a theatre sub-
jects children offender years to treatment which
involves danger, cruelty, or impropriety. This is
in Victoria.
** * *
“Sarah Barnum ” has been selling im-
mensely in England, although there is no English
edition. The French one is .‘ls., and has reached
its 42nd edition. Hail, Colombier !
A fortnight ago (according to a N.Z. paper)
Miss Pomeroy shut up shop in Dunedin, paid off
her company, and started for San Francisco with
her husband, Mr. Elliott. No reasons given.
We dropped in at the “ Aca-
demy ” during the week to see the
last act of “Margaret Catchpole.”
Last week we did Muflin Pegs an
injustice—unwittingly ’tis true, but
an injustice all the same. There is
no mystery about his fate. He was
a good deal cut up, naturally
enough, at being found in the out-
laws’ stronghold. Indeed, at one
Hme, from the turn affairs were
taking, we thought it might be
necessary to cut him down. But he
pulls through, and we next find him
inN.B. Wales. It ’8 how he came
hero that is so mysterious. We
waited for him at the stage door to
put the question to him straight,
but when he appeared we felt that
it was too delicate, and held our
tongue. There’s no mistake at all
about Margaret—she’s “lagged"
right enough, and, when wo next
see her, she is wandering through
the bush during a severe thundei-
storm. It was when the boy behind
the scenes, who is “running” the
elemental strife by means of a
skittle “ cheese ” and the flat of a
spade, pauses to take breath that
she becomes aware that she is not
alone. The smuggler that shot Will
Laud is there also, and, during the
pauses in the storm, confesses every
thing to a big gum-tree, under
which he’s taken shelter. We don't
remember ever to have seen athoi-
ough explanation ofthis well-known
fact —that, whenever a bad man
hears thunder, he goes down on his
knees at once, and tells everything.
When it gets tine again he often re-
grets his hurry, especially as it
makes another crime necessary—to
knock on the head the person whom
he has made his confidante. Well,
this outlaw, it appears, had at one
time dreams of innocence and love.
He was “ mashed ” on Margaret, ana
when he saw Laud throw her the
rope over the prison wall, he planted
about two pounds o*’ swan-shot in
William’s little “ turn.” Lead is at
all times a hard thing to digest,
even when taken by the mouth.
How that unwholesomeness is in-
creased when it has to make a hole
for itself in the system, need not bo
dwelt npon. So Margaret comta
forward, and confesses who she is
to the truculent and superstitions
villain on the ground. This brings
him to himself, and, drawing a haj -
knife from his girdle, he “goes” for
the doomed girl with a ferocity
painful to witness.
sfe 4c ate
There is a struggle, short and in-
tense, but, to the great relief of all,
Maggie obtains possession of the
weapon and digs it into him with a
neatness that cannot be commended
too highly. She is a convict, you
remember, at this time, and as ail
female convicts of the period had
nothing to do but wear broad-brim-
med hats, and wander about the
bush, she wasn’t so badly off after
all. She comes across her old sweet-
heart—him she threw over to follow
Laud—and probably marries him,
although the play doesn't say so.
His residence in N.S. Wales has
rather developed his good qualities,
and when he remarks: “The man
who would desert a suffering
woman in the hour of need is un-
worthy of the name he bears,”
the applause was general and
hearty. The last we see of Margaret
she is in a boat during a flood rescuing a man from
a little house like a judge’s stand at a racecourse.
The termination is rather abrupt, and leaves us in
doubt on many important points we hoped to have
seen cleared up. As Margaret Catchpole, Miss
Wilton has a difficult part to perform—a part re-
quiring a variety of accomplishments and bodily
peculiarities. She is not yet stout—just nice, you
know—so her abduction can be affected without
the aid of machinery. When an actress turns the
scale at 14st., she should either leave off “swoon-
ing ” and eloping parts, or else keep a drayman
within call to get over any little hitch in removing
her. Under the most trying circumstances, Miss
W. keeps up her spirits, and although we freely
admit she “ shook ” the horse, still, under similar
temptations, a less carefully-trained person might
run away with half-a-dozen.


PEPPER AND SALT.
ON A DEAD POLITICIAN.
And thou art gone, with all thy artless ways,
The rich to crawl to, and the poor to praise.
No polling-day breaks in upon thy cairn,
And dust for gold now fills thy itchless palm.
No more the mad selectors howl around,
But each near neighbour holds in fee his ground.
And thou art gone. Yet seasons come and go;
And still the tides and fortunes ebb and flow.
While whiz the jav’lins of the “outs” and “ins,”
And statesmen perish o’er a tax on pins,
Still in our ears rings loud the wordy fray,
And scarcely missed thy old familiar bray.
The seat which onee thy mindless weightdid press,
Another presses with a mind much less;
And where for nothing we had looked before.
We have it now but in an ampler store.
Sleep on. The country that with thee was blest
But mourns thou art not neighboured by the rest.
We leave thee there, beneath the silent skies,
Till thou with all thy caucused brethren rise,
At summons of that Last Division bell
Which takes the dubious vote for Heaven or Hell.
jr/Zer M pof« 6 *»•» y 04}rrtf
I 0«C/JJ-*rryL~*.
lyami) yean. ago. while still ip the blush of
aariy manhood loompevatjvel* .peakingi.
we started a oapsf. *niop was to be U- tbe
Interests of everybody ir general and ar
one in oartioular. volept the Booueebcjn<«
Boombbanq
2 Tho capital of the oonoerD being limited,
we did u great deal o t our own "composi-
tion."
For thb same excellent .eason. we dis-
pensed with the custom ax v “ derm : “ aDd
•venmy say withooi egotism, that we played
the devil with a vengeance
(iroSpeotuS*.
Wb Dou'i mioed apcnittlug thut we havo
tarjee tue BooGtaouNo ooombr&no od
'•spec., W* jeel oalld upoufllVt* many otn
ert ol our fellow-CouotryC«n). ' t ‘* d<- do
eomethidg jbat will beoeffi the Nation, and
at time en.rieb our ecksebequeri
Cud that, it *qe kind uf a boocuerana wo©
aie.
we qaa.e freqoeudy, at sarejus
tntervßia durtnj a quay And useful! oarE<?T
hea occasion to apoN tn© growidg
» tendenney of nn otherwisen intelligent pub
lie Mind to underestimate the itndortanob o)
developing nndevellopd genius. geNius ,
Whioh often ties pennant tD me perrai
«U& of its posjessur* its existence unjuspec-
eed qy all save thj unhapy party »bjcarry's
H about witb hia)• lik a »«rrl crie seoret ion
trig—on So • SMeatly, aadley lonXiogMl
to shjib me qurtbeo kith oymplmi iziuJj
Pelinw-oreeturos, or sbail Mb say: likb tb-»
OBgn-a-riger ahlob chafes bit prison
Darrs aoo fane wild spline lortn an; a>o
apont op aNd dost the Earrq sekirig wbo
be May devowr somebody .[Both these similes
are betaty- and the Reudure may tan* tu»
oboiCe.
osut we dig rose. 0 f
To btth(rtu unsuspdcted gen us We lay
open out oolums, wber© all wbo tblost fur
tame way drink of tbe letheau Water*
*«t? low Figure. Merely paying us a trifle
m> debC* thl " ot kompusttiou Anod it
*!££« mho o< tqe abovd that we givn tfe
o»o©I» worth. Pubusuei-
Uoogeebunfl RoomcßAUo.
Tao *bor* a « tao-ilmlle of our &m proof.
Hare rna, ot> seen 'be editor among m*
exchanges, trvmg ois best to comprehend
colonial poll lies It. is, indeed, a melancholy
spectacle
The Doovsrano being independent la
politics, tbe editor ODdsit extremely difficult
always ti inuiuiaiii ueuxrality
Bore we have trie sweetly dreamy young
poetess, whose winning ways Insure her on
entree into toe columns ol the Booxseaxo.
/ Now and then a pubTTo character dropped
in, armed with an ate handleand a bull-dog.
wanting to know “woo wrote that article."
The “Boogeebung Boomerang.”—I.
He is known amongst the “mimbersof the
foorce ” as “ Little Johnny,” and to the general
public as the driver of “ Black Maria,” the Govern*
ment coach which runs between Melbourne lock
Up and Pentridge. In his younger days, Johnny
was a splendid rough rider, and could “knock the
stuffing,” so to speak, out of the most vicious colt
that ever cantered in the Government paddock,
but as he grew older he increased in bulk, and
became too heavy for the breaking-in business.
Then he was promoted to the position of driver of
“ Black Maria.” One morning he drove up to the
entrance of the lock-up in Little Collins-street,
but the gates were not open, and as his aide-de-
camp was not present to bear a hand, Johnny sang
out to some youths standing alongside, “ Open the
gates please.” The order was quickly obeyed, and
as he drove through he acknowledged the service
by cheerily saying “ Thank you, boys, thank you ;
I’ll give you all a drive for this some day.” And it
was not until he saw some of the “boys” looking
up loose boulders,and handling their sticks in a war.
like manner that it occurred to his mind that his
remark could bear any other meaning than that
of a complimentary nature.
WHO KNOWS ?
“The Rev. Thomas Gushing, vicar of San-
durch (Englaad), recently eloped with a parish-
ioner, Miss Huntley, daughter of the late Mayor of
Sandurch, and a shining light of the Congrega-
tional Church. Great sympathy is felt for his wife
and two children, whom he has left entirely desti-
tute.”—Abridged from Saturday’s News.
How we'd have loved to hear thee preach,
In part a snuffle and a whine!
The road to all that’s moral teach—
Lay down what’s pure, thou false divine!
Oh, what a sight one's eyes to greet,
Thou giving forth the “ cake and wine,”
With fair youth kneeling at thy feet—
O, what a dread, unholy shrine!
Ahl to have heard thee “probe each soul,”
When there, revered, amongst them all;
Thy voice with moral precepts roll,
With thy black heart replete with gall I
The devil, when thou leav’st this life,
The epitaph, thou knave, wilt carve
Of him who left aeuff’ring wife,
And bairns, perchance, to die or starve.
And, if there is the hell they say,
Ignoble wretch, thou’ll surely see, *
When comes the read-of “Judgment Day,”
That hell will surely yawn for thee.
The bells are done—no time to lose—
To church we must betake us now!
And yet one minister—who knows ?
May he as Mg a rogue as thou!
* * *
On a well-known Western Queensland pro-
perty owned by a firm of “ honorables,” and
“bossed” by a full staff of younger sons of aris-
tocratic lineage, a contretemps occurred in the
shearing shed a season or two ago which well-nigh
resulted in a total cessation of work during the
busiest portion of the year. Imperative orders
were subsequently given that not one of the
former “ shed hands ” were to be again accommo-
dated at the “board.” As the shearing season
onee more came round, many of the old “ navi-
gators ” put in an appearance, but were subjected
to an examination by the “boss” of the shed,
which ran in this wise : “My man, are you a
shewah ?" “Yes, sir.” “ Did you sheah heah last
yeah?” ‘‘Yes, sir.” “Ah, we shan’t requiah you
to sheah heah this yeah.”
• • •
Well-connected Telegraph Clerk : “ Ullo ?
Coming to have a wet?” “Clerk: “No, can’t;
busy with a batch of messages.” Idler: “Any
news ?” Clerk : “You know Jack Flash'y ? Well,
lie's got lined £lO in Sydney, and can’t pay it.
Here’s his wire to the old womau.” (Laughing,
reads)“ When your eyes light on this message,
dear mother, I shall be cooling my fevered head
asrainst prison bars.” Idler : “ Ha, ha 1 Is that
all?” Clerk: “They’re goiDg to sell up Tom
Grogsby, under that bill of sale. Look here. Oh,
and Nell Aluring’s to get 30 bob a week—there’s a
lot more, hut I’ll bring ’em round to the pub.”
Idler: "All right. I want to hear if Binghing’s
made it up with the mis3us yet. So-long.” Ex-
tract of report from travelling inspector of tele-
graphs:— “ I found everything in Bungerongery
station in an advanced condition of order, and can
cheerfully testify to the discretion of the opera-
tor.” Hem 1
It was at the plough the genius of poetry
found Burns and threw her mantle over him. The
same garment, badly tattered, it is true, has just
fallen on a N.S. Wales navvy. Poesy, like law, you
know, is no respecter of persons, and is just as
ikely to visit a navvy at his bread and bacon, as to
!peep into the palace of a monarch. This particular
’orny ’anded son of toil explains in six verses, with
a chorus'to each, the cause of the late strike. We
give the last only, as, if we gave all, our own
poets might retire crestfallen from a field in which
they c'ouid not hope for success against such a
competitor:—
“ And if the Town and Country
With our conduct don’t agree,
We will recommend it to join Cob and Jo.,
And accompany them up a tree.
With the Careys and the crawlers
That are along the line,
We will settle up accounts with
Them upon some future time.
“ The cavvies cried ‘ 10-Ho 1 ’
They mustered in great numbers,
And down the street did go.”
The foregoing certainly leaves no room for doubt
as to “the cause of the strike.” But the gifted
author omits to say who struck him.
The anecdote of “Bang went saxpenee,”
related of a miserly Scotchman, lias been eclipsed
in meanness by an incident told of another Indi-
vidual—a modern specimen of the same race. A
Scotchman occupying <he position of a Crown
Minister in one of the colonies, whose income at
the time was £3OOO a year, was over in England on
a visit in 1875. Towards the end of his stay, he
went down to Putney to bid farewell to an old
brother in indigent circumstances, whose ase and
poverty rendered their meeting again on this side
of Jordan an event not likely to happen. (As a
matter of fact, the brother afterwards went to
heaven direct from the workhouse). On returning
to London, his brother walked with him across
Putney Bridge to the Fulham side of the river, to
see him into a ’bus for the West-end, where he
was staying at an hotel. When close to the Middle-
sex end of the bridge, where there was a toll-gate
the rich man wished to say good-bye; but the poor
brother, anxious to see the last of him, wanted to
go as far as the ’bus. 44 No, no, William,” said the
other, “ you go back and save the half-penny.’
And William went.
Mr. Booth, the Blue Ribbon Apostle, is
‘moving” society in Victoria. He is a sort of
moral aperient, scouring the conscience, and
purging his disciples of their evil ways in the
direction of the revivifying nobbier and the ex-
hilarating pint. He has set the fashion anyway
and it is now a common thing to meet an erst
bibulous comrade strutting down the street with
his “ bit of blue ribbon ” pinned to his coat, as
proud of his decoration as any soldier of his rag.
All this is very well. We have nothing to say
against the efforts of these good people to stem
the tide of drunkenness, albeit we bethink us of
King Canute the Dane, and Mrs. Partington’s
mop. But there is something of a humiliating
character in these hysterical reforms. It doesn’t
improve one’s notions of human nature. We
cannot quote Shakespeare’s apostrophe—' 4 What a
piece of work is man ! How noble in reason !
How infinite in faculties 1 In form and moving,
how express and admirable ! In action, how like
an angel ; in apprehension, how like a god 1
when we see him strutting along with the badge
of reformation stuck in his button hole. Oh, no 1
We are rather disposed te think that man, taken


altogether, is a darned humbug, a big hypocrite*
an ass, and a pretender. As to his action in respect
to the blue-ribbon business, we are inclined to the
suspicion that the individual who can’t stave off
the jim-jams wittoutproclaiming from the house-
tops that he is one of the Blue Ribbon Army, is in
a bad way altogether. The matter is a piece of
vulgarity, savouring of the Stiggins’ morality and
the ethics of the conventicle. This is what their
poet says :
“ A ribbon blue, I wear with pride,
Badge of regeneration;
Nor care I how old chums deride—
I'm on for reformation.
No longer cursed with burning thirst,
Yan Yean is now my tipple;
I find my rest on Nature’s breast,
And suckle from her nipple.
“ The devil, now, I do defy,
I yearn not for the nobbier;
For rum and milk no longer sigh,
I scorn e’en sherry cobbler.
If I feel queer, ho longer beer
Seek I for reinstation,
But find in tea true remedy
And harmless medication.
The paper being largely In tne interest.® of
agricu’ture. the editor is ofttimes mvited to
wax eioqueot over, among other things, vast
pumpkins.
Die-. enfer/>rt7-
OTi-e-e .&eu.T&y rn/oCCI by
Cl I/b&l Q-Ct/O Tx. 7-yffjch. >V*i ~n. t
I he <y h^tiy .
•• A.H you nave to do " said the man of
science, who nailed one day, ‘ is to.pull this
wire, and you om> blow your oullding into
ten tnousand fragments. I thought, perhaps,
a aesonptioo if ny dttle tn"entiou In the
scientific) columns of your paper would inte-
rest vour readers."
hooi the mat- of leisure drooped in t-o use
•ip the editor « 'ootreo. expectorate ir the
paste o-o. and tells tun- wnat the BooMxaxr'i
■Ought to be.
There was trouble with “our content*
porary " over the way. of course.
The editor realised his proud relation (.o
society, s'hen be found oimseif, .'oi r he first
'trne. inside a olrous oeut on a deadhead
ttoket.
Su» the worst of it vat be found U ex*
fronjety naro to cn&ue collections. A.U ms
enbsortbors got in arrears.
I I • I I I* l I 1 »
and then the paper man got Impatient,
the printing-inti man defiant, <,he type*
founder personal, and everybody more or
loss threatening.
Oon-equeouy the SoooExnrixo 3coh2
-v <*u*oea»vU to oc a power land,
The “Boogeebung Boomerang.”—II.
4 Yet there are times, I own with shame,
Old Adam plagues me sadly—
When life doth seem a dreary game,
And thirst afflicts me badly;
When I would fain, ‘give it a name,’
Hoist in some stimulation,
’Tis then I find real strength of mind
In ribbon decoration.
“ Yes, yes, my ribbon blue I trust.
In Virtue’s ways confiding;
Badge of pure principles, I’ll ‘ bust ’
E’er yielding to backsliding.
Then see in me, thou man of spree,
The fruits of reformation;
And join the band of glory, and
Blue Ribbon decoration.”
Yum! yuml
* * *
Speaking of poor Adam Lindsay Gordon,
a writer in a paper facetiously called Truth ob-
serves: “No buckjumper could move him, for so
long were his legs—he was a most unwieldy built
fellow— that he could cross ankles under the ani
fflal’s barrel.” Just before that par. was jerked,
ine writer had evidently crossed his lips across the
DuDg-hole of a cask.
People here wondered why the Engl’sh
journals, on receiving news of the Sydney Con-
ference, wrote as if Australian federation was
al most un fait accompli. They did not know till a
Queensland politician told them that “The Aus-
tralian colonies are not yet sufficiently advanced
for federation,” was wired to England with the
italicised words left out l
Just two short words omitted—that is all.
Design or accident ? We fain would let
Others decide; ’tis ours but to recal
When last we heard those simple words, “ not
yet.”
A long and last farewell of native land;
A sigh—one passing pang of vain regret;
A fervid kiss, the press of a soft hand,
A whisper low, “Not yet, sweetheart, not yet.”
The scene Is changed. Behold a surging mass
Of men and horses, dyed with bloody sweat;
A wav’ring line—the dead lie thick as grass—
When through the smoke the word comes
“ Charge ?”—not yet,
But “dress the square.” We answer with a shout;
Again the column’s torn with shell, and wet
The sod’s with blood, while o’er the din rings out,
“ Steady the ranks, my lads—our time’s not yet ”
Life’s an amalgam strange of smiles and tears,
Love, hate, gain, glory, woman, wine—and debt—
But all it’s joys and woes, its doubts and fears
Oft are compris’d in those two words “ not yet.”
We know the members—they would ne’er deceive
Their parent “Bull” (how strange, still, to
forget
Those words—a mere mistake, we may believe,
Some future dav, but-no-not yet, not yet.
• • •
There is in the northern territory a public
officer who, althoug h a gentleman and a fine fellow,
is thoroughly imbued with a reverence for red tape.
The official in question—we ll call him X.Y.Z.—is
“ some pumpkins ” in the Telegraph Department.
Some time ago he was making his annual inspec-
tion of the line. On a plain as near in the middle
of Australia as possible, he called his leading man,
and said “ Brown, tell Smith and Robinson to
hurry up the pack-horses; at the next shackle,
half a mile from here, I’m going to speak with my
superior officer, Mr. Todd.” “ Your pocketinstru
ment is here, Mr. X.Y.Z.,” replied Brown. “Do as
I tell you, sir,” replied the official. “Certainly,
sir.” And, in the blaziDg sun, on a parched
Spinifex desert, the packs were taken from
the horses, the men thinking the boss had
gone stark, staring mad. Selecting his own bag-
gage, X.Y.Z. opened his valise, and took from it a
dress coat, collar, and white waistcoat. These he
solemnly arrayed himself in, and then fixing his
instrument, transacted his business at the wire
This completed,he as solemnly robed himself again,
the packs were replaced, and the journey proceeded
with. After a ride of a couple of hours in dead
silence, the men more than ever convinced he was
mad, he volunteered the following to the private
ear of Brown:—“You thought it very strange of
mo, doubtless, Brown, dressing in the heart of
Australia; but I believe in examples. I had to
communicate with my superior officer, Mr. Todd,
and I wanted to show my subordinates the respect
with which I treat an officer to whom I’m sub-
ordinate.” Brown exploded.
The time was when the inhabitants of
Cairns lived in Orcadian simplicity when a man
with a coat on was hated as a * swell,” and
evening parties sat out on the verandahs and
picked the bones of oxen tea out of
billy-lids, and were happy and contented. The
time has gone by, however, when a Cairns man
could go and see his friend on a wet night bare-
footed, with his trousers rolled up to his knees (
his boots in one pocket and a quart of rum in the
other. “ No more, there is no more, so he says, to
carry rum for now,” as the Spanish Champion
observed on a previous melancholy occasion. The
Plantagenets have overrun Cairns, and invitations
to parties intimate that “ evening costumes ” are
expected. This sweeping and revolutionary in-
novation threw the old Cairns aristocracy on
their beam-ends, but some of them are men
equal to emergencies beneath which ordinary
people would lie down and howl with un-
bridled ferocity, or terrified despair. They
passed, in one agonising transition, from twill
shirt and tweed trousers to the complete panoply
in which the grocer's assistant and the local bank
clerk adorn the dress circle on transendant occa-
sions. One of them ordered an “ evening cos-
tume” to be sent up from a Brisbane tailor, and it
arrived in time for a party at the four-room and
skillion mansion of Raymond Berenger de Mont-
morency Tomtit But his absence from the party
was remarked, and in reply to a question of a
friend next day, he said ‘‘Well, I intended to come,
but, hang me, if that ass of a tailor didn't send up a
coat with half the y tail cut off! ”
» • l
Scene : Dinner-table, saloon of a coasting
steamer. Nervous Passenger (looking suspiciously
at a piece of very much underdone pork): “Isay
steward, do you know I'm afraid there’s trichina
in this meat.” Steward: “Beg p’don, sir, think
there can’t be. But, you see, sir, fresh meat won’t
keep no time at all this ’ot weather; and, anyhow
I told the cook t o be sure an’ pick ’em all ou t before
sending it aft.” Exeunt omnex.
• • •
Rustic !—Scene, Jumbuckville. Excited
Stranger (to dirty-faced man on a ladder, nailing
up creepers): Could you tell me where to find a
magistrate ? I have been brutally assaulted.
D.F.M.: Wot d’ye want? E.S.: A warrant. D.F.M.:
Who banged yer ? E.S.: The blacksmith. D.F.M.:
You won’tget no warrant agin’im! E.S: Whynot?
D.F.M.: ’Cos he’s on a long job from the magistrit,
and can’t be took away from it. E.S. (reduced lo
frenzy): Oh, it’s no good bothering with you, you
old fool. Where is the d magistrate ? D.F.M
(calmly): I am the magistrit! E.rit F.S., pressing
in his quivering eyeball.
« # •
TIM THE TROOPER.
The following touching and really pathetic
legend is related to us by an amiable correspond-
ent residing in Cow-tree Gully. We have merely
taken the liberty of turning his good prose into
indifferent rhyme. And while on the subject, wo
don't mind letting you into an editorial secret, and
telling you that this exciting incident should have
appeared in these columns weeks ago. The fast
is we have some trouble with our poets. We en-
deavoured, some time since, to classify them. We
thereforo rounded them up one morning, and
presented to each a silver number to hang upon
his watch-chain. But hero an unlooked-for diili
culty at once presented itsself. Not one of the


bard-brigadejiad a watch-chain. One certainly
possessed a watch as brazen as Jezebel, blit on
being 1 opened, its motive power appeared to con-
sist of trousers-buttons and snuff. However, they
took the badges, afad the understanding was tha t
all should hie past the office bn tho opposite sid e
of the way—with the pretence of never having
seen the bnildiog before-and he whose number
was displayed on a black-board outside, should
step over and write his contribution—in the cellar.
Over this ingenious idea we chuckled very
much, and bribed a budding Caxton ( cetat 9),
in a very dirty apron, to tap us on the back for
our cleverness. But it didn’t work. It -but>
Printer, we are rather overcome. Insert three sad
and falling stars here. * * *
(Yes, dear. The same, as usual. Hem! In a
jewter. We like it in a pewter. You get in that
chaste metal vessel the taste of so many beers that
have been lost and gone before.) No; it didn’t work (
On the first day tho brigade pledged their num-
bers, assuring a confiding pawnbroker that they
were the Order of the Billiard Cue just received
from King Kalakua. We redeemed those num-
bers several times; but, at length, wearying of
losing our credit by being continually seen, either
going in or coming out of a pawnbroker’s shop,
we informed the phalanx of poets lhat "it was the
last time.” That morning the whole of the
or aments—chaste design (an idea of “Hop-'s”—
he ought to reproduce it if be feels good) were
1 ! i ,:i
hypothecated as usual. We made no sign; and
“laughed consumedly.’’ But the demon still
pursued us. The “brigade’ 1 staggered by as
usual at its ordinary hour, and there happening to
be a run on poetry—elegiac, rustic, and idyllic—no
less than three boards were displayed against the
noble facade of the building. But the tuneful
“ push,” instead of making at once for the cellar,
merely trooped vacantly on, making no moro sign
than we had. Then a thought flashed upon us !
Within twenty-four hours every poet had forgotten
his number! Under these painful circumstances
we consider we are entitled to some consideration
at the hands of a public which is as celebrated for
its extreme good nature as for its excessive
prowess in the tented oyster saloon. We have,
however, done our best in this trying position.
We have secured the services of a poetical young
glazier, who is under a contract to us, to turn out
a good sound article. With this we must be con-
tent until such a time as our regular poetical staff
shall have received, at our hands, that welcome at
the Gate, which we have always been willing to
ccord them.— Ed. B.]
Policeman Tim, he was a “ masher ”
(Take the name for what it’s worth),
l'tode a horse that was a slasher;
Stationed somewher-e in the North.
Mashing, you bet, was his fate, sirs,
“ Collared ” girls he by the bevy;
Though ho was but a light weight, sirs,
Thunder 1 how he did the heavy.
Tim—this made the girls’ ears tingle
Till the lobes they had to rub—
Tim, the peeler, sirs, was single;
Had his meals too at the pub..
Slave—was sweet Susanna Hooper-
Loved Tim till with love was sore;
Door she opened for her trooper,
Named for her a trooper-dour, f!!—Ed.]
Sweet strange maiden—hair quite golden,
Eyes of melting, melting blue—
Came up . . . story that is olden,
Olden as the story’s true! . . .
To Iho winds this trooper tossed all
Love for sweei Susanna Hooper;
“ Grubbed ” now at the other hostel,
Hostel quite had grown that trooper.
Where the stream goes singiDg, singing,
Where the twinkling swallow laps;
Where the girls are bringing, bringing,
Oftentimes, their willing chaps—
'Neath a willow tree they sang, sirs,
Cheek to cheek and eye to eye;
Suddenly there was a bang! sirs.
Bit ! and don’t the buttons fly!
Tim’s head flaps down in the mud,
Tim’s boots point tow ards the stars,
Broomstick comes another thud,
Arabesqued is Tim with scars!
Bolt upright there stands Susanna—
“ Showed,” she cried, “ that I can light;
Last, when treated in this manner,
T a sergeant killed outright.”
Fled now is that golden topper;
Gone’s Tim’s beauty ever more,
All day lies that wretched “copper,”
Friendless, sorry, sick and sore!
Town’s without its “police protection,”
Requested are the rowdy elves,
When there is an insurrection,
Kindly to arrest themselves!
MORAL.
True love all the world is gold love,
And this forget, now, never do—
Mind you’re quite off with the old love,
Ere you're half on with the new!
The following linos, scribbled on the back
of a playbill, were found on the lloor of the
Legislative -Assembly. Humour has it that they
were written by an honorable member in playful
reference to mother honorable member. But
we never credit rumour
“ You're a rascally ruffian and wicked designer,
Of live 'uns and stiff ’uns alike a maligner ;
A political Quilp and unscrupulous vulture.
An illiterate mountebank, quite without culture.”
[We musn’t print any more.— Ed. B.]
* * *
Spurgeon’s well-known words, “Resist the
devil, and he will flee from you ; resist a deacon,
and he will fly at you,” have been piteously quoted
by the Rev. J. H. Shalberg, in a letter to the Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph. This gentleman, itwil
be remembered, was recently invited to “come
on” by one of his pugilistic deacons, and in his
letter to the D.T. he begs to explain how it is that
all these holy differences have arisen. The gist of
the Rev. S.’s remarks is that his sober ministry is
altogether too slow to please a Brunswick audi-
ence, and in a quiet sort of way this Baptist
parson ceitainly contrives to “ get in ” one or two
ugly blows at the Harmy. Says the Rev. S. :
“ Now, T’vc no objection to|beinga clown ; but if I
must be the caterer of amusement, I prefer to
divest myself first of the cloak of religion.” Un-
fortunately, though, lor the poor man, the deacons
have a strong leaning towards circus business in
religion. So, unless he is prepared to turn a double
somersault after giving out the text, we expect
he’ll have to find a fresh lot of sheep.
❖ * *
According to “ ’igh life ” gossip, the Duke
of Albany—although ho is now 31, and quite tall
for his ago—is not at liberty to accept any social
invitation or "self and missus” without first
obtaining a direct permission from his royal
mother. It makes things very awkward for
“Poldy” to be obliged to wire to mamma at
Balmoral, or goodness knows where, every time
that my Lord Smith asks him to drop in and smoke
a cigar, or Lady Smith begs of the youthful
Duchess to come round and see how well baby's
getting on—but no doubt, everything’s for the
best. The Queen intends to keep this son straight,
anyway; and, as he is all right up to now, it is of
vital importance that he should be guarded from
the snares of such bad, bad people as were the
ruin of poor deal Teck. Besides, Leopold wants
watching quite as much for physical as for moral
reasons. The poor fellow not only bleeds pro-
fusely at the least shock to the system (the report
of a gun is very apt to set him off), but, worse
still, he is so awfully brittle that he breaks on the
slightest provocation. If he were to pay a visit to
one of those hail-fellow-well-met kind of country
squires, who slaps a man on the back as he en-
quires after his health, the inevitable result is
something too appalling for loyal subjects too
contemplate.—
SOME ROYAL CORRESPONDENCE.
From D. of A. to Q. V a.
Dear Ma, I’ve been so long in town,
I'm feeling ill and weak,
And Lord de Browne invites me down
To Brownville for a week;
I’d like to go, I must confess,
I’ll be all circumspection—
Oh! do say “yes,” dearma, unless
There's any great objection.
From Q.V a to D. of A.
Dear son, of late, I’m grieved to state,
You seem to have, somehow,
A wanton wish to dissipate,
And that I can’t allow.
So write, you see, to Lord de B. —
Decline his invitation,
Then come to tea with Trix and me,
And talk about salvation.
Lastweek, in a “plain English” article, we
inadvertently attributed to the Chief Justice, Sir
James Martin, a course of action with which he
really had nothing to do The Judge actually
responsible was District Court Judge Wilkinson.
As the proceedings we referred to have been
strongly animadverted on in Parliament and else-
where, it is proper that we should correct the
mistake.
A member of the Shanghai Cricket Club,
whose residence overlooks the race-course, was
considerably surprised quite recently ago on ob-
serving the men i f H.M.S. Champion dragging a
Gatling gun and a tield-piece into the cricket-
ground and making evident preparations to go
through their drill there. He hurried to the
ground and informed the officer in charge that he
was trespassing, but the salt refused to give way,
saying that the ground inside the race-course was
too swampy for his purpose. Hough on the S. C. C.
and their ground, too.
A lot of reasons have been suggested why
the Poet Laureate has been made a peer, but we
have not seen in any newspaper that it was in con-
sequence of the pretty pieces ot poetry composed
by him to be put on the various statues, <Jte, in
connection with the death of John Brown. Per-
haps the following verses from a London paper
may explain the reluctance with which Baron
Tennyson composed the verses referred to:—
THE RELUCTANT POET.
I’ve chanted of “ Albert the Good ” in words that
did credit to me,
And I’ve sung of a sea-king’s daughter who’d
little to do with the sea;
Now and theD, too, 1 have penned an anthem to
open a show or bazaar,
But to sing of this fortunate Scotchman I think it
is going too far.
“He was always so good and so faithful as never
a servant has been.”
So good and so faithful—great heavens!—who
wouldn’t be kind to a queen ?
A monarch, of course, may be sorry when such a
true servitor dies,
But, sure,’tis a little too fulsome to praise him
like this to the skies!
With monuments, brasses, and verses, and texts
and beffiudiugs galore,
It’s <-nough to make Albert turn rusty, and even
dead Beaconslield sore.
Were you poor, or in exilo and friendless, and
then he’d been faithful and kind—
But it alters the case not a little when he leaves,
say, six thousand behind!
Far better a personal servant than a servant of
state, it appears -
To hand out a queen from her carriage, than
guide the whole country for years!
And it’ he was kindly to you, ma'am, to others he
was but a snob;
And although I suppose I must do it, I’m dashed
if I care for the job!
If your stomach craves for a pleasant
bitter to sharpen the keen edge of appetite, ask
your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, the
Great Nerve Tonic, lake no substitute. Whole-
sale at Elliott’s and Prosser’s. Sole Proprietors
Marshall Brothers, M.P.S, Pharmacists, 1M
and 100, Market-street, Sydney.
BRIEF MENTION.
The deplorable epidemic of “ oriminal
assaults ” has reached a climax. A sexton is
charged now.
The Cobar people are petitioning Govern-
ment relative to the drought which they suffer
from. It is, perhaps, only a coincidence that the
first signature is “ Jas. Hennessy.”
HER LOVE.
“ I love you fondly, sweet,” he cried,
“ To me you are most dear.”
“ I’ll take y©u, for I love,” sh 3 sigh’d,
“ That ‘thou.’ you earn a year.”
Rather too often, dear Maolean, do your
gaol subordinates put a wrong interpretation upon
judicial sentences, ordering female prisoners to be
confined. Slack discipline, we should say; but, then,
we are outsiders.
STRANGE.
“ Though wedded we shall be to-day ;
Since courting we begun, sir,
I’ve never looked well in her eyes,
Because she has but one, sir 1”
A Dubbo duchess, who was reoently “run
in ” for filling her tank too full of tangle, had over
£3OO in notes and gold stowed away in her gentle
“buzzim.” It was all returned to her next day,
and we presume the constable who arrested her
will be promptly discharged for neglect of duty.
WHEN DOCTORS DIFFER ?
Of Stuart, sneers Brady:
“ His conduct is shady.”
To Brady, plumps Stuart:
“ The shady one Tu art!”
Dawn breaks at last. After a lengthy
trial, a N.S.W. jourual, the At.bury Banner, has
gained a libel action. Cattlin, the local George
Robbins, sued for £2OO damages for an article
alleged to have imputGd perjury to him. And the
verdict, per jury, went against him. This, how-
ever, occurred in Albury.
“I don’t feel uneasy about the future
Erosperitylof any of my children, except Tom, and
e, poor fellow, seems a b*t ‘ touched.' His mind
is weak, and I fear that he will have to take to the
newspaper work and help his father.” That's the
way the wife of a Southern editor gave the old
man away 'at a recent tea and twaddle party.
“ What a wide margiu, ma, dear,” said the
daughter (attending high school) to her mother—
the keeper of a fashionable boarding-house—on
the entrance of a portly inmate. It was not until
the lady was making the rum sauce in the duff
later on, that she dropped down to the fact that
“ wide margin” is high school for “fat boarder.”
The patent fault of Matthew Davenport
Hill’s scheme for dealing with the habitual crimi-
nal. and which consists in keeping him in gaol
until he is cured, is that no fellow can tell when a
criminal in gaol is cured, since in gaol there is no
proper moans of testing the strength of such good
resolutions as he may pour into the car of the
chaplain.
A contemporary appears a trifle startled
because it is said that Judge Hoover, who once
upon a time was Chief Justice of Arizona, is now
chief waiter in arestauiant in Southern California;
and Judge Sattcrthwaite, also from Arizona, is
now doing tinker’s jobs for a living. We know
some Judges who have been tinkers all their life-
time, but we doubt if any of them are smart
enough to act as cafe waiters.
Bell and others v. Bell and others, was a
friendly suit. Friendly to the lawyers, very ! as
this will show :—“ Mr. H. F. Barton, instructed by
Mr. R. D. G. Fitzgerald, for the plaintiffs ; Mr. A.
Nash, instructed by Mr. D. K. Farr, for Mrs. A. N.
Bell; Dr. Donovan, instructed by Mr. S. Stewart,
for the defendants; Mr. A. H. Simpson, instructed
by Mr. Carolan, for the next of kin.
WHf, CERNT’LY.
“ Mr. Ardill wishes some kind friend to
present the Blue Ribbon Army with a suitable
site for a men's home.”—
If the position of your site,
You’d choose, and not be silly,
The proper place, Ardill, to pick,
Would be—why, Piclcardilly.
Professor Huxley has published the em-
phatic statement that in all his searching and ex-
tended studies of savage life in every end of the
earth he has found no people so miserable,
wretched, and degraded as those who exist in the
poorer quarters of London. Roll up, deahly
berluved. More pugarees and crinolette poufs
are required for the “ pore ” little heathens of
the Ranganapoopoo Islands.
Sir Alfred Stephen would “scotch” the
snake young and kill it, for theD, as he logically
puts it, the beggar wouldn’t be able to bite when
aged—a philosophical reflection, which makes us
regret ever so much that Sir Alfred himself wasn’t
treated to this perfect cure when very young.
What a lot of judicial mistakes, pension money,
and expenditure on Stephenism generally hig early
treatment by it would have saved our bleeding
oountry !
We are advised of a petrilied body having
been exhumed somewhere alter a four years
burial. We have forgotten the particular spot
given, also the length to which tho hair had grown,
and whether the body looked like a perfect
statue. Auy of our readers anxieus for further
particulars may obtain them by exploring about
the deepest grave we are acquainted with—the
skull of the up-country editor who was stuck for
“ copy,” and who has sent the venerable yarn the
rounds of the exchanges.
The body of an old woman was found in
some water in an old clay hole in Brunswick, (V.)
How did she get in ? ■ his is how they solved the
mystery iu Melbourne last week:—Dr. Nei d: “She
wasn’t choked, she was drowned ” Dr. Murphy:
“ She wasn’t drowned, she was choked ” Dr.
Allen: “ She was only drowned” Dr. M'Kenna:
“ She was only choked.” Coroner: “ I’m inclined
to agree with Dr. Neild and Dr. Allen, an I’m also
in accord with Dr. Murphy and Dr. M'Kenna.”
Jury’s verdict: “ We got her dead.”
Fancy this, now. George Washington, tho
first President of the United States, never saw a
steamboat. John Adams, the second President ot
the United States, never saw a railroad. Andrew
Jaekson, the seventh President of the United
States, knew nothing about the telegraph; Abra-
ham Lincoln, the sixteenth President, never
dreamed of such a thing as a telephone. President
Garfield never rode in a Sydney tram; and Presi-
dent Arthur never heard of John Davies. And
yet those derned Yanks talk about keeping pace
with the age.
In view of the Supreme Court decision in
the test case, Larkins versus O’Connel, all that
an enterprising Boniface has to do, in order to
fully avail himself of the benefits it accords him,
is to invest in a tent and a few benches, the
which erected on a spot convenient to his hostelry
will enable him on Christmas Day and Good
Friday to keep within the letter of the law, while
doing as he and his customers jolly well like with
its, his and their (sold on iho premises) spirit.
Tneir Honors the Judges evidently thoroughly
enjoy heaping contempt on the lex scripta.
A nolioe-court “oath” has considerable
sanctity in the eyes of the Melbourne World,
judging from a par. in a recent number of that
journal :—“ In a case against a Coolie man-servant
at the St. Kilda Court, to-day, there was no inter-
preter present, and another C ,olie servant, who
chanced to be in the court, was pressed into the
service. He had but a bungling knowledge of
Englis*, and as the formality of swearing him was
dispensed with, there’ was no telling whether he
interpreted truthfully or not.” Some people,
though, take a good many oaths without telling
the truth.
George Hayes, poor fellow ! suffered from
that most awful of afflictions, blindness, but kind
friends placed him iu the Melbourne Blind Asy-
lum, whence, after a long period of alternate
hoping and fearing, George was discharged cured
of his complaint. Rejoicing in the blessing’ of the
sight thus restored to him, George turned his
blessing to account in a manner of which few will
approve. In brief, he paid a visit to his old home,
the Asylum, and stole a quantity of clothing be-
longing to the blind inmates. And now he enjoys
the hospitality of an institution where the lodgers
are, mostly, very widc-iwake.
School-inspector Jones’s recommendations
re schoolmarm Bardwell were “that she be in-
structed to be more punctual in her attendance,
to pay stricter attention to her printed instruc-
tions, and to raise her school to a higher degree of
efficiency.’’ The last recommendation strike hs as
being “rather of the ratherest.’’ It is as though
an inspecting general of artillery, finding a battery
in an undisciplined condition, were, instead of
suggesting the prompt removal of the officer in
charge, to recommend that he be instructed to
raise his battery to a higher degree of efficiency—
as if the highest state of efficiency shouldn’t be a
battery’s normal condition.
“When doctors disagree, who shall de-
cide ?” A woman’s dead body was found in a
waterhole at Brunswick (Vic.), and “ a petticoat
was twisted round her neck and tightened at the
back, but was not tied.” So a post mo r tcm was
made, and some very instructive evidence was the
result, two of the professional gentlemen deciding
that “there were no marks of any ligature round
the neck, and the cause of death was suffocation
from drowning, pure and simple,” while the third
expert (who assisted at the same examination)
found that “ there was a distinct black mark round
the neck, and the cause of death was strangulation
and not drowning.” Now, what can an intelligent
jury make of all that ?
As they approached the settler’s humpy;
after a long and rough 40-mile ride—“l fancy,’’
remarked the super., “ that I can smell beefsteaks
frying”—“and onions,” put in the trooper, who
was ferociously sharp-set—“ an’ I b’iave we’ve got
’em sure enough, now, the cattle-shaking villains.
You knock at the doore sur, while Ishurround the
house.” However the “doore” was wide open,
and the “ missus ” busy helping her husband and
the children to a second round of damper and
honey; so after a thorough search the twain
departed, the foiled “trap” remarking, as he
tightened his belt, and let fall his lower lip, “ not
as much sign o’ mate, or graice itself, as wud
atthract a blow-fly, Bedad!”
Ora pro nobis. We have received No. 2 of
a paper published in Melbourne. It is a “ Society”
paper, and we have the assurance of the pro-
prietors that they know how these things are run.
We know where they run to, and regret that space
prevents our quoting largely from it, for our own
instruction. We cannot, however, resist the
opportunity of catching its fleeting breath, and
brightening up our own pages with a few little
gec«.s of Personal items set everyone in
aroar, See how it sparkles “Who is the new
barmaid at Tomkins’, on the Hill, who knocks the
mashers? Johnny Matlock’s genial face looks
well behind a bar. Why does Jim Kent absent
himself from the baker’s shop in Gcrtrude-street,
Fitzroy ? ”
The Wagga Stab says: — “Mr. Eaton
Sromised to give two hogsheads of beer towards
le celebration of the opening of the bridge for
free traffic. This generous ofl'er it has been found
expedient to decline, and in its stead Mr. Katon
has donated two guineas.” Mr. Eaton is a brewer.
We suppose he means his donation of two guineas
to be an equivalent for the proposed two hogs-
heads of beer. If so, we get 20s. as the value of a
hogshead (or 54 gallons or 432 pints) of beer. At
3d. a pint, a hogshead of Eaton’s swill yields to the
retailer £5 Bs. There must be profit in selling the
stuff. The celebration committee should have
accepted the beer and retailed it. The old bridge
proprietary would have jumped at such a chance
had anyone offered them two hogsheads of she-oak.
This is the way the census collectors make
their labour light up Northwards:—ln order to
find out how many children a town contains, a
Punch and Judy show is started in the main
street, and while collector No. 1 goes through the
tragedy, No. 2 counts up the youngsters. To
secure the female total, a report is spread that a
fashionable wedding is to be held on a certain date
at the local church, and then the only trouble is to
seleot the real townswomen from the inquisitive
ladies who have ridden ten or twenty miles to see
the execution. To reckon the male proportion,
all that is necessary to do is to anchor a tank of
beer in the public square and festoon its sides with
pint-pots. And it is thus that an irksome business
is converted into quite a cheerful picnic-sort of
ceremony.
One of the greatest essayists of Hunter-
street says “It is surprising how soon a wife
tires of the company of a man who is too much at
home. Men are wise in getting away from tneir
own roof-trees a certain portion of each day.”
We have always contended for this right on behalf
of woman, and on more than one occasion been
touched on noting her inflexiDlo determination to
have a little quiet time to herself when the hus-
band has come at 3 in the morning, and fallen to
sleep on the doorstep rather than ring her up. But
when a man gets to fixing himself up to his own
roof-tree, we cannot wonder that a; loving wife
thinks things are really getting too domestic, and
that she might be excused for a little haste when
she has to go around to the painter’s and oorrow a
ladder so as to get up and cut him down.
In the month of February there were
2833 oz. of spirits medicinally dispensed in the
Melbourne Hospital. Of the eight medical men,
two shone out with an engaging liberality, and
two look to have been shrunk up into the
dimensions of a blue-ribbon medal. Dr. Fulton
and Dr. Moloney gave at the rate of 10 oz. per
patient, while Dr. Robertson and Mr. Girdlestone
thought they did it handsomely by ordering a
solitary oz. to the unfortunates The Hospital
report does not enable one to judge accurately as
to which brace of doctors coffined most. To make
the table serve any but a financial purpose, a
column dealing with this should be appended. In
the meantime, prospective patients are naturally
anxious to get on the list with tne first brace, i f
they are to be killed anywhere about as certainly
«s on the other list, they will have the advantage
of getting it done in an eminently more pleasant
way.
Boniface Chetwynd, of the Clarendon,
Surry Hills, with reference to the fiscal policy of
the Government, the high rentals in the suburbs,
and similar matters, observes that “ in any respect-
able locality a house cannot be rented much under
£1 per week, and the chances are that the occupant
has a wife and family, and only earning £2a week.
How, therefore, can he afford to pay 6d. for a glass
of beer, and keep his family respectable ?” How,
indeed ? Chetwynd s contention is that the ab-
sentee should be taxed, and beer untaxed; but we
don’t tee how that would very materially better
the position of the man (with a family) living in a
house costing him 20s. a week for rent, and only
earning 40s. Such a man's chances of keeping his
family respectable and avoiding insolvency would
not lay so much in beer untaxed as in beer un-
“ ax ”ed for by him under any circumstances.
What playful “bhoys” there are down
Tumut way ! We are told on the authority of the
Gitndagai Elwortuv that three festive huro-
pi ais recently visited the Chinese garden at
Go. up—wherever that may be—on a melon-h int-
itig expedition. They struck a rich patch, and
helped themsi Ives plentifully to the choicest fruit.
They had set Med down to a good tuck-in when the
proprietor blandly hinted at compensation. That
was the signal for a general onslaught on the
heathen. They tickled him in the ribs with a
three-pronged fork, butted him over the head
with a shovel, fanned his brow with a paling, and
wound up the caruiv u l by defiling his bed and
wrecking his habitation. Av coorso the police re-
saved information of the occurrence some time
afterwards, and arc prowling round on the look
out for the “ bhoys, ’ and praying to God not to
find them.
The City of the South has had to suffer on
many occasions. The vandalism of the elemeuts
gave it Black Thursday, tue vandalism of politics
gave it Black Wednesday, and now the vandalism
of the Health Society has given it Black Monday
On that Monday, in the first days of March, 1884,


the n»nf»h in nistriot Court sealed tlie fate of
riiin trfne Henrv Ccunwelf used to boil
it fn Lonsdale-street Heused to pin it in a wooden
vat outside in his back-vard. and the steam used
tnenri over the mil roofs and the liouor run off
Into VJ.i°hhardt street^md wend its wa? through
Ihe sea Dr Fishe r
to sneAk for hls doome'd favourite,
S' "
.SHESHSSf
’ and daed Cornweil 10j ”
with £-2s. costs.
Here they come at last. Better late than
never. A young lady in the Orange district was
returning home a few days ago, when she suddenly
found her progress hampered by the presence of
an enormous tiger snake which lay stretched
across the road, aud merely winked familiarly at
her when requested to reef in his tail and let the
lady pass. Not being able to jump over the lazy
reptile, the Orange girl belted him over the back
with a pole, and on his snakeship being opened it
was found he had recently swallowed a full-grown
native cat, which bore the appearance of being
lather inconveniently crowded up for room. Just
before this, a farmer near Tarana explored the
head of another boomer with a hay-fork, and on
searching the reptile, which measuredsixfeet.no
less than 04 baby snakes, from 9 to 12 inches long,
The N.S. Wales Eight.
“Number one went overboard in consequence of Stroke 'catching a crab.” (AQUATIC REPORT.)
were found cuddled up together, and wondering
what in thunder was the cause of all the row out-
side. So that the Tarana six-footer had something
like 60ft. of snakes stowed away inside her. And
there's another story told of a Grafton girl, who
finding a carpet snake on the road as she was going
to church, despatched the varmint by poking her
30-rib gingham down its throat, and suddenly
opening it out before Eve’s seducer had time to
get himself expanded.
Some of the newspaper offices in the South
are preaching a deadly crusade against the adul-
teration of milk This is encouraging. The
Goughs and the Cooks and the Barkers have not
worked in vain. Instead of cogging the “stick ”
up with a match-box or a plug of tobacco while
he was running round the corner, the typo now
reaches over for the milk-jug and wets. And the
leader writer is never “ off his chump ” now, and
the scissors man declares he has twice the strength
in his elbow, and proves it by pointing to the
great big columns he is able to shear out of the
home papers. The adulteration of this precious
fluid is. therefore, a subject on which the Southern
journalist is justified in waxing wroth. And he is
waxing away. But until the crusade eventuates
in a might victory for the pen, the Federal Aus-
tralian enjoins circumspection and care. “ Boil
your liquid,” it says, “ and skim the surface off,
and the milk will be completely purified from all
poisonous germs.” Not alone to the pressmen of
Victoria, but to every unit in the population of
Australia this advice should be of momentous
value. And it can be depended on, for the Fede-
ral is a grand authority on skim-milk, a very
grand authority, indeed ; and is not bad on any
sort of a skim, not at all bad.
If we were not raking it in hand over fist
by writing, wo should certainly turn dentists or
corn doctors. It requires no training and the
meanest intellect is capable of counting over the
fee, which is the chief thing. All you want is a
ground floor, a bowl with a hole in the bottom,
and a gilt sign, with the word surgeon-dentist, or
corn-doctor, on it. You can then wrench away at
the public jaws, slash away at their feet, or drop
an occasional tooth into the patient’s larynx, or
suffocate him with nitrous oxide, and it only
advertises your business Then there is the new
tooth business, where for £lO you fit in a frame-
work that feels like a cord of wood in the mouth,
and that never drops out except when you are in
company, and want to laugh. The Board of Tech-
nical Education have done wisely to advertise for
a lecturer on this usefu l branch of science, and we
now look forward to the early establishment of a
lectureship on corn-cutting, to keep pace with the
late advances in the art of making sharp-toed
boots that place the toes one on top of another.
It is in this latter regard that we droop away into
pensive melancholy as we reflect that one who was
late amongst us, but who has passed from our
midst, is not with us to advise in this hour of trial.
But he will come again Let but three short
circling years flit by, leaving,* in their hurried
flight, the vanishing molar, or building up the
bunions of an honourable maturity, as our corn
aDd whine increase, and then the doors of Pen-
tridge will be flung wide open, and our own Ind an
be at us again—literally tooth and nail.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Besides being a powerful and wholesome
tonic, Wolfe’s Schnapps is an unequalled brain
medicine, imparting healthful vigour to that sen-
sitive organ and to every fibre of the nervous
system.
If this should meet the eve of any one
suffering from Bronchitis, Consumption, Asthma,
or any Pulmonary Affection, we would refer them
to Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, which will, in all cases,
afford speedy relief, and, in most, effect a speedy
cure. To be had of all Chemists, and Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Wholesale Agents.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND,
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Brononitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold's ’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
His [?]
Take his dying depositions, take his dying depo-
sitions,
For his life is nearly ended, and he’ll soon be in
the clay:—
“ I got into the fight someway, I can’t tell on what
conditions;
Like an Irish pattern fight it was, as well as I
can say.
“ They called it Life, the Fight of Life! but what
about the r.ame of it ?
A scrim-nidge, or a tussle, or a battle— which is
the best V
But I fought away, I fought away, among the
pride and shame of it,
And now I’m tired and slipping off to have a
little rest.
“ Who sent me in. who sent me in ? God knows I
cannot think of it!
As likely he, too, was a fool unable aught to
learn;
I only know I didn’t get a whisper or a wink of
it,
Or I’d have stayed for ever out of the whole
deucod concern!
“ For sixty years I fought away, I fought away, I
fought away,
And many a rousing lick I gave and got, as
things of course;
But whom I licked or who licked me, I caunot
tell; I wrought away
As if I were at Donnybrook when whisky was
in force.
“ I fought away, I fought away, for Love, and
won, and lost again.
And now I wish that Love had never bid me
lift my hands;
Its profit led me on a while, but made me pay
the cost again
In greynes~, and in furrows, and fe°t blistered
with hot sands.
“ I fought away, T fought away—for Money, too,
and lost it all;
I euchred other fellows, and yet others euchred
me;
I bossed a lot T won from some, but others came
and bossei it all,
And now I wish that Money never made me
curve my kneel
“ Ah, and I was clever once, and many feared to
chaff at me,
For I had Wit that cut and stabbed wherever
they were weak;
But others rose and bitterly made everybody
laugh at me.
And now I wish that Wit had never stirred my
lips to speak I
“ I’m going now, I’m going now, and this is all I
to you—
This thing called Life is never worth the while
of man to live;
And if hereafter I am asked to come and give a
day to yon,
I’m d —d if I’ll return again for all the earth
can give!”
His initials are “H.F...” but wedou’tknow
what his natqe is. It might be Horace Evremonfle
0 r Henry Emptlsm-anything, in fact; but. be-
yond the f'.ct that he is a bard andthat he resides
a t Cootamundra, we know nothing Avhatever
about him. It seems that things are so disorgap:
lse d there-possibly owing to the departure of
Murdoch-that the Cootamundrians resolved to
gat
to join tne choir are continually emanating from
a large number of undesirable personages. Under
these circumstances the citizens met, and this
therin ls celebrated by “ 11. E.” (who is an
advocate for “new blood”) in immortal verse,
gee wlth w^a t tact and skill the poet marshals his
townsmen before him in solemn review! Of the
pi ac ksmith he says
“ Ho shod the gallant steed or made the plough,
And as he worked he sang (or madea jolly row.”)
f with «n
Here, at once, you get laot ana rancy. wKn an
on h« rvSteninmb-iml ihe
much I?, Vm, f° r ffi q u
w nr nre the clergy forgotten— “
Magnus. Nor are tho cleigy iorgotten
‘‘ And passing gravely through tho mingled throng
job n Miller comes, Bishop of Ironbung.”
We hope there is nothing irreverent in this: but
we have a shrewd suspicion that our bard lias that
sarcastic spirit within him born of leading sec-
tarian panersl The watchmaker has a good show
in tinely-balanced couplets:—
“ And by his side young ETowell now appears,
A man of many watches for his years;
And when the love-sick swain his girl would
treat.
There’s not a better shop than Howell’s in Parker-
street.”
Plenty of Are here, eh ? But, perhaps it is in
dialogue where “ H K.” the more brilliantly excels.
The jeweller speaks :
“ Unaccustomed as I am
To public speaking, I can only claim
Your kind indulgence. But I thank those gents
\v hose votes have placed me on the Vigilance.”
We like this ingenious dovetailing in of a familiar
and '.time-honoured expression. It is homely and
heariy ; aud consequently exceedingly pleasing.
Of the editor of the Cootamundha Liberal, we
then get—
“ Another champion joins the thickening fight,
The learned Doidge, who said, ‘ It isn’t right.
To heap such insults on the gallant seven,
Whom I conceive to be most proper men.’ ” [!!!]
Everybody, indeed, seems to have been noticed,
except the seston. Hang it, though 1 Perhaps the
bard's the sexton.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
L We thaU. be glad to have tht» index potted up by
tocretariet of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in genera l.l
RACING.
Orange J.C March 13.14.
Wollongong- March 17.
Gundaroo March 17.
Wellington Annual March 17,18.
Albury March, 17,18.
Canterbury Park R.C March 22.
Bourke J.C May 22, 23.
Oondobelin March 20, 27.
Corowa R.C March 27.
Wahgunyah R.C March 29.
Hawiiesbury K,C. Autumn April 3, 5.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
A.J.C Autumn April 12,14, 10, 19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23, 24, 25.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murruinbidgee J.C May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay. . May 15, P.
Newcastle J.C ■ May 24.
Mudgee R.C > .June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta March 22.
W.oolloomooloo Bay Regatta. March 29.
Newcastle K.C. Regatta March 29.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race, Victoria v.
N.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHLETICB.
Rush’s £lOO Handicap, Grafton March 17.
Goulburn Athletic Sports March 17.
Gulaong Sheffield Handicap March 17.
Burke v. Macaulay, at Goulburn March 17.
Oarcoar Sheffield Handicap April 14.
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18,19.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Casino £3O Handicap .. ..May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Chapman v. Rolfe April 5.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mr. “Tom” Strange, of M.R.C. celebrity,
is trying to raise a Watson's Bay regatta this year.
Woolloomooloo Bay regatta fixed for 29th
March. Mr. “Jack” Myers hon. sec.
Walter M‘lndoe matched to swim Kenny
for £lOO and the championship of Australia, at
Melbourne, on March 22.
At Melbourne, F. M‘Evoy grassed thirteen
birds without a miss, and won the Australian Cup
Handicap. F. Gannon was runner-up.
The Northern Hunt Club have decided to
run the hounds, during the coming season, at
Singleton, Muswellbrook, and Sydney.
Kelly and Monahan are to walk a mile
for a five-guinea cup, in the Domain, on Marcli 20.
Monaghan is to receive fifty yards' start.
Dr. H. L. Cortis is stated to be suffering
from heart disease. No doubt the twenty-miles-
an-hour business has a big say in the case.
The Australian Eleven a big frost in Mel-
bourne. However, “Our Boys” need not fret.
They can avail themselves of the immigration
vote should they freeze in England.
The annual match between Coates’ C.C.
and the Wertheim C.C., played at Parramatta on
Saturday last, ended in an easy win for the former
eleven. A feed and social followed in the evening.
Donald Dinnie has challenged George
Robertson to wrestle Scotch and Cumberland
styles, three falls at each, for £25 or £5O a-sido, the
match to oe decided in Christchurch within four
weeks.
On Saturday last, the Conservatives made
a poor show against the Carthonas for the Junior
Cup: Conservatives, Ist innings4tl, Carthonas,ditto
131. Should the match finish early next Saturday,
the Osbornes and Croydona will follow on.
T. H. Chapman, of Sydney, and J. Rolfe,
of Melbourne, champion bicyclist of Australia,
are matched to tace best two out of three—one,
three, and five miles—for £5O aside, on April 5.
Rolfe concedes 40, 20C, and 400 yards respectively.
The ’Varsitys have come out the winners
of the Holdsworth Cup, the Alberts failing to
compile the modest score of 122 required to put
them in it. owing to the excellent bowling of Jones
and Faithful), and the funk of their own batsmen.
At the monthly meeting of the Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, a sub-committee was ap-
pointed to enquire into the desirability and prac-
ticability of instituting club boat sheds, ahd report
thereon. For the future, all races are to start
punctually to time.
The Alta California says, “Stripped,
Hanlan is a small man, with no signs of great
power anywhere. He is round in the barrel, fairly
deep in the chest, has average arms, and good
legs-about the last man in the world one would
pick out for a great athlete.”
At the Wagga Bridge opening sporls, Con-
nelly, 12 yards, won the 120 yards open handicap;
T. Hyland, 25 yards, won the 200 yards hurdle foot-
race The Dawn won the Demonstration Handicap,
M'Alister’s Hark won the Free Bridge Handicap,
and the minor events went off with success.
At the Drapers’ picnic, on Thursday last,
G O. HiggBwou the senior sculls; Seymour and
Joms won the youths, under 20, double sculls:
Sandon and Lombe won the senior double sculls;
H. It. Cox, of the G.R.C., won the draper’s cham-
pion sculls; and Banks and Shannon appropriated
the pair-oar race.
A D.T. reporter has just discovered that
Tom Hales, the champion pigskin straddler, can
Bign a cheque for £50,000. w e don’t see where the
startling end of that announcement fits in. The
D.T. man could do the same himself before dinner.
But his natural instinct would teaca him a heap
better than to try to cash it.
Fxtreines meet sometimes, and surely they
met when the Leicester Jockey Club finding that
the:r new course at Oadly included part of the
incumbent s glebe, and t .-aring that the lease
might some diy not be renewed, purchased the
next right of presentation to the living of Oadly.
What a chance for a sporting parson!
Disparaging personal remarks have lately
been made by some of our loading cricketers anent
a new professional. In the fatherland of cricket,
a promising colt, no matter who or what he is, is
treated kindly by the foremost gentlemen players.
The caddish members of our cricket clubs might
well take a lesson from the Britishers.
The following officers were elected by the
Balmain Bicvcie Club at their general meeting on
4th March:—Captain, Mr. H. Croain; Sub captain,
Mr. F. Peers; bugler, Mr. G. A. Parker; secretary,
Mr. W. Hughes; treasurer, Mr. A. W. Verdrian;
committee, Messrs. Hughes, A. Verdrian. Peers,
oorktiill, Thompson, C. Verdrian, and Cronin.
New Zealand is Donald Dinnie mad. Two
lads at Waikouaiti named Affleck and Fell, who
had a wrestling bout, carno out of it—one with a
broken arm and the other with a broken collar-
bone; while a young man named Wise, working
on Orbell's run, who was also indulging in a
wrestling encounter, had two of his ribs broken.
It is not often a bicycle rider gets whipped
up the straight. At Geelong- (Vic.) H. Stokes,
riding a very light Invincible, was literally lashed
upon the back, at every revolution of the wheel,
owing to several of the very light spokes in his
machine having given way, and in swinging
round, descended with very considerable force
upon his—back, causing him to retire from the
race.
Tho Sydney Amateur Sailing Club has de-
cided upon the following definition of an amateur:
“The word amateur shall exclude all fishermen,
oystermen, sailmakers, boatbuilders, or persons
gaining or having gained their living on the water, I
any person who is or has been employed in or about
yachts, boats, or ships, as a means of livelihood, or j
any person who has received a monetary consider- I
ation for his prolessional knowledge.
Wallace Ross, upon his arrival in England
was mistaken for a dynamiter. His reception at !
Liverpool was somewtat amusing, as it was not
long before he perceived that he was regarded
with no small amount of suspicion on the part of i
the authorities, the long colfin-like box enclosing
his Rudd iek-built boat attracting the attention of
tae Custom House officers, who were inclined to
be inquisitive, and were not satisfied until the lid
was wrenched open.
“A Lancashire Lad” asks our opinion as
which is the fastest ped , Malone or Hutchens,
the Englishman who recently covered 300 yards in
even time. AVeare not in a position to give an
opinion. No line can be taken from times, which
are taken in such a loose manner in Australia, as
instanced by the fact that 150 yard races, alleged
to be run in evens, are becoming quite common
throughout the country; and 10-sec. 100-yarders
are as plentiful as gaol birds or C.M.G.’s.
One of the most extraordinary features of
the late V.R.C. meeting was the backing of Dirk
Hatteraiek down to 5 to 4 for the Bourke Handi-
cap. After some of the horse’s recent perform-
ances, this was a little bit puzzling to the guileless
public, and considerable satisfaction was expressed
at his defeat. For good looks, though, there was
nothing to beat the Cup “ dream ” in the paddock,
and he certainly looaed the very stamp of animal
to pull off a seven furlong scramble.
TUE “CHAMPION.”
Quite close to my side, as the horses swept by
For the canter, sat sweet little Nancy,
And she said with a mischievous gleam in her eye,
“ Well, Charley, and who do you .fancy T'
“ I fancy but one.” “ Pray, who is that one ?”
(Here her voice had the prettiest falter)
“I’d like to ‘stand’ with you, for once, just for
fun
“ So, darling, you shall— at the altar.”
WALLACE ROSS, THE SCULLER.
Mr Frank Gulston, the famous English
amateur sculler, who was supposed to have been
drowned some time ago, has re-appoared. He be-
came involved in speculations and lost a fortune.
Instead of being drowned he went to Grimsby and
engaged himself on a smack as a deck-hand He
toiled in this capacity until recently, when he was
discovered by some of his friends, who set to work
to better his circumstances. Fifteen hundred
pounds was soon subscribed, to be devoted to a
superior Ashing vessel. The Baroness Burdett-
Coutts has taken a great interest in tin Is ton.
About a couple of months ago the English
Sporting Mirror for November devoted six
pages to a portrait and biographical sketch of
this famous amateur.
Hosmer, the seuller, defeated Meagher for
their ten mile walk, in which the champion had to
concede Hosmer iIOO yards' start. To all appear-
ances both men walked square, and Hosmer
showed a good turn of speed. Meagher could only
gain one-third of the handicap on Hosmer during
the Arst three miles, and afterwards, being taken
sick, retired from the contest after doing Ave
miles and three quarters. Hosmer walked seven
miles and was awarded the stakes. No time was
taken. Hosmer challenges anv pedestrian in the
United States or Canada, Meagher barred, to walk
a distance of ten miles for a reasonable amount of
money. If a race is made it will be his last-, as he
intends to retire from the pedestrian business.
The second day of the V.R.C. Autumn
meeting opened with the second Hurdle Race,
which fell 10 Yatelv by a neck from Acrobat, Don
Alonzo third; The Broker madean easy win of the
V.RC. (Sires’) Produce Stakes, Manfred second,
Sirocco third; Don Quixote won the Corinthian
Cup as he liked from Tne Joker, Boisterous third;
Morpeth justiAed the confidence placed in him by
romping borne a length ahead of Sweet William
for the Australian Cup, He <->rand, a similar dis-
tance away, third; Lizette won the Steeplechase,
two lengths away from Jack Scandal, Go-
vernor third; and Soldier Boy Anished the
day's sport by appropriating the Bourke Handi-
cap, Claptrap, a couple of lengths away, second,
and Fryingoan third. The last day of the meeting
commenced with the Maiden Stakes, which fell to
Yergy, Vernet second, Boscawen third ; Rufus
carried oil the Nursery Handicap, after a good
flutter with Xantippe, Venctia third ; Little Sister
defeated Here's Luck for the lutumn Handicap,
Linda third ; the unthought-of Le Grand annexed
the Champion Stakes, Off Colour second, Commo-
tion third, the big gun, Martini-Henry, Anishing
nearly last; Bargo won the All-aged Stakes by a
good length from Brown and Rose, Fryingpan
third ; and Le«bia carried off the Free Handicap,
two lengths ahead of Don Quixote, Odd Trick
third.
We clip the following account of the Hud-
son-Dimaie match from a N.Z. weekly:—“The
wrestling match, which has been for some time
pending between W. Hudson and Donald Dinnie,
was decided iu the Lyceum Hall, Dunedin, on
Saturday evening, iu the presence of a crowded
house. The conditions were that the best of three
falls should be wrestled in five different styles,
and Hudson was accorded choice of three. The
stakes were £l5O. The local man selected the
Border, ‘Huggie,’ and Cornish styles, and Dinnie s
choice was the Scotch and Grmco-Roman styles, in
both of which his strength and weight give hima
distinct superiority over his opponent, most of the
wrestling being done on the ground. Hudson won
the Border and ‘Huggie’ bouts, and Dinnie. not
without considerable trouble, worsted his oppon-
ent in the two styles chosen by himself. The Cor-
nish style came last, and although it was Hudson’s
own choice, t>o proved to have rather the worst of
it. Weight again told, and Dinnie threw him re-
peatedly after a lot of pretty play, but never fairly
on his back. On one of these occasions Hudson
was thrown off the padded part of the stage, and
cut bis knee. At length Dinnie scored one fall,
but in the next the men got a close hold, and
Hudson very cleverely “ hanked his opponent,”
amidst great applause. The final fall went, how-
ever, to Dinnie, who managed to get a fair under-
hold, and threw his man cleverly, thus winning
the match by three points to two. The match
was thus not decided till the very last fall, of
which there were altogether twelve.”
Mr. Langridge, the Victorian Commis-
sioner of Customs, would scarcely seem to come
under the definition of “ an all-round sportsman.”
A. deputation frem the Anglers’ Protection
Society waited upon Mr. L. the other day, respect-
ing the illegal slaughter of fish by netting, shoot-
ing, &c., and this gentleman waxed somewhat
merry at the deputation’s expense. The notion of
shooting trout, for instance, struck the Commis-
sioner of Customs as being particularly odd; he
had never seen a fish shot, he observed, and didn’t
suppose that anyone present had witnessed such a
phenomenon. Then, with a roguish eye, he went
on to state that “some of the letteis ho received
on the subject of fish protection looked really
absurd. For instance, he had before him a com-
plaint that fish were illegally caught by tickling”
(laughter.) The Commissioner was more tickled
than the fish at this last joke, and knowingly
remarked that “ tickling a fish would be a day’s
work.” Now, if he had ever chanced to see some
fine, fat trout being jerked out of a shallow stream
at spawning time, by this said process of tickling,
he wouldn’t have delivered himself of such bosn.
But, after all, Mr. Langridge appears to be quite as
well up in piscatorial matters as the Melbourne
Herald, which informs us—” We always thought
that the operation of catching trout by tickling
was a mere sarcasm on anglers, but we live and
learn.” This is an unusually modest admission
from the Herald, but its verdancy is enough to
make laaak Walton turn in his honoured grave.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Hamilton, Gr. Clarkson, bowling for
Byadult against the Banks and Law, secured six
wickets for 12 runs in the first innings, and in the
second bagged the whole ten wickets lor 5 runs.
Clarkson was on a visit from Adelaide The
Drummer goes to Mauritius The Rockhampton
(Q.) Jockey Club have submitted a liberal pro-
gramme for their July meeting. For the first day,
the added money amounts to i 340; and for the
second, £155; making a total of £795, which, with
the “[sweepstakes,” make a very creditable sum.
• • •
In England, eleven persons arrested at a
prize-fight were fined £5 and bound over to keep
the peace for twelve months Billiard handicaps
are ail the rage in England now. A team has been
organised to do the provinces, consisting of junior
J. Roberts, W. Mitehell, T. Taylor, Shorter, North,
G. Collins, F. White, and H. Coles A curious
incident occurred during the first day of the recent
Scarborough (Eng:) coursing meeting. While Dr.
Bennett’s Gov'nor was driving his hare through a
fence a hawk was flying by, which the dog caught
and killed. Instantly dropping his strange quarry,
he went on contesting the trial, which he ultimately
won, finishing up by killing his hare ...It is ru-
moured that a professional single scull handicap
race, three miles with turn, will take place at the
Point of Pines, near Boston, next summer. The
following handicaps have already been suggested:
—Hanlan, scratch; Teemer, Hosmer, Ross, Hamm,
and Conley, 10 sec.; Leo, 15 sec ; and Courtney,
Kennedy, Ten Eyck, Elliott, Gaiscl, and others,
20 sec. and upwards. An attractive move this
Old Joe Spencer, who was the first man to chal-
lenge Weston to walk 500 miles alter his arrival in
Engla'd, through Bell's Life, not being able
to arrange a mat h with Weston, wi.l take £lOOO
to £lOO that he walks more miles than Weston
completes of hi 3 5000 miles in the same time, dis
tance to be walked in the following plaoe
London 1500, Birmingham 1000, Manchester 1000,
Leicester 500, Northampton 500, and Brighton 500;
or any other fair place that may be arranged
Broken bones at football matches are common
enough, but they are mostly the result of colli-
sions or falls upon the hard ground. However, at
Whitchurch (Salop), the other day, during a match
between two local clubs, a young man named
Cartwright was struck with great force by the
ball, kicked by the opposition captain, doubling
up his hand and breaking his arm midway between
i.he wrist and the e1b0w.... An Indian paper states
that it is rumoured that in consequence of the
scarcity of horses in England suitable for army
purposes, the Home Government has directed
Veterinary Surgeon Appleton to proceed to Aus-
tralia and purchase Australian-bred horses, which
will be sent Home in troop ships.
Madame Marie Roze-Mapleaon is, perhaps,
so far as personal appearance goes, the most fas-
cinating of all the great prime donne— no vulgar
English for us when we eanlchip in with a slab of
a foreign language—and Longfellow particularly
admired her. The old boy should have stopped
there; but he wrote her poetry. Here is a little
bit of it:—
“ . . we, enchanted by thy grace,
And loot in worshipping
The magic of thy form and face,
Forget to hear thee sing.
“ Or, if we listen to the strain
That, like a bubbling brook,
O’reflows thy lips in music, then
We all forget to look!”
This would be very good poetry for the Evening
News, but it is not very good for Longfellow.
The idea, however, is pretty. How, now, if ap-
plied to—let’s see; who’s away? Oh!—Soldene.
We’ll try it, as the drawing-room vooalists say
before commencing the torture
We were so frightened at that cave,
As out the notes did ring,
We prayed the Fates too hard to save,
To oven hear thee sing!
When silent; 10. we could not see
Th r e, then, it did arrive;
We thanked those Fates so earnestly
To find we were alive!
We suppose there are certain snuffy hypercritics •
who would prefer Longfellow’s verse to ours! We
like ours best. We consider it is the more adapted
of the two to the understanding of legislators,
whoso elevated and patriotic principles chiefly
take the form of beer. But if you would like
something high-strung you can have it. We should
like just to listen to the rhythm of the Aeolian
harp, as it is fanned by the gentle breezes of the
tropic sea. And we don’t mind letting you into a
secret. We have tried to purchase, with lawful
currency, an ASolian harp, but have failed. And
this reminds us—we are writing this on Sunday,
while the potatoes are comfortably browning
under the baked shoulder—that we must have our
little joke. On one occasion we sent our chartered
aid—a real Randwick success, if she only wouldn’t
sniff so—down town for, with a verbal message, an
ASolian harp, to a famous importer's This was
the answer we got back, under a beautifully-
printed heading, and in gorgeous round text—
“We have no linoleum, ‘ harp pattern.’ ”
Lacking the inspiration which even a cheap A3H.
(let’s be brief) [Yes; please.— Ed. B.] could afford,
you must take these heroics in the rough. We
will, after much anxious thought, and an interval
of juvenilG boat-cleaning, entitle them—
The Great Defeated.
The blow has fallen, oh, alas on him ;
Yet who could say that eye-glass, e’en, was dim ?
Who dare say lowered was that haughty crest
Who dare say panting was that gallant breast?
Beaten, this Great Soul, it does befall,
He does not curse, but cries “ God bless you all.”
And now we beg to move the adjournment of the
House during the refreshment hour. The mutton ;
a shrill voice informs us, is just ready.
J. M‘Donald, late postmaster and tele-
graphist at Omeo (Vic.), has been dabbling with
Government money, and is now enjoying the
magnificent apartments and luxurious fare pro-
vided in Pentridge for those who mistake other
people’s money lor their own. Mac. was a guile-
less youth some five years ago when he first struck
Omeo, but the air or the whisky or the society, or
perhaps a combination of the lot, demoralised
him. Hence his present trouble. A year in Omeo
would demoralise a saint. We were in Omeo one
time, but we didn’t stay there a year. Neither
were we a saint, which, perhaps, may account for
our unblemished character, our spotless life, and—
[This is getting egotistical. If you’ve got any-
thing more to say about Omeo, let’s have it —Ed.
8.l When we were in Omeo, prosperity seemed to
have planted her foot right down in that town-
ship. The sluicers had struck good patches of
gold in the creeks, the corn was waving iresh and
green on the adjacent plains; the sheep and cattle
were rolling fat on the hillsides; the Chinese camp
was in full swing with its opium dens, gambling
shops, Joss houses, sly grog shanties, and other
etceteras; and the two licensed houses, called by
way of courtesy “hotels,” were doing a roaring
trade in mixed liquors. Reckless assertions
had been made by ungenerous persons that
Omeo was one of the last places included
in the general scheme of creation, and that
Providence had neither the time, material, nor
inclination to finish it. We are not prepared to
contradict the statement, bat are free to confess
that the conformation of the district is rugged,
and the inhabitants bucolic in the extreme. Sepa-
rated, as they are, from the outside world by steep
mountain ranges and almost impassible ravines,
they are primitive in their habits, and dress as
fancy dictates, rather than c nform to the hard and
fast rules of fashion; and it were needless to add
that temperance societies did Dot flourish there
like the green bay tree. Quite the opposite. Some-
times a feeble attempt would be made to resusci-
tate the sons of Rachab when the banker had had a
long spell of the blue devils, and the doctor coulu
not pull him through owing to a defective vision
or disordered brain, brought about by the strength
of the rum and whisky, most of which was im-
ported. from the adjacent ranges. Religion was, as
may be supposed, an almost unknown quantity,
the only sample of it they had on hand was sup-
plied by a dissenting preacher, who scarcely knew
enough to start a country Sunday school. But the
leading feature of Omeo was its local paper—the
Echo of the Mountains, a weekly sheet of com-
posite build and unique architecture. It was a go-
as-you-please kind of paper, unreliable in its gene-
ral intelligence, irregular of issue, and limited
in circulation. It’s size was that of an average
porous plaster, and judging by the orthography it
became painfully evident that the editor spelled
by ear. Old Saunders—as he was generally called
—was editor and proprietor, and, with the excep-
tion of a small boy, the whole staff. He was a man
of medium build, and had a capacity for raw
spirits even ahead of a Rum reporter. He could
hold as much, without spilling it, as would start a
small wholesale spirit store, and when he had im-
bibed a skin-full of the fury compounds retailed
by the local whisky vendors, he used to become
argumentative and demonstrative in a marked
degree. Under these circumstances, he would
open controversies with any person who happened
round, from the Chinese fossicker to the looal
member for the mining board. And he never
was very choice in his subjects for discussion, nor
the diction which he used in the argument. He
would deliver himself of strengthy Anglo-Saxon
that would bring a blush to the cheek of a horse-
trooper, and if that failed, he would challenge his
opponent to mortal combat with the confidence of
a Heenan in his destructive powers. He was a
hardy old rooster, and never was too particular
about his bed. He would sleep on the track that
did duty as main street from the township
to the Chinese camp, with a chunk of quartz for a
pillow, whilst his other extremities were washed
by the murmuring gutter. But he would rest
there as peacefully as an infant in a cradle, never
dreaming for a moment that a big section of the
subscribers to the Up Gulch Snorter-ss the
“boys” facetiously called the sheet, in imitation
of a Yankee conceit—were languishing tor their
weekly supply of useful and entertaining intelli-
gence. But there is an end to all things. Not-
withstanding his almost cast-iron constitution and
mental vigour, he was unable to withstand the
undermining effects ot the tanglefoot, and joined
the great majority just as the last echo from his
memorable sheet reverberated through the moun-
tains. And all these reminiscences are brought
about by the regretful fact that the Omeo post-
master has been sent up for three years! Had he
been convicted of manslaughter In the first degree,
we would likely have said nothing about it. We
don’t take much stock in petty offences.
We know Hop Bitters are above and be-
yond all as a nutritious tonic and curative. Read
and believe.
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.


THE ANNUAL TRADE
NOW EXCEEDS 700,000 BOTTLES
THE PRIVATE GUVEE
of Messrs. KRUG & CO.
Possesses Lightness, Delicate Taste, R»ut|iiet
and Bright Sparkle, which gives rise to
gaiety, and answers so well to the spirit of
the country where it is produced.
KRUG and CO. prepare NO SECOND
QUALITY, and their Champagne cannot he sur-
passed by any other brand.
THE 4 KRUG’CHAMPAGNE
may be obtained from
ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS
throughout Australia and New Zealand, where the
Brand is duly registered under “Trade Marks
Statute.”
71INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
* ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U. .A.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR- F- WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney,
53F~ Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
ASther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
p
U B LIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’B
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 186>,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HO?
Whose debility. exhnusfcd
powers, premature decay
find failure to perform life's
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect ar.d lesting
restoration to robust health
and vifforoue wnunhcod in
THEWiAHGTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Kervons Beblllty and
I*hy slenl Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new jind direct methods and absolute Ihor.
onahncKS. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 6th March, 1881.
TENDERS FOR WEATHERSHED.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Weathershcd at the Petersham Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may he seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Weathershed,
Petersham Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, 31st March, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
J. P. ABBOTT.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves j Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE. MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONO
BARKABOOL
BUR W All
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GERLOMG
KEILAWAIUIA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM, HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King: Street, Sydney.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY, READ BELOW.
Undoubted Security, read bolow.
AWKESBURY HANDICA
AND
SYDNEY CUP.
H
0000, at 10s. each.
1 £2OO
1 100
2 at £*>o .. .. 1( 0
20 at £lO .. .. 200
08 at £5 .. .. 810
Total
£llOOO.
Post Oflice Orders, payable to “Lena Amos.”
only. Stamps not accepted. Cheques payable to
A. No. , or self
Guarantee Any bona fide member can have
the names and addresses of the principal winners.
The papers containing this advertisement will be
supplied with a full list of all winners—not, how-
ever, for publication.
Enclose two stamps, and address—
“LENA AMOS,”
Caro of W. Miller,
Box 5811, G.P.0., Sydney.
N.B.—Register all letters.
®§T“ LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
TK7\ T 77“. CATEE’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management of the celebrated Mr. ALBERTO E. 6EII.IIARRO, from Paris, decorated
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to the hand, just arrived from Paris by
the steamer Potosi, formerly in charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of the Bon Marchd,
Paris, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CAT EE’S, 193 and 195 Pitt-strekt.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. The Paris Kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and style. Ladies and gentlemen will find It to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 30 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitts
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. Albkrto E
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Giticura
5$
Eczema on Face & Scalp
V*\ JI
si
b;
X /
Scrofula on neck.
A POSITIVE CURE
FOIi EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
"TVISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured bv the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Had mood, Scrofulous, Inherifod and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erys’pelas, Enremia, Pyaemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and mo6t Diseasis arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonial* with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the Hritisli Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
{CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New lilood Puri-
V-V Her, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Imourities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh I
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beaut ifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura ltcnieilles, arc absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemirts and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
Many years ago a silk-weaver emigrated
from England to Canterbury, N. Z. He was very
poor, and shortly after reaching the colony he was
seized with a dangerous illness, and the doctors
all s lid lie would din as sure as his name was
William White. William, however, recovered in
spite of them, and straightway received the
soubriquet of “ Resurrection White.” The
Waitmakariri, a river more formidable even then
its name, must be bridged, and after repeated
failures on the part of engineers and contractors
White undertook to bridge it, bridged it accord-
ingly, and became “ Waitmakariri White.” Fortune
now smiled sweetly on Willie, and he built a large
hotel at Kv.iapoi and became “ Kaiaooi White.'
He leased stone quarries from the Government,
built a tramway, and Macadam’s brigade of stone-
breakers henceforth swore by him as ‘‘Tramway
White.” He bought several extensive properties
in and around Christchurch, and among others a
fine new hotel, next to the oihee of the Lyttelton
Times, ever since known as “ White’s Commercial
Hotel.” Last of all, bo took the conti act for the
railway bridge across the Kakaia river, over
whichthe trains were soon running between Dun-
edin and Christchurch. This bridge is two miles
in length, and is the last of the old silk-weave, s
public works. He has now retired from business
with a fortune, and his son William White, junior.
Member of the New Zealand Parliament for
Sydenham, carries on the contracting business
worthily in his stead.
The sturdy theologians of the Mj.il have
drawn off somewhat from teaching piety, and
have turned their attention to the carnal theme
of the body. Here’s what the ex-fathers gave last
week, as a prescription for living long“ Preserve
under all circumstances a composure of mind
which no happiness, no misfortune, can too much
disturb. Love nothing too violently; hate nothing
too passionately; fear nothing too strongly.” As
wc are about entering on our hundredth year, and
have long ceased to enter into discussions with
theologians, we content ourselves with a few brief
words of advice drawn from our own experience.
We but state as hints what we have ourselves
tested. First, arrange what universe you sha'l be
born into, and bo careful in the selection of your
planet. If you elect the earth don’t be born near
Ischia or Sunda. Having fixed next on your
nationality, so as to avoid Paganism or Ireland,
decide on a line of forefathers who have had no
taint of scrofula, nervous ailments, or love of
alcohol; stipulate for the minimum of stature
you will accept, colour of hair, and general expres-
sion of countenance. Your social position you
needn’t arrange for, as you are coming into a
world where merit is the passport to everything
good. Having secured a suitable father and
mother, get born at a favourable date. For your
physical well-being, at once see to it that your
nurse is healthy and attentive, and your feeding
bottle kept scrupulously clean. See that you are
taken out for regular airings, and, when you are
of school age, refuse to enter an unventilated
school-house, or to listen to any teacher whom
you know to be a fool. Don’t wish for jam nor
holidays, and on no account be late for Sunday
school. Later on, don’t “ love passionately ’ any
young woman, hate passionately your father’s
murderer, be “ disturbed ” by being defrauded by
scoundrels, or in any way put out by seeing your
children dying or in want. If fraud and barefaced
hypocrisy and malignity destroy your best
prospects, or blast your character, or if accident
deprive you of your sight or hearing, say it’s all
right. But, above everything, keep cool—very
cool. It’s neither wholesome nor respectable to
be agitated. And then, when you are eighty years
old, and know that you have let nothing “disturb”
you, calculate on running up to the hundred, and
leaving behind a few texts for the Mail on how
long life is to be attained. You will infallibly
attain it by following the course we have
mapped out. But start early. Reconstruct
the universe first, and everything will be right.
’Ti« sweet to see that we may occasioually
range beyond our own staff for a few youths who
are nourishing a youth sublime with the cheery
and lucrative pursuit of poetry. It is true that
our own trusty bards have had to fall in with the
traditions of the office, and respect a popular
prejudice in favour of having an idea, and of
versification that doesn’t give the dentist too big a
“throw in.” But we move with the times, and
see no reason why “Poeta” of Gordon shouldn’t
make a dash for immortality—should prefer that,
he got it, in fact, early and tragically. By the eye
of faith, we see the first flush of the dawn over
the unnamed Parnassus of Gordon. Through the
wail of the forest we hear the scrunching of a
cross-cut saw; and by intuition we know that old
man “Poeta” is at one end of it. cheered on by
young P., who sits on the end of the log with the
billy in one hand and this screed in the other. He
sings:—
“ If I was a poet gifted,
I’d have the world like barley sifted,
And poets kept apart from sinners;
But kick to all new beginners.”
A f ter this suicidal outburst and calling “time”
to the old man who had stopped to grease his saw,
he sends forth concerning our other successful
bards :
“ Some of their heads are hard and hollow,
And from the dead their verses borrow.”
"Which are two points scored in his upward flight
to fame. He knows how to draw from within
consolation as the poetic type of head Gordon can
furnish, and, from without, the source of his in-
spiration. Now he has another pull at the billy,,
tunes his throat, and warns off the course those
other pretenders to the divine art, which be has
pledged himself to follow as long as the saw has a
tooth left, or the old man breath to draw i;:
“ Ah, thou sweet songster to the poet’s race,
Sing oft thy songs, but hide thy shameless face.”
As no photo accompanies these verses, we are left
in the dark as to “ Poeta’s ” own face; but this we
get over when we consider that no such breadth
of view can come from eyes less than twelve inches
apart. We could not, if we wished, get in his por-
trait without enlarging the paper. And, to reduce
it, would be to make little of struggling genius—a
thing we would never do. And now, spelling and
everything is scattered, as he would say, like a
strip of stringy bark when the flying-fox of
murky night Dangs up against the aboriferous
tree in his hurry to get something to eat:—
“ ’Twas truely said that Nature, when her gifts she
spread , ~ .
Intended you should spend your time reclining on
some attic bed,
Out of the hearing of street Arabs at their noisy
But. dear friend, that attic should have been a
jail.”
Oh, yes. Our columns will reek with poetry as
long as “ Poetas ” are coming on. It is but duo to
our young bard to say that, much as we value his
present effort, we value still more his forethought
in supplying, in the last word of the last stanza, an
address that will reach him, when Gordon knows
him no longer.
The editor of the Watchman takes a
gloomy if not doubtful view of the advantage to
be derived from the extension of the railway
from Nyngan to Hourke. Just hear the gifted
scribe “As the train nears our town, the means
of access to the luffian and scoundrel become
as easy as to the legitimate business man, and un-
fortunately are taken advantage of to almost as
great an extent. If we are correctly informed, as
the facilities for reaching Bourke have increased,
so have the undesirable section of the community,
and there are now more brothels—though they
pass under other names—in Bourke than there
are public - houses, while the couples living
in unwedded bliss are neither few nor
far between. It may very reasonably be
asked to what is this lowered tone of morality
attributable, and what is the remedy ?” Quite
reasonable, indeed, even though the coincidence is
double-barrelled. But as the erudite querist has
already laid tho blame on the facilities afforded by
rapid transit, what need is there for us to go hunt-
ing round for other causes ? Btill, we may offer a
suggestion. The climate is, if we remember right
pretty sultry at Bourke, and, if we are to give an.
credence to Lord Byron’s sentiments, that may
account for the number of “ couples who live in
unwed H ed bliss,” as well as for the bagnios which
are so plentiful in that modern City of the Plains.
And, now, about the remedy. Our first idea was to
petition the Government against extending the
railway any further in that direction ; but, on
more mature consideration, we reckon that no-
thing short of a healthy shower of fire and brim-
stone would work any appreciable purification in
the moral atmosphere of Bourke. Peter Campbell
wr»stled with Satan there for a SDell, and his
brother in the Loard, the pious Westwood, had a
tussle with the Bvil One in that locality. When
they failed to find even live good men in the
town, we fear that even the stoppage of river
as well as mail communication with the outside
world would not succeed iu improving the morals
of Bourke. And that reminds us A couple of
weeks ago the police pounced upon a shanty-
keeper in the neighbourhood of Bourke, and
hauled him up before the local police court for
sly grog-selling. The case seemed so dead against
the sly-grog man that a number of his sympa-
thisers, reckoning on a foregone conclusion,
clubbed together, and with commendable zea 1 ,
soon raised £3O, the full amount of the anticipated
tine, and handed the money over to the defendant.
Owing to some legal technicality, the prosecution
broke down, when the shanty man and his
“missus” stepped into their buggy, and without
as much as saying !“ By yer leave,” drove off at a
brisk pace, forgetting in their haste to get home
to return the £3O to their friends. At this juncture
one of the donors waxed wrath and begged the
loan of a hoise from one of the bystanders to start
in pursuit of the shanty man and recover the
money. But, unfortunately, his good intentions
were nipped in the bud, as the proud possessor of
the animal liimly, though, it must be said, reluc-
tantly, refused to le-nd his Arab st :ed, lest per-
adventure, neither horse nor rider should return
again. And, now that we come to think the matter
over, it appears t) us that after all the ink spilled
in lamentations by the Bourks mo.alist, the repre-
sentative citizen of that town can look with a
certain amount of content on the influx of
strangers, and exclaim in the language of the
poet: “ You're alt right for a sharp trick or two;
but when it comes to villainy, allow me."


Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, L 43 Pitt-slreet.*
For continuation, Bee neit page)
JJIURNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Snrimr streets, Sydney.
TTALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, pad
XL CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARF FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
Xi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
D" RAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for <Choice* China, &07,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T7IURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
JD THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods.
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grv.at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedro.om suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Wbatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
J
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
O
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
tVRa WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAJRST—
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
HAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
JNING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
• DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
eXrly English sideboard, mahogany
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INTNG TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
56,
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingen|jus in its
construction; works automatically. ’CTfe above
cut represents only two of the nume»w®j)ositions
that can be obtained, instantly, and wift»)iut little
effort. It fits perfectly every part or’fce body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
FRAMEWORK forDRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T7IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKiNS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and lAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 2Qs: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment; best make, lens est prices.
W
B
SOCIAL
Two large ’busses, drawn by splendid
tfl uns of bava and greys conveyed a big party ot
Bray young people to Sir Joseph Banks pavilion,
Botany, last Thursday afternoon, it being the
occasion of a complimentary garden party to Mrs.
M’Laughlin, tendered by her nvimerous friends
Nothing could havo been happier or better ar-
ranged. On arrival, that pleasure of all pleasures
dancing, was commenced to the dulcet strains ot
Ingram’s orchestra. A floor smooth as ice, ladies
n-ice, who do their best to ent-ice and make happy
the miserable life of bachelors, were some ol tne
attractions of the afternoon. A skating match
for non-skaters made fun for tho lqokcis-on. A
merrv peal from tho bell announcing the ban-
quet,' served in grand style by host Smith, was
answered by a merry peal of laughter from
the belles, who, with their attendant cavaliers,
numbared some forty couples. Mr. D. R. Mit-
oholl occupied the chair, and marlo a telling little
Speech concerning the guest ot the day. the
ball - room being lighted, once more dancing
commenced. Mrs. M’Laughlin wore a handsome
toilette of black velvet and heliotrope satin,
fashiouably mad©, bonnet to mutch, and seemed
as happy as a good fairy. Her niece, a vivacious
Melbourne bruootto, dressed in cream muslin,
cardinal swiss belt, the costume being further en-
livened with racy red ribbons. Miss Baldock
•hone In a similar costume. A fanciful check
Batin, made in a dainty style, suited the pretty
Miss Mannix. Miss Goldring, in white, with old
gold sash, was a magnet for many admiring eyes.
Miss Prior, in (love-coloured nun’s veiling, edged
with black velvet, and a young lady in mourning,
wore as lovely as a summer’s night. black satin
bodice, cream llama skirt, was becoming to Miss
Hayes ; Miss Fogerty, arrayed like Solomon s lily,
in pure white, was much admired, while Miss Chal-
linor displayed cream brochd. Messrs. Mannix and
Mitchell, hon. secs., and Messrs. Harding and
O’Uriou, hon. treats., were, in tho words of the
D.T., unremitting in their attentions But time
ends all things, so, at 12 o’clock, tho ’bus«es steered
for sleepy Sydney, and nought was left but the
memory of the past.
* * *
The Drapers made a big splash on Thurs-
day la it, wlieu they managed to draw 4000 people
to Clontarf (we love Clontarf) for their annual
picnic. A gloom was cast over the city; the
mashers were down nearted ; there was not a
pretty little milliner to be seen, but at Clontraf
they were as thick as bees or butterflies, and twice
as beautiful to behold. White dresses are noted
for picnics, and on this occasion many were to be
seen, although there were numerous toilettes of
different colours, making a rainbow-like scene.
But this was not all the joy; M.P.’s, and the Hons.
G. R. Dibbs and W. J. Trickett, who navigated the
waters of our beautiful harbour in a private steam
launoh, put in an appearance, arriving on the
Golden Shore (to us) just in time for dinner.
Ladies and goDtlemen to the number of about 240
satdown to dinner. Mr. Shaw, of Peapes and Shaw,
oocupied the chair, Messrs Dibbs and Trickett
on his right; while Mr. of D. Jones and Co.,
and others, were on his left. Thei-c were any
amount of toasts-in fact, we do not expect to be
more toasted down below; and wo heard lots
about “our magnificent Post-office, with its new
street,” the Property-tax, the Land question, and
the draperv business, from the Hon. G. li. Dibbs.
Mr. Dan O’Connor was happy in “ The day we cele-
brate.” The giddy gay gathering of youth and
beauty indulged all day in danciDg to the lively
music of the United Fire Brigades Baud of twenty
performers. There were others who passed the
pleasant hours in gathering beautiful ferns, and
others again wholwent in for the aquatic and
athletic sports. Catering Co. purveyed in the old
Pavilion. All came homo in the gloaming, the
steamers arriving safely, although they (steamers)
were “screw’d.”
« • •
Wore public swimming baths multiplied,
and were Fashion to step in and persuade the
sexes (suitably attired) to bathe together, there
would be fewer improprieties heard of in connec-
tion with bogy-taking; and tho disgusting pru-
dery which now impels goody-goodyism to de-
nounce as “obscene” the act of a youngster
bathing coram publico would have less material
to work upon. Though our hairs are white with
eld, we yet hope to live to see, somewhere in the
beautiful harbour, an eloctric-lit bathing-ball of
vast dimensions, in which o’ hot nights sweet
music shall be discoursed and aquatic dances per-
formed, and tender flirtations carried on, and
dainty refreshments served.
* * *
Smith’s Gardens at Botany, have beeu
selected for the Irish fete on St. Patrick's day (the
17th.) There is, probably, no national saint or
sinner whose anniversary is so loyally kept as
Patrick’s, of Ireland. Next Monday, in every
important city in tho world, as well as in the log
settlements of the United States and Canada, and
the stringy bark towns or Central Australia, will
be seen the sturdy men from the Shannon, the
Barrow, or the Blackwater, keeping holiday for a
man whose bone 3 were dust centuries before the
Frank crossed tho Rhino, or the Normans turned
their attention to England. The affair at Smith's
Garden’s is to consist of “divarshuu” of various
kinds, and, in the evening, there is to bo a concert
of Irish muskrat tho Gaiety. We have seen the
programme, and the names of the performers
should certainly ensure success. We see, also,
that many of tbo items are selected from that
sweetest of lyrists, Tom Moore, whc6o melodies,
nearly two generations ago, were to be found in
every English drawing-room.
• * *
Tennyson was the scene of much gaiety on
Saturday, the Bth inst., tho occasion being the
annual picnic of the Balmain Amateur Dramatic
Club. A large number of members and their
friends availed themselves of the opportunity to
spend a pleasant afternoon up stream; and under
the popular stewardship of Messrs. Alfred Perry
and J.J. Smith, who proved themselves as suc-
cessful in this capacity as in their efforts on the
histrionic boards, everything passed off very satis-
factorily. Dancing was pretty generally resorted
to by the picnicdUts, although a few happy pairs
appeared to prefer tho sweet seclusions of Tenny-
son's sylvan shades to the music of Hobson’s band.
A programme of twelve dances was cheerfully
carried out, notwithstanding the earnest atten-
tions of old Sol, after which tho anchor was—figu-
ratively speaking—weighed, and t he pleasure-seek-
ers teamed back to town apparently well pleased
with their excursion. Many pleasantly familiar
faces wore to be seen on deck, and to say
t hat the fair daughters of Balmain were numer-
ously represented is to say that youth and beauty
were there also in all their fascinating variety.
Among the ladies were disiinguished the Misses
Moran,lookingswt-et inwhite and lawn colour. Miss
Wiseliart appeared in a tasteful costume of dove
coloured cashmere. Miss Jones wore a zephyr
sateen. Miss Booth and Miss Wallace looked
charming in white, and cream, and cardinal,
respectively. A handsome dress was of grey
trimmed with biack velvet, but rather sombre for
the occasion ; it was, however, avoll supported by
several black costumes, whose Avearers appeared
in some instances to be somewhat adected by
their serious attire. The journey home was
enlivened by the usual impromptu concert, Avhich
seems to spring into existence as an indispensable
adjunct of a homeward trip. Unhampered by
sackbuts or cymbals, the vocal resonance of the
exuberant choru3 rang out on the evening air,
only ceasing at times to admit the solo of some
pleasant-voiced member, Avhose lung power
enabled him to rise to the emergency. We heard
again that time honoured “Now! my courage,”
given with as much " verve ” as on Friday week ;
and we prophesied laurels in store for the young
eiub in which so much talent and good humour
appealed to exist.
Chicago recently feasted Phil. Sheridan,
the new Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Army.
Here is the menu- a perusal of which forces one to
say “ Ah, me! why weren’t US at such a rare phil
out?”—
“ He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar,
And give direction.”
“Be bright and jovial among your guests to-
night.”
Blue Points.
ConBommi with stuffed lettuce.
“ Come, come; good wine is a good familiar crea-
ture, if it be well used.”
Pompano, New Orleans style.
Potato croquettes.
Crepenettes of turkey, a la puree de marrons.
Spinach.
“Any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William
Cook.”
Sweetbreads en papillotes.
Croquettes of terrapin, a la Bontoux.
Asparagus.
Roman punch.
“ For this relief much thanks.”
Bread of partridge.
Celery salad.
Nesselrode and biscuit of pineapple.
“1 will make an end of my dinner, there’s pippins
and cheese to come.”
Roquefort and Brie. Fruit. Coffee.
“ The last drop in the world I do not mind,
Cognac’s a noun I never yet declined.”
• • •
News reaches us from home of a Sal ’ation
Army wedding, which was recently celebrated
with all the conspicuous formulae adopted by that
very conspicuous organisation. The chilling cere-
mony before the registrar having previously been
endured, the parties then proceeded to get mar-
ried in their own way to the accompaniment of
drums and cymbals, trumpets and “ volley firing.”
Wo wonder if a time will come when benedict will
trifle with the baby, put cotton wool in his ears,
and yearn for the last peaceful moments of his
singleness and the lullaby of that brass band.
* * *
A series of Cinderella dances were inaugu-
rated by royalty in January last, for the purpose
This bodice, with fichu trimming, is made of pale-blue corded silk, the trimming
being tulle of corresponding colour, darned with silk. Cross stripes of white silk tulle
are arranged on each side of the heart-shaped opening at the neck, while a small but
full frill makes a pretty finish behind. Young ladies who are fond of fancy-work, can
easily darn their own lace, as patterns for designs can be procured at almost any
fancy shop.
of replenishing the funds of the Chelsea Hospital
for Women, and brought together a large and
fashionable concourse. Some of the dresses at-
tracted great attention, as much for the exquisite
taste as for the originality displayed in their con-
ception. The adaptation to other purposes of that
white elephant, a wedding veil, was skilfully
managed by draping it very gracefully over a full
skirt of white tulle, on which the pattern of
the Honitou lace showed very effectively. The
bodice worn with the skirt was made of whit«
stamped velvet. Another pretty dress of white
tulle was wreathed round the bodice with a thick
garland of droopiag snow-drops. A second gar-
land of similar blossoms trimmed tho skirt, and
small bunches of the flowers nestled here and
there among the folds of the tulle. A very pretty
gown was made of pink tulle, with chenille spots
and masses of scarlet poppies round the bodice
and down one side of tho skirt. A black dress had
sweet little dusters of “crushed strawberry”
marabout feathers on the shoulders and dotted
about the skirt. Another dress was ot cream
coloured satin, with bodice and drapery of terra-
cotta satin. For “ uniqueness,” commend us to a
pink silk, scattered over with flowers, in the pom-
padour style, and much trimmed with lace. From
the shoulder, where’it was fastened with a mother-
of-pearl crescent, depended a scarf of silk, which
fell he'ow the waist and mingled with the drapery
of the skirt.
• • ■
A fashionable party, a warm evening, and
the waltz just ended. From a twilight corner of
the verandah came, in low accents, “ Feel my
heart, how it’s beating.” It wasn’t quite a con-
ventional request from a young lady. But a
moment later a calm voice said, “I didn’t think
there was so much art there.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic March 13.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) March 14.
St. Patrick’s Day Banquet March 17.
Oriental C.C. Picnic (Tennyson) March 29.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Heele,—We are just home from Mrs.
Grey’s Ketfledrum, and, before I forget, I must
tell you something about it. Our hostess looked
sweetly pretty in a cre-J.ni cashmere tea gown,
trimmed elaborately with the very narrowest
ruby ribbon velvet; and a cap of cream lace and
ruby pompons. That dear old Mrs. Smithkins was
there, who, as you remember, possesses e, great
deal more wealth than learning. She put her foot
in it sadly to-day, and I felt really sorry for her,
for, after all, she is a good-natured old soul. We
were looking at a splendid edition of “Paradise
Lost,” and upon some one making a remark about
the anthor, Mrs. Smithkins, who will have her say
in everything, said to our hostess “ Let me see, my
dear, Mr. Milton lives at Ashtield, doesn’t he?”
Poor Mrs. Grey gulped down a smile, and turning
very red ith the effect, gave out a faint “ n-no.”
“ Well, my dear, I thought it very likely he did,
seeing that there’s a street called Milton-street. I
wouldn’t be so sure that there isn’t a Milton-house
there too. ’ By tnis time, you may be sure, we
were all feeling very hot, but a diversion was for-
tunately caused by a young lady spilling her tea
all over her nice dress, which I more that suspect
she did on purpose. Anyhow, it was very timely,
and wo were all truly thankful for the accident.
One of the pleasantest occupations on a hot day
is to sit in Baumanns’, eat fruit ices, and look at
the beautiful costumes which can always be seGn
there, a doctor’s young bride was there one day
last week dressed in claret satin trimmed with
broad cr°am Spanish lace—small princesse bonnet
with claret trimming. A terra-cotta ottoman silk
made with short basque, and numerous loops of
narrow ribbon adorning sleeves and shoulders,
was extremely stylish. The hat worn with this
was not in strict good taste, as it was literally
weighed down on one side with artificial fruit. I
am sure there was sufficient for a good dessert
for several people. Hats worn without trimming,
save the lining, and a large bow in front, look, to
my mind, affected. There is an unfinished look
about them, which Edith says is stylish, but it is a
style for which I care not. Curry powder colour
is very becoming to some complexions. I saw a
young lady with pink cheeks wearing a nun’s
cloth dress of that hue, which suited her admir-
ably. The straw of her hat was an exact match;
in fact the whole costume, gloves, ribbons, &c.,
were in splendid keeping with the dress material.
A peacock and ruby brocade redingote over a
plain satin ruby skirt looked brilliant on the Block
on Saturday morning. I saw very few cotton
dresses, but a dark blue, with large white spots,
made with baby body, and with which was worn a
sil% r er zone, was amongst the nicest. I think we
have seen about the last of the whites, too, for
this season. What a run they have had, to be sure.
I acknowledge the justice of your reproach,
dea' - , for my having neglected to tell you all about
“ Fedora,” but, really, if I described her dresses to
you as minutely as they deserved, it would more
than fill my letter. However, as I know you are
curious to know something about them, I will try
and give you some idea. In the first scene she
wears a salmon pink satin with brocaded train,
short basque of rich crimson velvet, with slashes
of the same down the skirt; silver pins in her
black hair. The next is the most beautiful of all.
The richest of ivory satins, flounced with broad
soft white lace, with sprays of creamy white half-


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
When a lady sprinkles her dressing-room
with Murray and Lanman’s Florida Water, it
becomes to one sense at least a delicious floral
bower. No tropical grove can exhale a rarer
fragrance.
Arsenic and quinine are not desirable
commodities to carry about in one’s system, and it
is to be hoped that the poisonous ague remedies
have had their day. Ayer’s Ague Cure is a sure
antidote for the Ague, and all malarial fevers, and
is perfectly harmless, leaving the system in as good
condition as before the disease was contracted.
Tlie London Jeweller.
London, September 1, 1883.
“ The progress and success which it is possible
for a commercial enterprise to reach, is shown
very forcibly by a descriptive account which the
American Waltham Watch Company are now
issuing: to the English watch trade, and we under-
stand that any jewellers desirous of distributing
these leaflets in their neighbourhood with the
view of promoting business* aftn have a supply on
application to the olHces of the Company at
Holborn-circus. The buildings at Waltham, it is
stated, cover an area of 48,374 feet, the frontage
on the street is 734 feet, Jength of main building
648 feet, aggregate length of benches 3 - 87 miles,
length of shafting 3‘93 miles. These figures speak
eloquently of the present position of the enter-
prise, but the success and increasing sale of
the Waltham watch is very substantially proved
by the statement that it took 33 years to make
the first million watches, six years to make the
second million, and it is estimated that the third
mil'ion will be produced in about two years. It
would seem from this that every buyer of a
Waltham watch speaks well of it, and induces his
friends also to purchase, and they again do the
same, until the rate of increase becomes so for-
midable that it is difficult to comprehend what
will be the result a few years hence. But progress
like that shown in the leaflet referred to
proves not only the quality of the watch sold, but
also how well the Waltham Company must be
managed: for the best article will not force its
way in the world unless it is assisted by good
business capacity and generalship.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else falls.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a now
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you havo rough, pimplv, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you lair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
.£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That puor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by alow bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo.
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
613, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notlco the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and arc engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH sulfice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM
MALT BITTERS
THIJ GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &g,
43 ERSKTNE BTREET.
'•'old by W. H. SOUL, and all Cbemlata.
opened rose-buds studded all over the skirt, and also
one in her hair. With this costume she carries a tan
composed entirely of white ostrich feathers. Fancy
fanning oneself with a dozen beautiful feathers!
Next is a pale blue dress of silk and satin with
silver fringe and some soft fluify material for
trimming. With this she wore u ost uncommon
ornaments, in the shape of two large birds with
deep green plumage which were embedded on
each side of the skirt. In the kettledrum scene
her tea-gown was very pretty. The fourth width
was composed entirely of cream lace flounces,
from which was taken a long train of pompadour
satin of a large pattern, the ground being cream,
and the flowers a mixture of pale brown and blue,
ghe dispensed tea very gracefully, but, had I been
her guest, I should have liked it better if she had
put in the milk and sugar first, instead of after the
tea was poured into the cup. You see even Fedora
doesn’t know everything, or she would know therh
is a right and wrong way in pouring out a cup of
tea. Miss Novaro didn’t look amiss in an old gold
satin dress trimmed with a crimson and old gold
brocade. Her second dress, though, suited her best
—a pale blue silk with deep crimson velvet bows,
white plush hat adorned with pale blue plumes.
Miss Mainwaring’s green satin must hav® had
dozens of yards of white lace on it. I don’t think
l ever saw a dress with such a profusion. Her
bodice was braided with gold braid, and edged
with gold fringe. And that is all about “Fedora”
this time. The dresses in the circle were rather
sombre, a light, flowered satin, with kiltings of
claret satin, being about the prettiest. I saw a
lady who had such a profusion of hair that she had
it done in two different styles. She had a large coil
low on the neck, whilst on the top of her head,
arranged slightly to the left side, was another of
equal size. It looked strange— very strange.
It may be interesting to you to know that riding
habits are no longer confined to dark colours, for
dull reds, sky blues, and golden browns are all
worn, and the skirts are shorter than ever. Ever
y- urs,
MAR.
VANITY FAIR.
A scientist says the reason kissing is so
pleasant is because the teeth, jaw-bones, and lips
are full of nerves, and when the lips meet, an
electric current is generated. We were aware
that it took considerable nerve to kiss a pretty
girl the first time, but now we understand why so
many succeed in doing it—At the beginning of
every year, the Princess of Wales instructs her
various houses of business to fit up small shops in
her saloon set apart for the purpose in Marlboro’
House. She then goes round and purchases what
she requires for herself, or for presents at home
or abroad. Though, why any woman should be
satisfied with that when she could turn a whole
warehouse upside down, we can’t understand—
“ Before I would kneel to any woman, I would
hang myself,” said an old bachelor; “am I not
right?” he said, turning to a girl. “Certainly,”
she replied; “for the woman’s sake.” A lady
testified the other day that her husband wanted
her to commit suicide, so as to allow him to marry
an actress. Although she had repeatedly valued
her husband's happiness better than her own life,
she wouldn’t die to oblige him. This shows how
contrary woman is A beautifully illustrated
book has just been issued, setting forth the ele-
gance of Adelina Patti’s £lO,OOO palace car. The
illustrations are exquisite, but the one which will
be apt to capture the public is that representing
the charming cantatrice asleep in her bed, with
Nieolini climbing gracefully into the top bunk
Several brides have lately walked to the altar
gloveless. Another sensible idea is to be attended
by one maid of honour or two, but no more; the
bridegroom having no groomsm«n at all—Read-
ing Amy a little lecture on neatness, Mamma said,
“A great deal is indicated by the arrangement of
a young lady’s hair.” And her brother, who had
seen her come in after saying good-bye to Henry
at the gate, broke in, quite needlessly, “Ha !
there’s a good deal indicated by the dis-
arrangement of a girl’s hair; ain’t there, sis?”
London women wear red ulsters. They also adorn
their hats with cat’s heads; no doubt to indicate
the scratching propensities of the sex There
are other emporiums in Paris as much sought as
Worth’s, each dress creator having some distinc-
tive style, but no other is so fertile in original and
successful ideas A fashion writer says: “The
grotesque and sad-coloured dresses misnamed
msthetic, have nearly disappeared. I only saw
one or two; for instance, a bright, mustard yellow,
with lines of cardinal feather trimming, and rib-
bons hanging about aimlessly. Another was a
dismal green, with large red bows, yellow scarf
and red bodice. The fresh, girlish faces of some of
these devotees atone for much that is fearful and
wonderful in their toilettes—but when it comes to
seeing a very antiquated ‘unappropriated bless-
ing’ in glaring terra-cotta, with towzled hair, I
really think it is time to call in the police!”....Mary
Anderson is prettier off the stage than on. She
was conspicuous lately at a private view in the
Royal Academy, as one of the neatest figures
among the aristocratic crowd. She wore a plain,
close-fitting long black jacket, with fur cuffs and
collar; and those who saw her mother with her
considered she must have been once quite as lovely
as her daughter. The lovely actress has no father,
but came over to England with her step-father,
Griffin, who, on arrival, cabled home to America
this neat message: “ Me and Mary’s arrived safe.’’...
Omniline is a new substance for doing fancy paint-
ing on. Its adaptability is such that it can be made
in exact imitation of marble, ivory, amber, tor-
toiseshell, or coral. It has just been introduced in
London Christmas cards “Where's your bell?’
grunted a well-known rowing man on the Rand-
wick-road last week, as a bicycle lamp stole
silently on them before he could slip his arm from
a soft, round bodice. “I’ve lent her to you, sir,
for to-night,” replied the wheelman politely, and
disappeared in the darkness. That rowing man
has been wondering ever since how much truth
there wasin the remark—lt's thought very likely
that short waists will come in. They have been
gradually shortening—apparently, we mean—for
some time, and the stylo is well suited to the scarf
sashes now coming into vogue at home. Besides,
the short hair almost cries out for the quaint little
waists under the arms. Madame Recamier, whose
face bewitched half France, was celebrated for
her short hair. And in the great picture of her in
the Louvre she combines the coiffure and ceinture
both at their shortest—Pinsuti’s last fashionable
song is “ Laddie.” It was so sweet that Theo.
Bonheur wrote “ Lassie,” to keep it eompany
At a recent Westminster wedding, each of the six
bridesmaids wore a Henri 11. hat of crimson velvet
and feathers—A private hansom cab, with all the
latest luxury in fittings, has been made in London,
and sent over to Mrs. Langtry’s order in America.
Flaneur says:—“Marie Burroughs is the
most beautiful woman on the New York stage to-
day, and took the house by storm in her first act.
Very little is known of her, except that she came
trom 'Frisco, where she was an amateur. She is
tall, with a perfect figure and magnificent eyes,
and is as graceful as Adelaide Neilson. In a few
years, she will beafamous woman.” The reason
Tennyson chose, on his move to the peerage, the
cumbrous title “Baron Tennyson D’Eyncourtof
Aldwortb,” is because he is, through his great-
grandmother, the hereditary representative of the
Barony of D’Eyneourt, which was forfeited by
attainder in the i*eign of Henry VII. Aid worth is
the name of his present residence The Ameri-
cans are highly satisfied with themselves. An
Argonaut writer, after enlarging on Miss Cham-
berlayne, Miss Anderson, Lillian Russell, and other
native productions, says:—“The majority of
English beauties are called good-looking because
they unite a fair amount of good looks with good
blood. So many titled women in England are ab-
solutely plain tnat when one comes along who is
not absolutely plain she is at once dubbed a beauty.
Gladys, Lady Lousda’e, or Lady Custlereagh
would never be called beautiful in America.”
He was a Dutchman, and got into a row. They
asked him if he was goi»g to put up with a slap in
the face. He said “I do not vant anoder.” A
Eortemouth Judge lately decided that a husband \
compel a separated w>fe to live with ler
mother-in-law. A matter of form: A fashionable
corset ..English papers approve of Tennyson's
acceptance ol a peerage. Argument: A peerage
sets the guinea’s stamp on any fame which a man
may have won. This is too deep for us.. Actresses
now wear painted dresses. Instead of “ A painted
ship upon a painted ocean,” we may now jingle
about “ A painted dress upon a painted woman.”
Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, had magnifi-
cent hair ; and one day, to annoy the Duke, she
cut off her splendid tresses and flung them in his
face. We believe she was in earnest Literary
bracelets ar« the latest fad of transatlantic belles.
The bangle consists of some dozen tiny gold books
linked together, each bearing the name of some
favourite author Corean ladies are before their
white sisters in matters of attire. The convenient
divided skirt is an old fashion with them
At a recent exhibition in London, iron jewellery
was shown. There were ear-rings, comt> a , neck-
laces, and bracelets of the greatest artistic beauty,
drawn out almost as line as gold, and lighter.
They were made in the last century “Madge”
pithily observes: “Why is there such a stigma
upon old maids? I am sure many a girl would
remain unmarried only for that. As it is, they
look upon marriage as a S'wtof redemption from
obloquy.” Well, we don’t think there ought to be
any obloquy because a woman is an old maid.
Usually, it’s not her fault Ladies are now wear-
ing waistcoats exactly like gentlemen’s. So, when
a marri-d man goes to bed now, he has to put a
chalk-mark cn his waistcoat, or else he’ll pro .ably
discover when he reaches oflice next morning, by
the fact of the pockets containing a miscellaneous
lot of buttons, a broken garter buckle, and a hair-
pin, that he’s wearing his wife’s raiment. He
most likely calls to mind at the same moment that
in his own pocket he left a couple of sovereigns
and some loose silver “What do you think of
Mrs. Blank?” asked one lady of another at the
theatre. “ She is beautiful.” was the reply; “but
she is a very cold woman.” Tomkyns, who was
standing by, observed that Mrs. Blank was in full
opera costume, and didn’t wonder at her being cold.
.. Habits of life amongst the Dutch in Banjaiwangie
(abridged from Father Woods’ account): Itise at
5, cup of coffee or tea, a walk, gentlemen in airy,
ladles in almost etberial costume; at 7 a cold
snack; business done early; at noon the rice
table, or tormal breakfast, curry soup, tlsb, pre-
serves, jams, mincemeat, sambois, salads, joints
(Australian meat), cheese and coffee; siesta in un-
dress; at 4, tea in the verandah; lounge en des-
habille till sunset; evening bath, walk; dinner at
8.30; bed. Bangez-mangez would be the right
name for the place, since life there seems to be
“du lit Ala table, de la tableau lit.” There are
twenty-five Knights of the Garter (exclusive of
Princes, foreign potentates, etc.), and it is the
most ancient and honorable of English Orders.
The dignity was created by Edward 111. soon after
Cressy, for distinguished soldiers. It is borne
now by some men who are neither soldiers nor
distinguished. When a Knight is created, he has
to get a surcoat, mantle and hood, a George collar,
cap and feathers all of the specified pattern, and,
In the House, last week, Mr. F. B. Suttor recommended that one of the Parramatta
orphanages should be converted into a boys’ reformatory. He says: “There is a large
quantity of land and a splendid building, and the only addition that would be required
would be a fence.” It would have to be aprecious high fence that would keep a larrikin in
that reformatory. At Boorioboola Gha, a much simpler plan of dealing with refrac-
tory kids prevails—as above.
of course, the Garter itself. This is of blue velvet
bordered with gold, bearing round it the most
famous motto known tojthe world— Honi wit qui
■mil y venae; and it is worn under the left knee.
There is also a star for the breast, hung to a
ribbon of the colour known as garter blue. The
only woman Knight of the Garter is the Queen, by
virtue of being the reigning sovereign. No other
woman can be made a Knight, though, of course,
she may wear the what-d’you-call-it as much as
she likes. Beaconsflcld’s “stall” (every Knight
of the Order has a stall in St. George's chapel,
Windsor) has been kept vacant by the Queen for
three years, a piece of favouritism unprecedented.
Wales’ ” Lady Chamberlain has been left four
million dollars by an uncle The morals ®f
Madrid—like those of Mayfair—are peculiar. Not
long ago, a Spanish attache married a very lovely
girl. Three days afterwards he was ordered to
Cuba via Cadez. But he missed his train, some-
how. and when he returned found the Duke of L.
bossing the place generally, he having, imme-
diately prior to the husband’s arrival, sent the
hired girl out for a pint. The attachd expressed a
wish to see the missus, and the Duke “tried
strongly to persuade him not to do so.” But he
insisted. The next day he was discovered 6tabbed
to the heart. Verdict—suicide. The tone of ihe
Spanish papers respecting this little domestic inci-
dent tended to jocularly blame the husband fox-
being “indiscreet.’’ ...An Indian Prince has just
had a crystal throne made in Birmingham. The
chair of it is nine feet from the gi-ound, with pillars
holding a canopy above. The structure appears
to be entirely of pure white glass, the small
quantity of wood and iron used in it being encast d
in mirrored glass, so as to be invisible. Every
nart is “cut” plate glass, and so fitted up Bsto
make the throne seem carved from one solid
block. The cushions are crimson velvet. The last
wonderful thing an Indian Prince got was, we
recollect, a bedstead (costing about the price
of Buckingham Pa’ace) with life-sized angels to
fan and sing him to sleep. Next tbing, we are
expecting to bear that an Indian Prince has
ordered some English firm to make him a private
heaven. Then he can set up the crystal throne,
introduc#®ie angels, and have the whole caboodle
complete.
An eeoentrlc London apple-woman, re-
cently defunct, left special Instructions in her
will for the sum of *lO to be spent in refresh-
ments by the mourners at her funeral. It must
have been a real pleasure to follow a woman like
that to the grave.
How lew realise the dreary truth of the
statement of J. Hatton, the author of ‘ Jour-
nalistic London,” “that journalism is the grave of
genius. Statesmen, philosophers, novelists, poets
(says he) have gone down to the grave poor
and uurewarded, broken on the wheel of the
dally press.” By the way, what a big grave of
genius they must have round at the Alfred
and Shroud factories. A regular trench for
trenchant writers.
From the Melbourne Herald we learn
1 that Major Atkinson, the Premier of New Zealand,
Is exceedingly anxious for “ particulars regarding
the causes and most likely means of remedying
| the social evil.” So; what did the artful Major do.
when in Melbourne, but call upon Mr. Hill, the
I City Missionary, “as one who had the advantage
of considerable city experience.” The result was
that Mr. Hill favoured the Major with “ a very
interesting letter on the subject.” The notion of
calling on a missionary upon such a delicate
matter would seem very funny if we didn’t happen
to remember the case of a Mr. /Uncus English
(engaged in Melbourne mission worK), who com-
mitted suicide under circumstances showing that
he had gained a deep insight into this same “ social
evil.”
Mark Twain, rolling out the praises of
Adam and his claims to a memorial statue, says:
“But, on the other hand, look at Adam! What
have we done for Adam ? Nothing. What has
Adam done for us ? Everything. He gave us life,
he gave us death, he gave us heaven, he gave us
| hell. These are inestimable privileges; and, re-
member, not one of these should we have had
without Adam. Well, then, he ought to have a
monument, for evolution is steadily and surely
abolishing him.”—
Let sculptors weild the artist knife
For Adam, who gave precious life;
Let honours high to him be given
Who gifted us with pearly heaven;
But, let your tip-top praises swell
For him who sent us—death and hell !
It was a small slab bumpy, propped up by
crutches, and upon the fa<;ade of which were in-
scribed the following legends “ Kefesmonts at
hall hrs.;” “Bord and residonee ;” “Bread and
chese ;” “Best hear weery travlr.” There was a
tall, lanky lad leaning against the fence of this
establishment sucking at a little pipe ; but no
signs of any occupants within, other than those
I represented by an inverted broom which rested
| against a shattered window-pane. “ What’s this
j place ?” we enquired, reining in, with some difli-
culty, our chargor. “ Ain’t seen a strawberry cow
MSI? 110 OOWI * the Punt road, have yer ?” said he.
i j what •” “ How loDg ’go did Blimev's
load of hay go over the punt?” “No idea ; but
could you——.” “Pretty warm, ain’t it? Death
on grapes, this season. They’re pressin’ over
yonder; won’t get a thousand gallons—won’t .”
It seems that this house is—.” “Didn’t meet
none that was scoopin’ at the pint, did yer ?” he
enquired ruminatively. “No, wo answered.
but what is that tumble-down shanty?”
w hat! he screamed, “ don’t know what that is?”
Then, m a melancholy t ne, “Where d ye come
irom t ’Sydney. But, say, can one get any rc-
freshmentsnero. ’ ‘ Kefreshments here ! T should
think so. Why, this is our Korfee Paitus!” “Oh,
and who; are you, sir?” J’roudiy : “Mo! I’m a
halderman, iust ’iected.” “ rndeed ! Will you take
something farther oi, sir ? ’ “No ; I can’t. Fact
18 > S° nex * township to bail out the (Jlerk
of Petty Stshuns.” “ But how do you know,” we
enquired, as a last resource, “we can obtain no-
thmg m there ? pointing to the “ Korfee Pallus.”
i n °w,” he replied ; “ for I’m theland-
lord. IheD, in dug the 3s. (id. German-silver ones,
and we went * pricking o’er the plain.”


Tne Diamond Dyes are tne best dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They aro the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, andean always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydnoy and Brisbane.*
Prepared according: to the directions oc Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Maas.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
|y No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a duli,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing cnildren require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, 1
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£agric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or stioky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
Stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-seleeted and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ah. thi
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM & CO.,
Ml* Asenti
WISDOM VILLE.
Wisdornville is a noble town, which pos-
sesses distinct advantages over many equally im-
portant places we have adorned with our presence;
it possesses a “ Representative Organ ’ and a
barber. Some persons are deluded into the idea
that it possesses two barbers, but experience tells
us that this is not the case. On our arrival in
Wisdornville from Drousietown—the latter city
being hopelessly barberless—we pulled up in a
manner we much admired, at the more imposing-
looking barber’s shop of the two, entered, and
having summoned an elderly lady from a little
parlour with a glass door, through which we had
seen her dining, with much apparent gusto, out ot
a pudding basin, we requested her to produce the
barber. “ Oh,” said she, with a little cough, you
want a shave, sir?” “If you please.” ‘ Is there
anything you require?” she said timidly. Only
a short rasping with the most popular brush, we
replied. “ Hem— er— the fact is— ” “Oh, we see,
we said, quickly: “thebarber’s dead.” * No,
“Gone to take his music lesson?” Sir, he
“ Engaged at his ‘ Poonah-painting ’ class ? No,
sir The fact is ” “Oh, we understand. How
long will it take him io get round ?” “Not that,
sir, at all.” (Very slowly.) “ The fact is, wo are—
hem!— out of a barber at present. But you will
observe our stock at' fancy goods ” ‘ Useless,
ma’am,” we cried, moving away; “we have no use
for baby-linen, toffee-balls, cap-ribbons, or black-
ing. But stay 1—” Hero we noticed her lace light
up a little. “Is there another barber in this vast
metropolis ?” “ l cannot inform you, sir,” she
replied, coldly, picking a fly off the hardbake
“ And how long have you lived hero, madam ? we
enquired. “ Twenty-five years I ” Thunder I
Adieu 1 There is “another ” barber, who has little
about him to entitle him either to special mention
or to the insertion of his portrait. He is a con-
scienth us shaver, though; but puts his nose a
little too near your eye for our money.
* * *
Wisdornville lacks both the picturesque-
ness and the repose of Drousietown; but, as a set-
off against this, it has larger blow-flies, and its
beer, if possible, is more opaque. And there is
nothing scattered about Wisdornville. It consists
substantially of one street, which is bordered on
the right by a river. You have, therefore, to keep
a pretty straight course. For, if you go too far to
the left, you go into a public-house; and, it too
far to the right, you go into the water. The river
is pretty where it winds; but it is an implacable
river, and only winds once. The country round
about is low and—like the beer-ilat. For you see
nothing but lucerne-paddocks and vineyards.
Everybody has either a vineyard or a lucerne-
paddock in Wisdornville, and a curious thing in
connection with the vignerons is they never drink
their own wine. We have tasted (in the stern
course of duty) all the wines made both at Drousie-
town and Wisdornville, and we have even seen
them mako it. It seems simple, but they tell you
there is a secret in it. Before you have partaken
of the vintages of Wisdornville, you want to know
the secret; afterwards, you don't. An exceedingly
polite old gentleman asaed us if we would go and
look at his still. He considered it curious. It is
curious. There is no secret about making white
spirit. You collect together all the grape skins,
stalks, cask refuse, bad, sour wine, and adding, as
the cookery-books have it, a sufficient quan-
tity of water, you put it in the copper to stew.
Then, in a little while, a liquid of the precise
colour of water comes out of a spout. That s all.
What you have to be careful of, then, is not 10
taste it if you are asked. About a thimbletul was
put in a tumbler with a little water, and handed to
us We nodded pleasantly at the nice old gentle-
man, and drank. Then the aspect of the world
changed. Ten million torches flashed before our
eves we heard 40,000 dogs bark, and then went out
to trv and dig our grave with our thumb-nails. It
was 84- over-proof! The still proprietor states
that with this, and other preparations knovvn only
to himself, he could turn bad wine into good wine.
We implored him to keep the secret in his breast !
We said we had tasted the good wine and yearned
for the bad.
* * *
Near the still old gentleman is another
vigneron, who does a large business and takes the
Liberal. We went to see him, too. He told us
that the illimitable infinite was ic juxtaposition to
the tenets of barbarism, and said that the last
reporter who visited him drank four bottles of
wine and borrowed a pair of socks. He intimated
that we could have a pair if we wanted em—those
the reporter had left behind. We thanked him,
and replied that when we required a couple of
telescopes, wo would let him know. To return to
Wisdornville, some idea of its length will be gained
by the information that it takes just three minutes
to ride through it. Fred Archer could doubtless
do it in less than that time. It begins with a humpy
and a railway-stat'on, and ends with a newspaper
office, the chemist’s shop, and the fashionable em-
porium where the aristocracy purchase their 10-
button gloves and pickled herrings.
* * *
The office of the Wisdomville Worrier
is a gorgeous, solemn, and majestic ruin. It was
erected, we believe, by Captain Bligh; then it was
a fort. Subsequently it was a barracks, then a
church, and after that became a newspaper office.
The aboriginals, however, owing for their ads. and
paving their subscriptions chiefly in snakes, the
venture did not succeed. So the concern was sold
off. and the type was purchased, we believe, by
the proprietors of the Mudgek Independent.
Then the structure became a fort again, then a
bakery, then a ruin; and it is now once more a
newspaper office. The Worrier is conducted by
the editor and a staff of two; though, who ll the
motive power of the Eagle press is neither at
school her engaged in a top tournament, we may
add—“and a little one in.” The paper is a bi-
weekly, but the editor called a meeting 91 the
citizens, and put it to them that if they considered
his making the Worrier a tri-weekly would send
the town along any faster, he’d do it. He left him-
self. he said with emotion, entirely in their hands.
After a brief consultation, the citizens thanked
the editor and stated that they didn’t think it
would. So the Worrier is still a bi-weekly. It is
a very nice little paper indeed, and pas lpts of
pressure on its cpace—when the editor is sitting on
a copy. m * *
Wisdornville is not strong in churches,
“the duck who runs” the principal “gospel mill” *
having also to look after the souls of the people of
Drousietown. He therefore pays that place a
visit once a week, and has a rasp with the nevil to
an harmonium accompaniment. And that re-
minds us that for real, gay, attractive graveyards
Drousietown makes Wisdornville look small in-
deed. In the Drousietown cemeteries everything
is done to promote the comfort of the corpses that
can be imagined. W a don’t say that draughts and
chess are provided ; but nothing conducive to the
mental comfort of the departed is wanting. There
is on the other hand, nothing in the Wisdornville
graveyards that would cause a person to wish to
lav his bones there. The Wisdomvillians, there-
fore. mostly die in Sydney. They don’t mind the
little extra expense, because Waverley is a
fashionable suburb, and the contingent advan-
tages of the cemetery are extraordinary.
* * *
From the cemeteries to the chemist’s shop
is a natural transition. Well, the biggest swell in
Wisdornville is tho chemist; and the most attrac-
tive place there is his house and shop. It is the
loadstone of the city. People can’t keep out of it.
We say to ourselves every day We will not be
tempted," yet ere the sun has trembled on the
meridian, behold us feebly purchasing scented
soap, in order to enjoy his conversation. This
gentleman is a virtuoso; and attends classical
concerts. A terrible rumour also pervades the
town that he can play on the French horn. If any
reader of this journal is in want of a stick of
perfumery cheap, we can supply him. We have
a cheap line in lavender water, and our
sample—at the price—of tooth-paste and hair-oil is
not 10 be surpassed. We can offer, too, anew thing
in perfume-fountains, unrivalled for the money;
and we will present a box of pills, gratis, to every
cash purchaser. The druggist has a lot of local
influence, being an alderman, and he said if we
should care about the post of chief inspector of the
municipal water-cart, he saw no reason why we j
shouldn’t have it. It was a position of much trust
and responsibility, but if his influence with the
Mayor—.” Wo made our acknowledgments, but
stated we should prefer the post of Personator of
a Reader at the School of Arts. He admitted
gloomily that they weren’t a reading people at
vVisdomville. And they are not. There is a very
fair School of Arts there, and one day feeling, after
unripe peaches, a desire for solitude, we went into
the reading-room at about 11 a.m. An hour passed
—no one came. At half-past 12 a man in his shirt-
sleeves put in his head and whistled. Having re-
freshed his mind with this literary entertainment,
he withdrew still Avbistling. At one o’clock, a
heated boy rushed in, and asked for Tom Criker—
just as he’d ask for beef. Then, having been told
the “right time,” he withdrew, shrilly singing.
The books are but little used, and some of the
papers quite untouched. But in the evening the
institute is well patronised, the intellectual game
of “ chequers ” being much in vogue amongst the
Wisdomvillians.
* * *
At rare intervals, a professional troupe
comes there and gives an entertainment. It docs
not matter what is the nature of the performance,
the inhabitants always call it “the play.” The
play came on two occasions while we illuminated
the town. One was “ Helen Vivian’s Merry
Makers,” and the other a phrenological and mes-
meric lecturer. The former, giving “a whirlpool
of foaming fun,” just msde enough to save their
having to walk upon the waves of the ocean to get
back to Woolloomooloo, while the scientific gentle-
man took the sum of one shilling sterling in the
first rush at the doors. There was no rush after
that; and the next day he departed in great
dudgeon, using picturesque language prior to em-
barking on the steamer. It is reported that once a
man came with an “ orrery”-an affair with the
stars and heavenly bodies painted upon a dark
curtain. There was only Bs. “in,” and when the
lecturer came forward and, tapping the curtain,
began “The planet Jupiter ” the audience
shrieked, “Haul up the curtain and let’s see the
Aggers:” “Hoist the bloomin’ rag and bring out
the snakes;” “Let’s «ee the Horreryfed,” and so
put a stop to a performance which would no doubt
have turned out to have been of an intellectual
nature. Had the lecturer have “ hoisted the rag,”
as requested, the audience would have been treated
to a view of another man cursing his luck, and
attending on three tallow candles with a pair of
snuffers. That is an Orrery.
It is understood that Baron Reay is Mr. Gladstone’s nominee for the Governship of
Victoria, and that he declines to accept the position till he has consulted with the Earl
of Rosebery, who will shortly arrive in England from Australia. Above we have a
picture (wholly imaginary, doubtless), in which the Baron is “consulting" with the
Earl We can’t see his face, but we know from expression of the buttons on the back
of his coat, that he is asking his lordship if champagne and truffles are to be obtained
in Melbourne.
Wisdomville possesses a handsome post-
office, and a postmaster whose civility is only
bounded by possibilities. There is a young lady
operator there of such fascinating appearaime that
nearly all the young fellows in the district go
broke on the electric fluid before the middle of the
week. We were in a similar predicament our-
selves once, and only recovered our normal con-
dition of alfluence by writing an article for the
Worrier; the noble editor of which journal load-
ing, in return for our contribution, us with vege-
tables. There is a State school in Wisdomviiie,
and a Catholic one—to which all the little Romans
of Drousietown have to tramp daily, lhe State
schoolmaster is a nice old gentleman, whose prin-
cipal diversion, after hours, seems to be leading
about a horse. He bursts upon you in the dewy
morn, and in the darkening eve, always dragging
a horse about. You never see him on a horse by
any chance—always towing him. For a long time
this puzzled us, and at length we obtained a solu-
tion of the mystery. He is teaching the horse the
multiplication-table, and the animal, being aged,
and having had his education neglected, is too
bashful to speak louder than a whisper, until he
is perfect in his answers. It is said this gentleman
(the master) has considerable classical attainments.
Very likely. Few could touch him, anyhow, in the
art of leading a horse about with a clothes-line.
« * •
Owing to the constant arrival of the
steamers’ the Wisdomville hotels do a brisk busi-
ness. The most important is the Royal. That has
a bagatelle-table. There is no billiard-table
in Wisdomville, but there are a Court-house, three
policemen, and a lock-up. The court-house is
dull, and as full of Echoes as the discriminating
reader. The atmosphere within is thick with the
odour of stale skulls. And you know that even
Yorick's, who was a man of infinite jest, and fre-
quently set the table in a roar—but, there! let us
say with Hamlet —“Pah!” May we, Mah? We
could tell you, we dare say, a lot more about
Wisdomville that would interest you. But please
excuse us. The thermometer is at 130., and—turn
your heads aside, ladies— it is our turn to stand in
the water-butt.
“ One hundred Suns and one Moon at the
Sun” is the style in which Mr. A. G. Vance an-
nounces his benefit, which has to take place in
December at the “Sun Palace of Varieties,”
Knighi abridge, Eng. Glancing down the long
array of London music-hall talent congregated to
do honour to the occasion, we notice, amongst
many new and unfamiliar names, those of some
old veterans of the comic and serio-comic stage,
notably thSse of Jolly John Nash Harry Rickards
and Arthur Llovd—and at this last wo stop* for
memories arise 05 Memories, brought from their
sleep of years in the deep-down recesses of the
mind by the sight of the once so familiar name.
And so ho—Arthur, we mean—is in harness yeti
It was in our round jacket era that we first saw
him, at a time when, disdaining the attractions of
first-class theatres, to most of which we bad-by
virtue of many acquaintances in Art-Bohemia—a
right of free entree, we would steal off to our
beloved “ Pav.,” of which, at that per od, Arthur
Lloyd was the great attraction, notwithstanding
the fact that before access could be gained we had
to uart a “bob” out of our pocket-money. The
London Pavilion, Tichborne-street, Piccadilly, was
even then a most popular resort of what might be
called the lower middle-class Londoners. Clerks
from wholesale houses, with a. 6 P rinl f} i , D^ 0 t f I ®™ a ’ l
tradesmen and master mechanics, with at times a
dozen or two of aristocrats out for a spree, or
weary of the Alhambra, just across the Square.
To our boyish fancy, the place, with its glare and
gutter of plate-glass and gas, bright brasswork,
and crimson lounges, was the perfect acme of art
and comfort combined, and, with a doubtless de-
praved and vitiated taste, we preferred to hear
rhp roaring chorus sung by all hands en masse
of“FancyFree,” or • The Red, White, and Blue ”
to the finest passages in “ King o Scots at the
T R Drury Lane, or the subtlest witticisms of
Sothern at the Haymarket. What a storm of ap-
plause used to greet the favourite as the blue-
cheeked gentleman—who always sat at a little
tahle surrounded by similar blue-cheeked gentle-
men all with moustaches apparently of the
consistency and shape of the circular patch at the
big end of a scrubbing-brush—tapped the table
smartly with his little hammer, whilst observing
that “Mr Arthur Lloyd will now favour the com-
minv With a song,” and then Arthur, in that very
robusttenor of his, would troll out some ditty of
the day. We lost our small heart there, too, we
remember, to a fair and most substantial charmer,
vclept “Madame Cerise,” who, night after night,
used to treat us to a ballad beginning By the
margin of Zurich’s fair waters.” We never could
make out any more of it after a month’s constant
attendance. She looked sublime, did Madame-at
a distance-and long we allowed our young love,
like a worm i’ the bud, to prey upon our vitals—
(by the way, this “ Ked Heart ” isn’t as good
as the last)—till, one night, one awful night,
as we sat close up to the orchestra, a
wrinkled face, dripping with perspiration,
paint, and powder was poked round the
screen, and a strident voice shrieked out to a pass-
ing waitress: “Biddy, ye divil, bring us a pot o’
’arf an’ ’arf, quick, for it’s that ’ot I can’t abear
myself.” We gave one half-incredulous, despair-
ing look, gasped for breath, and fainted. The
Juno-like Cerise was, after that, like one of a cer-
tain poet’s “ Blue Mountain sonnets,” simply a
bitter memory, and we turned our seared affec-
tions towards a young—we made sure she was
young this time, for Arthur himself told us she
was only six and twenty—lady, who used to accom-
pany on the piano the evolutions, or rather, con-
volutions of the “Bounding Brothers of Bara-
taria,” but the deceitful villain didn’t tell us she
was the better-half of the cornet-a-piston, whereby
we-but never mind Since those far-off days,
when going to the “Pav.” often involved posses-
sion of the “key of the street,” forcing us to seek
the hospitable shelter of afore-mentioned Bohe-
mians—a hearty, jolly, ever-hoping, ever-getting
“skied” fraternity, who dwelt, as a rule, nearer
Heaven than the pavement, but of whom many
have since found fame and fortune, with the right
to add to their names the magical “R.A.,” and whose
efforts are now no more “skied,” but hang in
the place of honour on “opening day,” instead of,
as in the times of which we write, often helping—
towards the “wee sua’ hours”—to pillow weary
heads. Since those days, then, although we have
visited “ sing-songs ” of every conceivable grade,
and in almost every part of the world, from the
Alhambra at its best or Charley Wright’s Colos-
seum in Melbourne, from Tur Griinen Gaus in
Vienna to the Bella Union in New Orleans, and
from The House of Dulcet Sounds in Sinaton to
the old Cafe de l’lmperatrice in Paris, yet the
pleasantest memories of all that do yet abide with
us are connected with the old Pavilion days, or
lather nights; and now were we offered by some
benevolent fairy our choice, whether to retain the
vast fortune and grey hairs, accumulated through
the passed away years, or of carting with the
dimes and tinding ourselves back again in round
jacket listening to Arthur and mashing the cornet-
a-piston’s near relative, we should, we say un-
hesitatingly—stick to the pile.
The vigour of youth given to the aged and
infirm by using Hop Bitters. Try it. Read.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
* Mark Twain.—(“Fanshawe's Funeral.”)


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
©3=3Gr.A.iTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
l/V Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. P.AZaXN’G-,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
I and
J
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Founder's’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
-Builders Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable 'Wind-
iag and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed..
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
boilers.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
La “ 108 ' Drillinß ' “ d ■«*-«
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
CUC wid I Morticing > Machmes an^stean^powen^ 8 ' QeDera
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Q *—«siiuuuurai implements.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders' ,pd *■„»,shlpp,. r . n * hM>
ar e e o« . ™.. on band of Jh*. gjfng, g»d Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corruirated,
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils. Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washln* and Dam Matlo,
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters' Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO
387 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham's Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or leofl from liver com plaint, thereby hindering
2”??f organs from their functions. Sei
the liver in order by taking: the above remedy, anc
heart, lung’s, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, If you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. Tr
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedv so
sure and certain as y
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
Ihe great Health Restorer. A vast proportion cl
tbe maladies and ailments attacking the human
trame are really due to a disordered liver. Sot ‘his
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.o.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
cm®. Q he G° < V, e lml tationa, ask for ABRAHAM’S
i ills. See that each box, by whomsoever sold
nears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Labnatiry,
434 Georjre Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’B SHORT HORN BOURBON.-Thu
of army * navy - tho clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no riva>; the oftenei
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
55
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ya in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WA ft E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J.T GAYEN’B
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELViN and SONS’
Edinbu .gn Pale 4 *e.
PAPERHANGINGS!
DADOES, BORDERS, W ‘ th
FRIEZES to mated,
NURSER'r P ) x'JBRS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTER” & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Load, Oiia, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis, 7
TTaad-extstlser,
84 HUNTER & PHIELIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) years- also
Manager for over ten (10) years. y ur8 ’ aJSO ’
EURE
kKAA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer tiian the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
‘‘*^up£ C A h .. PL a UG ,’'s STAMPED with the word
Take no other Smokers see that you obtain it
MANUFACTURED BY
Tobacco Co., k
AT THE EAGLE WORKB,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An t can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
j^°ttbe publloagainst spurious and worthless
RoliE It T BUTCHEB & CO,
(Late William Lon#).
\3T~ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
w. H. AR9ELL & CO/S
c agencies.
ioffl var?eTy OM2 KL 8 p . nze “ iBcults - compris-
and n }“ Linds-o'autorbury, Normanby.
Infanf 8 m FLd ak^if Pn f? Puddin *®- MineemeaL
nYo S o ooa ’ Self-raisinir Flour. Treaele and
Excßi n Bum U M;,'? aH S' 20 Ut * 8 * CUBk8 > and bottles!!
PearfUar/ev A andVa U f Wn ' ,r , T Y, u 'torißn ' »atmeal,
Genera' °Pr<ndB?onß
B u i!!& , jrr rt sOTasia- Bw,, ' ,u,,Ttaa
043&345 KENT-STREET, near Kinß-st., Sydney.
Y’S SiLVEItSTREAM SCHNAPPS
Gilbey-s Old White Jamai<£ltum, '
nmi'iih? recommended as bciiiß of tho highest
juality, and superior to any imported.
MJIKiiU At CO., Solo A Rents,
•*‘M Gennre-street, Sydney.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
Cl
m
t
8=
H
m
6
to
£
m
m
m
■■ :•
' BASS PALE A T.ir
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BT ALL CTrauynOjreM AND WINB
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AQENTB.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
4 Un\ T e rA. kn °™ rcraed y for RHEUMATISM,
/RALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOrH/UJ lE*
RAINS, BRUISES, HURNS. SCALD I, & c au< j
aken internally cures DIARRHOEA, r /SEi*' y
SfS. and all ’-ttm, -ach^
thrice, 2/- Mold Everywliner©.
C. E. MOULTON, sole drop : \ir,
MLLBOUKN'LI j\. ND - U!N I£ Y
hall
*
%
\
c
o
&
a
vs
m
mu istf
B°of R S f T ? tJT ;r Thls favourite bran a
best 0/ th»K Bel ? cted with great caro from tbe
A bre wmsB of the celebrated firm of
Dublin, at«l therefore
CA#TI t LL“® d a„R^„'S ,CUr,, ' lev ' >r >' w ' l '>"-
Marshalls
ONIC NERVINE
1 EGHTKHED.
A SAFE, CERTALn & SPEEDV CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of*
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
nourishes and gives vigour to the whole system
Price, Is. (Id. Sold everywnere. Solo Proprietors*
MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.S., Pharmacist*
104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde Park. Svdnev'
N.B.—All imitation* illegal. *


Art triumphs over Nature, say j ■ write-
in London Truth; if the skeleton of lovely woman
at all corresponded to the contour of her dressed
form, the anatomists would have to go to school
again. The bust is so abnormally developed that
it takes nobody in. Gently curving outlines are
quite out of date. What is now aimed at is to
make the bust swell out abruptly, in the pigeon
shape, from the lowest point or the neck, and
most of the fashionable ladies now indulge in
figures whose most prominent peculiarity is their
suggestiveness of the dairy. The bust being high
and full, an equilibrium has to be arranged by an
immense bustle, and then both curves are united
by a long waist. Certainly, these ingenious con-
trivances are rather delicate matters to enlarge
upon; but it is evident that a woman does not put
on such admirably adjusted mechanisms, with all
the natty dexterity and calculating forethought
at her command, for any other purpose than to have
them noticed. A woman will go to any trouble
about her figure, or any suffering; but she doesn’t
do it for nothing. She wouldn’t do it on a desert
Island. For instance, there was at the Opera a start-
ling dress no woman would wear for her own indi-
Stirring It Up;
OR,
Daniel In the Toad’s Den.
vldual satisfaction, probably, in any house with-
out men in it. The body was high in front, but at
the back it was cut down so very low in the shape
of a V, that the point nearly touched the waist
belt. How the waist was laced into form it was
dliiiault to understand, as there was nothing what-
ever to be seen in the V opening but natural
charms. The fair wearer of this toilet has a spare
neck in front, which places her at a disadvantage
inordinary evening dress, but the back of the neck
and dorsal region being fine, she adopted the un-
usual dtcoUetage described. Now, when a French-
woman experimentally puts on a bustle, she opens
the doors of her armoire & glace, and successively
gets it at angles with another mirror, so that she
can survey her figure from different points of
View, and changes and arranges until the im-
prover is what she wants it to be. Then she finds
something more is required to represent her per-
son in due proportion. A larger curve is necessary
higher up. This curve is created. Then the head
must be brought into harmony, so the tresses are
brushed up in a complicated edifice. It is in tbis
way that fashions spring up in Paris. When they
are launched by very beautiful or vary piquant
&nd prominent wooden, they are eagerly adopted
by otoe ' Parisiennes, but not slavishly imitated,
tueir original forms they are exported, and go
i "ound the world. There are lew Parisian belles
wn -. orapletely adopt a mode. They assimilate it,
and twist it into harmony with their own style.
But many other women, directly a thing becomes
fashionable, purchase it and put it on, regardless
of how it suits. This is the thing to be guarded
against. Never forget harmony, ladies.
A country correspondent sends along a
true tale of selfishness and bigotry, which is in-
deed a sad commentary on our boasted civilisation
of the 19th century. It appears that a certain
farmer I ell sick, and called in a physician of a cer-
tain school. Finding he was getting no better
very fast under this medico, he sent for the apostle
of the opposite sect, who cheerfully refused to
come, as his hated rival had been first employed,
and his treatment, of course, rendered the chances
of a cure impossible. Then the other fellow
bucked because his skill had been doubted, and,
strange to say, the farmer died without being
assisted out of the world by either of the sons of
JEsculapius. Right here the “ clargy ” took a
hand ; the Catholic divine refusing to chant his
oxis-doxis-glorinxis over the dead man, as a punish-
ment for the lax notions he held when alive of
“goin’ to his dooty,” and the Protestant sky-pilot
objecting to use his influence with the Deity for
any but the chosen sheep of his own fold. Our
sacred respect for the majesty of the law
forbids our giving fuller particulars at present
of the above case; but, rather than disappoint our
correspondent, we’ll tell of a somewhat similar
incident which ooourred the last time we were in
Timbuctoo. There are two religious sects in Tim-
buctoo—the Buddhist and the Mahometan—and
each sect entertains a pious hatred for the other
that would do credit to either Father Mahogany or
Pastor Allen. There are also two hospitals in the
city, bossed respectively by Buddhist and Mahome-
dan hakims (the extremely appropriate Arabic
term for doctors), and on the occasion we speak of
a sailor was sunstruck and fell senseless in the
middle of the Strada San Paola. He was instantly
carried to the Buddhist hospital, at the north end
of the street; but admittance was refused by the
religious janitor unless the bearers could prove,
in accordance with Rule 0 of the establishment,
that the stranger sacrificed to Buddha. Being too
much engaged in dying just then to explain his
belief in the pumpkin-lieaded god inside, the sailor
was brought to the Mahometan hospital at the
extreme southern end of the Strada, where his
friends were carefully informed that Rule 0 of
that establishment was precisely the same as in the
other, with the substitution of the word Mahomet
for Buddha. Being thoroughly cornered now, the
bearers placed their patient exactly half way be-
tween the two establishments, and then the
Buddhist hakim consented to examine the stranger
from the waist up, while the Mahomedan pill-
roller undertook to sound him from the waist
downwards. This was done, and marvellous as it
may appear, both physicians agreed exactly in
their diagnosis, which clearly proved the man was
dead. Then the fight began in earnest, for,
according to the laws of Timbuctoo, that hospital
nearest which a stranger dies can claim the body
for dissection. The Buddhist hakim swore that he
recognised the dead sailor as one of the most
devout worshippers of Buddha he ever saw, and
the other slaughterman was just as positive he
was a thorough Deliever in Mahomet. Meantime,
however, the figure of a cross tatooed on the
breast of the corpse revealed the fact that he was
a Christian. The Buddha M.D. then contended
that the man died on the spot, “for,” he argued,
“ if he did not die then, what could have killed him
afterwards, when his honourable but not learned
friend had refused to treat him ?" And ho
certainly did fall nearer to the Buddhist
Asylum. Mahomet’s representative, however,
was of opinion that “ the stranger could not have
died so soon, because he was not admitted
into that institution presided over by his pious
but by no means experienced brother,” and he
furthermore observed that “ he had no doubt as
to the cause of death, whatever other, (he would
not say ignorant) people might have, and therefore
the patient had expired at the door of the Ma-
homedan retreat, where, through the stupidity of
the hall porter, he was refused admittance. The
argument grew hot, and the language parlia-
mentary. Lancets were drawn and blood was
about to flow, when suddenly the sailor (who, it
appears, was subject to catalepsy) sprang up, and
after emphatically damning the eyes of both
professors, quietly walked off. Then the
astonished, and disappointed hakims filed slowly
away, each deeply regretting that Rule 6 of their
institutions waa not a little more elastic, “For,”
said each hakim to himself. “Had I once got
that infidel dog inside, he would not have escaped
me quite so easily.” Such is life in Tumbuctoo-
and in many other parts much nearer home.
Says Samuel Laing, M.P. for Orkney and
Shetland, in his "Rational Radicalism “ J began
political life more in sympathy with Sir Robert
Peel than with any otner modern statesman, and
for a long while thought Mr. Gladstone somewhat
too rash in his advances in a democratic direction-
I finish it a warm supporter of Mr. Gladstone, and
perhaps more in sympathy with Mr. Chamberlain,
if I understand his views rightly, than with any
other politician of the day.” If this merely repre-
sented the evolution of one individual mind it
would hardly be worth recording; but evidently
the same process has been going on in such a mul-
titude of other minds, as to shift the centre of
gravity of political power a long way in the direc-
tion of advanced Liberalism. The Liberal party is
already the strongest party in the country, and the
advanced or Radical section the strongest section
ot that party, and that which, by common consent
both of friends and enemies, has the largest ores-
pects for the future. Hooray!
A Beautiful Patnting.— Mr. G. G. Green,
of Woodbury, New Jersey. U.S.A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
line pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee’s German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
oines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each, 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for 6d. The sample bottles enable suaereis .o
prove their value at a trifling oost. +
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaeht s, Rnfp,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, .lack-rabbits, uicaiel
out by “Rough on Rats.’* MoseJ, Aloai oc
Sydney, General Agents.


THE
IGNO
Ml
W < ■ ' ■■&<?>,
I %\ i : '
m
!;
THE
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Hlig > non
e=>:e^.2>t©
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Inclined, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
orEbonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.”
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED !
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH !
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF !
THE
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
''WILMER.” and all other good instruments, to
he had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
it Mints Si Importers
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
1 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
nm^ eaB carefully selected at the plantitlons by
nr own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
ua h&mple for themselves before buying,
lndies of the city will find our new rooms in
rnrn^S?', B . tree t Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
ttendfb e ’ an< * commodious, with prompt
\
1
I ! , J&rT* ■
®*SrJT R- BURGIS’ new TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
•jffUPNESS, PIT, ANT) WORKMANSHIP.
Kram * f °r self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony. 1
IS MANTTFACTUBED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will And this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY 1 conies direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY", manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Dintillci'M. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WU Ittl/V
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SY"DNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
BLEND
[trade]
—4A
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
A Check to Drunkenness!
THAT Curse of Nations, which <icsolates our
homes, Alls our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “ No family should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Litbia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
tor Rheumatism. Friedrichshaller bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
37 Bourke-street, Redfern.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
08.
CHLfiNDWfIIS
AND
It is of the utmost importance that contents o
each bottle should be carefully compared, as larg
quantities are being imported into New Soutl
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will find a differenc
LAND e WHI°SKY Cent ' ™ lavour of LORN E HIGH
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
AYER’S ’
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. BRICHER writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm.
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
PREPARED BY
DrJ C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
vr THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. IL/£a,t-u.red-
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.‘S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled In bond for Expert at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that It
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for It, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IW 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Hr - MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTEII OEFORfi
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WEISEEES.
Boyd's BeardFltoelrdid thin,and
wilt do it on either bald head or
bare /ace. Force* heavy Moue.
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20.U00 young men already
- wear full beards, having used l to
3 fjft*- efo injury, easily applied, eertain in effect.
each, 3 for 3«. tld., post paid, sent under caver-, free from observation.
Frank Douglai, Sole Agent,Box 730, Q.P.0., Sydney,lf.B. W■
Copyrighted.
Packets U. 6d.
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
-
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Waucut
Wood,
Ac. Ac. &c.
HEBBLEWHITB &CO.
410 GEORGE STREET.
HOU TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Moat EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMEKFIELD & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 61 & 58
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Savifle Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeehes Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
H.L.SIHUO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
•>:- Warranted f i rst qual i ty
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists [Qg^ AR^£TST E
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraetcd Painlessly
ZQEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-aleoholio beverage acta as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not Intoxicate,
ZOEDONE
la reoommended by the Faculty aaa aubatltute fot
wine, beer, and spirits, aa It invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In caae of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it la of great service, aa it acta not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonio
to the system.
Price per oaso containing 10 dozen H pints ...217-
« » »> » » 1 .. 34/*
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney*
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
&
o
&
fV'
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
BTORES: MILLER’S POINT,
or* N.P. Pattern* and PrIo«« s«nt.
UMBRELLAS
re-covered
STUDY economy;
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos>
tumqe. Repairs neatly ere-


Biz.
Mr. John Hunter’s New City Boot
Palace.
There is not the slightest doubt that the public of
Sydney and this colony generally are indebted to
the enterprise of one or two men for the extra-
ordinarily liberal charges which now rule in the
retail boot market. Six years ago, this
city was in this respect the heaviest taxed in the
Australian colonies, notwithstanding our tree port
and the admitted activity of our factories. About
the period mentioned, Mr. John Hunter,
was the first to di.cover this fact, and
ha rightly conjectured that there was a great
opening in Sydney for a mammoth retail boot
warehouse, where the public could obtain the
fullest concessions in prices to which they were
entitled. Ho accordingly opened business in
George-street, and at once struck a blow
at th > monopolies which had existed here
undisturbed for years. For a considerable period
he stood alone in his great reductions in prices,
but, after a time, one house after another followed
—till there was, at any rate, a fair all-round re-
duction. It was impossible, however, for the low
tariff of charges adopted by Mr. Hunter to be
reached by others. First he kept exclusively to
the boot-trade, not hampering it with other
branches, and in his business he invested a large
capital, which gave him command of every mar-
ket in the colonies and in Europe. The City Boot
Palace is the principal effort of this enterprising
business man, and certainly no house started in
this city for the last thirty years has been more
triumphantly successful. The City Boot Palace
has an average daily attendance of the public
of near upon two thousand people ; and the
business has now so rapidly extended that
Mr. Hunter has been compelled to enter upon
the splendid new premises shown in the ac-
companying engraving. This magnilicent edi-
fice stands at the corner of George and Market-
streets, directly opposite the Markets, and occupies
the site of the George-street end of the famous
Waterloo Stores (D. Cooper and Co.’s). This grand
extension of the Citv Boot Palace is in keeping
with the liberal spirit of enterprise which has
characterised Mr. Hunter’s business career in
Sydney. The establishment is the best boot
mart ‘in all Australasia, and is not surpassed
even in London, Paris, or New York. It has a
splendid frontage to George and Market-streets,
the show-windows being wide and higb, ad-
mitting of capital display and a perfect
flood of light. The main entrance is exactly at
-the corner, with an additional door in George-
street, and the view presented on entering will be
found to be the grandest and most attractive in
the colonics. The space for business is unusually
large, and is ornamented with pillars, supporting
arches, which will be so fitted as to admit of the
display of goods for sale. The features of this
emporium which immediately strike a visitor are
its spaciousness and its splendid light; and as the
interior is to be fitted with carved cedar show-
cases, wherein the best and handsomest produc-
tions in boots and shoes are to be displayed, the
effect can be better imagined than described. A
portion of these new promises will be exclusively
devoted to the requirements of ladies and children,
and in this respect will have every privacy and
convenience, and will be very elegantly fitted up.
The goods which Mr. Hunter has from time to
time introduced to the Sydney public are well
known for their genuineness in durability and
elegance, and the low figure at which they have
been offered. The variety, great as it has been,
will, however, be increased by new lines from
English and Continental houses. The latest pat-
terns of the English sewn boot, to the artistic
hand-painted productions of the Continental work,
men, will be found placed here at figures the same
as rule in London and Paris. The practical re-
quirements of every household will, however, re-
ceive the greatest attention, and with the English
and French manufactures in this line will be found
the productions from his own extensive
factory in Sydney. The new establishment will
be opened in a few days, of which fact the public
will have due notice. In addition,to the retail
houses iu Sydney, Mr. Hunter has extensive
branches in Newcastle, Adelaide, and Launceston,
in each place his establishment being among the
first in architectural and mercantile importance,
and a very extensive branch establishment
is shorliy to be opened in Goulburn. Mr.
Ifunter likewise carries on in Sydney one of
the most extensive manufacturing and import
businesses. The import warehouse is in W yn .
yard-square, and is one of the handsomest
and most commodious amoog the splendid new
edifices in that quarter of the city. The importa-
tions include the largest lines of English and Con-
tidental bootware, and for the purposes of this
branch of bis business he has resident London and
Parisian buyers. In this respect Mr. Hunter does
almost the main trade of the city, and his business
relations extend to almost every town and city i n
each colony. The colonial manufacturing works
are situated at Waterloo, and steady employment
is given to 150 hands. In the import branches, Mr.
Hunter extends to retail customers in the coun-
try the very same advantages secured to his own
reUil establishments, thus offering an inducemect
to further extensions of his business. Mr. Hunter
is represented by his travellers in all the inland
dis ricts of this and the adjoining colonies.
John T. McLnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 26 O’Connell.
Street, Sydney. B2E?” Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural I implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Ilaymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the goon
effects doriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. Sheapplied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 3 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
ttielr accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producinp proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
Mr. DeCourgv Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of tho Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land 1
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
Rpwiftlitv. A nv r r
When some-men get plenty of rope, they
save other men a great deal of trouble. This is
sometimes illustrated physically, but more often
mentally. The Rev. C. J. Byng illustrated it men-
tally one Sunday night, lately, at Fitzroy (Vic).
Ho was preaching away about temples and kings,
and wondering why there weren’t more churches
in the neighbourhood, and, warming up, he pro-
pounded the statement that the absence of
churches meant absolute godlessness. This may
be true, or may not. But, as he continued to
warm up, he struck out for a graphic picture of
heaven. His picture was not the worst one im-
aginable, but there wasn’t the shadow of a church
in it. That fitted in badly with what he had said
before; but he made it worse by observiig that
“the absence of churches in heaven meant the
absence of ignorance, superstition, and sectarian-
ism.” This is true Now, what did he actually
prove? Was it not that the earth will be more
like heaven when all the Byngs are bungs ?
Recently the engineers of the Italian
mercantile marine struck for higher wages, where-
upon the Government, instead of allowing the
price of the labour in question to be settled in
upon market by the laws of supply and demand,
gave orders that the Naval Arsenals should pro-
vide engineers for the merchant steamers in want
of them during the continuance of the strike. So
“imperial” a policy will naturally meet with tho
approbation or Jingo capitalists the wide world
over; but we’re very much inclined to think
persistence in it on the part of Humbert’s advisers
will create such a state of things in the larger
manufacturing and commercial cities of Italy as
will require ail His Majesty’s soldiers and sailors
and rural guards to control. For a Government
to interfere in such a way in su,ch a question is to
teach the people that the use of brute force is
preferable to tnat of calm argument, a lesson that
perchance the people may some day in some spasm
of excitement prove they havo profited by.
Some British electoral statistics : England
and Wales have 966,721 county, and 1,651,732
borough electors: Scotland 99,652 county, and
210,789 borough electors: Ireland 165,997 county,
and borough electors 52,021. These figures give
grand totals of 2,618,453 for England and Wales;
310,141 for Scotland, and 224,018 lor Ireland. Ireland
MR. JOHN HUNTER’S NEW CITY BOOT PALACE, GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. E ROWE, Architect.
possesses 86,423 electors less than Scotland,
although Ireland has a population of 5,174,836 (in
1881) with 914,108 inhabited houses; while Scotland
has a population of 3,728,124, with 739,005 inhabited
houses. The largest English electorate is in
Liverpool, where it numbers 63,430; Marlborough
having the smallest, 636. Glasgow has the largest
electorate in Scotland, numbering 63,716, or slightly
more than Liverpool. In Ireland, Mayo county
has 245,217 inhabitants and 3088 electors; while
Down county has 12,619 electors, with a population
of 233,164, or some 10,000 less than Mayo. Again,
Belfast has 21,805 electors, with a population of
208.122; while Dublin, with a population of 273,282,
has but 13,580 electors. These are a few of the
monstrous anomalies that it is hoped the promised
Reform Bill will remove.
Some of those wicked, democratic, social-
istic Skye crofters are going from bad to worse.
They have actually issued a manifesto containing
the atrocious declaration that they decline to
starve to serve the interests of an absentee land-
lord. Wo are sure John Brown would have dis-
owned such miscreants as his fellow-countrymen.
These abominable scoundrels—the cottersol’ Elgol,
to wit—say: “ We have our lot in course of Provi-
dence cast in a most outlandish part of Skye,
where we are deprived of all means to enable us
to live with any degree of comfort, while there
are hundreds of acres of uncultivated land in the
possession of one English gentleman in our neigh-
bourhood, and we are denied one single patch of
ground wherein to plant potatoes or sow seed.
. . . We havo hitherto been a law-abiding
people; but if our •grievances are not redressed,
and that very soon, we shall be compelled to take
our living out of the hundreds or acres above
mentioned. We are all inclined to pay a fair rent
for the land which we intend to use.” These
Elgol cotters would probably render “ fiat juslitia,
ruat cerium,” “ Do us justice, or Sky(e) shall make
you rue it.”
What, ho! A now St. George for England
—a George the Filth (as Labouchere says)—Henry
George (of “ Poverty and Progress ”) to wit, with
the legend on his banner “The Land for tho
People !’’ The burden of his message is severely
simple. Let taxation be thrown on the laud. Let
the rent ol the land go to the State!, to supply
wherewithal to pay the whole public expendi
ture, and to abolish all poverty save such as
is the result of personal vice. No compensa-
tion will George give the landlords when the
State resumes tho ownership of the land. Ihe
forefathers of the landlords robbed the forefathers
of the people. Because a man robbed yesterday
and the day before, does that give him a right to
continue his robbery into the future ? A proper
question, by George ! Here is one instance out of
ten thousand thousand of the sort of robbery that
has been going on in England for centuries (we
quote from a leading London paper):—" Edward
Alleyne, the actor, gave half a crown an acre for
lssOO acres of land, at Dulwich, about the time of
James I. He devised it to establish a ‘.College of
God’s gift,’ and to maintain a certain number of
old men and women. The college is now a public
school, and the estate is partially covered by pala-
tial mansions of City swells, who pay rentals of
£2OO a-year, which they get repaid in the cost of
the education of their sons, that at Eton or Har-
row would be equal to their rent. There aro poor
boys in the college. There is ‘a lower school ’ for
them—or, rather, fora few foundation boys; but
the foundationers are to be abolished, and the
lower middle class have possession of the school
under a charity ‘scheme.’ i ho poor have been
ousted from Dulwich, and have carried their
wretchedness elsewhere. Some of it may be
found in Southwark, from whence comes the
Bitter Cry ; or over the way, m St. Saviour’s,
where Edward Alleyne acted at the Globe Theatre.
He wished to benefit the poor of the four parishes
in which he was born, apprenticed, acted, and
died. Divos and Croesus have appropriated what
he left under the head of Progress. We have to
seek for the result in tho Poverty of tho slums.’
And still the evil grows, not only in England but
in all countries that havo assimilated their land
systems to the accursed British system. George
has told us that the result of five hundred years of
wrong dealing with the land in England, has been
realised, in 35 years in California. We know what
close on a hundred years has realised in Sydney,
where hundreds of “miserables” herd in slums
that abut upon allotments worth a quarter of a
million a piece. Under the old Georgian era—an
era of monopoly, favouritism, and corruption—the
evil made hideous development in the old country;
let us hope under the new one it will be utterly
abolished—scotched and killed outright by the
application of some practical modilication of the
Fifth George’s “ thorough ” policy.
The “ Financial Reform Almanack ” gives
the following information with respect to the
moneys drawn from the public exchequer by the
bastards of William IV., Her Majesty the Queen’s
uncle and predecessor on the throne
Total Estimate
Where No. of of
placed Oilices Moneys
Family in Peerage. in pay. held. Received.
Munster, Earl of— Army ... 3 4.U00
Tewkesbury, Baron Mil., Army.. 3 1,500
Fitzclarence, Hon.
F. C. G..... Army 1 10,000
Fitzclarence, Hon. G. Navy 1 15,000
„ Hon. E. Army 1
Goff, Thos. W Army 1 5,000
(Ist Earl) ••
Fitzclarence, Lord
F Army 3 4a,000
Fitzclarence, Lord
Ad Roy., Navy.. 3 <>o,ooo
Fitzclarence, Lord
Aug Church, Roy £O,OOO
Fitzclarence, LadyS. Pensionfrm.
(Baroness deL’lale) 44 per cent.
Fund, 1820—
1837 1 8,500
Fitzclarence, Lady
M. (Wife of Gen.
Fox) Ditto, 1820-
Fitzclarence, Lady 1864 1 22,000
E. (Countess of
Krroll) Ditto, 1820—
Fitzclarence, Lady 1856 1 18,000
A. (Wife of Lord
J. F. Gordon) .... Ditto, 1820-
Fitzclarence, Lady 1865 1 32,500
A. (V icoun t e s s
Falkland Ditto, 1820—
1858 1 19,000
Total (14 relatives) 21 £220,500
The Sailor King, who was always coarse, aud some-
times silly enough to merit his nickname of "Silly
Billy,” had an eye for the main chance. He was
always brooding over the possibilities of personally
appropriating the moneys outside the Civil Service
votes. He allowed Dorothy Jordan, the mother of
his bastards, to die of want in a foreign land ; the
bastards he quartered on the British taxpayer, as
above shown. When the gallant prince, by the
grace of God Defender of the Faith, ct Bntan-
niarum (whose people never, never, or hardly
ever will be slaves) Bex, and so on, was about to
sign the formal declaration of his succession to the
throne, vacant by the decease of the “ First Gentle-
man in Europe,” he remarked with touching
pathos to the Clerk of his Council, “This is a
d d bad pen you have given me.” r act is, the
Reform King seldom deviated into decency. His
eldest son, the first Earl of Munster (more patriotic
than his papa), committed suicide in 1842.


psr,t
'■ -1
c u m
fvSf‘ a \ ’
Lr^jjj^
r # s.
mwzz.
R&m
tfA^V
m
- X:-:
V#^22
C>OU)ir
'.wf
w* •**
‘^^•'SYIJKEYs-a-^f*
'/S}3
ki
OPPOS!T€ POSf Of^ICC.
gg«m® £opq e. s t^cet
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATE© GENS.
Eor Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs hy London workmen.
tar c. cowles, 407 george street.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Peapes & Shaw’s
* r MDARD" . CLOTHING.
Ht e „ 0
the SUMMER SEASON, TPIE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
OMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found many house in the city.
% i s CL °THINQ
****s:
Hue
fell
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d„ 355., 435., 455., 605., 85s.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 35and 435.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office,
s WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. (id., 21«.
TWEED trousers. Its. fid., 13s. (id., his. fid.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
Sat Summer dust coats, thirty shillings.
„10 V e l{CO 42g 60s 55 5 ,
FLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s 6d. EACH.
now summer shapes.
SUITS, guernsey and
r rOSH CL aT HIN 0.-AU
Vila's J ’ G iUciVwS, ( iV r special order.
jJli'fjjj KI,/J 1N(!, and LAWN-TENNIS
SACS, for cricketing or Jioat-
G SERS t igg p er p a i r>
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. Od. each ; 3 lor 275.
WHITE I ! and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., Itte. 6d., I2s. 6d , 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. M. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. (Id.,
18s. Od., 21s.
BLACK A LPACA COATS, 108. tfd., 13s. Od., 15s. Od.
BLACK CASHMERE and KIJSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d„ 21s.
FEAPEB and SHAW, George-streot.
DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
.'K „ •
'. K- rr -
■ ToV*™'i? o LlBtiE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
lip,, p ,® r dozen.
iT„Vr TiS ' India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
WC^ltlTr’g&gpun Bilk, with Pants to match.
, I%V^'NTpR I HB,. O.F. or 15.8., 1305., 405., 50s. half-dozen.
swSfci'M OAr P.EEGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 3Qs., 405., 435. the half-dozen.
yorf JX, £UAT_
iifslh ord, Styiiiour, Array and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
trijlltav. l >Ol n. oPinsT soHi-r
tV®* sea, T in position.’
f fhfti ®west BhaDes. Colourimn
H’l'A n’iH 16 ribs. Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d- to 355,
t li,. Lfn,... 1 A T, mtjufolds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
Ever ,V i "ANr a rr' 1,1 ribs, Na
DMbrkILA.
BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
'-'ti ijß,|f U fIT Cl ODr.
! lEPS, 2is., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PE&PES & SHMI, Oe®rfffS2-.&tre©t.
Sz Son’s
Hi
'^df
r °fti all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
n
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
2nT©-w Open.
HOTEL,
of RING and CASTLE REAC H STREETS.
J§- SfficCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
DT-SaiAIRS.
an mi
sjs.7'
>- iuV '' v’ : . !\ • >v
"■»- : - ~C xy#
<3^
&SS
S
qU
n
Th e only genuine tintag
TOBACCO.
k consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
yt, fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
. into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
ei ' 6 ' Co in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
, Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
<i., and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
of P l ™** dear*), smd all Tobacconists’ Sundries,*
u LROR" TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
C. 5. HODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel® Bor-
dohi, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie & Brae, Articles of Vertd,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
EANGY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solao HB&zsuao:
352 George Street-
mmm g. ummmw,
. 470 GEOK-GS STKEET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
up
Cl
ii/iii
GLOVES LADIES’ BOOTS & SHOES
HOSIERY HAND BAGS
SUNSHADES . FANS
LAChS \ PURSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 Gebrgje-sfreet.
P, ft. HQE.DSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
Houses LMd & Estate
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
pm e coumitry milk.
(rjf| H E MILK SUP P LIED BY TII E
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS FUSE,
and, being obtained from tlio country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
BssSter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
ixtfWSWWggS^
'
IMPOETEKS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stock.
J. MASSEY & SOM,
10 PALE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED by ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.. ~~ £300,000
Reserve Fund £133,500
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Eolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
_ Auditors: „
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
P. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Loadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Goo. F. Slade, Esq.-
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISI
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
HOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing-, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
FE-" 544 GEORGE STREET.
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 i€iog§.stre©s ? Sydney,.
..NMmMXVD
51HX ‘H Jl'l jNIIO
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, Put premises such as he
di si t*cs are not now available,
tie has therefore opened
temporarily at the , above
address.
“ GUNSLEK THE
CATEUKRV’
Name is a household '.vot'd,
and Ids desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
Avho may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gun.si-or the
Caterer,” a household -word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking ho may
enter into.
“ OUNSLEII THE
CATERER’S ”
Staff of Cooks and 'Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistanee will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices ns has never been at*
tepa pted in this city.
“ GUNSLEU THE
CATER Eli ”
Has a practical knowledge cf
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will uo his best
to deserve it.
GUNRLEK THE
CATERER ”
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing- to the public, for the
Christmas and Mew year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they wilt
meet with universal-approval
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
Also manufactures every
class of (roods incidental to
the Catering business.
“ GITNSLRH THE
CATERER ”
Make a special effort, fop the
supply of the finest brands
of French and iiiurlish Con-
fectionery, for which lie is
sole Agent in Australia.
GUNSTiEII
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George hergimm Mowed,
to the Marquis of Nonnau t>y,
and V.lt. Club.
GUNSLER
Is tlio leading- Australian
Caterer.
GUNSLEU
Has the most complete staff
ot thoroughly trained hands,
GUNS LEU
Is prepared to undertake
( uteri eg- Con tracts to , any
magnitude.
pr~ THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows .--SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months: FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
br/uIC
NKRV
TREATM
F-WT
Dt. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT,
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness,. mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old age, .caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box. or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. Wo guarantee six boxes in cure
any case. With each order received lot hi boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser Will receive
the nariufaoturer's written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment dVtea not effect., a cure
IJuarantew* issued b'i alt choimnW ttjjd druggist*
AnAtraii*.


Gold.
X ©■wellery ■
(REGISTERED.)
/
S 2
*
SMI
■WATCHES, PEOH
30s-
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually atten
ded 1°
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
I S and Jhe business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. I>. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
J. J
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
nsi rtun-t o ■ ■■«■■—, ~,] v»l|
3EB£ 1 " 8 ’ “ d B ' ut **4
&T Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect t o choO® c v
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in fJ^EY
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVER (
j. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hayfl | £ r |j
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Stree •
HAWKES AMO COS3PAHY,
TATTEjRS ALL'S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGIf and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside whemrequired.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent aeeoramodatioa
and fodder.
Ail kinds, of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or nieht.
Wedding-s and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
CARTON’S HOTEL,
SWAN3TON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION. f.t MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G-. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
'SHE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION-RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG ia the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoko a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which com bines a very su pc dor quality
with a moderate price.
A
\. 'O '
Vis
meyoe, tgossan a go.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
mh
••••/" -
HeSdsScck &
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL BJCHABDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Keidsieck & Co., Reims,
SEAHL & SOUS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN. HOUQUETI3TS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-ST KELT MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY PETERSHAM.
gggr* Pelargoniums now in full ,oom. nspection
invited.
AIR- TIGHT SHOW CASE COURT.,
GT GEORG Hl' STREET WEST.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
lit
?_a_
i
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Teotmoh jgical Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
m
m
H 6 T WATE R! BATHS
ssKst7.! i4t/-ctt^F:rfeiD r r^- : V'‘r •■■■■> v' r^:
#35-
■
33 COLLEGE STREET., H7DE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFTCAL TEETP i on the ia jst approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural A ppearai ice, andCoi afort. guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extract iona skilfully
p< irforrred.
mCSGXKTS
Prize M edai Sa/t
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 tawte Is, and obtained first, honours
at every Jto j r y Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGUE XT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. Cl lURCHWOOD,
147 Yf }RBC STREET.
jgULL-DOG ALE.—IT is
__PB. not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-1)00 ALE
that preserves this cr&nd first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
game mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great beeping- qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARIS STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALI _
Importer of every d escrip tl0 ° ,
Literature, Law, Mercan
Fancy Stationery ■ J|
Eiijglisli Papers anil slagra?i jSCS
every MaH* , T Slf
ROYAL ARCADE. 498 GEORG®
,aC<
(LIMITED)
Forwarding, Shipping, ust °^ Si
and Commission e
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, S) 1
CARRIERS TO THE
SOUTH WALE®*
0*
i
BRANCH OPFIC®*' ,
„ «jg.W*'
Southern District, * '
Hanging
Culealr^
SSS&
SSL” 1
flay
3 oulburu
V ass
Bowntag
Binalong
Harden
Young
Juneo
Western District,
Capertee Forbes
Bathurst rondoW ltl
Blayney Nviuafi^
Orange (lobar ,
Wellington roona» t,]o
Dubbo . Boui^°
Narromine BOU
Nevertire g.f?.!
NORTHERN DrSTRtCT-^^
Morpeth
G unnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
QUEENSLAND
SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Brewa-U^ 9
Tam* 0 * 1
Uralla
££»>
lockhampton
logantuugan
Imerald
Central Lin 8,
CapeU®
Co® et
NORTHERN
jwnsville Raven
larters Towers
dSOU^ AUI
Agents in Victoria and b
WM. M CULLOCH &
■ Agencies in » u parW
of
>
V
-if*
xMoF
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds off JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vi@°
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, _ * ters , *
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold\ Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, 1
