

CLI-xrersa,! Pr oviders.
FOR
if W
I *
ihla Hr
m
Ths Prettiest Elanfßcs and the RESosf Charming Costumes in the Australian ColQnias.
filing Novel and Fashionable in Millinery, Laces, Bibbons, Frillings, Gloves, Lacs Collars, Ties, Prints and Sateens;
L. and a multitude of pretty little accessories* to ladies’ fashionable attire.
Nd CHARACTER
, OF OUR
° c k of Bedsteads
'i, UNMISTAKEABLE,
c elated to meet the wants of every
class of buyers.
K
only the Very Best Makes.
THE ENGRAVING IS A PART REPRESENTATION
OF ONE OF THE
Huy Descriptions of MU
SOLD BY
ANTHONY HQRDEHN & SONS.
We Sell at the Very Lowest Prices.
the foot end of the newest registered design in Black and Brass Bedsteads, 6ft. 6in. x 3 ft., 39/6-; 6ft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in., 42/-
l| ll'sized Double Bed, or 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in., 51/6. 45/6. Rowcliffe’s Spring Mattress 45/6.
Our Bedding is all Our Own Manufacture, and we can guarantee its absolute purity and cleanness.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Hajfmarket, Only.
The Bulletin New Series


REDEERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
t3F" UNEQUALLED SAFETY.
OMY IN USE OF WATER.
EXTREME SIMPLICITY. @r GREAT
|gr- LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
SIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. SS“ SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNES3 OF MOTION. PF* FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c„ to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Rcdfern,
Sols Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATKIt-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &?.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Masquario Place, %dr.sy.
Full particulars and price on application.
BOURSE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western TM»trict. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 1356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 Georgc-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manaokii.
YANKEE DOODLE
$
a
§
so^ s
0/ -^son
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
m
, _ w Hqijis
-1,... T_Q_gA C C O
OX POPTJLT !!! This mighty power hap built the HIXSON’S great, Tobacco Factory. How? The
voice of the peorle declaring the YANKEE LOO DIE mj<* ( OhQtJF.KOR Tobaccos their own,
anded the supply— Hixson aDd Sons responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal Ip
Southern Hemisphere, and consuming the hulls of all the Imported American Leaf Tobacco,
MEMO, to you from
HORDERN’S in Pitt-st., Sydney.
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us f o *® -00 j.
whenever you want something nice and tasty, din ere
from what you can get in the country stores.
t-aF* Scud down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and Price
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
BRISCOE, ORYSDALE & CO
IH. MACH ai«
397 GEORGE STREET,
«s and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENG I^
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPOETEES OF
Engineers’ Tools, Eounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery*
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricui
Implements.
ENGINES
Robey’s celebrated Portable 'Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
T? otc<j b»txOl lAit.
BOIIiKUS.
Vertloal and Horizontal.
MACHINERY. .
'.allies, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting an
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret w . er ,
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-po"
Q et> &
English and American Agricultural Implements. floU^'i#
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoee, Joshing
hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, i “
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. ygfO^
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishing’
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. l2 , e j ( C 0‘ l
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvan
and Plain Iron ; Solid Boiled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fenoing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
and
Builders’ Ironmongery. jj#
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in CaVP en
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND (
397 Goorgo Sfroaft, Sydrosy*
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 pi “'
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
them
("RATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing L f
j prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing tran •
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES,
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
'ity Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
gn c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR PITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT PROM*
WHOLESALE PRICES.
“W. -W. CATE^JJ^
193 and 195 PITT
W. SHEARSBY & CO^
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe
Trousers from 381 s. to 40s.
ij jl
H3F” N.B.— Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER
W. Shearsbx & Co., Albert Souse, Temple Court
fW


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 78.—New Beries.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 8, 1884.
Price— 6d.
Those Horrid Sootch!
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1884.
The London Daily Telegbaph is the pro-
perty of an apostate Jew, who is ashamed of
his name and is as obsequious a crawler and
trimmer as the world has ever produced. He
wishes to be reckoned an aristocrat,and seems
to conceive that, by doing the dirty work of
the class, he will qualify for admission within
it. In a recent issue of the Daily Tele-
graph, that journal, while offering the
ferocious advice which the Toady is ever so
ready with, gives a glimpse of a condition
of matters in Scotland, which, as a rule, it
has been the business of the capitalist press
of Great Btitain to deny or oonceal. The
fact is that in both England and Scotland
the growth of democratic principles has been
of late so rapid and so formidable that the
propertied oligarchy which has so long
ruled Great Britain can no longer afford to
be indifferent or scornful. For generations
the people—the masses—in Great Britain
have been serfs lulled into submission by
flue phrases dealt out by the masters of the
soil and Dy the willing tools of these masters
—the State clergy. At all times there have
been protestations, and sometimes at-
tempted revolts when the pressure upon
them or that section of the people became
unendurable. But the oligarchy could
afford to smile at resistance which was obvi-
ously impotent, and have constantly taken
credit for their indifference, by pretending
that it was a virtue —love of the principles
of liberty. The farce of men who denied
the franchise to nine out of every ten
Englishmen pretending ;to love liberty
is seen, when investigated, to be un-
speakably cynical. It has never needed
more than a serious danger to oligarchi-
cal privilege for the hollowness of the
professions of devotion to Liberty to be
exposed. English artizans sabred at Peter-
loo, the Irish nation placed under martial
law, and Great Britain the only country in
the world where, by law —recent laws, re-
pugnant to the spirit of the constitution,
and passed in a scare—political offenders are
openly treated as felons: these facts expose
the thinness of the veneer. So long as de-
mocratic agitation against the plunder of
the earth-tillers by landlords was oonflned
to Ireland, it was comparatively easy to
persuade Englishmen and Scotchmen that
the cause of the discontent lay, not in the
social Iniquities which drove the wretched
people to desperation, but in the innate
savagery and natural perversity of Papist
Irish. Now, however, that an agitation,
identical in its causes and in its purpose, has
come to a head in the Isle of Skye, is spread-
ing rapidly throughout the Scottish High-
lands, has independently sprung up among
the Lancashire farmers, and extends to
other English counties, the reality of the
reasons at first denied can no longer be con-
cealed.
* * *
The admissions made by the London
Daily Telegraph are especially note-
worthy, in view of the strong pro-landlord
deductions, presently to be referred to, of
that paper. “ Ireland for the Irish ”is a cry
which, in the ears of even Radical English-
men, has sounded very like a declaration of
* raf; ial war. We detest such cries, prefer-
ring infinitely the ideal of the International,
Rod the sentiment of “ the land for
the people.’’ But, among the vulgar,
national sentiment is strong; and in
all popular agitations the need for a
concrete motto, which shall touch a chord
ominant in every heart, is felt. The true-
Rim of the Scotch, as of the Irish, is unques
tionably the right to retain enough of the
fruits of their own labour to enable them to
live decently. In order to attain this, access
to the soil of their country is imperatively
necessary. And this is not only true with
respect to the It ish and the Scotch; it is
universally true.
• • •
Now, mark the statements and admissions
of the London Daily Telegraph
‘“The Highlands for the Highlanders!’ is the
new political war-cry in Scotland, and, like the
‘slogan’ of their ancestors, it will find an echo
even in the South. For the Highlander is a popu-
lar and picturesque figure in the imaginations of
most Englishmen.”
Then, after a dissertation on the military ex-
ploits of this people while wearing British
uniform, the London paper continues: —
THE HON. G. D. LANGRIDGE, M.L.A., OF VICTORIA.
“ The Highlanders were first-rate soldiers all
round, and Wellington never led better men.
The steadfast patience that marked them in camp
they have also shown at home. They have suffered
evictions which compelled something like the exo-
dus of a nation; but they have submitted to the
law, taking to Canada, to England, or into Glasgow
or Dundee regret for their lost homes, yet no such
feelings of bitter resentment as have turned Irish'
peasants all into agitators, and some into assassins
We are told now that this patience is at an end;
that, at the next election, crofters’ rights will come,
to the front; and that the people will in future re-
sist the execution of the law. The recent Ross
and Cromarty election certainly showed that the
new element in Scottish politics is making itself
heard.”
This description of the condition of the
political atmosphere in the Highlands is cor-
roborated by Mr. J. A. Cameron, who writes
from the landlords’ point of view. In an
artiole in the Nineteenth Century, Mr.
Cameron states
“So far as disputes affecting land are concerned,
public law and authority do not exist in Skye.
The sheriff's officers, for instance, have written
formally to say that they decline to serve further
summonses upon the crofter population unless
supported by troops. Unarmed police, they aver,
would be useless, and from the executive officials
of the country I learn that the number of toldiers
they ask for as necessary to re-establish public
authority in Skye is four hundred. . . Over
half-a-dozsn cases of undoubted deforcement and
assault committed upon officers of the Crown
while In the execution of their duty, have been
allowed to remain unpunished, and although duly
reported to the central Government, the necessary
permission to prosecute on behalf of the Crown
has not been accorded. The inability of the local
authorities to effect the arrest of the offenders is
known, but the Government apparently shrink
from sanctioning the employment of troops.”
There is no doubt that the Government
has shrunk from “sanctioning the employ-
ment of troops” to do the bashi-bazouk
business upon the persons and dwellings of
Scotchmen. The example set in Ireland
could not be conveniently followed in Scot-
land. There has always been a feeling of
national antagonism and separation between
the Anglo-Scotch people and the Irish. There
has been equally a religious and an econo-
mical feud. To the most ignorant class even
of English and Scotch—the mere agricul-
tural hinds—the poor, bare-footed, ragged
Irish harvest hand has, within our own
memory, been what Chinese immigrants
are to the handicraftsmen of Australia
and of California. They were cheap compe-
titors. We can remember the “Keelies”
(Scotch equivalent for “ larrikins ”) of Mid-
lothian jeering the “Irish Paddies” as they
passed. And in Yorkshire we know the
labourer equally regarded them with min-
gled contempt and dislike. Then the differ-
ence of religions assisted to maintain an
alienation between the Irish and the British.
Any Government could, considering the
influence of these feelings, pour troops into
Ireland and suspend the Constitution there,
disguising the faot that it was an agrarian
agitation—the throes of an exploited and
plundered plebs—that was being throttled,
under pretence that violence and tyranny
had been rendered necessary by the national
intractibility of the people as Irishmen and
their perversity as Papists. For the latter
view, the support of every Little Bethel, and
for the matter of that, every big Bethel, in
Great Britain could be securely counted on.
Australian newspaper readers, who have
noted the persistent malignity with which
the clerical S. M. Herald, under its Metho-
dist conductors, fought the landlord’s battle
and put the worst construction on every act
or argument of the struggling Irish, will
comprehend how reliable that sort of sup-
port has been. The British oligarchy might
have trampled the life out of Ireland, might
have flung her entire Papist population out
upon the highways to 'shiver and perish in
the wintry rains, while soldiers and process-
servers warmed themselves at blazing ham-
lets ; might have, in that part of the Empire,
practiced the experiment how to over-ride
the Constitution—in England, if convenient,
later on; and such papers as the S. M*
Herald, every Methodist Conventicle, and
every Orange Lodge would have kept up an
unfaltering chorus of approbation.
* * *
But when it comes to turning loose troops
upon Scotchmen and Presbyterians, the
matter is different. There would be an
“echo in the South," truly. The lowland
Scotch, with their traditions secular and re-
ligious, from Bannockburn to Drumclog,
would not with indifferenoe see the scarlet
uniforms harrying “puir folk” on the hill-
sides. In the Highlands, the clans, broken
as they are, would hear the spirits of their
ancestors crying vengeance from among the
mists did any Minister dare to revive, even
by a distant resemblance, the memories of
Glencoe, and of those weary months when,
after Culloden, it was better to be a wild
beast than a Highlander, Aye, and the
people of England would murmur and
heave. The Scot is not to the quiescent
Englishman the objectionable person the
Irishman is, but a brother. The Bethels,
little and great, would obange their tune
when it was Presbyterian, not “ Papist,”
that was put under military execution.
• * *
We don’t believe that, even were the de-
sired 400 soldiers sent to enforce the land-
lords’ exactions in Yist, the people of any
part of the United Kingdom would rise in
revolt, or that the inoident would kindle a
civil war. But we do belies e that the troops
for the function would need to be very care-
fully selected, lest they refused, at the
critical moment, to assault their fellow-
countrymen. Doubtless, the army contains
a sufficient quantum of ignorant black-
guards who would be insensible to the
character of the duty. But if Highland regi-
ments yet preserve any vestige of their
original character, they could not be trusted
to do such dirty work. For obvious rea-
sons, Irish regiments would also be unsafe.
And although there may be English bat-
talions, reoruited in St. Giles and Seven Dials,
which would do all they were wanted to do
and ask no questions, the employment of
such in Scottish territory would tend to a
national exasperation of the most serious
kind. Still, there would bo ho immediate
civil war. But if 400 troops were sent to
Yist, we .believe the. advertisement of the


Thb Rates of Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are —For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b© made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Young Athlete”: You say you are
strong and quick, can spar well, hut are short in
the arms. What shall you do to improve your
reach? Try a brick, sonny; it will reach. Don t
waste time on scientific sparring, don’t weary
your mind about short arms, when a good hall-
brick, deftly put in, will enable you to catch Black
Jackson or Donald Dinnie half-way acros3 the
street “Advance” (Molong): Thanks, for your
pars. Although not used, they were quite suit-
able. We just happened to want to dehl with one
subject our own way, and hold the other over.
Write again. “T.W.”: You don't ssy so! ...
“A Constant Reader”: If you can furnish us with
dates, &c., which would enable us to find the re-
cords of the statements you recount about
“ Jeremy Diddler.” we would be under an obliga-
tion to y0u.... “Walter Forsey ”: The cut referred
to appeared in the Sydney Mail. We hjjve sent
on tne request and stamp tor a 0qpy......
“Maude”: We have sent a note to the G.P.O.
for you. Please, don’t fail to get it •••
“Traveller”: Pray don’t. Don’t try to make us
believe the verses you sent were your first attempt.
We know better. There's a “ripple” in them, a
resonant “swing” that no writer ever yet got
into his maiden effort. The opening stanza:—
“ This is rich, both fat and lean,
So I’ll send it to The Bulletin;
Thus it may be seen afar
What Nowra tallent (sic) are,”
betrays you—shows the deft hand and the sensi-
tiveness of ear that oniy result from careful cul-
tivation. And you are travelling through Aus-
tralia, and intend to throw your adventures into
rhyme and send them us. Malheur! ..“One of
’em ”: Not adapted... “ W.C.”: The first paragraph
is as old as a solar myth. The others are new. and
—stupid “ W.C.P.M.” : Not our style at aII—
“E.H.”: Letter received, but you forgot the key.
“Reader”: Of no interest—“P.Mc.”: We re-
ceived the letter, but why it was sent to us is a
dark and mystery. The only “touch of nature”
we found in it was: “ He as billed me with four-
teen pounds, but I ain’t going to pay him.” There
is a bold originality about this resolution tbat
raakes some amends for the irrelevant slip-slop of
the remainder of the letter. ..“E.D. (South Mel-
bourne): Toocrude...“ Cobar”: Mayor and pound-
keeper is a startling combination, but there is no
reason why it should not be an effective one. The
goats belonging to bumptious councillors might
suffer a little inconvenience, but that is about all.
“Hilarion” (Townsville): Your contribution
is scarcely in our style. We also have lived in
small Australian towns, but the time pgssed there
was not lost. It afforded us a gieater in-
sight into the absurdities of human nature
than we could have obtained in London or Paris.
Of course it's remarkable to see the banker—the
paid servant of a Co., and whose bread and butter
depends on " trade ” object to tradesmep.”
To be despised by anybody is irritatipg—but to be
despised by a donkey must be maddening—
“ Raven”: Not nearly good enough.. .“Du»cd”:
Received. The rhyme is unobjectionable, but the
spirit of poetry is entirely wanting “Old
Snearer”: So you think the Judge took the “tip”
to decide in the squatter s favour, and you expect
us to think likewise and go for the Judge. Of
course we will. Whoop! “E.E.C.”:
“ You would never believe what a fuss he made,
I could do nothing else, so I cried,
And had to go into Hysterics
Before he would be pacified.”
Is it poetry ? No, it’s not. Is it prose? No. What
is it? D nonsense, we say on the spur of the
moment “Shearer”: Cut the letter out and
send it to u 5....“ W.P’.Ci”: Received....” Free-
thinker”: The subjects you mention are being
constantly ventilated in The Bulletin. “ In-
dignant”: Your annoyances have ah been the re-
sult of your own conduct. Why, you started w;th
a gross error. You, in your (we muatsayit) stupid
ignorance, thought that State employes were pub-
lic servants. It’s jUBt the other way. Of course,
they are called “ Civil servants,” but this is a mere
antiquated fiction kept up for the sake of appear-
ances “Stranger”: “How do cabmen and
‘ furniture-removed ’ men make the tedious
hours pass while waiting for a job ? ” Go
down to Circular Quay, or to the junction, cf
Market and Elizabeth streets, and see for yourself
“ Ducks-down ” is a favourite game. Not know
“ JL»uckB-down?” Well, go to the places we named
and see the poor over-worked but buoyant
carriers play it with rocks, for chews of tobacco.
....“ X.Y.Z.”: Much Obliged “.Bushman”:
Our experience has been just the contrary. We
always found that when the shanty-keeper poured
out our drink, leant across the counter, and whis-
pered, “Try that, ol’ lei’. That’s the stuff to warm
the cockles o’ your heart,” we had tobacco-juice
before us, and we were never mistaken
“ Walter Goodwin ”: Your letter is somewhat too
rambling for publication. However, we compre-
hend your argument. You think it would be as
sensible to. prombit the sale of the works of Aris-
totle as f,tbat of “ The Fruits of Philosophy,” and
you illustr ate your position by the parallel case of
the use and abuse of tne juice of the grape. God
gave you powers of speech, reason, and free-will,
whereby you are distinguished from the brute
creation; and, having thus endowed you, He set
before you good and evil to choose between. Else
where was the use of free-will ? Thus you had the
grape to enjoy, or to abuse its juice. So with
philosophic treatises dealing witn physiological
and 88xu al subjects. These may bo studied for in-
struction or read for erotic gratification. But to
prohibit their publication would, you argue, be as
senselesu as to eradicate the vine. Good. We
agree. But we do hold that in the present
stage of human progress towards enlightenment,
the sale alike of liquors capable of intoxicating
'and books capable of inflaming' need to be regu-
lated. Our plan would be to make the sale of
either to legal “infants,” or even the lending to
juveniles, an offence. Possibly it would be well
even to require dealers in such works to take out
a license, so that supervision might be exercised.
But, to prohibit them, is a recourse to Phifls-
tipe bigotry driveliiflg at the month.
THE POPULAR BRAHE
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.-YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie.
tors of BRIAN BORU" WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WED,
when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
MT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Bottle Hiputii
MARKET STB BBT.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STBS® 1
where you can obtain for
G<3l.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, FOB*
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at
other establishment in the world.
-
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT
Is novr open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumble**
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of
Is sold in this department.
TH» MOST W HOLESOM H OF ALL BSVSB* o*®' 0 *®'
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNILISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VBRDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2b. per bottle.
SENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRAND*'
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERT
I Market Street,, Sydney*
crofters’ grievanoe would be so effectual, and
the resultant perturbation throughout the
Highlands so wide-spread, that 4000 men
would be immediately afterwards required
to deal with crofters all over the Northern
Counties. Even that, however, could be got
over. The truly serious result would, to our
mind, be that the incident, should it ever
oocur, will set the people of England a-think-
ing, and thinking free from the prejudices
which, when Ireland was the scene, clouded
and perverted their judgment and apprecia-
tion of the real questions demanding solu-
tion. And the day that the English people
commence to think out the agrarian pro-
blem in good earnest will mark the serious
commencement of a radical change in the
distribution of land, and in other social con-
ditions which have as yet occupied the re-
flections of only the most intelligent mem-
bers of the proletariat.
• • •
The Daily Telegbaph, however, does not
comprehend the matter in this way. It sees
in the condition of affairs in the Highlands
merely a chance for the Tories to “dish
the Whigs.” It quotes Mr. Cameron when
he says
“The Whigs have never done much for the
Highlands. It was Whig doctrinaires who de-
fended and Whig landlords principally who carried
out the clearances, while the leading Whig news-
paper of the South of Scotland is even now our
most inveterate enemy. Is it possible the Tories
may come to our assistance ? Let them put for-
ward candidates for the northern counties, and
let the party be pledged to bring in a suitable
Crofters’ Relief Bill, and we will guarantee them
the capture of all the existing Whig soats in the
North of Scotland I”
As a preventive against such a misfortune
to the Whig party, the London journalist
coolly suggests a further development of
the policy of expatriation which has already
partially depopulated the Highlands. He
asks :
“Do the crofters and their friends desire to see
an Ireland in the North ? When they root a poor
peasantry in an impoverished soil, will the next
generation be as well off as the Scotchmen who,
after eviction, came South, or crossed the seas
to build up thriving homes far from their native
glens ?”
This remark about an “impoverished soil ”
reads very peculiarly when placed side by
side with the following passage from the
Crofters’ Manifesto
“The Highland Crofters are poor peasants, cul-
tivating small plots of land in the north of Scotland
and in the islands thereabouts. Many of us are
threatened with eviction because we cannot pay
our rents in full. We cannot pay, as we have been
rack-rented for generations, and thus prevented
from accumulating savings and capital. We have
been gradually deprived of the use of peat and turf
fqr fuel; heather, rushes, ferns, and stone for building
purposes and for repairs of our huts; seaweeds for
manure; and grazing for our beasts. All these, we
crofters had looked on from time immemorial as
our rights Tin common. No one interfered with us
in the old days; but, as land became more valuable
the landlords laid claim to all these things. Our
fathers were too shamefaced to go to court; and
where could paupers like us crofters get money to
defend our rights ? And without money who can
get justice ? . . . Besides the sufferings we
have already told youi.of, we suffer greatly as
we have been driven from our fertile lands and
made to settle,'on barren soils, as rich farmers
wanted the good soils and the sheltered sites for
their south country sheep.”
But the conclusion of the Daily Telegraph’s
article puts the crown of effrontery upon tho
brazen front of its monopolist reasonings r—
"‘Justice to the crofterß’ is admirable in spirit,
but to fix them in the soil, and turn their thoughts
away from the emigration which has scattered
thriving Scotchmen all over the world, would be a
lamentable mistake. The true way for a Scot to
combine patriotism with prudence is toTleave his
native country when young, and in old age to
return to it rich.
That is to say, the landlords consider that a
Scotchman has no right to live in Scotland,
but may be graciously permitted to die there.
He may not occupy enough land for a cot
and oat-patch, but he will, if he goes to
Jericho and stays there till he feels the hand
of death upon him, be conceded enough land
for a grave.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Positively Last Farewell.
Sin Henry Parkes’ third positively llnal retire-
ment from public life is of the same pattern with
his two former last appearances. On each occasion
he had been put into the shade and kept there till
his patience and his hopes had alike evaporated.
But he has hitherto always come back. Whether
he will again step upon the political stage wit l , pro-
bably, as before, depend upon circumstances, and
especially Sir Henry Parkes’ circumstances. His
positive farewell is, of course, of no value. The
public has had experience of the value of two of
these Parkesian promissory notes, before. No man
can say with what private mark the farewell ad_
dress may be Inscribed, or what reservation that
mark may signify to those in the secret. It is but
natural that Sir Henry, reduced by the coldness
of the public to act as a supernumerary on
the stage where formerly he was a leading
actor, should issue a maledictory rather than
a valedictory address. We can quite under-
stand that he really believes much of his evil fore-
cast. We are ourselves uneasy respecting the
very matters he 1 efers to. The lavish increases in
the salaries and pensions of the Judges, to such a
point that our Chief Justice is as highly paid as the
Chief Justice of the United States with its fifty
million inhabitants, we protested against when
proposed. We shark Sir Henry’s uneasiness
about the effects of the Band Bill, and are no more
happy than be with respect to the style in which
railways are authorised to be t cattered as from a
pepper-castor over the country. But how Sir
Henry Parkes veutures to piny the critic is what
confounds Us. To whom, if not to himself and
his dear friend (since interests corresponded), Sir
John Robertson, is due the chaotic condition of
the land laws which has rendered their reformation
so difficult and so complicated a task that honesty of
purpose may not have been adequate, without
special and extraordinary ability, to restore order
in that department of administration? And who
is to be blamed if, inthe absence of an intelligent
and respectable Opposition, Ministerial schemes
have been passed into law without proper sifting
out ? Bir Henry Parkes claims to be an»able man-
Nay, he is an able man. Could not he, for one
short year, have served his country, without place
or pay or “ consideration ?” Is he such a dog—this
self-styled patriot—that he will not watch unless
he has a bone? Nay, there are no such dogs. Sir
Henry slinks into private life mouthiDg impotent
malice like a spiteful orone.
Crooks and Crookedness.
A Bishop is generally pictured with a crook in his
hand—that icing an appropriate implement for
catching a sheep by the leg, and hauling him Just
where he does not wish to go. In the Dissenting
churches, the President is a Bishop. In New
South W lies, at present, the.leading crookistsare
Bishops Barry and Moran, and Mr. Jefferis,
and, if we consider the public as pretty
well what it is—a sheep—we have the exhilarating
spectacle of a sheep, hooked by three legs, and
being dragged from three directions at once,
wita considerable difficulties for the remaining
leg to deal with. Barry wants religion taught in
one way, Jefferis in another, and Moran in
another. This three-cornered euchre takes the
form of all-round charges of bluff—or “ inconsis-
tency,” as the clerics put it. Meantime, the un-
crooked leg, which is the outside public, bears the
weight. Dropping the one-legged metaphor, tho
plain English about this religious question is, that
the public are beginning to’cry “a plague of all
your houses.” Let the children be taught abdut
light, and health, and truth, and provable facts,
and let your crooks go to the marine store, for all
the common-sense Australians care.
Exeunt Oma[?].
Since the Land Bill got the Vice-Regal assent,
Nunc dimittus has been the unspoken prayer of
every member of the Assembly. The railway ap-
propriation aroused the spasmodic interest of the
House, but the debate was a farce. It was simply
the old game at grab , squared by the inevitable
log-rolling—You vote for my line, and I’ll vote
for yours.” Nobody believes that the merits of
the various lines authorised have been logically
and conscientiously discussed, but everybody
knows that public money has to be spent pro-
fusely to keep the people in bread and lodging.
The census taken three years ago showed plainly
that only a fraction of the population was sup-
ported by productive industry. Most of the
people lived in the towns, and a large portion of
both town and country residents subsisted on/Go-
vernment money. If it wa3 so in 1881, it is oven
moreithe fact now; so whether the railways of
the future run empty trains or not, the money has
got to be spent. The Civil Service Bill and the
Confederation 'measure would have been much
better postponed. No good work can be expected
from an Assembly fagged by thirteen moutht>
sitting. It is lucky that, by the bare majority
of one vote, we are saved from being
handed over, bound hand and foot, to a
Federal Council. Whatever may be the results
which may accrue from the labours of the past
session, the legislation attempted has been enor-
mous; and it would bo unjust to question the
good faith of the Assembly in tackling the recon-
struction of our land-system. Yet the Act is not
what it should be. The most that can bo said is
that the Policy of 1861 is abolished, and that the
lines of a better system have been laid; but it will
be long before the arrears of the ola Act are dis-
posed of and tho inheritance of intrigue,discord,and
waste is purged from our records. For the present,
and probably till some amending Act is passed, the
discord between squatter and selector will continue
with greater fury than ever. The Morkis-Ranken
report published in May, 1883, first disclosed the
real condition of the public lands; but Mr.FARNEPL,
with inoredible apathy or stupidity,entirely ignored
tho revelations contained in the report, and drew
his Bill as if he had a clean sheet of.'paper before
him. Consequently, as no precaution has been
taken to preserve the lands for tho proposod settle-
ment, “peacocking” on a greater scale than ever
hasgoneon for the last eighteen months; and when
the stations are divided, each “ resumed area” will
present the appearance of a veritable “ Chinese
puzzle.” The simple, honest yeoman who goes to
a Lands Olfice to apply for a farm will find himself
double-banked by agrarian blacklegs of all sorts
and conditions, from the “Honorable” of the
Upper House to the wood-and-water Joey who
dummies at£s the job, or the Melbourne magsftian
who demands his £5O.
Still, it is not to be forgotten that we are making
a fresh start, and it is not to be assumed that alj
the new forces brought into play will be on the side
of fraud or corruption. The local administration
by Land Boards is a new feature altogether in New
South Wales, and in this much interest centres.
The value of these Boards will depend altogether
on the Chairmen appointed. In most cases, the
members of the Board will be dummies or cyphers
—partisans in small local jobs, and ignorant and
careless as to matters of general import. But the
Chairman will be necessarily the brain and right
hand of the Board. He will be precisely in the
same position as the Queensland Commissioners
who have presided in the Land Courts of that
colony for the last sixteen years. If men of the
right stamp are appointed, we have every prospect
of seeing a new page opened up in administration,
in spite of the defective laws; and every step in
the direction of decentralisation and intelligent
executive action is to be welcomed as a boon.
Various pames are mentioned in connection with
these appoinments ; some of politicians, much
better on the stump than in any honourable and
responsible position; some notorious in connection
with profitable dealings in appraisements; a nin-
compoop or two; but among others, two names
3tapd out prqmineptJy. if the gentlpßiep, OQ 6
connected with the Department of Mines and the
other a member of the Survey Staff, accept the
positions of Chairmen, the districts they are ap-
pointed to will be well administered,
The Lands Department staff is said to be engaged
in framing the regulations for the working of the
Act. It is possible that these may in certain
cases, where the Ministerial discretion has scope,
remove ambiguities, but those who are studying
the Act see little chance of the laiv's working
smoothly. The impromptu verbal amendments
carried in committee, by members llalf asleep,
olten entail infinite mischief and huge-expense on
the community.


Brain and Muscle. —The Lancet says:—
“An ordinary cup of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains
more of the active properties of malt than a pint
of the best ale or porter.” 15d. per tin. J. G.
Hanks and Co., 514 George-street.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, I loods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, orany fabric
or fancyiarticle, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyei, try theso once. You will bo
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Eer package. Send 3d. stamp to Boa 181, G.P.O„
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &e., &c., by return post.*
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Courts-martial are open courts. Why
don’t the dailies report them ? Such paltry items
as “a lieutenant of the Thunderbomb was dis-
missed from his ship for neglect of duty” reflect
discredit on metropi litau journalism Hint to
the Professional Board, Melbourne University:
Makd students attending lectures pay a prelimin-
ary deposit of a fiver, forfeitable in the event of
too ponderous 1arx....1n its notice of the 17th
volume of tho “ Encyclopaedia; Britannica ” the
Athenabum doesn’t so much as refer to Dr.
Garran’s article on New South Wales.. .The
Plummer, who is always spurting around with his
little dip-lit lantern throwing dimness on things,
now tells us that the Franco-Prussian war was the
result of a drawiog-room squabble. John has, pre-
sumably, never heard of .Jena —and sich like events.
..,..England paid £4.890,400 to the foreigner last year
The Crushed Tragedian.
OLD JACK TIME (Celebrated Manager): “SO YOU THINK THAT’LL FETCH ’EM, ’ENERY?”
'ENERY (Crushed Tragedian): “FETCH ’EM I ’ANG ’EM, SAY I. GOOSED ME OFF THE BOARDS LAST SEASON, AND NOW THEY WON’T LISTEN TO ME. STUART AND DIBB3
AND ALL THEM VARIETY CHAPS IN MY GREAT CHARACTERS. AS MY FRIEND, VANDERBILT, SAYS:-‘THE PUBLIC BE D-D.’”
for cheese. Now, Bodalla! The great events in
the life of a fast man about town are his first
trousers, his first love, his first wife, his first baby,
and his last divorce Thus prayeth a “broad”
Presbyterian :—“0. Lord, bIeRS the Established
Church, and the Free Church, and the United
Presbyterian Church, and all other churches—
Thou knowest the various nicknames, Lord, by
which they are called—bless them ail! ”
• • •
A child has died from the bite of another
child. Now is the time for M. Pasteur to vivisect
a few dozen children in the interests of science—
At Fulham, Eng., three children vaccinated from
the same infant nave died of blood-poisoning—
A home paper calls the Nile expedition “ Wolseley’s
water-party.”. ..A party of excursionists from
London left a country public-house, entered the
local church, got into the pulnit, put on the sur-
plices, played the organ, and, finally, stole apples
from the vicar’s garden. The publican refused to
give the names to the police, and will lose his
license.. .Thus Labouchere: “The Greeiy Arctic
expedition went some distance further than any
previous explorers; they gave names to various
capes, bays, and tracts of country; they did not
succeed in conferring the smallest benefit on any
creature, and eighteen out of twenty-five
ot them died horrible and lingering deaths. Were
I told that I would reach the North Pols in half an
hour by taking a hansom cab, I would not do so.
It must be one of tde most uninteresting spots
u .P°, Q | h e tace °f the globe.”....The London Hos-
c°lle°tion was attended by failure
ot the most unprecedented Character, so far «s the
street offerings were concerned.... It is alleged that
Krupp s new brown powder, manufactured solely
in Herr Krupp s works, will effect an entire revo-
lution In the art of scientific warfare.... The suc-
cession and legacy duty paid by the eldest son of
the late Duke of Buecleuch in respect to the
Scotch properties alone amount to £330,000! The
slang phrase “too thin” Is Shakespearian.
Richard 111. says, That statement is too thin and
bare.”.... In the musketry practice of the German
army, the better to accustom the men to the inter-
ferences with sight in a battle, clouds of smoke
are produced by burning furze and wet grass, or
by other means, between the marksman and his
aim “What’s in a name?” If you want to
know, just read this:—A celebrated London firm
of perfumers have just brought out “ The Aro-
matic Ozonizer,” a mixture they sell at Is. 6d.
per pound. It consists of ordinary pine saw-
dust scented with the oil of the Australian
eucalyptus, and is selling at a great rate
The number of human deaths is 67 every minute
97,790 every day, or 35,639,835 every year. The
births exceed the deaths by three ner minute,
running to 100,000 every day, and 38,792,000 every
year.... The present numerical strength of Free-
masonry throughout the world is placed at 138,063
lodges, with 14,160,543 members ...The United
States regular infantry in to swing its arms in
iuture on the quick march. This is natural and
sensible, and has long been the rule in the Aus-
trian service. The British are taught to pound
along automatically, with their left hand glued to
their trousers’ seam—At one cholera-stricken
I rench village, whence most of the people have
tied, the parish priest has to nurse the sick, dig the
graves for the dead, and bury them Cholera has
appeared spontaneously in Italy several times,
notably at Albano in 1867, when the ex-
Queen of Naples and one of her sons, Car-
dinai Altieri, one of the Colonna Princes ess and
other well-known persons were carried off
That semi-colonial London institution, the Empire
Club, has been converted from a proprietary to a
members club—The proprietors of the Illus-
trated London News are, it is reported, making
arrangements for the publication of an American
edition simultaneously with the appearance of the
English one.... England brews annually996,ooo,ooo
fa' I™™ 1 ™™ o f beer; Germany, 900,000 000; Prance,
laO.000,000; Austria and Hungary, 380,000,000; Bel-
S^Vv*? 10 ’ 35 ?’ 000; Holland, & 000,000; Russia,
68,000,000 According to Trutil, one of the con-
ditions upon which recruits join the Standard of
General Booth is that they shall in future refrain
from beating their help-mates. This is far and
away the best thing we have as yet heard about
the members of the Salvation Army and their pro-
ceedings — The Chateau of Skernievice, where the
three Emperors met, was presented, together with
the principality of Lowiez, by Napoleon to Mar-
shal Davoust, and was subsequently bequeathed
to the Emperor Nicholas At the Red Cross Con-
ference it was mentioned that in the Franco-Ger-
man war one thousand five hundred soldiers were
killed whose remains were not identified
The stoppage of dock and railway works at Hull
has thrown 6000 men out of work. Thousands are
wandering over the country. A soup-kitchen has
been opened, and “ children come crying with
hunger, women fainting from want, and strong
men, who have never known what begging means,
come shamefacedly for the bit of bread and the
jug of soup, walking miles for it.” Happy land!
—Of the Greeiy expedition, thus flippantly an
Eoglish writer:—When the chief result of au ex-
pedition is that men have eaten each other, it
would surely have been a great saving of time and
money hud they dined afc home.**.... At Omergrues*
the grrave-dig'gors were lfrwerio& two corpses into
the common trench where cholera cases are buried,
when one of the corpses gneerad and the other
coughed. They were dragged out and rubbed,
and an hour later left the cemetery arm in arm.
This is probably a lie—As an instance of the sort
of mischievous rot occasionally published by the
Society tor Promoting* Christian Knowledge, w©
would mention a little work by the Kev. W. L*
Blackley on “Thrift and Independence,” in which
it is gravely proposed to treat as criminal any at-
tempt on the part of working men to provide for
their own wants in theirown way if it could not be
fitted to the rules of an actuary.... Two Prench-
men, the brothers Forre, have invented a new
kind of harp, made entirely of wood. Instead of
strings the inventors use strong strips of American
lir. Ihe sound is produced, as in the ordinary
harp, by tho contact of the fingers; but the player
wears leather gloves covered with rosin. The
tone of the newly-invented instrument is said by
Le Menestrel to be of remarkable purity.


Personal
Items
George Darrell has been elected a member
of the Savage Club. So was Allison, but his elec-
tion is to be cancelled.
Ability isn’t always hereditary. The re-
peated efforts of the eldest son of Lord Dufferin
to pass the examination for admission to the diplo-
matic service have only resulted in pluckings.
In London, Patehett Martin lives next
door to the office of the “ Society for the Revision
of the Prayer-Book.” George Darrell reside? next
door to the “ Society for the Protection of Women
and Children.”
A new book is out
—“ Short Sayings of Great
Men.” When are we to
have “Great Sayings of
Short Men ”—Mirams and
R. 8. Smythe, for in-
stance ?
Some years ago, when
the frisky and genial Gar-
net Walch had just
written a neat thing in
verse, entitled “A Drug
in the Market,” the atra-
bilious and funeieal, but
withal learned and able,
David Blair (he used to
be a Presbyterian clergy-
man), who read it, said
it was indeed capital, and
would bo absolutely per-
fect if he (David) were
allowed to make in it a
few alterations. When
Garnet was told this, he
sat down and wrote: “ My
dear Mr. Blair, I send you
MS. of the set of verses
shown you the other day
by . Will you add
another to the many
favours you have already
conferred on me by
touching it up a little,
and greatly oblige your
talented friend. Garnet
Walch.” Whereupon
David—who, by the way,
is now editor of the Mel-
bourne World -pro-
ceeded to “alter” Gar-
net's poem with a ven-
geance, by striking out
all the humour, aud
substituting sundry grim
Calvinistic jokes for the
quips which were to make
all Melbourne laugh. Gar-
net didn’t publish the
poem as altered by David.
He is keeping it, he says,
until his gloomy friend
has left this vale of tears.
He will then get the
original and alterations
printed after the fashion
of Oliver Wend e 11
Holmes’ “ Wine ” verses.
The other day the
intelligence was cabled
to Australia that certain
men and two women had
been executed at St.
Petersburg on account of
tho part they took in one
of the innumerable plots
always afoot to wipe out
the Czar. So many “men”
and “two women ” count
for nothing. They are
arithmetical units when
so referred to. But these
poor creatures, had thev
been born in Australia,
would probably have
been now alive, active,
good citizens, of more
than average energy, and
willing to make sacrifices
for the public good. And
the “women”—God help
them I—might have been
matronly mothers of
romping children, enjoy-
ing day by day the peace-
ful delights of observing
their girls and hoys grow
and develop under their
eyes. One of these “ wo-
men” was Natalie Fey-
ghine. At the time of her
execution she was 36 years
of age. Her whole life
had loeen devoted to her
country. While yet a
girl of 17, she took part
in the movement of 1873,
and,after trial with others
before a special commis-
sion, was sent to Siberia.
Two years ago she es-
caped, and arrived at St.
Petersburg after a journ-
ey on foot of eighteen
months, undergoing the
severest privations and in
perpetual fear of recap-
ture. With recovered
health she entered anew
into the Nihilist conspir-
acy, and was recently
arrested, with a number
of others, accused of
plotting against the life
of the Czar. Now she is
dead. The Czar was fright-
ened of her. Long may
he live—the life of a cur.
If the Russian ambas-
sador would kindly call,
we should be greatly ob-
liged. We should like to
kick him for his master—
jf he’s not too big.
President Arthur, at the expiration of his
term, will return to New York and resume his
place in the legal firm in which he is a partner, but
in future he will act only as consulting counsel.
He is independent of his profession, as he possesses
a fortune of about £60,000.
The Age will shortly be brought out in a
style calculated to draw tears from the eyes of the
Argus people; whose drop to twopence a copy was
effected with a view to stopping the progress of
their successful rival. Mr. Joseph Syme is at pre-
sent in London, “ buying things.”
“Lord Northbrook had, to-day, another
interview with the Khedive, and presented him
with an autograph letter from Queen Victoria,
assuring him of her esteem personally.” This,
from the London Standard, must surely be a lie.
Queen Victoria cannot possibly “ personally es-
teem” such a low, cowardly, besotted, sensuous
ruffian as the Khedive.
The leave-taking between the Imperial
personages at Skiernievice was most affectionate.
The Emperor William (giddy old boy!) on leaving,
kissed the Czarina several times; his Majesty then
kissed the Czar, the Emperor Francis Joseph, and
the Grand Dukes three times, shaking both hands
of each with much vigour. The Emperor of Aus-
tria also kissed the Czar and Czarina on leaving.
And yet we always thought there was only one
Judas Iscariot.
A poor woman accosted the King of Italy
in the broadest Neapolitan dialect, and said, “Ma-
jesty, I bag you let this cholera be finished.”
“Indeed. I would, most willingly,” replied the
King, smiling. The People’s Club at Milan pro-
poses a half-penny subscription for the purpose of
offering the King a gold medal, inscribed “For
Civil Valour,” to be struck expressly.
One Andrew Carnegie, a New York mil-
lionaire, has been driving all through England in a
four-in-hand. He has now written a hook. In it
he has been kind enougb to give Queen Victoria a
“character.” He says: “Queen Victoria is pro-
bably the most respectable woman that ever occu-
pied a throne-such a character, indeed, 4s one
would not hesitate to introduce Into one's family
circle." This is magnificent.
Lloyd’s News recently represented
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales as holding—all the
more fortunate for himself— advanced Liberal
views. The Prince, in reDly to a written enquiry
on the subject from a Conservative quarter, re-
plied that “as he was not holding any official posi-
tion, any opinions to which he might give utter-
ance must necessarily he unofficial.” In other
words, “mind your owu business.”
There is one question you can’t safely ask
that enterprising young man, the Honorable
Over the (Chinese) Garden Wall;
OR, LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP.
! Alfred Deakin, Victorian Minister of Public Works
That question is: “ When do you intend publishing
| your mediumiBtic history of the adventures of
John Bunyan ?” It went to the press years ago,
j and George Robertson has it still. The hope that
we may one day have the ineffable happiness of
J reading it is the only reason for our continued
j existence.
Madame Kolemine, the troublesome “ mor-
ganatic ” wife of the Grand Duke of Hesse, is
beautiful, clever, and unscrupulous. She threatens
to disclose many delicate matters relating not only
to her husband’s family, but also to his English
relatives, and the equivocal manner in which she
| was originally brought to consent to a divorce is
1 to be divulged. The Grand Duke, who threatened
I to shoot himself if the marriage were stopped, is,
now, perhaps, almost ready to do so because it
cannot be quietly quashed. Queen Victoria
has taken an active part in the affair: and,
j although furiously angry, has been willing to
! spend money freely in order to arrange it.
Mrs. Kenealy, widow of Orton’s counsel,
i is treasurer of the “ Claimant’s Demonstration
Committee.” Apropos, young Kenealy, son of the
i deceased barrister, some time ago started in Lon-
don a paper called Modern Society, in which he
| lost his interest, mainly through lack of funds to
carry on the venture, which in other hands is now
a financial success. The “Claimant's” friends
mean to carry things with a high hand. Mr. Ed-
mund Kimber says:—“Not only will Sir Roger
Tiehborne on his release seek the very earliest op-
j fiortunity of again swearing that he is Sir Roger
j Tiehborne, but he will bring an action for libel
against any newspaper who ventures to oall him
an imposter, and in that action he will conclusively
prove that he has been the victim of as foul a con-
spiracy as ever disgraced any civilised country.”
The Dublin paper, United Ireland, in
j reference to the visit of Alf—not our AJf., the
royal Alfred—works up steam in this fashion:—“ So
| long as the English Parliament chooses to continue
the Sovereign in her situation, we, although hold-
ing our own opinion that hereditary Sovereigns
are as laughable shams as hereditary peers, will
continue to obey the law with respect to Royalty,
as we obey the law with respect to vaccination.
But the personal adoration of the very common-
place persons who fill thrones is no more enjoined
by Jaw than kissing the shoe of the policemen or
process-server when officially engaged. The Duke
of Edinburgh is not even a Sovereign, but one of
?n innumerable German family, Whose chief claim
or the homage of the people who pay them a
million and a half a year in salaries is that they are
not the idiots and debauchees that their grand-
fathers were. Upon his merits as a man and a
j fiddler he would not have risen to a seat at an
i Irish Board of Guardians.”
Wo havp fteniminfod nur renders nr of tv
vve nave acquainted our readers pretty
fully respecting the eminent merits of that
superior brand of blackguard,'the Duke of Marl-
, , . , . " ’ , , „, .
borough drunkard, rake-hell, and seducer of his
friend’s wife. - The correspondent of a London
weekly writes, apropos of the Duke’s first appear-
ance after his succession to the title, in the. House
of Lords: ‘’Sir. Sometime ago I wrote to the
Archbishop of Canterbury, asking him to place a
notice on the House of Lords paper to this effect:
‘That, should the Duke of Marlborough apply to
| be sworn in as a Peer, he would oppose his taking
the oath and his.seat in that House,’ as I did not
j think he was a proper person to sit there, after
reading the shameful proceedings in the Divorce
Court sometime back. The Archbishop’s chap-
lain wrote to say that the Archbishop of Canter-
bury said lie could not prevent the Duke taking his
seat. The truth is, sir, that the Archbishop of
Canterbury did not like, 1 suppose, to offend
Society, by saying anything against a Duke, how-
ever wicked or badly behaved, as it would be a
dreadful breach of etiquette never to be forgiven;
or, sit, why did not the whole bench of Bishops
rise ami leave the House during the Duke’s speech,
to show their horror and contempt for bis soefcty
in the House of Lords ?”
When the venerable Baroness Burdeit-
Coutts became the proprietor of Mr. “ Alphabet"
Bartlett, it pleased her to alter his name to Bir-
dett, or Coutts, or something of the kind. Tiig,
mania for changing names seems to be catch in?,
for Mr. Bartlett, or Mr. Burdett, or Mr. Coutts. «r
whatever his “monniker” happens to be, has iuit
been indulging his fancy In re-christening a fletwnr
smack of which ho is the nominai--and probaMj
his wife is the real—owner. Hitherto, this vessel
has been officially registered as the William Ewart
Gladstone, but henceforth, is to be known as wui_
o’-the-Wisp. This notice, which duly appears in
the London Shipping Gazette, is Bartlett’s
method of insult‘ng the veter-m British statesman
who is even older than his (Bartlett’s) own wife
When Bartlett, or Burdett, or Coutts was a little
schoolboy, his model conduct in that capacity ig
understood to have first won the affections of the
lady who is now his wife. It is a pity that out off
her unbounded wealth Baroness Coutts had not
subscribed an additional twopence a week to her
protege’s school fees, in order to cave had him
taught those manners indispensable in ail aspirants
to a public career.
The present King of
Italy’s disregard of the
warnings addressed to
him as to the danger of
exposing himself to chol-
era recalls the retort of
Victor Emmanuel, when
Duke of Savoy at the
fatal light at Novara, to
an aide-de-camp, who
pointed out that the
Duke’s cloak had been
shot through three times,
and urgently adjured him
to leave the field. “ Mind
your own business,”
quoth the son of Charles
Albert ; “I am minding
mine.” The only instance
in which King Humbert,
who inherits his father’s
pluck, felt constrained to
deviate from his obstin-
acy of purpose was when
he was about to plunge
into the depths of the
lowest and vilest of the
Neapolitan slums, the
Fondaci. A voice among
his following was heard
to exclaim, “You have
no right to commit sui-
cide ; neither have you
any right deliberately to
kill many of these un-
fortunate people, who
will continue to follow
you into that focus and
hotbed of pestilence.” In
answer to this lemon-
strance, the King bowed,
and slowly re-entered his
carriage. However, he
wasn’t thinking of him-
self, but of those whom
etiquette would have
compelled to follow him,
and who were possibly in
a desperate state of doubt
as to whether they would
get out of the Fondaci
again with a whole skin.
At last a London
paper tells the simple un-
varnished truth about
Miss Mary Anderson
*• Viewed as an actress
alone, she is rather below
than above the average
of many of the young
ladies who are at present
on the stage. There is
nothing genuine in her.
Whatever she plays, she
is exactly the same—cold,
hard, and mechanical ;
more like a marionette
than a woman of flesh and
blood. So long as Mies
Anderson has to remain
the statue girl, she is at
her best. She has care-
fully studied statuesque
attitudes', and she clicks
trom one well-known
pose into another as
though see were ani-
mated by the most per-
fect of clockwork. Here,
however, all that can be
said in her favour ends.
The stone remains stone.
The statue never comes
to life. She is unable to
portray emotions which
she docs not leel. But
when sne loves and when
she hates, when she weeps
and when she smiles, she
is notbiDg more than a
pretty doll, utterly un-
conscious of the signifi-
cation of the words that
fall from her lips, and,
except for her beauty, as
uninteresting as she is
uninterested. M>ss Ander-
son, on the other hand,
is not likely to be more
than a pretty American
Miss, whose chief merit
is that she is good to
her mother. And, when
one goes to see Juhdi on
thestage, it should *• to
him a matter of the most
absolute indifference
whether she has tended
her mother with filial
devotion or entirely
broken with her, or
whether she has married
a Bishop or run away
with a groom. On the
stage,” continues Labou-
chere, “ I prefer the
naughtiest of girls who
canact, to the most per-
fect paragon who can-
not.”
“How He Died,” an original poem, which
was written for, and first printed in The BtriiLkTiN,
has been re-published by a lot of the leadmg
weeklies of England and America. Latterly, copy-
ing one from the other, they lost track ot I**°
origin of the poem, and knowing only tnat it was
Australian and striking, one paper pronounced is
the most characteristic and Australian of Kendall s
poems. Poor Kendall had been In his gr** v ®
several years before “ How He Died ” was written
by our valued contributor, Mr. John Farrell, ox
Goulburn, a poet who is destined to live in Austra-
lian literary nistorv on the same page with Adam
Lindsay G ordon, Henry Kendall, and J. Brunton
Stephens. We wish we could add the name or
Henry Halloran, because, although a C.M.G., ho is
a pleasant gentleman and a ilueut versifier. But
we can’t have everything we wish in this life.
The following letter ha? been sent by the
Marchioness of Queensberry to the sister of John,
Daly, who was recently convicted in England ot
treason-felony, and sentenced to penal servitude
for a long term:—“ My dear Miss Daly, God bitoS
and comfort you and the dear mother a tnousaud
times. She may be brave, but it must have cost
her agony. ‘Tis only mothers of sons who can
enter into the depths of her suffering. 1 wish -t
were near her that I might go to her and talk to
her about her dear boy every day. If the dear
fellow went out of the right path, God knows taac
it was caused by the despairing of hope for our


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Health.—“ An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Cocoa contains more of the active proper-
ties of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter ”
-Lancet. 35d. per tin. Sold by APClelland and
Roach, Brickfield Hill. *
“ Messrs. Fry and Son have now brought
out a Malted Cocoa, which is an admirable and
pleasant combination of their pure Cocoa Extract
with Allen and Hanbury’s Extract of Malt. The
preparation is convenient and handy for use not
requiring any toiling; is highly nutritive, refresh-
ing, and very agreeable in flavour.”— Medical
Gazette. Wholesale by Tillock and Co.. Mav-
market.* J
beloved country. It led him, perhaps, to forget
that the God of Ireland is powerful to save hor
whenever she puts her trust in Him. The resting
nn a man who knows not God has, indeed, carried
on to a great extent the destruction of our coun-
try. No wonder, at the sight of such hopelessness,
one who loved Ireland as your darling brother did
should be driven to means which his kind aud
venerous heart must have abominated—that is, if
ever he was guilty of that for which they have
condemned him. But there have been also, very
lately, so many persons unjustly condemned, that
it se ms as if for Irishmen justice had fled. My
true love to you all and deep sympathy. I shall
olace that dear mother in my sacred heart, before
which a light ever bur s, and I know that that
loving and pitying heart will see to him in his
terrible trial. No one can shut him out. I re-
main. as ever, yours the same, Caroline Queens-
berry.”
A Victorian journal complains that “in
those days. Simori Peter walked barefooted from
place to place preaching tho Word. but. in these
Cars one M'Loughlin has thought proper to pre-
sent Dr. Moore, the Roman Catholic Bishop of
Ballarat, with a handsome landau worth 400
euineas, and Dr. Moore has thought proper to ac-
cept it.” Well, now, wo see nothing extraordinarily
remarkable in that. In fact, if Mr. M’Loughlin has
another landau to spare we are quite ready to tol-
low Dr. Moore’s very sensible lead, and take the
thing ourselves. Different men have different
tastes. Home of tho early martyrs had a penchant
for walking with buck-shot and dried peas in their
hoots over blue-motallod roads for miles; but that
is no reason why Dr. Moore should do the same.
Besides, there were no M’Loughlins knocking
around in those days; consequently, simon Peter
never had the opportunity of refusing the offer or
a 400-guinea landau—and it is a piece of downright
impertinence to presume that he would have been
soft enough to do so, if he had. And, again, we fail
to see why the Word comes with any greater degree
of attractive force or acceptability from a man
who has been tramping round in his bare feet
during a hot summer’s day than it does 1 rom a Turk-
ish-bath patronising, scented, and pomatumed bis-
hop lying leisurely back in his 400-guinea landau.
Our experience is all in favour of the apostle in the
• kerridge ;” and if he carries a double-breasted
hamper in the “boot,” we feel dead sure he will
make more converts in half an hour than any
tbare-footed friar in the land will make in half a
year. The time for treating poverty as a cardinal
virtue has gone by and all the sympathy it meets
with to-day is 40s. or seven days in gaol. Now,
John, bring round our landau, and we 11 give the
Potts Point belies a treat they rarely witness.
The Tichborne-Orton-Creswell excitement
is gradually declining, but we have a letter from a
correspondent, who says he was “ well acquainted
with R. D. Tiehborne before he left Melbourne and
changed his name to Thomas Castro.” Also, that
he was “well acquainted with Arthur Orton, both
in Melbourne and Wappiog.” He asks us to send
him a copy of The Bulletin containing the pic-
ture of Sir W. Manning taking the evidence of the
Creswells and the Ortons, because the cut shows
the full figures and the hands of William Cresweil,
and so makes it more important to him than it
otherwise would be, as Cresweil “ differs from
Arthur Orton more in those points than in any
others. William Cresweil is'a straight-made man,
with small hands; and Arthur Orton is far from a
etright-made man, with very long, bony hands.
Arthur is the figure of Charles Orton, only taller
[Why, Charles Orton is a hump-back, a deformed
man I Such a trait could never surely be forgotten
when the Claimant’s identity with Arthur Orton
was being legally sifted out at hia trial.— Ed. B.]—
“ with sharper features!” [Charles Orton’s features
are strongly marked, and gaunt.— 8.l Onr
correspondent further alleges that Arthur Orton
was last heard of in Queensland, under the name
of Brown. Also, that he, the writGr, wasdn Sydney
last Christmas, and had an interview with Joseph
Bckford, Charms Orton, Daniel Smith, and William
Cresweil, and was consequently in a position to
make a comparison between Orton and Cresweil.
Further, he says: "The unfortunate Claimant has
been led astray ” [ln identifying a portrait of Cres-
woll as the likeness of Arthur Orton ?-En. B.]
“with a photo, of William Cresweil, which was
taken sitting in a chair all of a Jump, making him
to appear like Arthur Orton, there beiog some re-
semblance in the face, but none whatever in the
figures. Orton has high, round shoulders; Cres-
weli has not, but the same height.”
Mr. George Augustus Sala will he aecom-
mied to Australia by Mrs. Sala, a rather charm-
ing woman who acts as “businets man” for the
gening who is so fortunate as to be her husband.
Mr. tala, who has ot iate years quite “ reformed it
all,” barring his temper, is a glutton at work, and
almost lives in his splendid library—a collection of
books which, for the practical purposes of an all-
round literary roan, is Probably unsurpassed. Mr.
Bala's house is all books and pictures. The great
Journalist rises early, seizes the morning papers,
and at once begins to plot out, in his curiously
stiff and exact “fist,” materials for a leader or two
Pn topics of the day. By and bye, Mrs Sala takes
nur husband’s notes down to the office of the
IDILY Telegraph, and sees the managing editor,
wno decides upon which of the suggested subjects
his eminent contributor is to write. Upon receiv-
ing iustructions, G. A. S. soon gets through his
leader, and goes on with his other daily work,
Which includes cutting out aud elaborately cross-
indexing all newspaper scraps which may there-
after be useful for purposes of references. As a
writer of “social leaders,” Mr. Sala has no peer.
He has done little serious literary work beyond a
novel and a play or two, with which exceptions
the whole of his writings have consisted of fugi-
tive “ screeds.” His idea of visiting Australia was
delved from Archibald Forbes, after he had
Api&if out this land of milk and honey, urged upon
(Sala to undertake a lecturing and writing tour,
a\jd recommended him to put himself in the hands
of Mi\ R. S. Smvthe. R. S. happened at the time
to a caßto London, but it is understood that
he aDd Mr. Sala tailed to come to terms. At first
it was announced in the London papers that G: A.
8. was under engagement to lecture for Messrs.
“Allison and Rignold,” now it appears that his
entrepreneurs are Messrs. “ Rignold and Co.” and
all London is wondering why Mr. Allison’s name
has been left out. Mr. Sala’s voice, when raised
ia a large ball, becomes somewhat strident, but he
'areally a most humorous and charming speaker,
and, as an after-dinner orator, is not surpassed by
even the genial and brilliant American Minister,
James Russell Lowell.
Thus the ’Frisco Argonaut, a paper whose
“free and flashing” style of writing shows that its
editors are up to the time-right up:—“ Robert
Ingorsoll is causing a -profound sensation among
the orthodox—all the orthodox, from the Roman
Catholic down through the Episcopalian, Metho-
dist. Baptist, and Presbyterian, and all that hold to
similar dogmas or believe in like creeds. It is im-
possible lor the orthodox world to ignore this
orator of liberal thought. It is all very well to say
that he is not original, that he is only reflecting
Voltaire and Paine: his lectur ’8 are none the 163*
interesting that he has culled them from the fields
°f infidel literature, and they are none the less
convincing that his unanswerable arguments, his
oiling satire, and his pungent wit are drawn from
aourees beyond himself. The fact is, that to the
Kr eat, busy world his lectures are new, and even
to the Student of the writings of freethought they
°ome with the interest of a novel presentation, and
Apt the less effective because they embrace the
■flews of earlier students, and perhaps abler ones,
*•0 the same line of investigation. Ingersoll has the
of most of his convictions. He has the
.•courage to say what multitudes of intelligent per-
■*ons think. He holds up toe whole orthodox
■aoHeme to a cold and merciless analysis; with piti-
•ess scorn and most irreverent contempt he tears
away its disguises, exposes its nakedness, and lets
the daylight of common sense and common reason
•o upon the skeleton. He shows ecelesiasticism as
a framework of fraud and priestly artifice, based
on lying traditions. He does not deny tho exist-
ence of God. To those who ask, he replies, “I do
knew.” But the scheme of salvation, inspira-
~°Q, predestination, miracles, masses, transub-
Jt.htiation, and the entire dogma of the Papal
he challenges, and holds up to the
Marching light of reason. We say to tho grim old
criminal of Rome, and to all the accused pilloried
3} the same dock, that they must plead to the in-
dictment find enter upon their defence. Colonel
Ingersoll—whether he is right or wrong—is voicing
the opinions of multitudes of intelligent men and
women; he is reflecting tho sentiments to-day of
more adult thinking men and women in all the
civilised countries of the world than all the ortho-
dox churches of the z orld.”
No event, perhaps, has given us so much
satisfaction, since the day when a deluded vintner
left at our residence an unbilled cask of Mackay,
as the return to this colony of Mr. Frank Bennett,
who forms, in conjunction with the captivating
Chris., the alluring Alfred, and the (now) high-
toned Henniker, the proprietory of the News and
Jehnel. Mr. Frank Bennett has long been known
and recognised (by us, especially) as a journalist
of startling promise, and at one time he was
credited, on ait, with the composition of all the
Evening News poetry not signed by either
Douglas (etc.) Siaden or Alfred Allen. This was,
doubtless, due to Frank's having been, for such a
lengthened period, so closely allied to Grease.
However that may be, with engine-cotton Frank
most frequently made his mark, and the art he ex-
hibited as machine editor was, we believe, but
rarely questioned; and then only by rival con-
ductors, who secretly envied Mr. Bennett’s deli-
cate manipulation and the degagi manner in which
he fulfilled his various literary duties. The cause
of Frank’s somewhat sudden departure was an
open secret at the time. It was said that Alfred
objected to his collaring all the concert tickets,
and never writing any notices. So Frank then
said he would write a notice, and he did—on Char-
bonnet. It commenced, if we remember rightly,
as follows:—"As a two-feeder to a double-action
pianner, and for manipulation of the near-side
cranks in the concertina effects, Alice may be said
to ktiock sparks out of the fly-wheels of every
key-board crasher that has preceded her. During
the revolutions of the second part, the audience
were as silent as an Otto, but the moment the
steam was cut off all present roared like a man-o’-
war siren.” Alfred, however, wouldn’t insert this
critical blast. He considered there was too much
of the paregorical in it; besides, the number of
*’ meatandforks ” with which it was drownded he
could rot but consider as “abnorman.” Frank
then left disgusted, and it was rumoured that he
A DECLARATION.
SUITOR (suspected of mercenary motives): “NOT CARE FOR YOU? WHY, I WORSHIP THE
VERY GROUND YOU TREAD ON.”
MISS BROAD ACRES: “I CAN UNDERSTAND THAT, MR. HARDUP.”
had even put up his “old masters” for sale—
every one of them genuine, for Mr. Bennett saw
all the pictures painted himself, and desired his
artists, in every case, not to spare the varnish as
there waslots more at the ship-chandler’s. Frankly,
we are glad to welcome Francis once again in the
circle of our dilettante which he so adorns. As
Mr. Turveydrop remarked, “ We are few, now.”,
* e
London Figaro, the Tory catch-penny
whieh gives a pen-and-ink sketch of some notable
or would-be notable man in each issue, on Aug. 23rd
devoted three columns to our own “ Sir Salmon,
the baronetcy-hunter.” Like our own Henniker,
Sir Samuel Wilson, a parvenu, seems to have
taken to heart the lesson taught by Disraeli, no
less in the wonderful Jew’s career than in his
earliest novel, “ Vivian Grey.” That lesson is that
a social nobody has a far better chance of pushing
to the front in English public life, if he boldly at-
tactaes himself to the high oid Tories, than if he
take his natural place among the Liberals. The
reason given is that the Liberal ranks are con-
staatly recruited by parvenus who either have
taleht to force their way to distinction, or havp
made money enough to buy a position. Parvenus
naturally have, when conscious either ot great
wealth or great ability, a jealous rivalry of the
haughty pretensions and assumption of privileged
exclusivi-.’m of the high old families. And often
the Dewly-made man really retains, after he is a
“made man,” the ideas and political impressions
which were natural while he was truly one of “ the
Deonle ” Now, the great old Whig families,
which until very recently managed the Liberal
party lust as they pleased, are even more
haughtily and severely exclusive in their
social relations and domestic circles than
the great Tories. They have so many poltti-
cal alliances with vulgar new men, and have
to unbend so much and mix so much in public
life that they suffer a reaction in private. They
vote on the same side, and sit on the same benches,
and even in the same Cabinet, with manufacturers
and big ex-contractors and such, so that their pri-
vate citadels—their home circles and personal con-
nections—are perpetually luastate ofsiege. Cense
ouently. they are even more unapproachable,
soclally, than Tories of the same rank, who
are not so beleagured by political associates
whom they regard as being of inferior caste. To
a Liberal magnate a rich or clever recruit more or
less, from the ranks of the vulgar, is of small im-
portance. Such volunteers are plentiful. But to
the Tories, a smart partizanor a newly-enriched
vulgarian, with a vanity proportioned to his ple-
thoric money-bags, and a perfect willingness to
SIR SAMUEL WILSON.
bleed freely, and pay alike for social accommoda-
tions and concessions, and for the political funds
ot “The Party,” is an exceptional personage, and
one to be made much of. We never heard of Sir
Samuel Wilson pretending to cherish “ Liberal ”
i sentiments. So far as we know, he has been a
j Conservative as long as he had anything to con-
serve, and although he started as a mdre North of
Ireland bumpkin, early showed that he had a
practical genius for money-making, and conse-
quently. if ever he was an sympathy with the
“plebs.” from whom 1 he sprung, he was not long
in Australia before he learned to respect pro-
foundly the " privileges of property.” On his
retiring to England with a knighthood and enor-
mous wealth, he drifted either by preference or
a?tute calculation, towards the Conservatives, anal
began to make hor running for a place. His mis-
take so far has been a belief altogether overween-
ing, and quite too brutally betrayed, in the abso-
lute efficacy of money to buy anything. Sir
Samuel showed his hand too plainly altogether.
He went so openly into the market, with his big
purse obtrusively displayed, that the obliging
persons who are generally willing enough to
“procure” for a Croesus, have been positively
ashamed to do anything for Sir Samuel. Thus his
costly attempt to secure the seat for Londonderry
in the Conservative interest, his sensational pur-
chase of the late Premier's place, Hughenden, and
the big advertisements secured by magniloquent
announcements that nothing should be altered in
the house and grounds—nay, even in the very fur-
niture of Disraeli’s apartments—that is to say, the
chair would remain the same, so that perhaps peo-
ple would overlook in a degree the iact that it had
a different occupant—these have so far failed to
make Sir Samuel more than notorious, His thou-
sand pound cheque to the Heir-Apparent’s latest
fad, the Royal College of Music—his splendid fetes
even the lucky chance of his son at Eton being
on hand to thump with an umbrella the latest
feeble crank who tried to assassinate Her Majesty
the Queen with an unloaded pistol-have all been
equally fruitless. Sir Samuel with his purse out,
tipping noble Jeremy Diddiers who promised any-
tning ne wanted, and in a fiorid condition of pal-
pable readiness to tip every influential person or
i body from the Heir-Apparent down to the Con-
i servative Election Organisation Committee, has
become so very—so painfully—prominent that,
[ from being simply notorious, the clumsily ambiti-
ous parvenu has begun to be regarded with amuse-
j ment and a good deal of derision. However, as
the Tories have to buy every vote they procure
from the ‘lower orders,” whereas the Liberal
party get an immense proportion of their votes
free of cost and as the result of the voters’ strong
convictions and preferences, a man like Sir Samuel
is too valuable to the Tories to be kicked down-
stairs, even tnough his frightful political manners
expose every one who has taken him up to a
certain amount of contumely and reproacn. He
is going to have a fight—or, perhaps, we should say
make a bid ’ —for the county of Buckingham-
shire, at the next general election. Probably no
one belonging to the old Tory County families
cares to face the expense; and a vote in the
Commons is a vote, whoever gives it. We need
scarcely say that the above slight notico is not
extracted from London Figaro. That account is
really funny. It states, for example, that so ardent
is bir bamuel s admiration for “his predecessor”
at Hughenden that be has not altered any of the
arrangements of the house. “The state-room re-
mains in the same order; the boohs are as they were
in the library.” I We could have sworn to it.
Disraeli s books are safe from disturbance by his
successor,” anyhow.
Stypniak, thedistinguished Nihilist, author
of Underground Russia,” does not, because no
such writer dare, live in his own country, where
so many of his compatriots have been murdered
on the scaffold or in prison. Yet, by and bye, he
hopes to return to his inflamed nativo land and
take part in the struggle. His present home is a
village near Geneva where he occupies a first lloor
consisting of two rooms each about seven paces
square, commanding a view of the land through
wmch marched the legions of Cicsar to the con-
quest of Gaul, and the hordes of Attila to the
sack of Milan. The table he calls his field of
battle, his pen his sword; for every line be writes—
almost every thought ho conceives—is either a
blow delivered or a thrust aimed at the fell
tyranny with which Russian liberty is so desper-
ately struggling, yet with sure hope of ultimate
victory. This celebrated member of the Terrorist
party is about 30 years old, is tail of stature, and
has Slavomcally dark hair. He writes slowly and
polishes with poetic care ; there are whole
chapters of his “Underground Russia” which
were written and re-written six times, and
even then sent to the printer with reluctance.
Stepniak, a man of intensely nervous temperament,
cannot work methodically as did (say) Anthony
Trollope. He usually goes to bed at midnight,
rises at two, and plies his pen without surcease-
save for refreshment—until noon. Then he sleeps
for about three hours, when he again sets to work,
and, until midnigat, gives himself only one or two
short spells of rest. This goes on for live or six
days, a week, or until the task he has set himself
is accomplished; and while it is in progress he
drinks enormous quantities of tea and coffee, the
one as black as the other. Only a man of iron con-
stitution, and of otherwise temperate habits, could
long endure such a literary regime. Russia, he
thinks, has a brilliant future. The educated there
are devoted to humanity and progress: tho op-
pressed and unlettered masses are kindly and good-
natured—a traditionally barbarous system of Gov-
ernment is the sole bar to prosperity. The Czir’s
courtiers dread criticism as they dread dynamite.
Every exposure of Imperial tyranny in English
journals finds, sooner or later, an echo in the dark
realm of the Romanoffs, and hastens the day of
reckoning. The Russian police do not know Step-
niak, though he has been in prison. It is his
"golden dream ” one day to write a Nihilist ro-
mance which shall show the nobility of aim and
simplicity of soul, the devotion to duty and the
love of humanity, that characterise in so marked
a manner the heroes and martyrs of Russian
liberty, whose outward life he has so vividly de-
scribed in his “ Underground Russia.”
• • •
On dit that Bonnor will not return to Aus-
tralia, as he is about to get married in England.
* * *
A “dime” subscription in America to set
up a monument to“ Artemus Ward.”....There’s
a yarn going round the papers that Glad-
stone's splendid health is due to his following a
rule of giving 32 bites to every mouthful of meat
he eats. Try it. ..“Called Back” is being pub-
lished in Dutch in a weekly Netherlands paper....
Sir John Macdonald, the present Premier of
Canada, is alleged to have been a shoeblack in the
streets of Glasgow when a youngster. At. any
rate, when be arrived in C anada as a boy he was
destitute. At 18, while doing fairly, a wealthy
Canadian girl fell in love with him, and they ran
away together. More work on the shoes.... Jules
Verne has fimshed a thrilling novel, mainly on the
earthquake in Java.... Lord Tennyson has an-
nounced in the Times that ho will not reply to
letters from strangers, or read or return M.BS.
sent him... A new book, in Paris, is “Passion,”
said to contain many private and spicy incidents
o' EugeniiVs life. The authoress, Mdme. Carette,
was a confidential companion of the Empress.
Beautiful Alice Lingard has been acting
the part of Pauline, the marble beauty without
a mind, from “Called Back,” in London..
Cardinal Manning is ill. “Time breaks all men.”
When at Harrow young Manning was the best
light-weight boxer in the school Sankey, of
Moody and Sankey, is, it is said, suffering from
cancer of the throat. A judgment, probably...
King Tawhaio and his chiefs, before leaving Eng-
land, compiled a narrative of the leading incidents
of their visit, and had it set up in the Maori lan-
guage. The account is understood to contain a deal
about the ballet-girls at the London Alhambra
Ingersoll lectured on “Orthodoxy” in September
at San Francisco, and afterwards went to New
Mexico, where he owns a fine ranch and
cattle property.... James Gordon Bennett, pro-
prietor of the N.Y. Herald, is one of the most
popular men, for his wealth. He is recklessly
lavish, and can afford to be. His noted gallantries,
some twelve years ago, are forgotten, and he is a
lion among the women. He has a good figure, and
hair and moustache of silver-grey, while constant
yacht life h«s bronzed his face. The best thing
that happened to Bennett, the elder, was when he
got horse-whipped fora personality. His one-horse
paper next day had a full account of the operation,
headed, in large type, “Bennetthorsewhipped!”
for this, he was subjected to another dose, and,
next morning, again appeared in full capitals the
news “ Bennett again horsewhipped! I” The paper
sold by scores of thousands.... Minnie Palmer is a
piquant little actress who professes to have made
nearly twenty thousand pounds by her last Eng-
lish tour. She was rendered rather famous in Lon-
don by her manager (and alleged husband) adver-
tising not ouly every dress she wore, but every
other garment, including her underclothing, on
the playbills. Though what satisfaction i hat
would be to the dudes, we caq’t quite see The
nom ile plume “Hugh Con way” is the name of a
boy who was once saved by Mr. Fargus. tho
author of "Called Back.” That book was
bought by its publishers for about £BO
“The sins of the father shall be visited upon his
children. ’ Two of Brignam Young’s sons have
died drunkards; two of his daughters are married
to the same husband; and another son writes
dramas... Prince Bismarck was once photographed
in company with Pauline Lucca, the prima donna
much to the horror of the prudish Prussians
Lord Wolseley, after the Khartoum expedition,
will possibly be known as “Earl Wolseley of the
Nile.”... .The Czar was so afraid of poison that he
had arranged to have his victuals conveyed to him
daily at Warsaw tiom the Imperial kitchen at Bt.
Petersburg by lightning express” train The
late Charlotte Baroness de Rothschild’s personal
estate in Great Britain was £295,139, of which
£115,000 was left to charities.


Professional iHrectory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty. Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W. HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks^ Federal
Sydney
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
A L .
Theatre roy
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gaknkh, and MtJSGROVE.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
LEGITIMATE SUCCESS of NOTRE DAME,
received every evening with tumultuous applause
by crowded bouses.
UNAPPROACHABLE CAST OF CHARACTERS.
(the whole produced under the direction of
ALFRED DAMPIbR.
THE AUTHENTIC AND BEAUTIFUL NEW
SCENERY representing PARIS IN THE
FIFTEENTH CENTURY, painted by Messrs.
GiSORGm GORDON and J. HENNINGS.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets lor all parts of the house at Kastway’s
Hotel. Box ollice open from 11 till 4. No free list.
O
E U
HOUSE
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
It IGN OLD and ALLISON.
Acting Manager .. .... .. Mokty Bhowne.
Business Manager
Mr. Joe Brown.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Tom 'J'aylor and Charles Iteade's
celebrated Comedy.
MASKS AND FACES
MASKS AND FACES.
PEG WOFFINGTON ... Miss MARIE LAN YON.
Prices of Admission—sg., E|3., and 2s.
«’arriages at 1,0 20.
Children in arms not admitted. Day Tickets at
Roberts’, Tabacconist, adjoining the Theatre.
P. WARBURTON.
Business Manager for Miss Lanyon.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Jo,hn Bennett.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. WvnEß'r Reeve.
Last Two Nights of Grattan Riggs in “The Irish
Detective.’’ Arrangements having been made
with Mr. Charles M’Mahou for the engagement of
Ireland’s Great Comedian and Versatile Actor.
SATURDAY NEXT, the Great Drama,
“PEEP O; DAY.”
Box Plan, Nigholaon’s. Tickets, Loder’s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
A CADEMY OF MUSIC.
JA_ Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks/
Third Week. THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Genuine and Increasing Success of
Mr. FLEMING NORTON,
i,n his Musical and Mimic-al Entertainment.
For lull particulars, see daily newspapers.
N.B.—Readers of The Byn etin are referred to
the.criticisms of the leadiog London newspapers,
quoted last week by the reporter in his notice of
this entertainment.
If. GUNTHER, Business Manager.
CADEMY OF MUSIC
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17th.
Re-appearance, after years of absence, of
RAINER’S
Original and Evergreen
PANORAMA
of the
AMERICAN WAR I
AMERICAN WAR!
AMERICAN WAR 1
JJAYMARKET ACADEMY.
Lessee and Manager... ... Mr. Duncan Macallum.
MONDAY. NOVEMBER 10
(Prince of Wales’ Birthday),
GRAND OPENING NiOHT of
PALMER’S ELECTRIC DIORAMA,
descriptive and illustrative of a
VOVAGE ROUND THE WORLD,
\vith such brilliant pictures and such wonderful
mechanical effects as have never before
BEEN SEEN IN THE COLONIES.
A Lectufe full of
WIT, FUN, and HUMOUR,
interspersed with
COMIC and CHARACTER SONGS.
At the end of this great entertainment will bo dis-
tributed amongst the audience a liberal presen-
tation of USEF 0L and VALUABLE GIFTS.
Full particulars in future advertisement.
THE largest, most powerful, and conmlete
dramatic organisation that ever travelled the
provinces, and the company that is better known
and more popular Ilian any other is
DAN. BARRY’S GRAND PROVINCIAL
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
which commences a Southern tour this week,
OPENING IN WAGGA NEXT SATURDAY,
November 8, in the greatest drama of the age,
entitled the
“ WAGES OF BIN 1”
Notice.—Dan. Barry begs to intimate that he has
purchased the right of producing this niece in the
provinces, and has secured a copy of the Original
London Manuscrint of this great drama. The
public are warned against unscrupulous persons
wno may try to foist some indifferent play upon
them under the name of “ Wages of Sin.”
The company will play in ALBURY the SATUR-
DAY FOLLOWING, November 15.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS H \LL.
(ONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
/ have been made to the above Hall, which is
the meat commodious place of entertainment
Rockhampton, and is in the centre ot tbe town,
s thoroughly furnished and fitted, sea f ed for
people, and hss a large Stage and Gallery,
iple means of access and eg'r( si have been pre-
led • also thorough ventilation. Traveling
npanies will find special facilities for giving
ertainments in this Hail. Terms moderate,
rticulars on application to the Secretary.
LSONIC HALL, YORK STREET
srr and Mme. Vogrich’s
THIRD GRAND
)IREE MUSICALE!
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11th,
and every following Tuesday.
err and Madame VOGRICH will be supported
the best ava labie talent.
iscription for the Series of 8 (Eight) Concerts,
M £1 10s.
an of Hall and Tickets at W. H. Paling and
s (Limited), 350 George-strict.
Madame
Chrkiiitl-Kdltnmii's
GRAND CONCERT,
WEDNESDAY EVENING; 19th NOVEMBER,
At tlie Protestant Hall.
Box Plan at R. Elvy and Co.’s.
The following Celebrated Artists have kindly
tendered their valuable services :
Vocalists:
Signora L. P. M. FABRIS.
Mada ne ROZALIE MERZ,
Mrs. SPENCER (Lady Amateur),
and
Madime PAULINE RITA.
Instrumentalists:
Mr. JOHN RADCLIFF (the world-renowed
Flautist),
Mods. Do WILLTMOFF (1 he Distinguished
Violinist),
Mr. CIIAS. KUENERBEIN, Conductor,
end
Madame KELLERMANN.
LITTLE ELSIE STAN LEV-HALL
will ulso appear, nnd twenty-four otliors of Madame
Kellermann’s pupils will play
HANDEL'S HALLELUJAH and MEYERBEER’S
• CORONATION MAROH
On Eight Pianos.
PniCEK ok Admission :
Reserved Seats - Party Tickets, admitting Five-
One Guinea; Reserved Seats, admitting one, 55.;
Unreserved Seats. 3s.
I ANC 1 N G .
i PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
i Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
I nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
1 Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
I rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
I blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-struet. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior ia ventilation,
soring floor. &c. No decorations required.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First date, Monday. January
19th, 188:>. Share cr Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
N.B, Only responsible managers treated with.
VENETIA WALTZ.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads. Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &3.
Music and Book* bound in any Btyie, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAS CARDS this year
will be the ttnest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instrument* ever invented, The Trypograpb
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygt aph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEOItGE STREET.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING BTREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamors for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundabcrg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LB UR A
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM HOWARD SMITH & 80NS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
<s
o
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
BTORES: MILLER’S POINT.
VT N.F. Pattern# and Price# lent.
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB'S
Consultation
ON
The Melbourne Cup tit 1!IM
has been Closed with
1Z.331 SUBSCRIBERS.
ALL PRIZES PAID PRO RATA.
The fortunate members are requested to apply
at once, or forward tickets to head office,
TATTERSALL’S BUILDINGS,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
No. 28 Ring wood, 31 Rapid, 39 101, 59 Comet,
84 Capri, 101 51., 135 251., 174 Maroney, 303 151., 319
The Agent, 245 1001,, 303 Chloe, 333 Livingston, 374
Sheelah, 414 101., 439 251., 465 1001 , 504 Signor, 525
The Maid, 549 101 , 559 Gipsy King, 588 251 , 664
Rufus, 688 Despot, 700 51., 718 101., 731 Sir Garnet,
780 King’s Own, 855 Wing, 875 Kathleen, 878 Troy,
908 Old Gold, 9121001,, 955101., 959 Capola, 973 Honey-
dew, 1013 Bargo, 1058 Coir, 1072 251., 1156 Vergy,
1165 Sir Modred, 1168 Jessie, 1279 51, 1290 101., 1298
Recovery, 1306 Wille-00. 1318 51., 1433 Dirk Hat-
terick, 1443 51., 1470 101.., 1585 1001., 1611 Commotion
1632 Malua, 1697 51., 1700 101., 1746 151., 1761 Calma)
1822 251., 1825 101., 1847 51., 1848 Plunger, 1938 51., 1941
101., 1907 Oudeis. 1970 51., 1998 251., 2001 Ned o’ the
Hills, 2012 51., 2023 251., 2089 Oif Colour, 2123 51.,
2144 251., 2147 Forward, 2149 51., 3163 51,, 2175 51.,
2190 First Demon, 2309 Guesswork, 2322 101., 2231
1001., 2340 51., 2251 Golden. Butterfly, 2264 51., 2273 101.,
2284 Favo, 2291 51., 2301 Britisher, 2319 51., 2330 251.,
2345 151., 2370 Bwolka, 2379 51., 2389 101., 2394 51., 3301
Nipier, 3311 51., 3320 101., 3328 Warwick, 3335 51., 3342
51., 3349 251., 3'357 1001., 3 368 51., 3375 Conjecture, 3390
Stafford, 4000 51., 4004 101.., 4114 251., 4121 Little Sister,
4128 51., 4136 AOZ, 4148 251., 4155 Chuckster, 4161 51.,
4167 101., 4178 251.. 4189 Anglesey, 4197 51., 4198 1001,
5004 Princess of Lome, 5014 51., 5017 51., 5026 51., 5035
Hill Top, 5047' King of Gipsies, 5059 151., 5066 251., 5074
251., 5083 51., 5 090 The Andes, 600151., 6011 51., 60161001.,
6030 51., 6035 Deration, 6040 51., 6046 251., 6059 151., 6064
Buckingham,,, 6071 51., 6082 101,6093 151., 6098 51., 7014
251., 7021 Mon )e au. 7032 351., 70471001., 7048 51., 7055101.,
7069 Reginald!. -7080 51., 7083251., 7094 Brown and Rose,
7105 51., 7114 15.’.., 7129 Camerine, 7140 101., 7153 W ,
7161 Wallanf era, 7165 51 „ 7185 51., 7190 Sheet Anchor,
7200 251., 7201. 51., ,7251 251., 7254 101., ,7238 101., 7275 51.,
7283 Lord E ceter, 7298 51.. 7290 251., 7299 Victress. 7304
Hi., 7311 151. * 7320 151;, 73.37 Claptrap, 7335 51., 7342 101.,
7350 151., 7f»l 251., 7370 Liverpool, 7372 Bend Or, 7380
8atta1i0u5,739151..7318251...7399101., 7406 Lord Wilton,
741151., 74‘JO 154., 74515 :?5I„ 7430 Two Two, 7745 57., 7451
101.. 7453 Privateer, 74 67 Meteor, 7476 51., 7482101., 7491
251., 7498 Skipper, 7490 51., 7503 51., 7510 51., 7520 51 ,
7528 101., 753! 101., 7540 101., 7547 51.. 7555 Tom Boy,
7560 51., 7561 V.. 7567 .101... 7574 57, 7589 101., 7590 51., 7596
101., 7599 251., 7615 10,’., 7620 51., 7627 51., 7637 Cracker
Colt, 7649 51., 16541(X 7656 51., 7672 151., 7677 51,7683
51., 7687 51., 7691 IST., 7695 151,, 7697 101., 7700 51., 7701
151., 7704 51., 7708 Le G rand, 7720 101., 7728 51., 7736 51..
7743 151., 7759 51., TTtSi 101., 7773 51., 7785151., 7793 51.,
7800 51., 7807 Hurries ne, 7813 151,, 7816 101,, 7824 51.,
7836 251., 7849101., 7860 51., 1 7867 51., 7879101,, 7894 251.,
7902 51., 7922 51., TOBtSS il„ 7931 Sardius, 7937 15/,, 7942
51., 7955 251., 796tU6f., 7967 151., 7981 51, 7996 101., 8001
351., 8020Ji)7 < ., .8035 51., 8040 151., 8041 Welcome
Jack, 8033 31!, 8059 VS!., 8067 101., 8073 157., 8096 51., 8099
251., 8115 51., 813 L 51-. BM 0 251., 8142 151., 8143 51., 8149 51.,
8166 Metal, 8172 251, 84M l 251,, 8194151., 8197 10!„ 8203 51.,
82131 W., 823351., 822501 HS ~ 8239 101., 8245 51., 8252 Bristol
8267 51.,826951,,8278•2571. , 8290 157„ 8299 107,, 8314 51., 8323
51., 8357 101.. 8359 51.. .« 376 251,, 8379 151,, 8386 101 , 8396
51., 8439101., 5440-515,. 8 145 151, 8454 15!,, 8460 251., 8463
51., 8479 51., 8490 51., « 95 251, 8506 101, 8526 101., 8535
101., 8539 51.. 8545 Bon: ly Fortune, 8552 51 , 8566 101,
8571 101, 8583 251, 89)11 61, 8597 151, 8613 51, 8617 101,
8627 151, 8634 51, 86481 .'l5l, 8643 51, 8661 101, 8670 251,
8676 51, 8683 51,8699 251,8711 51, 8719 51, 8722 51, 8731
101,8742 51, 8745 :J5T.,:3747 101, 8759 51, 8793 51, 8799
151, 8784 51, 8801 57, ml 5 101, 8832 51, 8840 51, 8851107,
8860 51, 8862 51, 8 367 1( >7, 3869 57, 8877 101, 8890 151,
8899 51, 8903 57, S!)19 IC'I, 8926 251, 8939 101, 8947 151,
8956 151, 8963 51, 8! >69 51., 8977 51, 8991 Sweet William
8992 Lord Clifton., 9021 51, 9029 51, 9040 151, 9052 51.’
9060 101, 9061 101, 9070 101, 9077 101, 9081 251, 9083 51.1
9099 51,10004 51, 10051 51, 10057 107, 10062 Elocution,
*OO7l 51, 10073 57, 10081 101, 10092 251, 10093 251, 10109
51, 1012151, 10136 f 2., 10142 Conningsby, 10051 51, 10153
101, 10154)101,1017G57,10180 51,10194 Stoekwell, 10220
51, 10225 51,10340 101, 1C 342 101, 10248 151, 10255 151,
10279 51, 10283 51, , 10297 51, 10330 51, 10341 101, 10343
101,10348 101, 1035.7 151, 10360151, 101566 51, 10373 Blink
Bonny, 10376 51, 10383 Allusion, 10398 Ida, 10414 51,
10415 101, 10426 Wernet. 10440 51, 10459 51 , 10464 ICZ,
10480 51, 10490 57, 10494 Silver King, 10500 51,10505
lolanthe, 10516 57, 10531 101, 10543 101,10543 51,10547
151, 10548 151, 1C555 51, 1( 557 51, 1057551,10581 Living-
ston, 10590 51,10635 Bees wax, 10839 Bonny Bee, 10640
Plausible, 1064 ft If 649 51, 10657 Nepiaallina,
10666 51, 10673 57., 10ffi7 5 51 , 10684 101, 10687 101.
10690101, 10394 Robert fc! ie Devil, 10707 51 , 10717 61.!
10124 Paginini, 10725 251'., 10726 101, 10742 51, 10747 151,
10749 51, 10760 Martini HU nry, 10766 51,*10767 51, 10780
101, 10787 101, 10019 251, ltt 790 151, 10799 151., 10804 51,
10840 51, 10843 51, 1084710)1 , 10851 101, 10853 Merman,
10859 51, 10860 101, 10869»3H< „ 10875 101, 10880 151, 10886
Sirocco, 10894 101, 10S99'1K 1, 10915 101, 10924 51., 10961
Fern Lea, 10389 51, 10® 15 101, 10989 101, 10993
101, 10998 51, 11013 s', llfll'f Hastings, 11021 101, 11037
51, 11032 101, 11035 151, lit tl 257 , .11058 51, 11069 107,
11070 101, 11088 101, 1109115 11095 Hippogriff, 11097
107, 11122 101, 11130 157, 131; !1151,11149 101, 11158 101,
11166 Tempe, 11176 101, 1U 30 51, 11199 151, 11234 101..
11231 101, 11241 101, 11230 51 , 11267 51, 11283 Helene’
11289 101, 11290 101, 11295> ® adames, 11299 101, 11345
351, 11349 101, 11354 107, IK 1151,11389 151,11393 251,
11395 Good let, 11421 251, CM '5 101,11426 101, 11440151..
11449 251, 11476 61, 114391 Aria totle, 11565 51, 11470 101,
11474 101, 11489 101, 11490'1G4 , 11497 101 , 11555 Chap-
man, 11557 51, 11598 KX,.lFis /101, 11603 101, 11663101.,
11674 101.
INVESTMENT&- BUILDING COMPANY
HEAD |
OFFICES
3 IiIMITED r-
ST
m
s£
£
•vy
BANK
«
Nl\>
spO
BRANCH
office;?
309PittSr
SYDNEY
GOULBURN
THIS is an age of co-operation, and among the
most successful of co-operative Institution*
there are, perhaps, none which have benefltted the
masses more than Building Societies.
But even these have not been free from objec-
tions.
For Instance: The system of compelling both
Borrowers and Investors to become Shareholders,
and consequently to pay entrance fees and ..ppli-
cation fees, also of charging 3, (5, or 13 mouths’
prospective interest to Borrowers who may wish to
payoff their Joan, as well as many other charges
which press heavily upon those who are induced to
join with the view of obtaining a home of their
own, are among the relics of the old system—good
no doubt for the time when these Societies were
originated, but. like other things, destined to yield
to the iron hand of progress, and to be superseded
by a broader and more liberal policy.
The Australian Mutual Investment and
Building Company, Limited,
have under their System of Business so completely
cleared away all these untalr charges, »hat it is
only necessary to quote a few of the leading fea-
tures trom tne Company’s Prospectus to prove
that they may justly claim to ho the most Liberal
Company in the Colony.
The Company, being registered under the “ Com-
panies Act,” their is no necessity for either Bor-
rowers or Investors to become Shareholders.
No Application Fees.
No Entrance Fees.
No Fines.
Borrowers share in the Profits, and o\ ery instal-
ment made by a Borrower or Land Purchaser
reduces the interest, because interest is only
charged upon the daily balance.
For the same leason Borrowers may pay off at
any time, with interest to date only.
Persons building through this Company are not
required to make any repayment while the build-
ings are in course ot erection.
In all cases interest is charged or allowe i on the
Daily Balance.
Depositors lor 3 or 6 months have the right to
withdraw the whole or any portion of their De-
posit at any time with interest at the current rate
tor Deposits at Call.
Interest is also allowed upon current or open
accounts. This is found to be a great convenience
to those who have idle money, which for various
reasons they do not wish to lock up for any fixed
period.
It frequently occurs that purchasers of property
are compelled to Keep large sums of money unpro-
ductive between the time of paying the Deposit
and the time of completion; the interest upon
which, if deposited with the company upon cur-
rent account, would more than pay all the charges
for conveyances, &c.
Fixed Depositors for 13 months participate in
the profits. Last year (1883) Depositors received
a Bonus of 1 per cent, in addition to the interest
allowed.
Land Purchasers have the following speeial
privileges:
Ist. Small Deposit.
3nd. Easy Repayments.
3rd. Low Interest.
4th. 2h per cent. Discount for Cash.
sth. Free Deeds to Buyers of more than one Lot,
if the purchase money be paid within 13 months.
Land Purchasers are not required to execute a
Mortgage, as is the custom with some vendors.
There are therefore no Mortgage Fees, and conse-
quently there will be no charge for a release
when the purchase money is paid up.
These are concessions made by no other Building
Company in the Colonies.
6th. Every Land Purchaser is entitled to ft
Bonus.
Last year (1883) Land Purchasers received a bonus
ol 7 per cent, upon tbe amount paid off purchase
money during the year.
Under the old system the Bonus is only given
upon the amount which should be paid. If any-
thing extra is paid off, it does not increase the
Bonus.
But the Bonuses paid by this Company are com-
puted upon the entire amount paid off during the
year.
The Australian Mutual Investment and
lluildingr Company, Limited,
purchase large Blocks of Land, sub-divide and re*
sell the same, and then advance up to nine-tenths
of the cost of buildings erected upon their Estates,
in place of leaving the sub-division of land to he
done by outside speculators whose only care was
to sell the land at as large a price as possible, and
leave the purchasers to do as they please about
the improvements; the evils of which system are
too apparent in most of our suburbs to need com-
ment.
The Company is not only interested in properly
subdividing the land, but while assisting persons
to secure homes for themselves, are by such im-
provements constantly increasing the value of
their Estates. .
The success which has attended the operations of
the Australian Mutual Investment and Building
Company, Limited, has been such that the Keserve
or undivided Profits now amount to more than the
paid-up Capital, and the market value ot the *1
Share is now £3
This success, to a lar i e extent, is attributable to
the fair and liberal manner in which the Business
of the Compauy has been conducted.
Wherever there is great succesit ia, as a rule,
the result of fairness aud liberality.
Directors:
FRANCIS TAIT, Chairman.
EDWARD HOGBiSN, Vice-Chairman.
JOHN isOUBS,
G. J. WELLS,
H. G. SWYNY,
William la vies,
W. S. FOXALL,
Managing Director.
SOLICITORS,
Sydney:
Messrs. NORTON, SMITH, WESTGARTH,
SaNDEKS.
Goulburn:
J. T. GANNON, Esq.
Head Office:
309 PITT S iKtfiET,
Sydney.
Brancu Office:
AUBURN SiEtfiET,
GODLDUBN.
Department of Public In&truction,
Sydney, 150th October, 1884.
TDNDERS FOR CLEARING, DRAINING, AND
IMPROVEMENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Clearing and Drain-
ing the Playground, and Improvements, a 1
the Leichhardt Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Clearing, Drain-
ing and Improvements, Leichhardt Publie school,
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
1C o’clock a.m., on Monday, 17th November JBB4.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W J. trickett.


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Malted Cocoa.— “An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Cocoa contains more of the active properties
of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.”—
Lancet. 15d. per tin. All grocers.*
My experience is certainly very favour*
able to BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA and PILLS.
They have cured an old sore on my right leg,
which h«d defied all other treatment John
Sandebson, Hobart Town, Tasmania.
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.—“ An ordinary cup
contains more of the active properties of malt
than a pint of the best ale or porter.”— Lancet.
Wholesale by v. Mitchell and. Co., Clarence-street.*
iEsthotics is the science of the beautiful.
The meed of merit for promoting personal {esthe-
tics is due to J. C. Ayer and Co., whose incompar-
able Hair Vigqr is a universal beautifler of the
hair. Harmless, effective, agreeable, it has taken
rank among the indispensable articles of the
toilet. To scanty locks it gives iuxuriance; and
withered hairs it clothes with the hue of youth.
Fry's Malted Cocoa.—“An ordinary cup
contains more of the active properties of malt
than a pint of the best ale or porter.”— Lancet.
Wholesale by F. J. Stutchbury and Co., Wynyard-
strcct.*
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
pH£
ISi
—C
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
.7
THIS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to bo the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
It weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult musio.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of costand crudeness.
It requires no skill to extraot from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Bongs, &c., Ac., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that "he who runs
may read. It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience'
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and,
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the prioe can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the oolonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
thepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend if
to their friends.
’t is conceded by aU educators and moralists
that music is the great retining influence, and
especially with children, its effoot for good is
boundless. The love for musio which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm whioh renders an other*
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 80s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fanoy.
All orders for music are post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thbatrb Royal—“ Notre Dame” p. 8.
Opera House—“ Masks and Faces ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—” Irish Detective ” ib.
academy of Music —Mr. Fleming: Norton... ib.
M. Victor Hugo, author of “ Notre Dame
de Paris,” is still alive; while Mr. Andrew Halli-
day, who dramatised this picturesque romance, is
dead. M. Hugo’s novel alone would probably
have sufficed to have secured the immortalization
of any writer, while, curiously enough, all Mr.
Andrew Halliday’s adaptations have failed to keep
his head above the stream of forgetfulness. In his
time, Andrew Halliday adapted nearly as many
novels as the “ literary gentleman ” who was
drunk before his health was, at Mr, Vincent Crum-
mle’s farewell supper, in “Nicholas Nickleby.”
He adapted “The Miser’s Daughter,” “The For-
tunes of Nigel,” the poem of “The Lady of the
Lake,” and scored a big success in a melo-drama
of the “Badger” type called. “The Great City.”
Of the general character of his work, however,
“Esmeralda” may be regarded as an average
sample. And as a sample of the carpenter-and-
scissors-drama, the late Mr. Halliday’s work may
be regarded as mildly satisfactory, If not purely
artistic, ihresembles—wo can’t help it!—Mr. Doug-
las Sladen s verse in not being “ pernicious.”
* * *
It may be stated at once (and forever) that
"Esmeralda or, The Gipsy Girl of Paris,” as at
present performed at the Royal, owes what suc-
cess it may have attained, in a large degree-if not
altogether—to its attractive scenery, and to the
generally liberal manner in which it is mounted.
The spectacular parts of the play meet with much
approval; but, as a simple matter of fact, Quasi-
modo and his terrors are, in nearly every instance,
received derisively. For example, when that
philanthropic hunchback says to Esmeralda in
the last act, “Don't be afraid if I come in and
look at you when your eyes are closed in slumber,”
there was a yell that made the welkin ring; and*
similarly, the mental and physical struggles of
Claude Frdllo were provocative of general merri-
ment. When Jenny Watt-Tanner, in a grotesque
make-up, asGudule (she was generally known as
“ Guddle ”1 bearded the Gipsies on the banks of the
Seine, and cried “ I’ll tell why a-rr-re haiter ye
soh,” nothing but good humour prevailed; and,
similarly, when Claude Frollo bored a hole in
Phoebus’ back, the hilarity became universal.
* * *
To us, the interpretation by Mr. Dampier
of Quasimodo, is a study in chalk and brick dust.
No more. Mr. Dampier is, perhaps, now gradually
attaining an age when men make mistakes oftener
than when they were younger. Many people do.
And thus it may have dawned upou uim that to
make his face up like Caliban, don a pair of panta-
loon’s fleshings, and stuff the hotel bolster up the
back of his jacket, would be all that was necessary
to identify him with the person of the Dogsw-bell-
ringer. It may have also occurred to Mr. Dampier
that to “lug” in all his hunchback business from
“The Duke’s Motto ” would render the conception
perfect. We don’t doubt this for a moment. We
do not, really. And if we cannot concede to Mr.
Dampier, in this instance, even diluted apiroval
for his version of an ideal Quasimodo, Mr. D. can,
at least, lay claim to our complete and absolute
sympathy.
* * *
We have only to preface our notice of Miss
SolaDge Navaro’s Esmeralda by stating and
we wipe our perspiring brow the while—that the
management made her sing. Mdlle. Solange is a
young lady of generous instincts, and she likes, of
course, to give her audience (paw thing!) plenty
for its money; but we cannot but consider that in
staging “ Esmeraidah, bang, bang ” in so many
keys, she went far towards surfeiting the stalls
and embarrassing the circle—not to mention para-
lysing the pit—with gratitude. But, putting the
vocal efforts of Miss Navaro aside (and we do—
nastily), we are compelled to state that this lady’s
conception of the character is a singularly unfor-
tunate one. We are afraid that some of those nice
young men on the staffs of our contemporaries,
who are lavish, in certain instances, of their
critical confiture, have been spoiling Mdlle SolaDge.
we can sympathise with these trifling blades,
of course; but we can’t endorse their procedure
so far as criticism is concerned. Why should we,
when we are even called away from the composi-
tion of poetry to hang the baby’s shoes upon the
clothes-line? There was plenty, of course, that
was pleasant about Miss Navaro’s Esmeralda, but
the art was not there; and, curiously enough, de-
spite her “ angularity,” she was, during her solo,
a weird and wondrous resemblance, both in voice-
mtiexion and facial expression, to a certain other
Miss Navaro who used to tell us nightly, with a
granite sternness of purpose and an iron inflexi-
bility of will, that “ seelvurr-ed wars herr-r
r-ravone hair.” In a word, Miss Navaro has not
caught on;” and, really, letting loose her own
particular French accent on poor Leake, when she
Knows well enough that he, in replying, can get no
nearer to the prattle of the lively Gaul than
nleeker-Btreet German, is alike cruel and inex-
cusable,
• ■ *
The Claude Frollo of ‘‘My Partner” se-
cured our respect—and also that of the audience.
I heir esteem, indeed, for Mr. Leake went to such
engths that we are convinced that, had they be-
lieved he had been really slain in the last act, they
Would have had his body brought on in a wheel-
narrow, and have subscribed liberally towards the
tuneral. His death was very popular. Charles
Holloway was the giddy young Frollo, and his
get-up was darling, indeed. We once saw Charley
Play Romeo, and, ip the words of Barbara, we
considered him “the beautifpllest creature as ever
was.” When, with the gasman working the soft
Flow of morn up a ladder in the third groove 0.P.,
wb b the tip of his nose resting against the
*obe of Juliet’s ear, cries—
“ It was the lark, the herald of the morn;
No nightingale ”
Jje was simply divine; though, imagine our disen-
chantment when, next morning, he came down to
in two odd slippers and a smoking-cap
without a tassel, and “jawed ” the slave for giving
rj® a Plate of cold porridge. As Jean Frollo
‘•ben, Charles was effectively jaunty, and there was
•natural air about him when he borrowed the
rjeney from his brother to go round to the pub.
wifn, that went to the hearts of all beholders. We
epuidhav® wished, though, that on this occasion
•ff* Charles had not borrowed so large an instal-
ment of his brother’s voice. The success of the
a«tw ia tlle comic Roe was made by Charles Brown
r 1 ffierro Gringoire; and Mr. Will. Simpson gave,
witn much success, a Surrey hornpipe of a gro-
WBf jue character.
• • •
jMr. Alf. Boothman (who made up as Prince
made a rather low comedy Phoebus,
l n HQ the theatre people have gone back to their old
ve ~ the gas, again.
** * *
doubt, if we were to poll the “jaynil”
T)«?P ort ' that coruscated nightly at the de Grey
u-Jtnrmances, now happily—for we mustn’t be
j 0 s?dy—fßdßd to other realms, he would set it
as his opinion that Miss Marie de Grey was
r riectly justified in showing as Adrienne Le-
u„4' tnur on the night of her benefit—an event
conr f Patronage of the dear old gubernatorial
horoK* wt| o, however, it being a damp night, did
esuow up, beiDg possibly kept away—as, indeed,
»hnk£ ve °lten been ourselves—by the old familiar
de fiT n ®‘ ot fl' e bunion. Unfortunately for Miss
Bide ey ’ however, the “ jaynil ” element is, out-
-0," a certain (and we must say, pleasant) section
community, ofi by no means a common
e u r®°dity; and, therefore, it will be no matter of
Pert n e to our readers to hear that the benefifiare’s
Budi<! rmance °f Adrienne was received by her
Sent c ®—barring always the “jaynil” contin-
H e ‘y~W)th feelings of polite but gloomy amaze-
*hir>a There are, as we all know, no lengths to
hag „ a woman’s ambition will not carry her. It
con„ car ried Miss de Grey as far as Adrienne Le-
iPonu' Ur: lc will carry her farther yet. We
not be surprised to see this charming lady
one day announced to perform the role of Lady
Macbeth, and indignant because she could not
conveniently “double” the three weird sisters.
To a large extent, Miss de (irey resembles his-
trionically Mr. Fleming Norton, and but we ll
stop here; for we must confess we have not had,
so far, the pleasure of seeing Miss de Grey dance.
* * *
There was a great roll-up of those persons
who have the felicity of occupying positions in the
social scale, akin, even if somewhat inferior, to
that of the fair benefiviare; and the assemblage of
intrepid warriors in the kafe during the interval
reminded one somehow of the meeting of the
heroes after the Peninsular War. Miss de Grey
was pleasantly supported by her company (who
seemed, though, it struck us. to slilv enterinto the
spirit of the joke); and Adrienne herself was bom-
barded in the usual inane way with those floral
veterans with which we are all so shuddtringly
familiar.
*• * *
It is satisfactory for us to learn (from the
advertisements) that " Mr. Fleming Norton, in his
unrivalled character entertainment,” is meeting
with “ continued success.” It can be little
doubted, ns Mr. Norton in his acumen advertises,
that ho indeed gave this weird and wonderful per-
formance before the Prince and Princess of Wales,
at Sandringham. In regard to thisespeeial honour
conferred upon birr, Mr. Norton is brief in his
announcement, lie stops short. He does not say
anything about the galantim of turkey that ho
was regaled with as soon as it was done with “ up-
stairs”; or about how the seventh under-butler
dug him jocularly in.the ribs, and said, “If you'll
come ana dance for us down in the servants’ hall,
Mr. Flemings, you shall have a bottle of Johannis-
berg to take away with you in your portmantlo.”
Possibly, however, this did not happen at ail, and
that Mr. Fleming Norton was banquetted in Sand-
ringham House in as much state as Mr. Solomon
Pell was when he dined with his friend the Lord
Chancellor, on which auspicious occasion, it will
be cheerfully remembered, a man was on guard,
“ in a drawn sword ” and silk stockings, during the
whole of the entertainment. It does not appear
to us distinctly improbable that Mr. Fleming
Norton’s' Portraits” Irealiy did And
favour with his Royal Highness. It is the kind of
thing, en effiet, that would perhaps be calculated,
in a mild way, to tickle his Brunswickian brain.
But, we venture to mildly remark, that even an
expression of favour on the part of such a magnifi-
cent critic as H.R.H. is hardly sufficient to travel
upon.
• * ■
What we have to complain most about
Mr. Norton, as an entertainer, is that he doesn’t
entertain. His struggles are as powerful as they
are praiseworthy; but, somehow or other, “it
isn’t there.” Possibly it may be in Mr. Fleming
Norton’s boots, and rendered thus invisible to the
naked eye* but one thing very certain, it is invisi-
ble. It has been our unhappy lot, in answering
the strenuous call of duty at various periods of
our existence, to have assisted at nearly all the
performances of monologue (and, indeed, other
similar) entertainments of the present decade. Of
these, undoubtedly, Houdin was the most original;
Maccabe, the most versatile; and the Wardropers
(one of whom is now dead, poor fellow) by far the
most artistio, taking them as all-round performers
in this peculiar kind of performance. They could
all sing, and sing well. To all of them was given a
certain amount of ventriloquial power; and they
could all- dance. Now, have you ever seen Mr.
Fleming Norton dance ? LWe feel we really ought
to give Mr. Norton a little send along at last.—En.
B.j Well, if you have never seen him dance,
“ pawn your shirt for medicine we mean for a
ticket; an and see Mr. Fleming Norton dance - and
die. The question now arises, can the delight of
Sandringham sing at all? Yes, he can certainly
sing, but it is a species of vocalisation which we
sadly own our grovelling antecedents render us
totally unable to appreciate. Finally, can Mr.
Norton make you laugh ? Of a certainty, he can
do that. He would makea wombat laugh- at him.
* * #
We are, however, as we remarked before,
delighted that Mr. Fleming Norton is having
“continued suocess in his unrivalled character
entertainment, as given by him at the Egyptian
Hall, Piccadilly, London, over3sonights.” Whoopi
** * *
Gratlan Riggs has done so well with “ The
Irish Detective,” that he. has w;sely run it on, until
he can get?” Peep o’ Day ’ rehearsed in every par-
ticular. This piece is the best Edmond Falconer
ever wrote; and, unlike “ The Detective,” it is
consistent in all its phases. “Peep o'Day” was
first produced at the London Lyceum about the
time Searelle first started out as a baby-pianist.
By the time Luscombe figured as an infant com-
poser, tha “Peep o’ Day ” boy must have had a
considerable run. Alter Riggs' season at the
Gaiety, the Turners come on; and Grattan opens
under Charles M’Mahon’a management, on Boxing
Night, at Sandhurst. Charley has also leased the
T.R., Hobart, for three months; so he may be said
to be developing into quite a colonial Barnutn.
Talking of the Turners, we hone they are not
going to treat us to a minu principally composed
of “Maritana” (make* Mary Turner, we declare I).
“The Bohemian Girl,” and “Mignon;” for such a
rush of operatic novelties would be too much
gjory for us altogether.
** * *
SALVE!
Joey Brown has come to town,
Vou may bet a “pony;"
Joey Brown has come to town,
And so has Mpjeroni.
We don’t know whether Joseph—who has, cer-
tainly, like ' Vankee Doodle,” a “feather in bjs
Cap”—calls it “Macaroni” qr not; but wo
Shouldn't fhink so. What we have heard Joseph
call most things is “whisky, with a iiti le lemon.”
Joseph is to do a pantomine or two this year, and,
consequently, his brain is so bristlmg with locals
r,e can hardly keep his hat on. Now, after this
one star, four stars.
4,;. ’ * * * *
Searelie’s. “ Bobadil ” is positively for the
22rrd,’and, so far, Grade Plaisled, Oily Deering,
Charles Haiding, Charles Templeton, and Miss
Larmert have been engaged. Madame Anna
King is chorus mistress, and tbe work is goiog on
merrily . Luscombe iramediateiy follows that
other musical genius— Kamenyi, whose concerts
lots of people are jooking forward to with much
pagernesH. Itisahapny thought on the part of the
management to haie the performances in a
theatre—the pld Masonic and Kate Thayer's mouth
(both glbomv caverns), between them effectually
damned Wilhelm,). Wp believe there is no <joubt
whatever about Remenyij but, in any case, any
musical 6r Operatic sejectiop of Jim All}son r a—
But, certainly.
** * *
Miss Marie Lanyon (they are all Maries!)
is a youffg lady whom a kind Providence has en-
dowed with—since we must say it—a very con-
siderable amount of confidence; which, alter all,
is only another word for cheek. She bursts upon
us “unherkided,” as she humorously remarks,
with an American play, her relations, Sweeny, and
Jack Steele; and, billing her play as “Young Mrs.
Winthorp " (sic), spreads herself out for an assault
upon the public purse. Startling as the facts may
be, they are flimply as stated; and, when we add
that “ Young Mrs. Winthrop ” is an American
play, the stupendous amount of “nerve” which
Miss Marie has embodied in her constitution at
once become* apparent An American play!
What a train ot horrors those three words
conjqre up! Visions of “Tne Galley Slave,”
with dear old Leake making love jo a per-
fect donjon-keep full of fptterg; of that
miserable jabbering pedlar,‘! Sam’l'O ’Posen;”
of Clark and Ryman and their fatal “ Muldoon
Picnio.” Clarke and Ryman, by the way, were the
most impatient men under criticism we eyer met;
and that reminds us of something that-to use a
term of their own—ought to “tickle you to death.”
When the C. and R. crowd first burst upon us,
fresh from the ’Frisco lunch bars and “dives,”
our social relations with them became strained;
and we used rather to bite our thumbs at one an-
other than otherwise. Well, one day a Boston
lightning-rod agent came to us, and he said—“ Sou
boys had better be a little less fresh; they’ve en-
gaged Tom Sayers.” On receipt of this intelli-
gence, a thirst for the green fields they “babble”
or took possession of us, and we went and hid
away in the fastnesses of Bondi, bribing Brown
with obsolete circus tickets to feed us on those
cheese and biscuits for which he js so renowned.
In a few days a bright idea struck us, and Young
Dutchy being then in town, we went to him with
money in our purse and purchased the protection
of that puissant pugilist. Next day, happening to
meet that Sullivan-like slogger, he being in his
cups, drew us aside and said—” I’m a goin’ hup to
Tamworth to start a gymmynasion.” “Horror!”
we cried, “we are lost, indeed! What! leave us to
be ‘ knocked out ’ whenever he meets us, by that
terrible Tom Sayers! If more gold—-” “Lookit
here, ’ whispered Dutch with a hoarse chuckle,
you can bide easy. Why, Tom has slung me a
couple o yaller boys to protect Mm.” Then we
once more recommenced the thumb-biting busi-
ness. But to resume.
• • *
Whatever merit there may be in “Young
Mrs. Winthrop,” from a dramatic point of view,
Miss Lanyon’s company entirely fails to bring out
—and during the time wo were present, our senior
sensation was one of desperate dreariness. Tin's
being the case, we prefer to pass “ Mrs. W„” and
judge Miss Lanyon and her company by their per-
formance in “ Masks and Faces." “Young Mrs.
Winthrop,” however, is well worth seeing, if only
lor the sake of the elongated “banger” sported
by Steele in the second act. Miss Lanyon’s busi-
ness manager is Mr. P. AVarburton—whom, wo are
told, the lady had specially unsepulchred for that
purpose.
" THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
A little jingle, a little laugh,
A little joke, a little chaff;
And yet, to quote dear fat Falstaff,
“Hal, no abuse I ”
A little jest, a little jibe,
That comes from a mild little scribe,
Who kens (although he does imbibe)
“Gall” is no use.
And now, en route. Matt. Riley is dead.
He died at Blackall (Q.), either of native produce
or of having been for so many years an Irish come-
dian whose witticisms always inspired a hearty
laugh. He was called “ Old Matt. Riley” in genteel
and other society, though ho turned out to be
only about thirty-five. Matt, was buried in Towns-
ville; so now the Shroud has got an additional
subscriber. “Itis an ill wind,” etc Mais pas-
sons. Well, then, on the Ist instant, the Wangan-
heim-Lester company of opera-buffers were at
Burrangong, and the Argus of that ilk is appa-
rently captivated by the enchanting Emma. She
is called by it " captivating ” indeed, and the editor
—reduced to a mere driveller—states that she
took the part to perfeetion.” We forget how
long it is since we were that way ’ourselves. The
time she used to do "Little Snowwhite” at the
Royal, we think ...In Melbourne, “The Rivals”
at the Royal, De .Grey at the Bijou, The Opera
at the Princess, and “In the Hanks” at the Opera
House, which gets a bad notice from “Ta-
hite.”—Our old pal Rainer opens on Saturday
week at the Academy with his diorama of the
Terra del Fuegian War, and an increased company
of watches, clocks, and suites of furniture. And
James M’Mahon wishes us to kindly state that
his R. and J. nas turned out a success at the Ade
laide Royal, the Irving scenery causing “astonish-
ment and admiration.” “O, wonderful scenery,
thus,”—Put a truce to Shakespeare! We kindly
state it—Duncan Maccallum’s “All Round the
World ” show opens at the Haymarket Academy
on Monday night; and we understand that Willie
Warner has been engaged to sing comic songs, and
that the distribution of valuables will be lavish.
Syl. Ryan is to be the lecturer, and we look forward
anxiously to his jokes, if he has any, and to a tea-
pot if he’s not. There’s one thing about Mac.’s
show—it don’t eat much; though, by the way, we
can’t answer for Syl. Ryan. That is a matter en-
tirely between him and his contractor, and a matter
of some importance, doubtless—to the contractor.
The latest about Mrs. Scott-Siddons is that
she read to a numerous audience at Ex»ter, Eng.
“ Our Boys ” has been played 1468 times in
London ... What an interesting, dear young thing
our Ada is! They evidently don’t know her yet in
London. Ada opened recently at the Imperial, in
"The Honeymoon,” Captain Disney Roebuck be-
ing the happy man. “Miss Ada Ward,” remarks
an evening paper, “ promises to be a very clever
actress, being natural and sympathetic in her
style.” “Promises,” eh? The evening paper’s
young man evidently took her fo,r seventeen. But
she’s not. She’s only sixteen. Which reminds us
of something. Ada is qft. 9in„ and weighs ~st. 13ft>.
The cultured and sympathetic Mr. Haugustus
’Arris has, with a fine eye to business, put “ The
World” on at the historic Drury Lane, London.
The money-changers are in the temple this time,
with a vengeance. On the raft are four persons—
there wore four in the Mignonette. The boy is
lying on the raft, covered with a blanket, with the
exception of his head and feet. The suggestion is
a horrible one. So much for the drama under the
’Arrises of the stage —In a huge poster, Mercy
Merrick is depicted grovelling at the feet of the
Rev. Julian Grey, who, with upturned eyes and
elevated arms, exhorts her tq “rise up.” The
demon bill-sticker sawtho chance for asmall joke,
and the following exhortation (thanks to his
management of tho. hills) met the gaze of the
astonished public:Rise up, rise up, poor
wounded heart, and tako your place among the
noblest of heaven's creatures, for six nights
and one morning only, commencing June 24 th
Marv Anderson has already spent something like
£IO,OCO on theprrpara ions lor “ Romeo and Juliet”
at the London Lyceum and is ready to spend an-
other £5OOO if necrtsiry. Tales are told of £7O and
£BO being given for tne costume: of some of the
players. Miss Anderson took in £93,000 during her
1 st ■ eason at tho Lyceum ... In Paris, a single run
of a successful piece is a fortune for author and
manager. The figures are .bewildering in their
compound rate of accumulation. Meilhae lately
received close upon 50,000 francs (£2000) in author’s
rights for a single month, when he had four pieces
all playing at the same time. Dumas x the younger,
took 22Q,C00. francs, in six at the iramais
alone .. .The manager of tife Grand Opera House,
N.Y., has utilised the services of ffve of the survi-
vors of the Greely expedition for the Arctic scenes
in Robert Buchanan s “ Storm Beaten." These
stage recruits are clothed in the veritable Esqui-
maux furs which they wore during the expedition


PEPPER AND SALT.
GEORGE DARRELL.
“ London, Oct. 29.—Mr. George Darrell, tho
well-known Australian author-actor, produced in
the Grand Theatre, Islington, last night, his suc-
cessful drama of ‘The Sunny South.’ The mors-
ing papers have noticed the piece in favourable
terms.” (Sic.)
From late wires, now, we understand,
That Darrell glitters at the Grand—
And here’s the rub:
Our George (and this is strictly true)
Has lately been elected to
The Savage Club.
'Tis here the most inferior bard
Gets treacle slaked on by the yard I
The Elephant is the Most Sagacious of Animals.—(NATURAL HISTORY.)
IT IS NARRATED THAT AN MLEPHANT ONCE, COMING TO A BRIDGE WHICH SPANNED A DANGEROUS CHASM, REFUSED TO TRUST ITSELF TO THE STRUCTURE
UNTIL—UNTIL IT KNEW SOMETHING ABOUT IT.—(Old Story).
Here ’tis where Henniker’s immense,
And Martin (in a double sense);
Where frauds are fed
Who could not (since you must it learn)
By writing poems or pars., here, earn
Their daily bread.
But “ Savages ” don’t want a name—
They can buy, ready-made, their fame.
Let Heaton be a shining light—
A literary genius quite—
(For this Club we don’t sigh);
To us it straightway does appear,
If we but breathed that atmosphere,
We’d die.
There, “ favourable ” critiques reign.
Evolved from “chicken and champagne.”^
We read in the Burrowa Wombat, the
other day, of a young man who was struek dead
for telling a lie in the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation. We are willing to believe this. But only
upon one condition—which is, that we hear upon
good authority that the Burrowa editor has been
struck dead since.
* * *
The tendency of the juvenile population
of this country is to satire, and, sometimes, to
satire of a sinful description. Thus, the other
day, a highly-respected clergyman had a present
made to him by the members of his confirmation
class. And what do you think it was ? Well, it
was a travelling-bag. We are as fond of a joke as
most people, but we consider this was more than a
joke. It was sheer heartlessness.
We invite our readers, with humility—and
the reason we assume humility will become at
once apparent by perusing this paragraph from
Vanity Fair— a shilling weekly, published in
London:—“ I have authority for saying that there
is no truth in the report in the newspapers that
Lord Queensberry has a bet of nine thousand to a
thousand on Busybody for the St. Leger. The
only bets he had were nine ‘monkeys’ to one
against Busybody ; £250 on tho same mare at
other prices for various friends; and 600 to 500
against Superba for a place. In all, Lord Queens-
berry stood to win £lO,OOO, and owing to the plac-
ing of Superba’ihe lost very little over the race.”
We do not question, of course, that the writer had
authority of some kind or another when he wrote
this festhetic par. possibly that of another
flunkey. 'This information reminds us of the
similar “rattle” of Mr. Chuckster, in “The Old
Curiosity Shop,” when he entertained the Gar-
lands with tho fashionable gossip of the day at
luncheon.
We know tho sort of man who writes
This elevated stuff:
His socks are silk, his kids are whites,
Ho travels on his cuff.
He also loves to recommend,
To further other ends,
A “ certain sherry” which he’ll send,
By sample, to his friends.
This is the chap whom titled folk,
On sufferance, let in:
Whose presence does at once invoke
The butler’s scornful grin!
But he’s impervious to this glee
For thus it does befall,
He’d sooner in the pantry be
Than not go there at all.
If e’er you meet this scribbling thing-,.
Avoid, by all the stars,
The “snip” whose praises ho will sing—
And don't try his cigars.
His proffered race-tips do without—
They, like his “ weeds,” are bad.
For sometimes ho will be a “tout,”
But always be a “ cad ”
Every day, somebody is writing to us and
asking us why we don’t assert our splendid intel-
lectuality, and soar to everlasting fame. Here is
one answer cut and dried for us irom a Northern
paper. Please to observe: “A meeting of sub-
scribers to the School of Arts was held last night.
Mr. Griffith moved that the present committee,
with the exception of Mr. Shakespeare, had the
confidence of tho subscribers, and that Mr. Shakes-
peare be requested to resign.” And the motion
was carried. And Mr. Shakespeare was shifted.
After Ihis, is it any wonder that the original \VJI.
liam wanted to know what there was in a name ?
And yet—we say again—people ask us to consent
to celebrity! Why, it is criminally ridiculous!
Who knows but in the days to come some creature
of our name might go home to content a con-
stituency and write letters to the Jernel ! Dread-
ful thought!
aw*
The position of wardstnan at the Wilcannia
hospital was vacant a short time since. An appfi.
cant appeared. He was asked if he were married
or single. He replied that he was single. Then
they told him that only a married man could b 9
taken. He went away despondently. Shortly after,
he came back and stated he was willing' to risk
for the position. “ Risk what ?” enquired the com-
mittee. “ Risk marrying,” answered the candi-
date. We are not aware whether his second app”*
cation was successful, but we think it should ba% e
been, if only as a reward for his heroism. If tho
position had beon anywhere else but in a hospita
we doubt if ho would have been so heroic. But
he evidently calculated on gratuitous medical a -
tendance. It takes a married man to see the poin
of this.
9 • m
The Cumberland Mercury calls the Par-
ramatta people “ ParramattoDians.” This is ooly
the vanity of the editor. He wants to show how
much type ho has, and make his rivals green with
* Fide Mowbray Morris'* bonk.


envy. But why not have gone further, and called
the inhabitants Parramattagonians ? Their feet
would have justified it, anyhow.
• » •
The Pastoral Ttmes says that “the whis-
key distributed by the officials at the late national
show at Echuca cost the society £s3'7s„” and that
last year “the bill only amounted to £40.” Also
that the Governor and his party were there this
year. If there is any treason-felony in these re-
marks, we trust it will he put down to the Pas-
toral Times and cot to us. But, what a “ relish ”
the gubernatorial party must have!
* * *
A correspondent of the Evening News
says there is no lock-up at Burwood. But we don’t
gee that that matters so much. The reporters sel-
dom have to attend banquets there. He also adds,
Treading on the Tail of his Coat.
“ I think that not one out of every 200 people in
Burwood knows where to find a constable if they
wanted one.” This is a pleasing evidence of the
rustic simplicity of the inhabitants in railway
suburbs. Now, if it were, say Waterloo or Woo-
ioomooloo that was in the question, there would
be little difficulty to the inhabitants in finding a
policeman. They would find him in bed.
* * *
Here is an item from Gunned ah which may
be interesting to the musical profession, though it
does not paralyse us with merriment. It is from
the local paper. Thus:-” We hear that the Min-
strel troupe intend to drop the negro business
during the warm weather, and are going into
practioe to get up concerts of a superior class, in
Which opera music will he largely used.” To drop
the negro business, mark you! This is great news
for the lovers of high-class music In Gunncdah.
At least, if it is not, it is enough to depopulate a
cemetery. And this is something in these crowded
times. The sublime audacity of these country
hands is a theme to which justice could be? done
only in an epio or a dungeon. We should lean to
the dungeon. * 1
* • *
A' country paper—we forget which one
now—says that .the local Council Chambers are
like A pig-stye. Well, what would it have ?
* * *
A scientific gentleman has just invented
an automatic arm and hand. He tried it on a man
who had lost his arm in a collision. The result
was remarkable. The man used it to pick up a
cup of coffee, a cake, and even a pin. We are
sorry, for the sake of the story, that he did not use
it to pick the inventor’s pocket. But we cannot
sacrifice the truth to a joke, however hen trovato.
Still this reticence may not have been the fault of
the man. The inventor was an editor. The rest
goes without saying. We suppose they will never
stop now till they make artificial souls. But what
are we saying ? The market is glutted with these
already;
* • *■>
A telegram from Brisbane says that a man
was lately poisoned at Cloncurry by a publican.
The publican “gave him strychnine in mistake.”
We should say it was the mistake of the man, not
of the publican. What else would he give him but
strychnine, we should like to know ? Why, if a
publican up there offored the ordinary shearer or
drover anything else, “they would hang him over
his own door. And how was this publican to
know that the man ho was serving had such a silk-
coated high-toned stomach? Wo don’t advocate
poisoning as a general thing, but we like to see I
fair play.
• • *
They have a Caledonian Association in
Bundaberg. And the members have started a J
subscription to get a set of bag-pipes. And the
police force is about to be doubled. You can
make a syllogism of these items if you like. We
don’t; we only mention them as news. [N.B.—Our
editor is a Scotchman.— Writer.]
* * *
Somebody suggests that those who are
interesting themselves in the progress of the Sal-
vation Army—Sir Henry Parkes and others, that
j is—should also interest themselves in discovering
| what has become of all the money that has been
; contributed to the organization. The gentleman
who suggested this must be either a very deep
satirist or an unfathomable simpleton. We prefer
to think him a very deep satirist.
* * *
There is in Cootamundra a survivor of the
Charge of the Light Brigade. :tle is still charging.
He is a policeman. Charging people with being
drunk and disorderly. They used to say, in the
days of the First Empire, that every French
soldier carried a marshal's baton in his knapsack
Wo are not so glorious as this, hut we arc? solid. Tt
may be said without a tremor that every Bullish
soldier carries in his knapsack a baton also—the
baton of a policeman. #
More glory! Over 2000 corpses are said to
have been seen floating in the open sea at the en-
trance to Foochow. And ail this takes place in
order that the little fat M083a03 sitting in front of
their caf<?s should be abloto twist their fierce little
moustaches and drink their little glasses of ab-
sinthe, and say as they see an Englishman pass, *
“Ah!—pouf!—bah!—we are ze grit naseong! ze
Ongleesh are rosbif dogs.” But when it comes to
that, we are not much better ourselves. We have
been ready at various times—by “we ” the British
Empire is, of course, understood- to wade up to
the ears in blood, so that our own Bill Sykeses
should have a chance to smack themselves on their
beer-swollen chests and offer to fight any three
b y frog-eaters with one hand. Only we are not
a great nation*
* * *
The Tasmanian Government proposes to
| give a grant of 500 acres of land to Fanny Smith,
I the last of the Tasmanian aboriginals. She is
j widow, and only 55 years of age. This information
has appeared before. We are only reprinting: it
for the benefit of Mr. A. G. Taylor. The fortunes
of the amorous apple-woman are now at a crisis.
* * *
A Tam worth troubadour propounds the
following conundrum
“ What curse has come upon the land
Of sunny New South Walrs ?
What power is there, which does command,..
Distributing with careless band
Dark misery o’er hills and vales?”
Let’s see! Sir Henry Parkes baa returned. Not'
right ?We give it up, then. But, stay—we have it,-
The curse is this—the dismal gloom—
O turgid Tam worth bard I
That you should with impunity
Print this stuff by the yard,
When you should be, as all can see,
Buried ano bricked up in a tomb
Or stuck up in a padded room!


Nineteen Prize Medals.—“ An ordinary
cup of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the
active properties of malt than a pint of the best
ale or porter.”— Lancet. Wholesale by David
Cohen and Co.*
o
ALL
WOMEN
T
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & ‘WtiITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP !
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washted with it:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin sdft and white.
ONE TRIAL Will convince.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
(id. per Bar.
Sole Manufapturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 nnn DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
Ivuu shown in our Illustrated Catalogue.
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP PEL ft CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and, all fittings, &c., kept in
took.
Alderman Pieroe, of Newtown, wishes to
know whether steps will be taken by the Govern-
ment to prevent any more Newtown residents
being killed by the tram. Hardly. Ninian Mel-
vi'le does most of his business out there. And
Ninian Melville, as every cemetery knows, is an
undertaker. He is also a member of Parliament.
A • d he is a man to be not lightly offended.
* * *
THE LAST STATE OF HIM.
Once from the world of living men
I passed, by a strange fancy led,
To a still City of the Dead,
To call upon a citizen.
He had been famous in his day;
Much talked of, written of, and praised,
For virtues my small soul amazed—
And yet I thought his heart was clay.
He was too full of grace for me:
His friends said, on a marble stone,
His soul sate somewhere near the throne:
I did not know; I called to see.
His name and fame were on the door-
A most superior tomb, indeed;
Much railed, and gilt, and filagreed—
He'occupled the lower floor.
I knocked—a worm crawled from Us hole:
I looked—autl knew it far his soul.
* * *
v l'he Newcastle Heralt> says that a resi-
dent of that home of sweetness and light has been
>m a drunk for fourteen weeks up to date. Hanby
s lggests that somebody should stop him—chain
Im up, lock him up, or nail him down somewhere.
'Why this solicitude, you will ask ? Ah! there it is.
’"ho fact is, Hanby is afraid that, if the man keeps
it up for another month or so, he will be drunk
• nough to start another paper there. We think
1 here is no need to fear this. He would have to be
«!cad to be drunk enough forthat.
* * *
Tie was a portly, purple-faeed man, with a
nose that was not unlike a nutmeg-prater covered
with liver, and as he thundered up the stairs whioh
leads to the sanctum of double E. Jones, it was
evident to the crowd of “ wall-polishers” rangad
below that ho had spotted something good, and
was in a hurry to seal the bond before the wily
bookmaker had received a caution. Later on, he
met a friend of a less sanguine temperament, and
having trotted him into a private bar, exclaimed,
“ Dy heavens! old man, I had a stroke o’ luck to-
day. Whatcherthink ? My wife dreamt last night
that the Caulfield Cup finish was Fryingpan 1,
Critisher 2, Martini 3, and I’ve just rushed right
along and backed it for a tenner. Here, set ’em up
again, barman. Grand woman t’ dream, my wife
ip, and whenever she touches racing in her sleep, I
back it.” “Is that so?” exclaimed the quiet man
as he reached after a double-breasted sandwioh;
well, now, it’s strange how men differ. When-
ever my wife dreams, I rush right along to chemist
Abraham’s and get him t’ give me something to
shake up her liver.” And when the news came
that neither of the dream backers’ horses were
ever in the race from start to finish, he swore a
mighty oath that the next time his wife started
dreaming, he’d tie her hands and feet and make
her swallow half the dandelion drugs in Sydney.
AS SOON DIE AS LIVE
I have been a fearful sufferer for fifteen years,
most, of the time with what has been called eczema
•or salt rheum, psoriasis and Jepra, and the like, and
have always been told that there was no cure for
me, and have been so discouraged that I had as
soon die as live. I have been so bodily afflicted
sometimes that there was not the smallest spot,
from the crown of my head to the soles of my
feet, that was not diseased and as red as crimson.
It would commence in small white spots, which
had a silvery appearance, but were not deep; but
if I attempted to heal them, or, soon after their
first appearance, they would burn end run to-
gether until there was a complete dry red scale,
which would become so inflamed as to crack and
look fiery and angrv, and the buring sensation
would be almost intolerable.
I was at times so lame that T could scarcely get
about, and could not dress myself without assist-
ance. I have tried many remedies, and have paid
$lOO in a single instance to a physician, but have
never obtained only temporary relief. Although
helped for a time, I soon relapsed again to bo as
badly troubled as ever, and duriDg the winter of
1881 and 1882 I suffered so much as to he entirely
discouraged. Last June, however, I was advised
by Elder and Mrs. L. C. McKinstry, who are well
known in these regions, to try your Cuticura
Remedies; and I lelt somehow a little courage,
from their favorable opinion of them, to try their
yirtue. About the second week of July last 1
commenced taking the remedies, and within six
•weeks T began to see a permanent improvement,
■until now (Oct. 1) 1 am about as good as new, and
my flesh is as the flesh of a child
MRS. BENJ. SMITH.
I certify that the above statement of my wife is
correct, and I join with her in expressing my grati-
tude for the great benefit she ha* received.
B. SMITH.
I certify that the above statement is correct. Mr.
(Smith is a prominent man in this community,
where he lives. He is a well-known dealer in
Stock, and his statement, with that of his wife, is
fully entitled to credit.
Done at Stanstead Province of Quebec, this
twenty-seventh day of October, 1882.
L. C. McKINSTRY,
Minister of the Gospel.
Later.—l have seen Mrs. Smith recently, and
believe her to be thorough'y and permanently
cured.
L. C. McKINSTY,
Sec’y Advent Ch. Gonf., P.Q., No. Vt. and No. N.H.
Boston, Sept. 9; 1881.
Feeble ladies, aged persons, weakly
children, persons of sedentary habits, all need Hop
X itters. Read and believe.
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.— “An ordinary cup
contains more of the active properties of malt
than a pint of the best ale or porter.”— Lancet.
Jod. per Lin. R. Miller, Clarence-street.*
For years the world has accepted Wolfe’s
Schnapps as the best cordial, tonic, and invigor-
*uit in its market, and its merits thus established,
nothing can affect it in the way of deterioration
or detiaotion.
Patented.— “ An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Waited Cocoa c ntains more of the active proper-
ties of ma't than a pint of the best ale or porter.”
—Lancet. Wholesale by Dalton Bros.*
The beautiful exhibition of chinaware at
Dray’s, 402 George-street, is one of the sights of
bydney, combining, as it does, usefulness with
elegance, quality with reasonable prices. The
dinner and tea sets are particularly attractive and
picturesque.*
Cocoa and Malt.— “An ordinary cup of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the active
properties of malt than a pint of the best ale or
porter.”—Lancet. Wholesale by James Magregor,
p4B George-streeL*
BRIEF MENTION.
Bones of contention: Skeleton armies.
The paper with the largest circulation:
Curl-paper.
“ General ” Booth sells scent. The odour
of sanctity, no doubt.
Joke by Sir ’Enery: “To hextinguish a
hegotist: ’lt ’im hin the Hi.”
Song for lhe accommodating barmaid: “In
the gloaming: owe, my darling.”
Time and breath are valuable. Don’t say
Sydney Corporation day-labourer;” say “Civic
diurnist.”
Sir ’Enry retires from the public stage be-
cause the Ghost don’t walk now. The Kiama
Ghost, we mean.
At Warsaw, the Czar was nearly tram-
carred. There's nothing like Sydney institutions
for repressing tyranny.
“1 shall give you seven days or ten shil-
lings,” said the magistrate. “ All right,” said the
drunk, ’ “I’ll take the ten shillings.”
M. Ferry says that France was not at war
with China. Perhaps Courbet’s little naval spree
was just a demonstration of Frenchship.
There is an editor in Queensland who is 96
years of age. There must be many there not much
younger to account for the friskiness of literature.
The Mother of-Ducks Express is said to
be the title of a new journal to be started up North
pretty soon. We presume the Mother will edit it.
It at last leaks out in Sydney that in the
matter of the Bega to Eden railway line, the Bom-
bala press opposed the Bega Gazette. No wonder
Stuart was paralysed.
‘ A Pleasant Afternoon at Bowls ” is the
heading of an article in the Ecno. To be realistic,
this should be followed by “An unpleasant Night
in the Watch-house.”
We have the last issue of the Wollongong
Argus before us. Two sides of it are blank. Of
course, we mean the printed sides. The unprinted
sides are bright and suggestive.
The other day, a man on the Rum read
Vanderbilt’s ad rice, “Never buy what you can’t
pay for. Then he borrowed a clothes-line, and
straightway went and hanged himself.
“ For some time past, over a ton of mush-
rooms has been despatched every day from Dublin
to Liverpool.” There is also a large export of the
THE LATE MR. ANDREW LYNCH, M.L.A. FOR CARCOAR.
same kind from Australia. The colonial mush-
I rooms are of the C.M.G. and Salmon-coloured
variety.
“ Now Tommy, mind when Mr. S. comes
to lunch to-day, you mako no remark about his
° ose - „ Nojnamma.” Arrival of Mr. S.-Tommy
( loq Oh, mamma, Mr. S. hasn't got a nose!"
Hubner, the compositor of the Viennese
anarchist paper, always had a loaded revolver with
him whilst setting the type. We suppose the edi-
tor alwaysjwrote in corapany.with two Gatlin*
guns.
The editor of the War Cry calls on his
readers to pray for him. We throw in a petition
for him, now and then, openly; but in spite of our
severest wrestling’, he lives on with vicious per-
sistency. r
In London, there are several rich Austra-
lians who aiways drive alone in their broughams
in the Park. * If there were two in .the con-
veyance, people wouldn’t know to whom it be-
longed.
An Araluen reporter who came to town
has given the opinion that the Sydney Post-office
carvings are not to his liking; but, curiously
b?a°ck eye makeS D ° mention of how he got that
How sad! A noble race’s decadence could
not be more darkly testified to than by such a par.
as this:— A Maori lad, named Wiremui Wiopi, has
become an articled clerk in a solicitor’s office in
Auckland."
Tho Agony Column.—Jane. Your absence
will ruin all. Think of your husband—your
parents—your children. Return—return—all may
yet bo well—happy. At any rate, enclose the key
ot the cupboard where the rum is.
The Hay paper appears to have a bitter
feud against goats. This seems to be principally
ac °£ un . t , of some goats having made a raid upon
the editorial garden. Rut if the goats were evicted,
who in thunder would write the leaders ?
They had a fine-art show at Tumut, the
other day. One of the exhibits was a skull. It does
seem a curious thing that they couldn't get up
even a fine-art show without the co-operation of
the cemetery. But that is a peculiarity of Tumut.
Mr. Bruce Smith (whom the gods evidently
do not love, as he still lives) says that the Evening
News is noted for its trenchant and clever, al-
though spiteful, leaders.” This is the most tren-
chant, and clever, and spiteful remark that Mr.
Bruce Smith has ever put in print.
“These y laughing jaokasses are play-
ing it up a bit too much,” said a resident of Vah-
gunyah (Vic.), the other day, as he filled his family
howitzer with gravel and home-made idumiriings.
And yet it was only the the Border Band. But
some people have no ears for music.
A Domain orator said some time ago that
teetotalism had not yet produced a great poet.
We agree with him there. And this reminds us
that the last time we saw a poet, he was ‘‘pro-
duced’’—by the watchman—out of a cask. The
cask was emnty. We do notihink it necessary to
pledge ourselves that it was in this condition when
he got in.
We have been requested to state that the
Temora brass band is inferiorjto that of the Cold-
stream Guards: but as the letter has no signature,
we decline to commit ourselves in any way. We
have heard the Guards, but regret we shall have
no opportunity of hearing the Temora band for
some time. But Temora will hear them, and so
we bear up.
“DEPLORABLE CATASTROPHE.”
Alf.’s laureate hung his head and wept,
As sadly on his way he crept,
Of this we were a lisper.
“ What now ?” and then he weeping cried,
“ I hurt my brother, and he died—
I filled him with a whisper."
Wien a rich Australian first goes to
London he spends lavishly, in order to astonish the
natives by his display of wealth. By and bye, he
sees that the richest English people do not “ osten-
tate ” very much, and that, to be considered really
rich, according to the good old English notion, one
must also be very mean. So your rich Australian
becomes mean. It is quite astonishing how mean
a rich Australian can become.
We read that thosejassembled at a certain
English railway station “ respectfully bared their
heads in the presence of Captain Dudley,” who
killed and ate some of the unhappy boy Dick
Parker. This only illustrates the roroe of habit.
The people of England have too long been accus-
tomed servilely to uncover before “ their betters ”
—in other words, before that large class of privi-
leged persons who literally live upon them.
The Rev. Mr. Yarrington of Maitland has
joined the Good Templars. The last time we
heard of the reverend gentleman he was reported
to be lecturing extensively on hell and similar
cheerful topics; but we were not thoroughly con-
vinced by bii arguments. We are now. He has
to read the Armiiiale Chronicle, and gulp down
the following reprint as wit:—“ Glen Innes drunk!
Temperance Society at Inverell busted up I O lor,
’Arry, this is wuss nor ever!”
There had been a “wet” Saturday night
in the principal pub. of the township, and next day
the parson, who had been of the number, preached
on the sin of drunkenness. After service the
churchwarden, who had assisted him home, sought
the reverend gentleman in the vestry, and said:
“ Yoh are a nice chap to go on so about drunken-
ness, after last night.” ‘‘My Heavens I” replied
the pastor, “so would you go on, if you had the
infernal head on you I’ve got."
The Parramatta Fuller had a real bathetic
“ coffer ” in a recent issue, but there was an omis-
sion in it which we hasten to supply. The finish
went thusly: “ The remainder of our story is soon
told. A month later an @ld man died of a broken
heart; whilst for years afterwards visitors to the
Parramatta Lunatic Asylum would feel much in-
terested in a patient who could only utter two
intelligible words—* To-morrow, darling.’ ” The
missing link was the phrase “That patient was
the author.”
No Petersham ratepayer gets a grain of
respect unless he keeps cocks that crow from mid-
night to sunrise, a brown dog that falls into the
neighbour’s well when the cocks begin to get
hoarse, and a few head of cattle that can open the
front gate with their horns and make a comfort-
able meal off pot-plahts. If, however, he can
secure a sore-backed horse that can walk up and
down the people’s verandahs at night, he is elected
an alderman by overwhelming majorities; but the
only chance for a mayoralty is to have a green-
painted spring-cart drawn by a one-eyed grey
mare, and to stick up the Leichhardt tram three
times between Camperdown and Kedfern.
The Newcastle Hanby gives a quotation
from “Lady Jane Montague.” Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu, dear boy, is the lady you mean. Such
an error as this would not have occurred in the
old days. Then Hanby was the ericyclopcedic—the
omniscient the bibliopolio Hanby. Then he
cracked a walnut or a problem in Greek with
equal ease and grace. We believe he even knew
Irish. At least, he always evinced a liquescent
prejudice that way. But now-on gont leg neiaeg
d’autani Still, Newcastle is enough to take the
literature and fair humanities out of any man.
Three days of it took all the lingering morality
and virtue out of us, and left us a phenomenon of
gaunt depravity. The eating-houses alone were
enough to make a man deny his sex.
The prosecution of Mr. Webb by Sir Henry
Parkos, for alleged oriminal libel, is set down for
the 17th Inst. Messrs. Salamons (Q.C.) and Want
are retained for the prosecution, and for the de-
fence Mr. Owen, Q.C., and Dr. Sly will appear. A
tremendous exposi is expected.
“The Australian Portrait Gallery ” is an
illustrated work of which the first part has just
been issued by the Southern Cross Publishing
Company of Sydney. The part contains two very
finely-executed portraits-one of Sir John Robert-
son and the other of the Hon. W. B. Dailey, both
being excellent likenesses. The rather variable
and difficult expression of Mr. Dailey is especially
happily oaught and preserved. A biography of
the conventional sort accompanies each portrait.
Mr. Macleod is the artist, and his work in this pub-
lication will remain a monument of his abilities.
The Ulerin, Watson’s latest 10-tonner,
hoisted twenty-five winning flags at the close of
the season in England, topping the list as far as
number of wins is concerned, and effectually
wiping out the hitherto invinolble Buttercup. It
is a fact—or else the Field is a perorater—that a
well-known “yachting lawyer ” here has the lines
of a 10-tonner from the same draughting boaTd,
designed about the time the Ulerin was produced,
whiob, if built on, ought to turn out a heeler. And,
on dit, another popular gentleman of the same
profession (what would the sport be without the
“yachting lawyer” and “yachting doctor,” de-
spite ‘ Selvage s little sneer ?) contemplates
acquiring something special of the; same class;
so that, perhaps, next season, if not this,
the Sirocco may have to look to her laurels.
By the way, it is said that a protest has been en-
tered against the Asteroid taking the cake at
Double Bay regatta for carrying amidst her crew
a well-known gentleman who, although he has
not followed the sea for some years, is obnoxious
to the Double Bay Club rules if strictly construed.
It is wonderful how one man can steal a horse
while another can’t look over a fence; it is notori-
ous that the winning boat in the yacht race car-
ried two hands whose presence was even a more
flagrant breach of the rules than the case of the
Asteroid. It is an unpleasant and thankless task
to protest even where the ease is a glaring one,
which is, doubtless, the reasoM why the Australian
is allowed to pocket the money in this instance.
All the same, rules are rules, and no one who en-
deavours to obtain an advantage over other com-
Eetitors .can grumble if they be enforced against
im in their integrity.
Lunch.— “ An ordinary cup of Fry’s Malted
Cocoa contains more of the active properties of
malt than a pint of the best ale or porter’’—Lan-
cet. 15d. per tin. A. Thorne, 380 George-street.*
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists,
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
triBtr.v is carried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Denta
Rooms, 104-8 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
Training.— “ An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Cocoa contains more of the active proper-
ties of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.”
—Lancet. Wholesale by George Griffiths and Co.,
Bridge-street.*
Mb. DbCouroy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-streot, Sydney. *r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a mat,ter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Palatable and Nutritive.— “ An ordi-
nary cup of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of
the active properies of malt than a pint of the best
ale or porter ’’—Lancet. 15d. per tin. S. Bennett
and Co., George-street.*
After war, pestilence, and intemperance,
colds lead to the greatest destruction of human
life, mainly in consequence of their being system-
atically neglected—“ let gO as they came ’’—until a
simple curable affection is converted into a serious
and generally fatal disease. It is better to take
care op & Cough or Cold from its incipiency, by
using.promptly Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, a remedy
thoroughly adapted to remove these complaints,
and equally effective in the primary stages of Con-
sumption, Asthma, and Bronchitis. To be had of
aa. druggists and storekeepers, and wholesale by
ELLf Qtt Bubs., Pitt-street, Sydney.
ADhSestible Supper.— “An ordinary cup
of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the active
properties of malt than a pint of the best ale or
porter’ — Lancet. 15d. per tin. Civil Service Co-
operative Society, Limited, Pitt-street.*
The British gentrlernan makes his apparel
a study, and a walk along Rotten Row is a treat
for those who admire a suit, perfectly fitting, and
elegant. The eight high-olnss cutters employed by
H. L. Summerfleld and Co., merchant tailors, 333
and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney, make the true West-
End fit their aim; and the firm, by direct importa-
tions from the leading woollen manufacturers, are
able to sell for £3 3s. a splendid suit to measure in
Sootch and West of England tweeds. Amongst
the new goods just received from their London
house, we notice the new chocolate and olive
worsteds, with the famous masher Bcotch checks
now so popular. Country residents are supplied
at Sydney prices, and a complete system of self-
measurement, with tape, styles, and patterns, sent
post free on application. H. L. Bummerfleld and
Co., merchant tailors, 335 and 337 Pitt-street.*


Branch Depot ».« ••• 23 ROYAL ARCADE*
Stables—Liverpool-street*
Head Office 21 HARBOUR STREET.
» ■ .
Dairy Factory—Mitta gong.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY, Limited.
HIE COMPANY is steadily increasing its business, and bas recently Enlarged and Improved its Freezing Apparatus. A
amount of money bas been expended on Extensive Additions to the Company’s TV orks, and the Freezing Rooms, Chill Rooms,
and Ice Rooms are now sufficiently large for all reasonable requirements. About 300 carcases of sheep and 50 of heel can be frozen
per diem the latter taking longer on account of the greater thickness. The butchers of the city have learned to take advantage of
the cold room rather than let an excess of supply spoil, after a sojourn in which it is good for at least three weeks. The fishmongers,
also are finding it is very handy and profitable to have a freezing room in the city. Should there be an unusually good display of
fish’in the lYoolloomooloo Market, it is bought up, and the amount not wanted for the daily supply is sent to the cold room, where the
charge made is only nominal. In two or three days’ time the supply may be scanty, and the fish worth just double as much as they
were bought for. A considerable amount of frozen fish is often taken by the morning trains to the Southern and Western towns to
sunnlv country markets. The great milk industry of the Company is carried on in connection with the freezing rooms. The milk
is brought by rail from Moss Yale, Bowral, Picton, Menangle, Camden, and elsewhere, in the Company’s own trucks, which are
specially fitted to carry a certain;number of cans about 5 feet in height and 18 inches in diameter. The trucks, which arrive twice
a dav run right into the building, and the cans, holding about 50 gallons each, are hoisted by machinery to a higher storey, where
their contents are first tested by lactometers and other scientific instruments, and then weighed in, just as the supply is subsequently
weighed out During winter, a considerable quantity is brought from Kiama by steamer. There is a screw at the bottom of the
cans through which their contents are made to run into large vats in the cooling room, in each of which is an agitator to prevent
the cream rising So low is the temperature in this room that milk can be kept perfectly sweet in it for two or three days, and even
longer A far°*e building has lately been erected, 120 feet long and 30 feet broad, where ice-makmg operations are carried on.
Here some very powerful machinery is erected for the production of clear, transparent Ice, by their new process. The ice is made
in effiht large wooden tanks, in each of which eight cells, made of two plates of iron 8 feet by 4 feet with three-quarter inch space
between them are placed, the tanks being filled with filtered water ; the cold brine is made to circulate through the cells, and the
water gradually congeals on each side of them, thereby forming large blocks 4ft. x 4ft. by 4 or 5 inches thick. These are hoisted
hv machinery from the boxes and cut up, also by machinery, into smaller blocks, to suit the requirements of customers. A cold room
is erected here also so that the ice made daily in the boxes is there stored until required for consumption. The Company imported
several Danish cream-separators for the dep6t at Mittagong and the Sydney factory. The seven large vats in which the milk is kept
and the agitators work hold about 900 gallons each, it being necessary to keep a good supply m stock. At the Mittagong depOt,
where there is also a freezing apparatus and cold room, surplus summer milk is converted into butter and cheese. A considerable
trade in this latter article know being done, special carts for its delivery being employed, and the cold room of the Company gives
it areat advantages over private dealers. Shoots from the large milk vats lead to the delivery-room, where the supply is weighed
out to the carts ° The importance of this branch of the business, in its relation to the daily food of the people, cannot be over-
estimated The Company commenced under great disadvantages, but Mr. T. S. Mort, the originator, whose genius has left many
mementoes in Sydney, was a far-seeing man, undaunted by difficulties. At first, 30 gallons per diem founded the trade; now 32
carts distribute over 1400 gallons daily. Another branch of the Company’s business is that of making ice, of which 20,0001b5. per
day and 2 1 million lbs. per annum are distributed. The ammonia process is in employ at the works, which are at the head of
Darlino* Harbour and have a water frontage with a wharf, besides direct communication with the railway by a line running right
through the buildings. The ammonia required is made at the works, and the necessary sulphate is from the gas-works. The engine
power’is continually being added to, and the number of shafts, belts, pipes, and pulleys to be seen at work is positively bewildering.
There are two engines, the sole work of which is to pump salt water from 150 yards away from the head of the harbour. Then
there are the pumps employed in sending cold water to various parts of the building. The fresh water used for the ice is all filtered.
In other parts of the works are workshops where all the repairs required are effected. The Company imports all the piping, &c., it
uses The stables, in which there are 70 or 80 horses, are entirely distinct from the works, and there is no possibility of the milk
bein' 0 * tainted by any effluvia or other influences to be ascribed to them. In this respect the establishment k unique in this colony.
The °chaff for the horses is cut by steam-power on the premises. The harness-maker has a busy time of it, and there is regular
employment on and about the works for 200 pair of hands. The milk, butter, and freezing businesses are all rapidly increasing,
as everyone who has the health of the people at heart must wish that they should. The offices of the Company are at 21
Harbour-street. It was formed in 1874, the late Mr. Mort taking a large interest in it, which is still held in his family. Mr.
W Gr Lock who has been connected with the establishment since' its inception by Mr. Mort, is now the courteous and business-
like manager for the Company. Under Mr. Lock’s management, the interests of the Company have prospered most satisfac-
torily and it is to be hoped that the gratifying success of the past may continue with them in the future.


ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“W.K.” (Shellharbor): The last mile was
slower than the first.
August Flower.—'The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dye-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
five per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Sour
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrasb,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands of
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you.. It costs only 3s. 6d. a
bottle. Sample bottles 6d.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A consulting-room Echo. “Well, how are
you to-day ? ” “My rheumatism has gone. I
rubbed my knee for an hour with your lotion.’’
•‘Tour knee? But you said it was your arm.”
“ It was, but the exercise cured me.”
Sold Every where.— “ An ordinary cup of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the active
ordperties of malt than a pint of the best alo or
porter.”— Lancet. 15d. per tin. Turpin, Black-
well, and Brian, Gcorge-street. *
A real philanthropist. Friend: “ Why on
earth do you keep nine servants ? What do they
do?” Philanthropist: “Do? Why, rob me.”
Friend: “Them;why don’t you discharge them
all?” Philanthropist: “If I did, they would rob
someone eise.”
Delicate Children.— “l highly approve
of Fry’s Malted Cocoa, and have ordered it largely
in my practice for delicate children and for con-
valescents.” Samuel Manghan, Esq., M.R.C.B.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street.*
In warm weather he pawned his overcoat.
When the cold winds set in he went to the pawn-
broker's. “ Have you come to take out your
pledge?” “Oh,hoi I haven’t the money; but>l
have come to ask you to put me inside my topcoat
to warm myself i bit.” \
Used in all English Hospitals.— “ The
combination of extract of malt with Fry’s Cocoa
meets the requisite indications of digestibility,
nutritive quality, and palatable character.”— Bri-
tish Medical Journal. Wholesale by E. Prosser
and Co., O’OonneH-street.*
JutigeM." Why don’t you pay this debt?”'
Defendant:' “f can’t. lam very poor, and I have
two sisters to maintain.” Counsel for plaintiff: “ 1
am ready‘to prove, yer Honor, that the defendant
is an ooiy child.” Defendant; “ Well, I didn’t say
they were my own sisters.”
Perfect 1 Cocoa.— “ Fry’s Malted Cocoa is
an excellent preparation of cocoa and malt ex-
tract. It is dried at a gentle heat to avoid injury
to the diastase; its dietetic and digestive value is
beyond all dispute, and it is very agreeable in
flavour ’’—Lancet. 15d. per tin. W. H. Soul and
Co., Pitt-street.”
Two Irish hodmen were carrying bricks
aloft: two Italian labourers were working below.
First Irishman: “Pat, what do ye think of the
guv’ner putting tbim Italian blaggards to work at
that aisy job below, while we hev' to work like
nagers up here in the sun?” Second Irishman:
“ I think, Mickey, it’s a burning shame that organ-
grindin’ divils should git work at all. whin daednt
Irishmen are going idle.” First irishman: “I’m
wid ye there. Pat; but that isn't what hurts me
most. It’s hurtin' to me feelins, it is. to think
that thim Italian divils down there is the stuff they
make the Papes nut av."
BreakfaSt.— An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Coeqacontains more of the no rive proper-
ties of malt than a pint of the best aie or porter ”
—LancET/. Iftri. per tin. Peato aud Harcourt,
George-Stnjei.*
Writes! pill Nye:—“ An erroneous phreno-
logist ohdß told me that I would shine as a Re-
vivalist, ahA said that I ought to marry a tall
blondfe With;.it nervous, sanguinary temperament.
Thuflhe siio, ‘One dollar, please,’ and 1 said, ’All
right, gentle scientist with a tawny mane, I will
give you the dollar and marry the tall blonde witb
a bank aponunt and bilious temperament when
you giV'e me a chart showing me how to dispose of
a brown-eyed brunette with a thoughtful cast of
countenance, who marri* d me in an unguarded
moment two years ago.” Be looked at mo in a
reproachful kind of way, struck at me with a
chair in an absent-minded manner, and stole
away.”
Build Up.—“ An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Cocoa contains more of the active proper-
ties of malt than a pint, of the best ale or porter.”
—Lancet. Wholesale by Barker ami James,
Market-street. *
Yung Sing Leo was an immigrant Chinee,
Botany was his location, and the rearing of veget-
ables his occupation. Born in the Celestial Em-
pire, the tates, at an early stage in his career, had
thrown him upon the shoreB of thia our colony,
and it is whispered that even then he was “fly”
enough to evade payment of the U6ua! £lO a nob.
Yung Sing Lee was a married man, and the celes-
tial olive branches appeared with a rapidity not
aurpa-sedby the radishes and onions on the family
estate. And the interesting offspring of this
industrious Chinee showed their love for their pig-
tailed parent by weeding the carrots and keeping
the cabbages and the leeks free from slugs and
caterpillars. But these youthful Mongolians were
not all sugar; and from time t.o time required con-
ciliating and cajoling after the manntrof youth
generally, and this artful Yung Sing Lee found
that nothing delighted them so much, nothing
rendered their good conduct for a week, at least,
a greater certainty than a trip to see all the
pretty things at Anthony Hord6r,n and Sons,
Palace Emporium, Hay market.*
A Delicious Combination. —“An ordinary
cup of Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the
active properties of malt than a pint of the best
ale or porter ”— Lancet. Wholesale by F. Butcher,
Clarence-street.*
INDIA CHIPS IN.
“Campbell Hospital, Sealdab, Calcutta, March 16,
1884:—Having heard of the bealing-and curative
powers of ST. JACOBS OIL in cases of sorw
throats, pains, &c., and suffering while in this In-
stitution with a sore throat, 1 obtained the per-
mission of the medical officers, who attended me
for small-pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in
stating that a single application gave me much
relief, and in three days, using the oil twice daily*
I felt rid of the sore throat. I have no hesitation
In recommending the use of the same to ethers,
and feel sure they will find the oil give instan-
taneous relief. I would also here mention that
with the sore throat I had a severe pain in tne
jaws, which was removed after only two applica-
tions of ST. JACOBSOIL.- (Signed) E. A.Perkiba.
Head Inspector of Post-offices.”
FURTHER POSITIVE PROOF.
Montague’s Fancy Basaar, 58 Princess-street,
Dunedin, 9th May, 1884- Messrs Neill Bros., P}ine-
din. Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in testify-
ing to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil in a severe
case of neuralgia in the face. After trying many
so-called remedies without obtaining reiiei,
nothing did me so much good. After two or three
applications the pain entirely disappeared, and am
glad to state I have had no return of the trouble
since. I cheerfully recommend it to others suffer-
ing from the same painful ailment. I remain*
dear sirs, respectively yours, Julia Montague.
HE SUFFERED ACUTELY.
D. Benjamin, Esq, the well-known wholesale
Jtwe'ler and Importer, DowliDg-street,. Dunedin*
writes cheerfully as follows :—Dowling-street*
Dunedin, 2nd May, 1884. Dear Sir, -Being a firm
non-believer in patent or proprietary medicines,
my testimony may be of some value to you. Last
week I suffered acutely from severe contraction-
of the nerves of the neck and shoulder. A inena
laughingly suggested St Jacobs Oil, and linyestw
in a bottle, rubbing it well in at i igbt before re-
tiring. The feeling of warmth and counter-irrita-
tion I experienced almost immediately was very
strong. And I am pleased to state that l »vok»
next morniDg with hardly any trace of pam.
second and less prolonged application cured me
completely. A bad chilblain on my ear was re-
moved with one rubbing. You may mention my
name as an authority on St. Jacobs Oil.,
I remain* dear Sir* faithfully yours.
D. IiENJAMMb
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index “P hv
secretaries of racing clubs and manager t or
sporting events in general. l
BACING.
Wyndham (V.) w^amW^fTlO
U lfllamßt n ownfv o j ” Y.V.V.V.'.’.V. • • November loi
Norton jT h B *°- 10.
;;.;:V. NO Novemberif: It:
So (V r XC - lSPri . n * , r. ! ' o November £Si
Tic.:::::::::::" November»,».
Gwydir R.C. (Annual)
Victoria Amateur T.C Ifi*
waiireDd j B c mmer) ;::;.v:::«i3S«SS
MjSSSvjfeorj'.V.V.V. SSSShIJ?'
SS5 p “ l
Tattersall's Club (Annual) taiiiSrv 1
V.R.C. Summer Meeting i s
Cootamundra T.C ■ | F ebr r ’i a i , 7 v»’ m*
Tasmanian K.C. (Summer) >eb p r S« r v 18 iq
Tasmanian R.C vfßrßn™ ik’l'Y
Murrumburrah T.C. <Annual)... ...iebruary lH l.t.
V.K.C. Autumn Meeting 1eb.28, March 5, 7.
AQUATICS. „ 1A
Balmain Regatta. ••••••• • SRlRmhcr in*
Lake Macquarie Annual Regatta November 10.
Gosford Regatta. ........ 10
Brisbane Annual Regatta lU>
Snail's Biy Regatta
Anniversary Regatta wShrn2v 7*
Hanlan v. Clifford Fnhrnarv 3^*
Clifford v. Beach F b sa*
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
ATHLETICS
Ltthgow Sheffield Handicap.... 5 0V ®~w «’
Athletic Sports. Copmanhurst, N° v ember 8.
Mansfield Athletic Meeting Novemher 10.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November R'.
New England' Athletic Club Sports ...November 10.
Wallsend Athletic Club Snorts November 8,10.
Hobart Athletic Association Meetmg.November 10.
Wolumla Athletic Club Sports 10.
Hawkesbury Athletic Club Sports, lO.
Temperance Athletic Sports, Moore Park,
Sydney November IU.
Athletic Sports,' Chats worth Island, CJar-
ence River .November 10.
Railway Hotel Athlete Sports. Gundagai.-iNov. 10.
Oddfellows Sports, Prince Alfred Park,
Sydney <. .’ November 10.
Camden Athletic Sports ■ ■ ■ • .November 10.
Riverine Athletic Club Sport?, Hay Race-
course December 20,27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney —January 1.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At Befl ford. Mass., TLS.A. (of course), a mail
years of ago engaged in a bicycle race. Splendid
lie, this.
In their last tour the Australians wen only
one match at Lord’s Ground, and that over a
moderate Middlesex eleven, while on the Oval
they did not suffer a single defeat.
Near London, H. Samuels and H. Stevens
fought for £3O. Although Samuels held a strong
lead from the outset, forty-nine rounds were
fought in 1 hour JO minutes before Stevens gave
in. *
The two-mile race between Alexander ana
Rowe came off on the Nepean, on Saturday last.
T’amily afl'iirs threw Howe out of his training, but,
nevertheless, he managed to win with the greatest
ease, by some Bix lengths.
In a fortnight, in the matches against the
Past and Present of Cambridge University, the
South of England, the North of England, and I
Zingari, gpofforth took 40 wickets for 494 runs, an
average of less than 11 apiece.
At Birmingham. W. G. George raced Snook
150) yards, and tried to beat the latter’s previous
record. George won by 20 yards, in 3min. 45sec„ or
lust 0 4-5 see. worse than Snook's previous per-
formance—which waa done in 3tnin. 38 l-o sec.
Thus an English paper Lawn-tennis
seems to hive somewhat taken the wind out ot
cricket: and if the Australians were to go for the
lirst-named Igaine, and meet England at Wimble-
don as it now ooes at Lord s, il lancy that it would
deal a terrfbTe blow to cricket.” We’d like to deal
a terrible blow to the man-or woman—who wrote
this par.
Jem Mace dies hard. He says he will goto
America shortly and challenge John L. Sullivan to
box four rounds. We expect it will all end in say.
Mace says he has picked out a gem of the first
water during his stay in England, in the shape of a
young giant, who is to knock all t*?? f ßt f h r ®
stripes off every one in America. But then he
said that of Herbert Slade.
The moral would seem to he that the
oftener new blood is introduced in these
the better,” remarks Truth, apropos ot the per-
formances of W. W. Read, scotton. Flowers, and
against the Australians. Which 13 about
the biggest oompliment imaginable to our men,
who have played practically the same team an
through a terrible long season.
The so-called English “amateur” bi-
ovclists. who are now On a visit to America, are
afleged to be in that country solely in the interests
of the machine-makers who*e steeds they ride.
The statement of which fact may act as a caution
to any young gentlemen in Australia who, while
wishing to pose as amateurs, are not averse to
combining business with pleasure.
The sooner the powers that be in connec-
tion with rifle-shooting adopt some sensible mea-
sure in picking their teams, the sooner we shall
have a show ot compelling the' Ca . bba^ e „ Ga^ e S®™
to plav second fiddle to our Ike Austins and Cap-
tain Bogarduses That the “style at present pur-
sued'by them is “wrong to blazes noes witbout
saying, when it leaves out such shots as M. Keat-
Tom Hill, the Birmingham amateur boxer,
who, during the course of the last four or five
years, has carried ah before him, among profes-
sionais a* well aa amoopr amateuip, intends shortly
to visit America, and “take on ’ anything, ama-
teur or professional, within a stone ot his weight,
gloves or knuckles, for £250 a side, money or
trophy. Hill said if no other “eligible could be
found, he would tackle the redoubtable Charley
Mitchell.
A well-known “sporting parson’ cnce
preached to his congregation from the texl. Now
Peter stood afar off. ’ After giving out the text
the worthy divine, who in his dayB
hold his own with the mittens against the best ot
’em, although he may not always make play with
such a lead in his sermons, requested to know why
tne apostle kept himself aloof, and•
irftitinar no' renly from his hearers, he himselt
supplied tne answer, and confidentially add ® d ’
“ Depend upon it, my brethren, Peter tunked a
bitl”
Just before the English champion, Collier,
started for bisnow celebrated one-mile swnn. in
28mtn. 19%3ec„ he anointed himself all over with
some oily substance. Collier, who is 2t years old,
stands s ft. «in. and weighs 10pt. 41b. He has
to W. Beckwith’s challenge for a one-mile match
in a bath for £5OO, that he doesn’t consider bath-
swimming a test of “championship speed. If
W. B. wants to swim for “ championship honours
he (Collier) will only be too glad to take him on
for one mile in open water for £5OO a side. Where
are the friends of our colonial champion ?
Only one man of our acquaintance was
lucky enough to drop upon Kufus for the Mel-
bourne Deroy. His wife dreamt she saw the race
won by a horse ridden by a jockey with a shock
head of scarlet hair. Various were the surmises
made as to what the brilliant red covering could
mean, until, in looking down the list of probable
starters, they dropoed upon Rufus and the correct
solution of the dream. Whether our friend will
hear of any more red-headed boys from his wife
we cannot say, but as she was at the time of
dreaming in an [Quite sufficient. —Ed. B.j
The game was cricket and the umpire didn't
come. A consultation took place, and eventually
the absent-minded man was persuaded to assume
the responsibilities of the office. All went swim-
mingly till a couple of batsmen, getting set. made
a stand of two hours’ duration. A far-away look
was in that umpire's eye, ana when at last one of
the batsmen was palpably out—leg before—and
the bowler triumphantly shouted, “ How’s that ? \
the umpire b andly remarked: “’Pon my soul, I
don’t know! w asn’t looking. But I say—have it
again!” The robins sing upon his monumented
grave. He was stumped 1
Let no one ever accuse “ Spoff.” of a want
of pluck. Not that, so far as we know, such an
indictment has ever been preferred against
Fweddy. In the Zingari match, when eight
wickets were down for 140, and ten runs were still
wanted to save a follow-on, “the Demon’* and
Midwinter took the matter in hand, knocked the
Zingari bowling “all over the shop,” and finally
beaded the English score by four runs. Spofforth
dismissed seven batsmen in each innings, and in
the whole match took fourteen wickets at a cost
of 185 runs. M’Donnell’s 67 in the second innings
was a brilliant performance.
Derbyshire played ten matches this season,
lost the toss ou every occasion and lost every
match. Truth suggests that instead of following
so fluky a test as the toss of a coin, it should be
settled by atrial of skill between selected members
of the opposing sides. “ Let the representative of
each eleven have a shot at the wicket from twenty-
two yards’ distance (the length of the pitch), and
then let the side of the winning thrower have
choice of innings. If both hit. let them throw
again: one will soon miss.” Thjs would suit Aus-
tralia very well, indeed. Get, for instance, Frank
Allan, who can hit a stump twice out of three times,
to throw for us.
When the Treasury last season defeated
the Audit Office in the football field, the “ dupli-
cate department” murmured, “Bide a wee until
the cricket season comes on, and we’ll wash out
the licking, or spill b’lud in the attempt. ( "be
long looked-for match came off after four o clock
on three afternoons last week, on the Surrey
United ground, Mnore Park, when the Auditors
made even a worse show than in the shin-barking
exhibition. The Treasury went in first and scored
129—H. Kllis 33. CouBens2s, Reilly 24. The Audits
then went in and made 87 —D. Grey, with 28, being
the onl* bat who made double figures. Tne Trea-
sury men then start* d for their second innings,
and when time was called for the finish of the
match had scored 115 tor eight wickets—R. Cleland
33, M’Kern 17, Page 22, Brewer 17, and Ellis 16.
The Toronto and tf.Y. papers aopear ut-
terly flabbergasted by Beach s defeat of Hanlan.
The Toronto Geo be sa)S that “it seems impos-
sible to suspect that now. aTter having reached the
zenith of fame, he would tarnish hi-* glorious re-
cord by * throwing ’ the race with Beach. It is true
the temptations must have been many.” 800-hoo
to you! The Toronto Maii. thinks that "either
Hanlan did not train properly, orcould not. There
is probably not a soul in Toronto who believes he
was beaten on his merits.” The N.Y. Herald
“thinks that the result does not necessarily imply
that Hanlan is losing his strength or his skill. Ho
was not ‘thoroughly acclimatised.’ The N.Y.
Tribune says “ h© must hav© been out ol conoi-
tion-” and the N.Y. Sun says that “even those
who’lost very heavily ny Hanlan s defeat do not
for a moment doubt tbat he did his best to win.
The Victorian Racing Club had fine wea-
ther and a argo attendance for the opening day ol
their Spring meeting. Bargo continued a big pot
for the Derby until the very lsst, but, at the finish,
Kufus put in an unexpected appearance some
three-quarters of a length ahead of David, Bargo
a lengtnaway third; and, loand behold, it came to
pass there was extreme jollification thereat
atnongs* the Yids. Malua romped in the wiuner ot
the Melb urne stakes; Favo started at 5 to 2 for
the Hothim Handicap, an.i justified the confidence
pi ced in him bv w nning hauda down from Hast-
ings: Newstead made an easy win of the Maribyr-
nong Plate Horn Monte Christo, Burrilda thud;
Royal Irishman annexed the Selling Race: and
Josephine defeated Duration for the Coburg
Stakes. Rut us by King of the Ring-Princess
Ali te, was backed pretty heavily for the Caulfield
Guinea 0 , but did uot run into a place, which no
douhtjaccounts for nis being such an outcast for
the Derby.
The gallant little Australian certainly de-
serves a par. all to herself. It is about twenty-five
years since Dan. Sheehy put the little clipper to-
gether, and it reily seems wonderful .that, after
all tnese years of wear and tear, we cannot find a
boat of anything like her tonnage able to lower
her colours. Last Saturday her topmast broke
short off, but, notwithstanding the mishap, she
romped home the easiest of winners; and
although the Sao might heather in a right down
close-reefer, there cannot be a doubt the old
Beaky is able to prove herself the daddy, or rather
the mammy, in nine days out of ten. The Austra-
iian has seen some rough work in her time, too.
We recollect when Mr. Graham—who is now P.M.
at Tenterfteld—owned her, a party of us started in
her with several dogs, for a shooting trip [down
the coast, it came on to blow great guns when
well out, and a gay time we had of it. We bat-
tened the dogs down below, and although she
shipped it green, she landed us all safe, none the
worse for a wet jacket.
Meek, the crack Yankee walker, baa turned
professional, in which connection, Dismal Jemmy
or the London Referee [Do you refer to ‘ Pen-
dragon ”?-Ed. B.] very truly remarks:. It is
always batter for a man to (Jo the honesty thing and
become a professional when he finds he can no
longer afford to remain an amateur. One or the
most wholesome stories to be found in connection
with cricket is that of Richard Daft, then by no
means the wealthy citizen he has since become.
Finding he could not remain an amateur con-
sistently with his idea of honour, Daft went at
once and without hesitation over to the profes-
sionals. In Daft s case it is an open secret that
offers of more money than he could hopo to get
among the players were made him in the event of
bis deciding to remain a ‘gentleman. How
strange the term ‘gentleman’ often sounds to such
as have had anything like experience of its sport-
ing uses! The true gentleman is he who does as
Daft did years and years ago—as Meek has done
just lately.”
Apropos of the wind-up match Smokers v.
Non-smokers, at Lord’s, the London D.T. remarks
that “ considering the prevalence ot the habit of
smoking, it does seem somewhat remarkable that
so many of the most prominent batsmen and
bowlers of England or Australia should be able to
rank themselves as abstainers from the fragrant
weed which, in the words of good King James, is
‘ hateful to the Dose, harmful to the brain, danger-
ous to the lungs,’ and many other terrible things
besides.” The D.T. goes on to suggest that the
presence or the best bats (Grace ana Murdoch) on
the side of the non-smokers and the best
bowlers (Spofforth and Palmer) on that of tbose
who “ blow a cloud, ’ may be used by the doctors
to frame an ingenious theory that proficiency
with the bat is the reward of tbose who do not
smoke, and who, therefore, do net voluntarily go
out of their way to render their nerves “ jumpy,
and, consequently, untrustworthy, at a critical
moment. On the other hand, the bowler, from
whom dash and variety, and tbat gift of nature, a
good eye, are required, does not need steadiness ol
hand in the same sense as the batsman. A good
“nervous” bowler would probably enjoy mo-
ments of inspiration when he would “ mow down
all before him." All the doctors’ theories will
not drive everybody to abjure henceforth the
“glowing ” bowl, as well as the “ flowing ” one.
“The Evolution of Cricket” is treated by-
Mr. Andrew Long in the current number of the
English Illustrated Magazine. Mr. Long
says the real strength of the Australians lies in a
department where no labour will enable us to
equal them, for “ the bowler is born, not made
and the Australians are born bowlers.” While
recognising the brilliancy of such batsmen as
Steel, Grace, and TTlyett, he is compelled to
acknowledge that the Australians “ have th** pull in
bowling, and in the universal power of run-
getting which pervades the team. In other
words, we suppose, Mr. Long thinks, but doesnt
dare to openly assert, that the Australians are
better bowlers and better batsmen, and, M an
almost necessary consequence, a “ darned sight
better all-round cricketers than the Henglishmen.
Or, let us say it again, in a way which won t rasp
against the jarred nerves of the genial Grace and
the hariistocratic ’Arris (’ow har you, melud?):
the Australians are born bowlers and the English-
men aren’t born batsmen. Apropos, that was a
truly terrible affair at (appropriate name!) Graves-
end, where his ludship, not content either with his
Kent victory or his leather-hunting on the 551 day,
got together an eleven of the South of England to
“ recover the ashes ’’ of home cricket and curry-
comb the kangaroo with a rake —and did it so
effectually that he was thrashed in one innings
with 107 runs to spare. The match-reports of this
truly shocking affair in the London dailies all
opened with a dirge bewailing the absence of W.
G. Grace, and wound up with a doleful sentence
hinting that nobodv could tell how the contest
might have gone had his ludship not been lame. A
lame excuse, indeed. Think of the ten English
wickets falling in an hour and twenty minutes
thus: 5, 15. 8, 5,4,1, 1,2, 4, 3-the balance being
represented by 20 extras made because Murdoch
kept wicket and the Australians went to sleep in
fielding.
It seems Farnan’s fame has crossed the
briny, as Sullivan is credited with having said that
he could “ knock out ” both Farnan and Greenfield
in one night; and, if Greenfield is no better than
the Victorian, we can’t see that it Would be a great
performance on the part of the American slogger
if he carried out his tnreat. Farnan may be a good
rough-and-tumble fighter amongst his own set,
but it makes us shudder when we picture him
before Sullivan—or even facing our own Larry.
By the way, a recent issue of the Melbourne
Sportsman stated that articles had come over
with the object of fixing up a match between
the pair, but we fancy Messoo “Androgoes ’ must
have been misinformed. Larry has offered the
Melbournian every inducement, and even said he
would throw in the champion belt won by him in
the ring, for a glove contest; but we have an idea
that Farnan will require a lot of coaxing before he
will agree to stand up before the Welshman. As a
matter of fact. Farnan has no science, and when
he fought Jackson m Sydney—we did not see the
Melbourne affair—the darkey was all over him
in the first round; but Jackson was very wild,
and struck half his blows with open hands, and ap-
peared afraid of his man. Should Farnan and
Foley meet, we shall not be surprised if Farnan
does not show for a second round. lolev is a
terrific hitter, fights for points, seldom throws a
blow away, and has a sledge-hammer right, with-
out which it would t*ke a man some time to knock
out a powerful stayer like Farnan. Talk about a
mother’s lullaby—it is nothing to one ot Larry s
right-handers. When Foley had his room in Pitt-
street, a Sydney jehu, a perfect brunette and any-
thing but a “mug” with the gloves, bearded the
lion in his den, and stated his opinion holey
couldn’t knock him out. The gloves were donned,
but it was a regular one-horse show. The dark un
led off, when Larry landed his left on the mark,
and as the blow brought his opponent’s head for-
ward, he met him with the right on the point of
the jaw. And the subsequent proceedings m-
i erested him no more. Nor us either, for in less
time than it takes a Rum man to put a quart out
of sight, the prospect of an inquest on the morrow
had Hashed upon us.
Up to one o’clock on Saturday last, the
weather looked anything but promising for the
Double Bay Regatta people, but later on, old Sol
struggled out, and with a spanking south-easter
blowing, the afternoon passed off in rare style.
Mr. Anslow, as umpire of the pulling races, did
not have a sinecure, as scarcely a race was rowed
without a foul occurring. Messenger, with 4a lb.,
had a “throw-in” for the All-comers, his stable
companion, H. Croad (35 lb.), who rowed into
second place, being unable to extend him. Ihe
Residents’ race, in light skiffs, fell an easy victory
to Chamberlain (30 lb.), but a really gallant strug-
gle eventuated between Rawlinson and Ireland
for second place, which ended in favour of Ka*-
linson. Ireland is a youngster, scarcely out of his
teens, and if he sticks to the game has every show
of making a Dame fdr himself. He rows in good
form, and reminds us very much of Matterson, but
like the Clarence River man, or rather boy, he
lacks swing. The maiden and junior double-sculls
both fell to F. W. Sharp, and C. Thompson,
a brother of '* Jacky ’ of that ilk. The Bal-
main Rowing Club crew came in first, but were
disqualified for jockeying the S.R.C. crew. We
fancied it rather sharp practice for Robertson and
Williams to start in a junior race; but events
proved that in sending in their entry they had not
at all underrated their powers. The senior double
sculls proved a soft thing for the M.R.C.—Seale and
Brett. The S.R.C. pair, Johnson and Kloster,
dashed off with the lead, while the “long un-
contented himself with a swing like a piece of
machinery, well knowing that ia a fully three-
mile course the leaders woulu have to come back
to him. Before a quarter of a mile had been
covered, the red and whites, without
passed tneir men, and the race soon resolved itself
into a procession with a rapidly-increasing space
between the component parts thereof. Brett
rowed in faultless style, and oUr amateurs, and
professionals, too, might well take a lesson from
him. The Australian fairly ran away from her op-
ponents for the yachts under ten tons, beating the
Bao by some five minutes, notwithstanding a mis-
hap to her topmast on the trip to Manly. The As-
teroid had a day to order, and made the most of it
by beatlDg the big half-deckers by some 7 minutes;
and the half-deckers,. 20 feet and under, resulted
in a win for the Nereus-a 20-footer put together
by amateur Golding, of Balmain. The Wanganella
unfortunately carried away her shroud-plate when
holding third place. Regina won the 16-ft. dingy
race; Donnelly and Sullivan’s creation, the Chance,
made small meat of the other canvassers; and the
Curlew, 18min., won the limited crew race for open
boats 20ft. and upwards-a race, by the way, with
which we have very little sympathy.


W. H. CHARD AND GO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
BYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCE 3 mado on WOOL or
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redlern, Alexander and Co., 3
Or eat Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over thp Agenoy for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRyImILK.
THE MCILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food £ Ice Co., Limited,
may be re lied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Eiutter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the uee of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk iwico daily, Bundays excepted,
when only morning* delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. 31 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory .. Mittagong.
CUT THIS OUT.
B
you
Y cutting out this COUPON, and sending
it. accompanied by Post Office Order,
will receive a
SPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-known makers)
for £5 ss. ; or a strong, serviceable, genuine
Waltham for £3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 5 years 1
Note the Address:
C - GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 Gcor»e Street, Sydney.
Established 1878, ,
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
ME Ml nil,
' J ' >*'
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
y. to
No. 3 Hunter-street,
BECONI> DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson&Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOMS.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at ss. PER YARD
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
THEY HAVE ARRIVED!! !
The Yankee Rubber Babies,
GO in the waistcoat
pocket, yet can be in-
stantly enlarged to Life Size,
resembling life, for like the
real article it coos at plea-
sure, yet screams awfully
'if smacked. Experienced
fathers are deceived by
these laughter-producing
infants, and no home can be
a really happy one without
their cheering presence.
Post free, Is. 6d.
I’m a Daddy; I’m in Love;
The Mother-in-latf; I’m a
Farder; and Before and
After Marriage. The fun-
niest pictures overissued, 5
in each set. Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets tor 25.; by
post, 2s. 2d. „ .
The Three Donkeys. The newest have out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d. . , _ ,
The Wizard of the North’s Enchanted Pack of
Cards, used by Professor Anderson in his world-
renowned tricks. Is.; by post. Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter foliow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d. . . , ' , „
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each. , „ . , ~
The Puzzle Purse, an ingenious affair ; get the
money out if you cap. Price, Is. 6d.; by post, Is. Bd.
The Lucky Pocket Book, or Never Broke ; wins
more money than a racehorse. Price, Is.; by post,
Is. 2d.
Address all orders plainly to HOKTON and CO.,
401 George-street, Sydney. P. 0,, Box 641.
IN
f °UR
STORED
&
Ks
W®R{6oRt>B
y-MK:
t> o
lie only inramme remedy for
' //ERybi/s JjebiLi jyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
&s.: if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,»
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georgs-street South.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
Cm Mon 111 CD.,
375 Georga-st., Sydney.
HP TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
THE FEDERAL ART UNION.-To be Disposed
of by Subscription, on the Art Un'on prin-
ciple. by permission of the Honorable the Attor-
ney-General.
£5OOO WORTH OF PICTURES,
in 10,000 Shares, of 10s. each.
Ist pr ze, valued at £500: 2nd ditto, ditto £4OO ;
3rd ditto, ditto £3OO ; 4th ditto, ditto £2OO ; st'i
ditto, ditto £lOO. 5 prizes, valued at £5O each,
£250 : 10 ditto, ditto £25, £250 ; 20 ditto, ditto £2O,
£4OO ; 60 ditto, ditto £lO, £6OO ; 400 ditto, ditto £5,
The drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected by the
subscribers, who will receive notice by three
advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily Tele-
giaph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon as
two-thirds of the subscribers have been obtained.
When the drawing day has once been decided
upon there will be no further postponement.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over-valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer sellim? their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drftwiDff#
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in full to the subscri-
numbers will be advertised in all lead-
ing papers.
Amongst the pictures is a “View on the
Thames, by Varley, the eminent artist—for 50
years or more in the house of the late Sir George
Stephen, Knight, Q.C., Deputy-Lieutenant of the
county of Buckingham, from whose sole surviving
executor it has been purchased. Authenticity of
this picture guaranteed by certificate from the
hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G - , Lieuten-
ant-Governor.
Send crossed cheque, P. 0.0., or stamps.
Apply to J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
61 King-street, or Box 606 G.P.0., Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that an early date may
be fixed for the drawing. All prize-winners will
be written to and the winning numbers lorwaidtd.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
is>
i.
m
copyrighted.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all tliat it claims to do."
CJr-Its purpose is Solely for the legitimate healing of disouse
and the relief of pain. It is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all thoso Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
CT^'Ladies, it will under all circumstances, act in harmony
with the laws that govern ycur system.
C3*Thut feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A CREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
CS'ltis a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales are
unprecedented. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.«£3
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
jjajflt revives tho drooping sDi-rits, invigorates and har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
tho step, restores the natural lustre to tho eye, and plants on
the pale cheek of woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
curly summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
(£s=*For tho cure of Kidney Complaints of either sex this
Cpmpoumli s unsurpassed.^)
Mrs. Travers’ 4 ‘Guide to Health” will be mailed free to any
ladysendimr stamp. Letters eflnquiry confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed free from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. 80x,907, Sydney.
MRS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of tho Liver. Price 2s. fid.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. VST CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, ror
4|d. Eourpence halfpenny. 4|d.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,. BULLARDj 343 Qeorgo-street.
C. B. MODlttl,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
w- TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Kities, Revolvers, Ac. All goods will bo faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship. , . . .
N B —Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Obbornb ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, o 1 Brescia. Italy.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
-a
.v-
-"
:
1 J
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WAKE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market street*, Sydney
pr Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
JSther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering 1 , by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 70G, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
<N
M.R
m
A\
2
elt
iL
uo.ijPynmtf?}
pnpjjsn
tsnS'fiTi
%.
r>gr
VW
yt'j
<3
m
mj wo /jfjQ
/ ,>in joj
,r, ojmjL
SS9U
o } )upm no,
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
O
F all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best.
1 MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
They were awarded GOLD
nATTi kf un AT O XTT7 W 717 A T AXT TV
are
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
bottled and shipped
in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:


MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
109 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
I have tasted the Bavarian Hop Bitters;
they are palatable, and being- aware or their com-
ponents, I should say wholesome, and suitable for
those conditions of the liver and stomach that
require herbal stimulants.
J. H. WEBB, M.R.C.S., Eng.
Far, far better for you than beer, ale or
porter, and free from the intoxicating effects, is
Hop Bitters. Head.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Malted Cocoa.— “ An ordinary oup of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the active
properties of malt than a pint of the best ale or
porter.” lod. per tin. All chemists. *
The Melbourne Cup race is decided, and
the next thing worth seeing is the delightful col-
lection of chinaware and crockery at Bray
Brothers, 403 and 404 George-street. The toilet-
sets, at 255., are selling like hot cakes on a winter’s
day.*
One of the greatest troubles of maternal
life is to properly clothe the rollicking boys at a
moderate cost. There is only one bouse in N.S.
Wales that makes boys’ clothing a distinot feature
of their trade. Messrs. H. L. Summertield and Co.,
the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335 and 337 Pitt-
street, Sydney, have a magnificent stock, made
from their celebrated wear-resisting fabrics, and
manufactured under the supervision of their
London house, 51 and 53 Leadenhall-street, E.C.
These goods cannot be excelled for fit, style, and
workmanship, are beautifully trimmed, and
stamped with the firm’s brand. A few job lines in
boys’ school suits, sizes 000 to 6, at Bs. lid. Sac
trousers suits, for boys and youths, from pure
Bliss tweeds, at 215., 255.. 30s. Eton suits, made of
pure wool worsteds, at 455. Illustrated catalogues
sent, post free, on application. H. L. Summerfleld
and Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 337
Pitt-street. *
Special.— “An ordinary cup of Fry’s
Malted Cocoa contains more of the active proper-
ties of malt than a pint of the best ale or porter ”
—Lancet. Wholesale by H. P. Palser, York-
street.*
jpIUBNITUEH SHOW BOOMS
BRADLEY. NEWTQN, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRB, LARGE ASSORTMENT. 3
LIBRUHTfurNITURE, CENTRE and'siDß
. TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
nr;APING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. '
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newtop, and lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, SuT
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley
newton, and Lamb.
MjSjmmop Sahlhs, 0 Q strong Hand:
SOME STANDS, lor clubs, restaurants
Bmomng* rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complote in various wood!
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
SShTa I r a at « varl ety A> BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
T J?® lot for £s - BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
pmte-giass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE.
swing j glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUpl
BOARD, and ,3 CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from ioT
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
iJressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. Gd •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s!
s®dar from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
™ .7 rr £ m *».; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310a.; Clothes Horses, from lOs.Ud.; Writing
rrontt 60s. BRADLEY
Tables , ul^My
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring add O’Connell streets.
-r
|)\a
’ 'H
( >
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
PWOtl strong, and durable, Triohord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Bfleives; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and T.AMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, «c.
f'IHEf'FONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Vy just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
£ £ CAS I O N A L CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upnolstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
N|!VER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
“ocfeoNAirCHAIRS.-
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ices, from 13b 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CH AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
Toilet pairs, namely, dressing-table,
With swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
Vx^ Eß^a N t»? L ' COUCH, EASY CHAINS, CARV-
ING and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-strcet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAII^
' Patented.
n
D
S
m
r -- ---
-3
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice vena, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The friyjies are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durablW’Kud light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, anTi occupying only four inches in thickness
when fcjctod. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
FRAME WORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
THB VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O'Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
, new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEM^NG;-— descriptions at lowest rateiu
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
i7"ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 255. each
r BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
, INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low ost prices.
SOCIAL
On the 24th Oct., a most pleasant evening
was spent in the Assembly Hall, under
the auspices of the Social Kecreation Club. Some
well-known gentleman of the town and families
round the district conceived it well to meet for
recreation, and the evening was the more harmo-
nious because a tine aew Ascherberg had been
lent by Mr, Cblville Smith, and among the twelve
dances were interspersed several vocal and instru-
mental selections of music. Mr. Bailey, of the
Heka-LD, sang “ Letme like a soldier fall ” in such
style as to convince everyone that if he hadn’t
been made an editor, he would have been a hero.
“ The Nightingale’s Trill ” was deliciously solo’d
by a fair one of 18 summers; Miss Minnie Leary
gave a capital piano piece, and Mr. J. A. Smith, a
tine baritone song, “ Hark the drum,” Mr. Machen
adding a comic dirge. As there is a penchant in
the district for fancy dress, cards were worded
accordingly, and two ladies attired as the Press
Were conspicuously tine. One dress was of navy
blue satin, elaborately made, with waterfall back;
the other, old gold satin, with Bcru lace, trimming
of golden shades, also lilies, sunllowers and daisies.
One young matron was attired to represent
Madame do Pompadour, whilst a charming demoi-
selle with bright eyes and nez retrousse personified
Lady Teazle. Then there was a damsel of stately
Kiien from Cootamundra, who posed as America,
and found many admirers. Mrs. Bailey wore a
gem of cream satin—a very handsome evening
costume. During an interval, Mr. Weekes made a
short address stating that it was contemplated to
form in connection with the Social Recreation
Club, other branches, such as lawn tennis, bowls,
archery, glee singing, dramatics, and to have pic-
nics, and nearly all present promised to support
the plan. The company partook of light refec-
tions, and about 2 a.m. the National Anthem closed
a tine evening’s amusement.
* * *
So artificial is society to-day that the very
mention of gymnastics for girls will shock the ears
of many a “tine” mother, The idea of gymnastics
is associated with visions of ill-bred romping and
vulgar strength, which they could never tolerate
In their doll-like daughters. The calisthenics at
aehool must only be of the mildest character;
Otherwise Arabella might get to be rudely health-
ful, and possibly even active, and then, of course,
she would be spoiled for all fashionable purposes.
In view of such a catastrophe, “tine” mothers
frown on girlish gymnastics. But for years past,
though only in a limited circle, a ladies’ gymna-
sium has been going on in Melbourne, and quite a
number of fashionable girls have been spoiled.
Their training has had such a disastrous effect that
many of them can run and jump, and even stoop.
Some have been known to walk as much as a mile,
straight away, heel and toe. It is very unjust to
cabmen and car-drivers that such things should be
allowed; but it shows how emancipated Melbourne
girls are getting. Only a few days ago, a fashion-
able audience gathered in the Town Hall, to gaze
on the melancholy sight of some sixty of these
misguided girls going through physical exercises
which are sure to rob them of that utter helpless-
ness which young ladies ought to cultivate in
modish society. After an exhibition of marching
to time, genuflexions, and exercises with rings,
dumb-bells, and clubs, the girls were actually en-
couraged by Lady Clarke distributing prizes
amongst them, in the absence of Lady Loch, who
could only give her patronage. But the worst is
not yet told, for, after the prizes and refresh-
ments, several ladies not only approved of what
they had seen, but positively made speeches in
public advocating that girls in general should have
more exercise. Everyone knows that when a
woman speaks in public she unsexes herself. Sad
to say, this health heresy, this foolish fancy about
exercise being good for girls, seems to have
broken out in London. At the Health Exhibition
there, a number of young ladies, who ought to
have been lolling about on parlour sofas reading
Bow gave a show of gymnastics, which the
Princess of Wales was deluded enough to pro-
nounce pleasing. Even the illustrated papers
drew pretty pictures of them, which made them
look real little divinities in close, easy-fitting
dresses; with the designing intention, no doubt, of
getting people to regard gymnastics favourably.
But heaven l’orfend that the Sydney girl should
permit anything to disturb her statuesque repose.
Thursday evening, October 30th witnessed
one ot the largest gatherings lately seen in Tenter-
field, at the plain and fancy dress ball in aid of the
the hospital. There were 100 couples present, who
kept up dancing with great spirit, to the excellent
music rendered by Mrs. Kelly at the piano. Notice-
able among the fancy costumes were two sisters
dressed as lted, White, and Blue, and Pinafore. A
young lady from a neighbouring station looked
well in the costume of a Spanish Lady. A fair
ypung lady, in the costume of a Schoolgirl,
daughter (of a townsman, shewed to advantage;
and a talented singer wore a very pretty dress, in
her character as Daisy Queen. Two married sisters
were well suited in their characters as Queen of
Roses and Black-eyed Susan. A fair youDg lady,
daughter of a station-owner residing in town,
looked really charming in white evening dress,
decked with flowers. The refreshments were
supplied by the ladies of the town, who worked
very energetically, and they expect to hand
over a good sum towards the hospital.
* * *
Last week, the Mechanics’ Hall at Narra-
bri was crowded to excess at the fancy ball.
Ladies' dresses were charming, and we’re almost
alraifl to mention who was belle, for fear the
others will go for the poor girl. Nancy Lee’s be-
witching costume, however, held more beauty
than falls to the share of most girls. Some gentle-
men looked ill at, ease, and one from tne opera of
‘•Maritana” Naah-ed his teeth effectively at sup-
per; wnilethe gentleman who figured as Captain
Corcoran looked as sad as South used to when ho
struck a poor show town. A Jester was positively
funereal—perhaps grieved at the loss of his calves.
The P-M. danced vigorously, and some of the rail-
way officials, not having evening costume at hand,
came in day costume. Of course, this was an ad-
vantage going home in the morning; it saved
changing. # ®
Saturday’s weather was most unpromis-
ing for the Double Hay Regatta, and when the
Emu left Circular Quay very few were on board.
But the afternoon lined later on, and a good num-
ber of visitors went off from Double Bay wharf to
the flagship. Mr. Trickett, and other well-known
aquatic men, as well as a bevy of ladies, graced its
deoKs, where the Vernon band played a selection
of music. The Bay itself was one of the prettiest
sights imaginable, crowded with scudding, white-
sailed boats, skill's, and craft of all kinds, and the
racing was well carried out; but the bright sight
of ladies’ gay drapery fluttering to the breeze
could hardly be looked for in such uncertain
weather. Mr. W. C. Stafford, as hon sec., care-
fully arranged everything to the best advantage.
* * *
Flower shows are quite fashionable in the
country. There was a grand one in the Oddfellows’
Hall, Tumut, netting about £4O for the Mechanics’
Institute. Simpson’s band played, and Mrs. M.
Marks was chief musician among the ladies. As
the opener said the refining influence of flowers
would raise men’s minds above a mere sordid in-
terest in pounds, shillings and pence, the flower
show would be particularly beneficial to Tumut
people. Then Mudgee has had a floral fete, the
chief peculiarities of which were that the local
editor quoted all the poetry about flowers he could
recollect in time for next issue; and an individual
burdened with the awe-inspiring name of Schlach-
ter gave a prize to be awarded by public ballot,
which is a good idea. It was for best floral device,
and the highest marks were won by Miss Lowe,
Misses Miller and Cox coming next. Two nice
Mudgee girls also combined to give a smoking cap
to the bachelor who produced the best lady’s floral
necklet. Wagga has just had its best show, and
Miss M. Pulver took three prizes.
• • ■
A crowd of beauty in the flowered hall,
Crushes and blushes at the Ladies’ Ball!
With gentle pen, that not a soul shall vex,
Do we record the triumph of the sex!
That sex of whom, while on life’s troubled sea,
Our ttrst fond memories were—our last shali be.
When we were, O! so little, young, and soft,
Still “trailing clouds of glory ” from aloft,
How well we recollect, all things above,
The emphatic tokens of a mother’s love;
How oft, to stop our flow of pearly tears,
She first would Kiss us, and then—box our ears.
She taught us early, but yet not too soon,
The benefit it was to “ have a spoon.”
Quite readily we still oan call to mind
How, with that sweet uncertainty that marks
her kind,
Woman would mix up coaxes, kisses, slaps,
When we were littlest of all tiDy chaps.
Next, we remember that as “ little girls ”
The sex appeared—they seemed all legs and
curls,
No steel .then cased their young and yielding
ribs,
They wore white “ pinnies,” and told awful flbs.
All heaven’s innocence seemed in their eyes,
But yet we rather scorned them at that size.
Till, older grown, ah! age of dreams and kisses.
They bud as Byron’s “ bread and butter misses.”
Then at their present stage, the best of all,
Star-constellations at the Ladies’ Ball;
Like bright-eyed L’Allegro, all “ nods and becks
And wreathed smiles ”-0, cheerful, charming
sex!
The room is full of swiftly circling forms,
And youthful pleasure many a fair cheek
warms;
Here, well bedight, delectable, serene,
The sex in all its conscious power is seen;
Here, creamy garment falls in furling folds,
As if ’twere jealous of the gem it holds;
There, riehly wrought, the fern-like spray of
gieen
In silk device on satin’s lustred sheen;
Here, pearly coronal blonde beauty decks,
There, crimson roses glow on snowy necks;
Mark how the voice, sweet, silvery and low,
The corsage bouquet, and the cunning bow,
The saucy eyes, the deftly managed fan,
All help to subjugate the weaker man.
Out o’er the balcony above the street
The hum of voicos and of shuffling feet,
Tbe rune of waltzes like some tuneful sigh,
Float out, ascend, and fade beneath the sky.
If there was any fault at the ladies’ ball, it was the
simple one of the room being quite full. The
number present might be taken as an evidence of
the attractiveness of Glebe girls; and their fault
was one which all ball promoters aim at, but few
achieve. Having enjoyed the Glebe Point private
assemblies through the season, the ladies thought
a graceful recognition would be a return ball, and
the committee who made the ball so brilliantly
successful on Friday night were Mrs. F. H. Reuse,
Mrs. Sullivan (hon. treas.), Misses Bull, Long,
PaddJe, L. Haslingden, Lomer, F. Wilson, and
Josephine Bull (hon. sec ). It must be understood
that the ball was not given merely to a committee,
but to all the gentlemen members of the as-
sembly, which made it a large undertaking and
expensive. Yet such was the result, that it
is expected a considerable surplus will go to the
Children’s Hospital. So that others besides dancers
will be grateful to the Glebe ladies. Punctuality
was observed, the hall being well tilled by half-
past 8, and soon after crowded. With Messrs.
Needs, Herman, and Blanchard at piano, violin,
and cornet, the music was fine, and the bon. se-
cretary of the ladies’ committee added a delightful
waltz, one or two otheis also obliging. Compag-
noni catered, and cloak-rooms were provided up-
stairs for ladies, and down-stairs for gentlemen.
Tne decorations of ferns and flowers, flags, etc.,
had all been arranged by ladies, and pot-plants
were placed along tbe edge tf the platform, while
a large “Welcome” was worked in white and
scarlet above. To indicate any of the fair partners
as better than others would in this case be hardly
fair, since, having attended the assemblies, almost
all were skilful dancers; and, as to toilets, ladies
are not likely to display anything novel at the end
of the season, but they were all excellent. There
was not even one that would, in the critical lan-
guage of the sex, be called “a sight.” All the
committee wore tri-coloured streamers, and the
duties of M.C. were undertaken by that evergreen
and renowned bachelor, Mr. Robert Fairweather.
Lady Loch’s garden party at Government
House, last week, gave Melbourne feminity a fine
opportunity to display its new Spring millinery
and apparel. White and cream dresses were most
plentiful, dainty lace skirts over light-coloured
lining, and lace-trimmed hats. One titled lady,
who is always modishly dressed, wore a soft deep
red, with vest of lace; but this was exceptional.
Lady Loch herself wore a soft silken white,
studdod with raised silk dots, and trimmed with
white silk embroidery and lace; also a small Pierrot
bonnet of maize velvet and lace, with black lace
butterfly as its only ornament.
* * *
Our apartment is festooned with vine
tendrils, which creep confidingly in through gothic
apertures in the window-panes, and is shaded by a
gossamer-veil of cobwebs thoughtfully preserved
to ensnare the buzzful fly that oft disturbs our
musing moments. On the wait hang a tooth-brush
and a claw-hammer and an almanac—and will
eventually hang ourselves; but it is on the
almanac that we are gaz.ng with humid eye. For
with regretful fingers we have just now marked
the passing of a red-letter day—one of those days
which send us back sorrowfully to the work-a-day
world, burdened by pleasant memories and an
utter inability to reckon up our cash. It was at
Balmain, on the night of the 31st, “the way was
dark, the wind was cold,” but we plodded on, for
we were sure of a welcome—of pleasant hand-
shakes and of sunny smiles. The occasion was a so-
cial given by those experienced Thespians,;the local
dramatic club. The inclemency of the weather,
together with the rain, prevented many from at-
tending, conspicuously absent being two fair and
Well-known faces, and one very familiar—but
you’d hardly call him fair—he, too, was other-
where. We allude with tears to Captain Gingah.
Notwithstanding drawbacks, however, the dance
progressed merrily, and a programme of 20 dances
was religiously observed. The Misses Jones were
there—all there—one in pink, and the other in blue
satin with short sleeves, and all the little fascinat-
ing accessories of flowers, lace, &c. Miss Hanby
wore a tastefully-made cream satin dress. An-
other lady appeared in a pretty costume, which
had a bright blue satin bodice and ruffled collar
of the same material, and a fleecy white skirt that
must have been delicious to dance in. A youthful
resident of the district, bearing a German name
which we can’t spell, looked to great advantage in
a cool white costume. Miss Davis wore mauve
satin and muslin—or was it muslin? we forget;
but it was terribly effective, so the end was at-
tained. Two ladies from the Shore were charming
in white satin ornamented with pearls and flowers.
Refreshingly cool and bright they looked, and
there wasn’t much difference to be observed when
they crossed the water somewhere about break-
fast-time next morning. There must be a some-
thing revivifying in the bright colours and odour-
ous blossoms on a woman’s dress which the meaner
sex, in its sombre regimentals, lacks—or how do
the girls keep up ?
• • •
On Thursday, Sir W. and Lady Olarke, of
Ruperfswood, gave a fancy ball in the Melbourne
Town Hall, which eclipsed in grandeur and mag-
nitude; anything ot the kind held there for years.
Over one thousand guests were present, represen-
tatives coming from nearly every colony, and the
great majority wore fanciful costumes. Of course,
all the usual accessories, such as furniture, mir-
rors, flowers, liquors, music, were provided at
lavish expense. The reception of so many guests
was a rather trying ordeal for the host and host-
ess, and especially' so aa attention had to be
5* a constant strain too recognise familiar
triends in such fantastic and unfamiliar
auise; and sometimes even the announcement of
the name almost sucggeste d a mistake in identity.
However, ceremony is tone penalty which a rich
entertainer has to p>ay to ‘society. Those who adu-
late him demand at leas t that much. There was
the usual number of common characters, court
costumes, peasants, sail ors, and so on; but also
some novel and very beautiful ones. The trio of
Governors, Sir H. Loch, Sir W. Robinson, and Sir
G. Strachan, all wore evening dress; Sir William
Clarke, himself, the uniform of the Victorian Yeo-
manry. Lady Locb. was in evening attire, so was
Lady Michie. Lady Clarke appeared in the
character of Marie Antoinette in a trained
dress of pink brocade, with pale blue silk
petticoat, and a dazzling display of diamonds.
Miss Clarke was IE 'awn; Miss Ethel Clarke, Twi-
light; Miss Bella Cl arke, a Hornet, in brown satin
and gold braid win gs, and a waist contracted as
far as convenience would allow. Miss Grice was
original as the Futu re Footwoman, and Miss Ethel
Moore chose the character of Beatrice Cenci,
surely a peculiar choice. Elaine, from Tennyson’s
Idylls, was a really beautiful conception. Captain
ges Vceux was in > Indian military dress : Sir
Patrick Jennings, evening; Mr. Byron Moore
raced round as a.Neapolitan Fisherman; Sir A.
Michie, Court dress: Sir F. Murphy, a Disbanded
Volunteer; Mr. ,Cosmo Newbery, an Astrono-
mer’s dress, whatever that may be; Sir A.
Nicholson, Cavalier of Henry IV.; Lord William
Neville, as Edward VI.; Mr. J. B. Were, Danish
Consular dress; Miss Raleigh, Empress of China ;
Ladv Nicholson, Maltese Lady; Lady O’Logblen,
Ve Olden Time; Mias O’Loghlen, Going to Market;
Mrs. Shanahan, Thn Woman in White; Miss Snod-
grass, as Hope, worn a dress of white satin trimmed
with gold cord and the emblematic anchors; Lady 1
M’Mahon, Spanish Lady- Lady Murphy, Lady of
Queen Bess’s time; Mir. Fitzgibbon was Leonato,
and Mrs. Fitzgibbon, Beatrice; Miss M’Farlane was
Marie Stuart; Miss He nty, Starlight. Such areia
few of the chief characters.
** * *
Braidwood Skating Rink having closed,
members handed over the balance to their secre-
tary, Mr. Abbott. Skaters can’t be expected to
keep their balance... At a fancy fair in Dubbo, for
a’church, “several new ideas were introduced.”
We thought churches had exhausted every means
of getting money long ago. There must be genius
in Dubbo—At Grenfell sports, on Monday, a prize
for the best-looking man on the ground. Most of
The Bulletin staff wiil be absent for a few
days A Social Club starting at Inverell..
At King’s School sports, a boy’s colours were
“ underdone mutton and cold gravy,” but sheep’s
head and sauce would have suited him better..
In Wellington (N.Z.), an Oriental bazaar was fitted
up to resemble a street in Cairo, and the ladies
dressed in the costum es of Egypt, Palestine, and
nearly all the Eastern countries—except Moab.
Mr. G. V. Wareham, choir master for years at All
Saints, Petersham, pres< rntised...Exhibition opened
in Melbourne to celebrate Victoria’s fiftieth civi-
lised anniversary... Sir H. Parkesjleased Mr. Fuller’s
residence at Parramatta. Going to live there
Cammeray Football Cluto concert last Friday drew
a fine audience to St. Leonards School of Arts,
and the club were fortunate to have two such
charming singers as Jennie Lee and Mrs. Camp-
bell Williams—Cycling popular at Mudgee Mr.
Coates, of Parramatta, gave his annual
picnic. Harbour trip. Cumberland band, bail at
night ... Cumberland Fruit-growers’ annual picnic
to Manly last week—About fortylcouples present
at Convent Ball, Bombala, to help the building.
They ought to give a ball in the convent after It
is built. That’d be the fun On the 39th Oct., a
pretty wedding at Kiama— Miss Whittingham, of
E. S. and A. C. Bank, to Mr. Pinhey, of Commercial
Bank, Sheliharbour. Five nice bridesmaids, break-
fast at Mrs. Whittlngham’s, dancing till morn, and
honeymoon at Sydney. There’s room for a joke
here about Pinheys and pinnies; but it’s rather
soon to think about it yet ...Ladies getting up
ball to open the new Hospital at Tamworth sug-
gested the clergymen should help them. Clerics I
rebuked the impulsive ones—Hon. Henry Miller
gavd a large ball in Melbourne on Monday night.
Last night, the Governor’s ball occurred. Next
Monday, Dr. Beaney gives a ba11....At the gym-
nastic exhibition given in the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, the lissom lassies wore short white sateen
dresses, with sashes of Oxford or Cambridge blue,
with Garibaldi bodices and blue sailor collars.
Pretty ?.... At the Balmain Assembly ball on Fri-
day, 7th iDStant, a pleasant gathering is expected.
Good music is engaged, and dancing, which begins
at nine, will be kept up till 5 a.m., so that city
visitors may catch the first ferry Mr. and Mrs.
Baumann gave an eveniDg’s pleasure to their em-
ployes and a few friends last Friday. Dancing up-
stairs; music and singing; and, when all sat down
to supper, brief speeches indicated very general
enjoyment —At the Melbourne Owl ball, there
are prizes for the handsomest costumes and best
original characters—On 37th ultimo, there was a
bail to celebrate the centenary of Sir Moses Monte-
flore, at Ballarat. The Mayor proposed the health
of Sir Moses, and the jftev. J. M. Goldreich replied.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Tenterfleld Ball ” : Thanks “ Pilgrim ” •
Adapted “Flying Fox”: Two accounts
merged.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Glebe Bowing Club Soiree November 6.
Assembly Bali (School of Arts, Bal-
main) November 7.
Messrs.Needs’ Social (Nithsdale) November 10.
Balmain Regatta November 10
Lady Loftus’At Home November 15.
Produce Merchant’s Pionio (Botany)..November 30.
Return Ball to the Mayor November 36.


Madame Theo has been accused, of possess-
ing the most magnificent arms and ‘shoulders of
any lady on the stage.' At any rate, she is a beauty
in every sense, and hdr dresses are intensely cun-
ring. Not long ago, a reporter interviewed her
(and Theo usually conciliates the press). He found
the famous actress in a close-fitting dress of voUt
rcHaieuse, cut V-shape at the neck so as to half
reveal the superb bust beneath. When he rose to
go, Theo took a rose from her corsage, and grasp-
ing it in her plump littlp hand, plunged it down
into the voluptuous interior of the Y-shaped dress.
There she held it for several moments, and then,
drawing it out, she pinned it to her visitor s coat-
flap, saying, with a smile, “ There’s a warm rose for
you.” It was a very trying moment for the lite-
rary man. * >
The clerk at a crack New York hotel made
some interesting disclosures about visitors who
leave things behind them. These relics include
everything thinkable; but the most numerous
article of all is—nightgowns. “ Nightgowns,” he
said, “beat everything; we have now nearly five
hundred, keeping them in case they are applied
for. But they very seldom are—bless you, most
people wouldn’t admit the ownership if we sent
them to them. Some are very dainty, elaborately
embroidered, or trimmed with expensive lace.
Others are shaped to lit, and sometimes the owner’s
name in full is artistically marked. Annie Pixley,
the actress, left a white satin night-dress here last
time she stayed; it was embroidered all down the
front with ooloured Bilko--muBt have cost 60 dollars.
But she wrote for it.” It was probably Miss Pix-
ley’s Sunday garment-
NOIIYISMIIYHHJjmnf
A3SIIM
TO BE SOLD
ON THE CROUND
crv SaMnfM, <Mvmber IS?'
a/ 3 uC/rtf,- by
WPriicharff'
kj i>-
©
■f-
cn
<J*
» v
v \
7 *.
♦ J 9
CT
Local Sketch
} Mj
f —«**
o'
(i
fa
■MX
sue
n / ft S r
S T
‘4,1
ifycmnm * teyfirpS!
JL
&
F-% i
«■
1 /^s&sg
A' MM**
i
n r\
CoVf> »UT 3 f>iMHiNCS
hr ikZSIVRIcS
COSTS DU’ ,V wt>
»tf\ v-CEij .«. LB.®W(S
hr ft %
Ftocn o* >2 fOWU^
h •eccb
V' u
A
1 *7
hens
ronn
llttSfcl
fiktftAtrs H
Vl'AfSLf ALL 0/&t*sE s
Cp/*iA?o</ r fl
fitir* torn.'* .ff ff£*s.ittr
yO/YO/It O'* f) »nA/*£-3> fOU+TR
rft £ trust Pflor ** * bi~£s
UN "*A- /V>/\M .
SECURED BT LETTER* RATIN'*
T UJRT E¥ANT« SoIe Proprietor.'
a uccesso* to AikCNjtt
216 State Street
HARTFORD, CUJ.S
Next Saturday Afternoon,
At 3 p.m.
mm mb li
BEVERLEY PARK,
ARNCLIFFE.
Only 1 mile over Cook’s River Dam,
opposite
HIGHBURY BARN, close to the PUBLIC
SCHOOL.
Within 5 MILES of Sydney,
and
only a short distance from
the
ARNCLIFFE RAILWAY STATION.
Over
3300 FEET of RAILWAY FRONTAGE,
besides
FRONTAGES to the main GANNON’S FOREbT
and KOGARAH ROADS.
The 5-MILE PEG is ON the Estate.
LEVEL CROSSINGS from the property to the
railway line.
- TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
Baft, Rodd, & Purves
Have received instructions to sell by public
auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, Bth NOVEMBER, at 3 p.m.,
The above grand property, known as
“ BEVERLEY PARK,”
subdivided in a liberal manner into
large BUILDING SITES.
BEVERLEY PARK occupies a splendid position.
It is only 1 mile over COOK’S RIVER DAM, op-
posite HIGHBURY BARN, close to CLUNE S
HOTEL and numerous good RESIDENCES.
Only 5 miles from the city, on a par with Sum-
mer Hill, say within a QUARTER OF AN HOUR S
RUN by RAIL.
The RAILWAY runs right through the Estate,
without interfering with a single allotment, and
the ARNCLIFFE RAILWAY STATION is within
live minutes’ easy work.
The VIEWS are simply UNEQUALLED along
the whole line, embraciug the OCEAN, BOTANY
BAX , and HEADS GEORGE’S RIVER, SYDNEY
—in fact, comprising a complete PANORAMIC
VIEW of the w hole surrounding country.
The TITLE is TORRENS’ ACT,
and
The TERMS MOST LIBERAL,
viz.:—
10 per cent, deposit, 10 per cent, in 6 months, the
balance by 10 equal ualf-yearly instalments. In-
terest at rate of 6 per cent.
If the whole amount of the purchase-money
be paid within 6 months from day of sale, NO
INTEREST will be charged.
PLANS now ready.
SPECIAL CONVEYANCE on Day of Sale.
6Hi December Next.
IN THE INSOLVENT ESTATE OF JAMES
BRITTEN (deceased).
ABSOLUTE AND UNRESERVED SALE.
MAGNIFICENT ALLOTMENT,
BALLINA,
Fronting the Main Street and the River, with a
good Wharf in front.
WITH THE
ROYAL HOTEL,
A 33-roomed two-storied well-finished House,
DOING AN ENORMOUS BUSIN E3S,
one of the biggest on the river.
CROWDED WITH VISITORS, who flock to the
SANATORIUM OF THE RICHMOND,
to inhale its ozone,
and recuperate their wasted energies.
Remember always
THE RAILWAY IS COMING TO THE
RICHMOND.
JOHN H. MUNRO (in conjunction with C.F. W.
LLOX r D) has received instructions from the
OFFICIAL ASSIGNEE (with the concurrence of
the Mortgagees) to sell by public auction, at
LANGHAM’S ROYAL HOTEL, BALLINA,
On SATURDAY, 6th December,
All that Allotment or Parcel of Land in the colony
of New South Wales, containing by admeasure-
ment 2 roods 35 perches, more or less, situated
in the county of Rous, and Parish of West
Ballina, and town of West Ballina, being Allot-
ment No. 3, of Section No. 4A.
This allotment has a frontage of 2 chains to
River-street, the ” Strand ” of the seaport of the
Richmond, and the same frontage to the deep
waters of the river. Immediately in fiont is a
large Wharf, where steau-ers can disgorge their
crowds of sea side visitors right on to the veran-
dah of the Hotel, which is erected on this allot-
ment, and known as
THE ROYAL HOTEL.
(now in the occupation of Mr. Langham), a magni-
ficent two-storied structure, containing 33 rooms,
besides all necessary Stabling and outhouses. A
wonderfully convenient, comfortable, clean, cozy
FAMILY HOTEL, and doing an enormous busi-
ness in this
“ BRIGHTON OF THE NORTH.”
Further information can bo obtained on applica-
tion to —
JOHN H. MUNRO, Auctioneer, Grafton and
Casino: C. F. W. LLOYD, Auctioneer, 112 Pitt-st.,
Sydney; or Messrs. HERON and SMITH, Solicitors,
Hunte-st., Sydney.
jpURTHER REDUCTIONS IN PRICES.
"Having found it necessary to publish a 16-page
illustrated Supplement to our Book, we direct
special attention to the same. The illustrations in
the Supplement alone number 63, including Bed-
steads and Austrian Furniture.
WRITE FOR IT.
It will be sent post free to your address
UPON APPLICATION.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 4th Novomber, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for tn« fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. Por ful Parti-
culars Bee Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the renders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, bel ore the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consider atom un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with*
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender. '
Nature o 1 Work* and Supplies
Bates to which
Tenders can be
reoeiv i a
this of' ce.
Construction of Covered Service
Reservoir, at Lambton
Construction of Covered Service
Reservoir, at Wallsend
Erection of Temporary Building
Department of Mines
Constructing Foundations and
Pits, Workshop, Nos. 16 to 25,
Eveleigh ■ ....
Erection of Station BuildiDgs,
&c., Byenoclc
Supply of Railway BmallStorcs,
Construction of Road and Foot-
ways round Wentworth Park,
Blackwattle Bay
Additions, &c., Assistant Har-
bourmaster’s Residence, New-
castle , .
Erection of Police Barracks and
Officers’ Quarters, Young
Erection ol Courthouse, lnver-
-611
Supply and Erection of an Iron
Bridge over the Murruinbid-
gee River at Comins Crossing
(Toomas)
Additions to Bhed, Newcastle
Wharf
Erection of Tank and Making
Dam, Cobar Water Supply
Collection and Delivery ot Par-
cels in connection with the
Railway at Bathurst
Erection of Police Barracks,.
Deniliquin
Annual Contracts—Colonial Ar- I
chitoct’s Department, 1885
Supply of Drain Pipes, Roads
Department, 1885
Supply of Quarry Tools, Rakes,
&c., Roads Department 1885
Supply of Blue Metal, Roads
Department, 1885
Supply of Timber Boats (clinker
and cerrel built) for Roads
Department, 1885
Ironmongery, Roads Depart-
ment, 1885
Shipchandlery, Roads Depart-
ment, 1885
Bridge over Meregoen Creek at
Mundooran
Tank, Fencing, &c., Post and
Telegraph Office and Court-
house, Canonbar
Additions to Police Barracks,
Wilcannia
Additions, &c., Police Police
Barracks. Walgett
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Gos-
ford
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Tarcutta
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house. Wilcannia
Bridge over Greg Greg River at
Island Crossing
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Urana
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Construction of Section 3, Mur-
rumburrah-Blayney Railway
Manufacture and Supply of
160,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Tuesday,
11th Nu/emnur,
at 11 o clock.
• 18 1
Tuesday,
h November,
at U o’clock.
Tr lay,
i »■ mber,
. -locm,
Til -.1 v l ,
2 •• i. >bnp,
u. 11 - jUtt.
RIVBRSTO!7“3
LAID SAI
Prince of Wales Birf: lay,
MONDAY, NOV. 10th.
MESSES. SOU ME El
WILL oiler for Sale, ON THE GROUN Ihe
remaining
UNSOLD LOTS
OF THE
Original Township Subdivision,
Adjoining Steam Saw !Mill, JHotel, Stor:S, and
Station.
Railway Tickets available by the 9 a.m. t ain.
Boyd and King,
Property Auctioneers,
96 PITT STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OIT AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming; Baths
(the wnly pure sea-water baths near Sjuney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen, from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
3d.; 100 tickets, 315.; Monthly Tickets, •»!.} An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 31s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. FuroEniOK
Cavile, the world-renowned swimmer, wi rswaui
from France to England in 13 hours, 30th ugust,
1877. Six Lessons, 31s. The North Shore -Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for tl v Batkg
every quarter-of-an-h^ur.


Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, npt only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOB THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen, —Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you arc at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours,
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Malted Cocoa. —“ An ordinary cup of
Fry’s Malted Cocoa contains more of the active
properties of malt than a pint of the best ale or
porter.”— Lancet. Wholesale by J. Bardsley and
Co., Bathurst-street. *
Political
Points
The 8000 roses which deoorated the Russian
Imperial supper tables at Warsaw scarcely covered
the multitude of skeletons which were present at
the feast. Nor did the gay music scare away the
? hosts of the Polish patriot Kosciusko and “ his
rusty warriors, few and undismayed,” which
hovered round the guests.
B|lt is a common practice now (says Justice,
the organ of the English Social Democrats) to at-
tack any Socialist who happens to omploy mon.
There are not many of them. But it seems to us
-that-a capitalist who pays his employes well, and
spends his money In trying to upset the system he
profits by, is a benefactor to the race.
“Anti-Conservative Demonstration” is the
heading given by the S.M. Herald to a cablegram
from its “owh” correspondent, announcing that
Lord Salisbury while on a visit to Dumfries was
stoned by the mob. Had the incident happened to
.-Earl jsiMfncer, in Limerick, the heading would have
beejij'jlVnother Dastardly Outrage by tho Irish.”
It is'd’oubtful whether the French Com-
mune would find the same leaders it found in 1871.
Rochefort, Jules Valles, Pascal Grousset, and
others have become well-to-do citizens; the
former two are getting on in years, and the latter
has paid so heavy a penalty for his revolutionary
tendencies that he is not likely to recommence
them.
ITaHy Anne Hamilton, in her records of
Court life, states that the first Marquis of Conyrig-
ham obtained his title through the sacrifice of his
wife to the libertine (God save tho King) George
IV. Yet English liberals are unprincipled enough
to talk of doing without a House of Peers. Why,
it is a blow at Royalty itself. Two-thirds of the
Peers are descended from Kings and—harlots, i
At 10 o’clock last night the alarm was
given at the Central Fire Bri< ade
Offloe of a lire having broken out at
the house of Tomkins, labourer, Scot-
laud-street, Wai erloo.
The brigade turned out, with one manual,
with their usual dispatch; but the inmates
and neighbours had the tire extinguished by
the time tbe firemen arrived, and they re-
turned at once to their station.
, •. '* 'a *** v- ' •
The fire originated through the
careless handling of a candle. The
damage done consisted of the
burning of a bed and bedding
and the curtains of a window in
a front room on the ground floor.
Tomkins is tenant of the premises,"
and Mr. Jockell is landlord.
The house, a weatherboard one, is not
insured.
INTERESTING AND IMPORTANT.
“Why,” asks Troth, “should the Austra-
lians wait lor a Federation Bill to become law ? If
„ the Australians are wise, they will hold a Congress,
and proceed to federation withouttroubling them-
selves about English consent. And if they are
animated with a spirit of justice, they will at the
same time declare their readiness to make an
annual contribution towards the general expenses
of the Empire.”
When the Czar visited the »Greek Church,
Warsaw, a bourgeois presented a petition to him,
notwithstanding the difficulty of approaching. At
first the Emperor started visibly, and then ordered
his carriage to stop, and promised to help the maD,
who was, however, taken to prison by the police.
Alick thought the document was a death-warrant.
The Russian pofice are great philanthropists. They
help men—to prison.
Thus an English paper, prior.to the event:
“Tho Czar's visit to his faithful and loving .sub-
jects of Warsaw is to be a grand festival. No
strangers to be admitted to Warsaw hotels and
restaurants: houses searched daily by the police
and troops; the palace undermined in search of
* mines; 300 men and 17 women lodged in gaol; and
ail the trees on the Czar’s route cut down, lest
some Nihilistic Zaccheus should climb thereon to
• a c*tch sight of tho Emperor. Are not. all tnose
glad signs of the coming of the Great White Czar,
the Father of the People ?”
iHere is treason. From an infamous paper,
i,he London Daily News:-” Arabi, the only
native Bgyptian leader and patriot whom modern
Egypt has produced, and who, in spite of his exile,
commands more popular affection and respect at
this moment than all the Viceroys of Egypt can
boast of put together.” These are the things
which the Sydney daily papers do not quote—the
Sidney dailies, which worship wealth and tyranny
Sind which denounced Parnell a* d Araui, the
nationalists, as cowardly assassins. The Bulletin
was the only Secular paper in N.B.W. which eared
to say a word for either man. Who is right now ?
The competition of Indian wheat coming
upon an over-burdened market has reduced prices
suoh a level that ruin stares the American
, ’’small farmers in the face. Thus the increase in
*the production of wheat in Northern India-which
does not benefit the Indian cultivator under pre-
sent conditions—should help to ruin the American
«rmers, whose competition has already shaken the
iglish agrarian system to its foundations, it is well
i'Stbbear in mind that political economy is a progres-
•/itaive science, and that so-called economists who
content themselves with the old superficial non-
are simply blind leaders ot the blind. Nova
la Gam uria, please note.
....... In a Boer raid on the Zulu chief Mont-
liTJoa’s territory, Mr. Betheil, a young Englishman,
friend ol' Moutsioa’s, was captured by the
™2®utchmen. He (Mr. Betholl) had, though b dlv
'/IfJjvounded In the eye, returned to assist a sou ol
who was alsolwounded and lay prostrate
on the ground, to get hack to their lines. The
Boers said: “Ah! now we have got you. We have
long waited for this. What shall we do with you,
you Englishman?” Bethel! replied: “I suppose
you mean to kill me—you can do so if you like.”
They walked away a few paces and consulted for
a momefnt. Then they turned round and in cold
blood shot Bethell dead.
Admiral Sir Edmund Hornby (the officer
who comipanded the flying squadron which visited
Australia a few years since) thinks it would be an
act of statesmanship and a benefit to European com-
merce for the French to annex Formosa | He says:
“ If a ship comes to grief anywhere near its coast
or takes refugS in any of its harbours, the crews
are certain to be murdered or sent off to work in
the mines. At this moment it is supposed that
hundreds of European sailors are so immured.”
Indeed, the “China Sea Directory ” significantly
oautions mariners that “the natives of the south
end of Formosa have always been hostile to
foreigners, and their traditional propensity for the
collection of skulls is so well authenticated that,”*'
&c. &c.
It having been reported that O’Donovan
Rossa, disguised as a Roman Catholic priest, had
left America for England, the police kept watoh,
and one day, whep a priest from Dublin arrived in
Birmingham, and called upon the brother of Egan,
who wBB sentenced to twenty years’ petfdl servi-
tude for his association in the dynamite conspiracy
with Day, they concluded that they were on the
track of a “good find,” especially as the ecclesi-
astic carried a bag—probably full of bombs. The
priest saw their mistake, and carried on the joke
at their expense. He hailed cab after oab, and was
driven all over the town, followed by relays of
detectives* Finally, he drove to the railway-
station, and booked for Birkenhead. His “ nitro-
glycerine” bag contained books, a subscription-
list (of course), and some collars.
Malthusianism* that devil’s gospel which
the wealthy rely on as furnishing justification for
übiversal seliisnness, is getting roughly handled
now-adays. It is argued by the Socialists that the,,
power of man over nature, his capacity to produce,
food and other necessaries of life, is increasing far!
more rapidly than the increase of population in all
civilised countries. Second, that the very fact
that the well-to-do have fewer children than the
poor, proves that, as Adam Smith said long ago,
poverty seems favourable to generation. In a
Socialist state, therefore, where all would be well-
to-do and none poor, the probability is that the
increase of population would be less than it is
now. The Malthusians are asked to account for
the existence of the evils attributed systematically
to “over-population” in wealthy France, with a
decreasing or stationary population ?
Thus Truth : “I suppose that there are no
people in the world so fond of remarking motes in
the eyes of others, and so blind to the beams in
their own eyes, as we are. We are morally indig-
n«nt with the French for warring with the Chinese
through lust of empire, and we are terribly
shocked at their having destroyed the Chinese
lleet. Such barbarism we did not imagine to be
possible! And yet, whv did we bombard Alex-
andria ? Whv did we make an Admiral a Peer, and
give him £30,000 for this lent ? Why, too, did we
make a General a Peer, and give him a like sum
for defeating with much slaughter a crowd of
Egyptians—so harmless that whon half-a-dozen
Arabs attacked them with spears, they did not
even attempt to defend themselves ? When the
French make Admiral Courbet a Peer, and give
him a million francs for sinking some Chinese gun-
boats, and when they compare this victory to the
greatest achievements of modern war, it will be
time enough for us to abuse and jeer at them.”
There are 3-3 English war-ships in the China
seas. Of these, however, fifteen are small and of
four to six guns each. Moreover, one (a turret
ship) is “laid up” at Hongkong. A second is
merely a despatch vessel, and two gun-boats are
deficient in brews. The principal vessels of the
English fleet on the China station are the Auda-
cious, which is the Admiral's flagship; the four
corvettes, Champion, Clem-itra, Cura<?oa, and
Sapphire; the Daring, and ibe Albatross. The
last-named has only lour guns. The Audacious
has fourteen. Though she is the fastest vessel in
the fleet, she can only steam 13 knwts an hour.
The French have 38 ships on the China station,
and four more are on the way to join Admiral
Court et. Of these 38 vessels, eleven are very small,
carrying only one gun or two guns each. But, in
other respects, the French ships are mostly large,
strongly built, capitally equipped, and fast sailers.
Adm.ral Courbet’s flagship, La Victorieust, is
heavily armoured, and her guns are breechloaders.
Indeed, the French ships appear to carry nothing
else but breechloaders, supplemented by machine-
guns. The English armament, on the other hand,
•consists of muzzle-loaders. Three of Admiral
Courbet’s ships can steam from 14 up to 15>6 knots
an hour.
It is well to look at our position sometimes
from the standpoint of our enemies. Looking for-
ward to a war with England, against which as a
friend of the bondholders he is irate, M. Gabriel
Charmes defends ferociously letters of marque,
and holds up Captain Semmes, of the Alabama, as
a model to the future naval heroes of France. As
England’s greatness, colonial and commercial, is
due to her merchant navy, privateering would not
only be legitimate, but would be imposed by
patriotic duty in a war. Big vessels are now at the
mercy of torpedo boats. Swift, light, blookade-
runners, privateers, and torpedoes will render
heavy armed ironclads useless. England would
be crippled if attacked in the flve or six chief
maritime routes which connect her with Asia,
America, Africa, Australia, and Belgium. Her
factories wouid collapse, her industrial population
would bo given over to the horrors of famine, and
Great Britain would sink to the level of Holland.
Twenty privateers, commanded, by daring cap-
tains, resolved to destroy pitilessly every Eng-
lish merchantman, would, paralyze her. M.
Charmes is for merolless sea warfare. He appears
to forget that England in ship-building enti&ffirize
is ahead of all other nations. M. Charmbs cites
Admiral Aube to prove that a soore of Alabama*
would suffice to annihilate England's colonial and
commercial power.
Tempora mutantur, &c. And a better
proof of the truth of the old classic adage could
not bo found than in the change a few years have
worked in the opinions of Sir ’Knry Parkes touch-
ing the federation of the Australian colonies. In
a paper contributed to the Victorian Review for
January, 1881, entitled “Intercolonial Agreement,”
our Jim Crow statesman let himself out as follows:
—“lt may be justly maintained that every occa-
sion for bringing the ruling minds of Australia
into consultation, whatever may be its apparent
fruits, will be an occasion for advancing tho cause
of Federation. As men gain a better knowledge
of each other, they will desire to gain a better
knowledge of each other’s country. From the ex-
amination of one question in a broader light they
will accustom themselves to the contemplation of
other questions in a broador light. By estimating
the advantages of eo-operation in., a given case,
they will the sooner be prepared to-admi£‘> the,
general benefits of permanent union. There is no
fear of mischief arising from too many conferences,
which, irrespective of their immediate uses, may be
regarded as the natural nurseries of the federal prin-
ciple.” And to-day, our all-tbings-to-all-men hero
coolly declares, “ But I venture to say here what I
said when I had an opportunity in London, what I
ventured to say to Lord Derby himself, that this
Federation scheme must prove a failure." Of course
it must, now that the Great Panjandrum is not at
the head of affairs to float it; in fact, the wonder
is that Australia sticks together at all without his
omnipotent rule and guidance.
• • *
A pick and shovel man, writing to us from
the bush near Eskbank, says:—“God created me.
gave me life and a right to fiive; but ever since I
left my home, at 15 years of age. I have seen little
else but agencies at work to try and wrestle'this
right, to live, from me."
* * *
The Tipperary farmers have prevented'the
landlords from fox-hunting. Mr. O’Brieq/M.P.,'
advised them recently “not to provide sport for
Karl Spencer now that the times were dull and the
hanging season was over”...On Labour holiday
this year, in New York, the great demonstration
was headed by a band of 3000 coloured men. The
feeling against the black man is dying out in
America. The question of their admission was
discussed by the Central Labour Union, bpt hardly
a voice was raised against them; and not. only
were they invited to head the proeessibn/but it
was declared that in future all trades organizations
>
j shall be open to them, and that no difference in
| creed or colour shall be recognised by the work-
ing-men of America. No Chinese, however, will
be there There were 60,000 applications for seats
at Mr. Gladstone’s Edinburgh meeting The Ger-
man Admiralty is holding experimental torpedo-
boat eompetitions. A torpedo-boat, built at
Stettin, was raced against an English-built boat of
the spine class, and the former won easily, its speed
averaging nearly twenty-three miles an hour
The average annual increase in the national debts
of the world sir ce 1848 has been £974867,000. and If
they go on augmenting at this rate until 1000, they
will have renewed £6,500,00,000 sterling. Joseph
Arch, who will probably stand for Parliament at
next election, is urging the English labourers to
insist upon capable land being cultivated, or im-
position of a tax upon untilled land. He also ad-
vocates fixity of tenure and fixity of rent... The
Russian Empress’s reception of ladies at Wareaw
was unattended by the Polish noblewomen. Only
the officers’ and officials’ wives came. At General
Gourko’s ball, out of 800 Invitations only one-half
accepted. The nobility and the bourgeoisie stayed
away —The object of the “National League of
Great Britain” is to organise the Irish vote in
England and Scotland, so that it may be “ thrown
solid ” for candidates of any political party who
will pledge themselves to co-operate with the Par-
nellites—The “treaties” made by the French
with the African niggers seem to be just as genuine
as those made by the English and other nations
with unsophisticated savages. The King of “ the
Mayombe country ” was recently forced to sign a
treaty with France under pain of being shot
An Edinburgh gentleman has placed £lOOO in the
hands of trustees In order “to bring before the
public mind the question whether there are any
means by which the labouring classes may more
fully share in the products of industry.” Just
what The Bulletin is doing prat i 5.... A Chinese
Viceroy recently quelled a riot between tee people
and the troops by merely observing:—” For each
life lost I shall take a head on the other side.” ....
In Italy, 33 million francs are spent annually on
gaols, and only 22 millions on education. Capital
punishment has been abolished, and there are now
5363 prisoners—sls9 males and 204 females-ln the
penal establishments sentenced to penal servitude
for life—Millionaire Vanderbilt’s now historical
burst—“ The People be damned” -has be n matched
in England, in August last, by a Blackburn mill-
owner retorting on a worn-out hand, who pleaded
that a man needed some time for rest, said,
‘Rest be damned! Rest when you’re dead.
The Irish National League will, at the next gene-
ral election, contest every constituency in Ireland
except Dublin University Vague reports come
from Cairo that no places are to be found for war
correspondents in the Government boats, and that
if they choose to go at all, they will have to ride
all the way on the banks of the Nile.
They were unusually vivaoious the other
night in the Victorian Assembly. When the
honorable gentlemen feel the end of a voln of
humour they spit on their hands, get astride, and
ride it till its back gives way. Then they tumble
about promiscuously, and each blames the other
for having been too much of a dead weight. On
the occasion under notice the talk was about the
rapid growth of population in the splendidly-
endowed colony, and whatever Mr. Deakin, the
Solioitor-General, said, it brought up Mr. Gaun-
son with the merry innuendo, “ Mr. Deakin is not
taking into account at all that the country is
growing, although he has got lately married.”
After cantering bare-backed on this piece of
metal for a while, he gripped the mane and let out
again: “I am afraid that the Minister for Rail-
ways is out of the running as far as contributing
to the population of the colony is concerned.”
The pacn was becoming reckless. Half a dozen
members now clambered up the sides of the thing.
Then the Minister for Railways pointed at Mr.
Gaunson, and cried, “ Well, you are pretty well
wound up.” After that there was a smash and
the customary scramble. '
A little obituary ad. appearing in the re-
spectable columns of the Melbourne Argus, has
furnished us with food for muoh pious reflection.
The ad., after drawing attention, in prose,) to the
untimely decease of Mrs. , concludes with a
burst of poetry:—
“ Safe in the arms of Jesus,
Safe on his gentle breast;
There by his love or shadow,
, • v . Sweetly my soul shall rest.”
There’s a poetic vagueness about this calculated
to sqt anyone—eve n an alderman or a C.M.G.—
thinking. We must expostulate with this adapter
of Sankey’s touching lay. To be complimentary,
we will make our protest in verse—
Dear friend, pray permit us to gently remark.
That as to your meaning we’re yet in the dark;
(A state of affairs which is really too sad-o);
Now whieh does she rest by—the love or the
shadow
Here id. a most contemptuous epigram,
addressed to an orthodox Conservative author of
a stupid “ Answer to Renan ”
“ You answer, Renan! That is strange, if true.
Men only answer when they’re spoken to;
And Renan speaks to scholars—not to you.”
, Everyone is well aware of the decided ob-
jection most men have to sitting on a “ demnition
dead body” as a juror, and of the many devices
resorted to by the coroner and his myrmidons to
secure a full panel. Therefore, solely in the ends
of justice, we tell the following true tale, in the
hope that the hint may be acted on, and future
corpses will not be unduly inconvenienced. One
iday.-in a sparsely-settled district out West, a dead
Chinaman was found in the sorub, and he had evi-
r y* '
dontly afforded a three days’ pionio to all the crows
about the district who possessed the time and in-
clination to enjoy ttyis free land-sale sort of
luncheon. This being noised abroad, all the male
residents suddenly discovered they had important
business out of the town ; and the “ crowner’B
’quest” had to be postponed from day to day,
until at last the defunct Celestial began to raise
some extremely high objections to being kept
before the Court any longer. Things having gone
so far,,the despairing coroner was about to let the
beggar rip and take bis obance, without the sweet,
sacred consolation of ap inquest, when suddenly
the breathless “sargint, ” who had been scouring
round, rushed into Court and exclaimed, “ It’s all
roight, yer Anner; we’ll hev a full jury rigged be
13 o’clock. Ol’ve got tin av ’em looked up in the
watchhouse beyant there now, on a charge of
disordberiy conduot, an’ we’re runnin’ th’ other
two divils down wid dogs I”


DISFIGURING HUMORS
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
tlheum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with mss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cpticura Remedies.
HUMILIATING BLOTCHES
WILL MCDONALD, 2542 Dearborn-street, Chi;
cago, gratefully acknowledges a cure of
Salt Rheum on Head, Neck, Face, Arms, and Legs,
for seventeen years; not able to walk except on
bands and knees for one year ; not able to help
himself for eight years ; tried hundreds of reme-
dies ; doctors pronounced his case hopeless ; per-
manently cured by Cuticura Resolvent inter-
nally and Cuticura Soap externally.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are the greatest medi
cines on earth. Had the worst case Salt Rheum
in this country. My mother had it twenty years,
and in fact died from it. I believe Cuticura would
have saved her life. My arms, breast, and head
were covered for three years, which nothing re-
lieved or cured until 1 used the Cuticura Resol-
vent internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap externally. J. W. Adams, Newark, O.
ITCHING TORTURES
CHARLES EAYRE HINKLE, Jersey City
Heights, N.J., writes: “My son, a lad of
twelve years, was completely cured of a terrible
ase of Eczema by the Cuticura Remedies. From
the top of his head to the soles of h's feet was one
mass of scabs.” Every other remedy and physi-.
clans had been tried in vain.
MR. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBINS, Belch* i.
town, Maes., write: “Oar little boy was
terribly afflicted with Scrofula, Salt Rheum and
Erysipelas ever since he was born, and nothing we
could give him helped him until we tried Cuticura
Remedies, which gradually cured him, until he iB
now as fair as any child.”
CUTICURA
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretlo and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of a 4 impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Core (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Uloers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICCJRA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Be&utlfler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CtmCDRA f
is indispensable in treating: Skin Diseases, Babj
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticttra, 60 cents ; Soap, 26 cents ; R*-
soi/VENT, JI.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
a*?*
v -’
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
AMBEICAW O
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW SOUTH WALES
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
mHE h Caterln » Est *blishnient In N.8.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &o., &c.
T and all kinds of d^monSraWons 1 undertakon for Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
p . , H. D, TOLLEMACHB, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney. “
READ- THIS!
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Sliver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOa. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BK BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GOOLALTA WINES.
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT I
GENT.'S 60, Ib. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 28. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
103, 3s. 6d.; 230, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 10 3. ; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
JEST" Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE DIRECT SUPPLY CO
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HM.
1
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening nf New Show Rooms.
Messrs. BALE, LLOYT l CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DREBSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND BHOWOF TEA. GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children's
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BR AGHI
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
0T An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON&GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALH&J
BRANCH OFFICES.
SOUTHER* DISTRIOT, NJB.W.J
Goulburn
Y ass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culeaim
Cowabee
Nar&ndor
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
WISTBRN DISTRICT, N.S.W.J
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condobltn
Nym&ifei
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Nobthirw District, N.S.W.j
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Waleett
ilrewarrina
Tam worth
Ur&lla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Wi
Lin:
Brifibana
Roma
Dalby
Teulba
Cambooya
CENTRAL Lot:
Rockhampton
Bograntunran
Emerald
Capeiia
Comet
Towasville
Charters Towers
ttavenflwooA Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOOH ft 00., LIMITED.
R W~ igenoies tn all parts ->f the world*
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA BTOUT.
MM®
BASS PA MB ALE,
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
BOLD BY ALL fgOg™™®. AND WIN*,
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS\
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
——"»?iT TASivn
yi
TR
DC MAM
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from fha
best of the brewings of the oelebratel Arm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefor*
oannot be excelled. To be procured evsrrwhon.
CATTBLL k 00- Sole Agents.


READ IT ALE.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
* and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
* use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNarvousMen
A
X
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hnd a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorons manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
iNeither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Kenrona Debility and
physical .Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis'
new and direct methods and absolute
ODRhncas. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
t.ho most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Australian Medi-
B. O. HOLTER-
.O. Box 673.
Gentlemen’s, No.
iy. Note.—Office
3. CONSULTA-
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D.,
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ;
11. 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydne
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIR!
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
IgT" Fac-slmiles of Handwriting for 'Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London New
Y orb, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position * W
ITO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED Rv
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
r hofo
"a cut* er\crra\?eb
y'a con engraves op ©Jype X\et-
af pftoto-ctpemicai? rr\ea_ny.
9C if mountecj type Bug ft ancL
carp Be yeti m oj?
ancj pripfecl jrronrv any ordi-
nary Jan nfii ncj prey’. 9rp appear—
arpce it" very eiosePy
a cooob . cuL ancj y to
s apery ede to a great" exteptl—
tßat <sPoco ancj cosffy nae tTLoi
engraving . V/e cap
great irujacenncrity to aft oofto
uye cuiy 'lor , Price
ftiyty > Ocitafoguey or curvy
cfldver'Tiy ing purpcye. Qef our
esf! matey ancj try/ uy
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
hJO
SOLE AGENTS FOR THEJ]
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE
197 PITT STREET
r A
V
f A
k
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed bv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in 6 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Hake the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
CURE
No. 1 Hair Brush .. 6s. 03.
No. 2 Hair Brush .. 7s. 3d,
No. 3 Hair Brush .. 9s. Cd.
No. 4 Hair Brush .. 11s. 6d.
No. 5 Hair Brush .. 13s. 6d.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could he pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brash Handle is made of a new odorless competition, resembling ebony: a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon me Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silTer compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES —NOT WIRES. "Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. fccott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and lias added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (helro of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chuithi.il, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses v hem regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
£5T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, <fr Felts
for Ladies and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
jantly Carved & Mounted.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir.—My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with tho Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or ono arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am. jour obedient servant, G . p WIIILSj MD ) M .R. C.S.E.
Prom Dr. Lempriurr, D C L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxfond.
Gentlemen,—l have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Bra* for rorae time, and, as I find the benefits
I feel it my dut}, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No 02,e who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its
Your Flesh Brash is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of^useful^ domestic appliances
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money.
Yours faithfully,
C. Lbmpribre, D.C.L., Ac
These Brushes can be obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storekeepers.’or will be forwarded
direct to any part of N.S.W. or Queensland upon receipt of prices named, with Is. aildei Re-
mittances can be made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia, tee that the name of Dr. Scott is on tho Box,without which
none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.
44 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Pi.O. BOX 22!.
Why should not discounters make a prac-
tice of giving formal notice to all the parties to
each bill they negotiate, that they have negotiated
it ? Why should it not be compulsory upon them
so to do ? It is the custom in many countries to
take that simple precaution against the swindler.
No doubt there are some discounters who prefer
a “ crooked ” bill, seeing an extra security in the
very fact of its crookedness; but, putting the ex-
ceptional aside, it is certain that a lot of fraud
would be prevented were it the custom for banks
and financiers to formally advise the owners of
the several names on a bill of the circumstance of
their having “ melted ” it on such and such a
date, &c.
Henry George has received his coup cle
orace : his reputation is shattered—bust up—de-
molished. Henry George as a social reformer is a
thing of the past, relegated to the limbo of
obscurity, never to emerge therefrom. Fitzgibbon,
the Town Clerk of Melbourne, has killed “ Pro-
gress and Poverty ” with a pamphlet. Snatching
a brief respite trom parochial duties, the Town
Clerk threw off a satire, wittily entitled “The
Essence of Progress and Poverty,” and displayed
the theories of the once celebrated American in
their true colours And black hideous colours
they are, forsooth, as summed up in the con-
cluding seutence of Fitzy’s truly remarkable
work: “The title of “Progress and Poverty”
may be translated from American into English as
* Humbug and Knavery.’ Alas, for poor George I
When we remember his position in the world’s
esteem ere the advent of the pamphlet, we cannot
refrain from paraphrasing Tom Moox-e’s lines:—
How vain was his boasting! Fitzgibbon has spoken,
And boldly declared him a 4 humbug ’ and 4 knave.’
One of the main distinctions between the
Government of the churches founded on “Bri-
tain’s bulwark ” and that of the tabernacle which
rests on the metal plates of old Joe Smith of Utah,
is that while the authorities of the former iule
their flocks by holding out terrible threats of an
overplus of lire in the world to come, the long-
beaded bosses of the latter keep their diseiples in
check by still more fearful threats of a scarcity of
water in the more immediate world they occupy
at present. And the way the very much worried
saints of the Salt Lake put their dearly beloved
children through is this. Agriculture, in Utah, is
largely dependent on irrigation. The machinery
is owned by the church, aud the bishops make it
their business to look after the temporal as well
as the spiritual welfare of their flecks. Therefore,
it comes to pass thar as the Mormon farmer lives
on a farm supplied with water which is under the
control of the Church, he is, in a remarkable man-
ner, well under the thumb of his father oonfessor,
or whatever they call their priests and parsons in
the language of the anti-Maltnusian land of Utah.
Now, anyone who is at all conversant with reli-
gion, as she is slung to-day, will at once perceive
that so long as this Goverument-by-water game
holds good, there is little fear of the pious old Balt
Lake divines being compelled to preach themselves
bald-headed in order to squelch the schisms caused
by the advanced thought teachings of the Tom
Paines and Bob Ingersols of the grand old faith of
Brighamy. For example. Bishop Jonathan Jerks
is officially informed that at a recent meeting of
the Utah Plugugliee, Farmer Sisera Shyrtale flatly
declared that he diun’t believe an angel ever ap-
peared to Joe Smith at all, but that Joseph had
sucked the brains out of a bottle of prairie
poison, and was suffering from a mild attack
of the blind staggers, and furthermore, that that
sloppy old yarn about the Deluge was far too cool
for this planet at the present day. All this doesn’t
shake the Established Church a single jolt. No
special council of enraged ecclesiastics is hurriedly
called to anathematise the miserable heretic, and
with thedndispensible bell, book, and candle con-
sign him to a front seat near the hottest stove In
hell. The Bishop of the diocese simply sends the
offender a note to say, “Dear Brother Shyrtale in
the Lord, the revolutionary remarks made by
you at a recent meeting of the Utah Pluguglies
have reached and pained your pastor's ears. Un-
less a full and unqualified retraction is lodged with
me within twenty-four hours, your water will be
out off, and kept off until your eyes are opened to
a due sense of the enormity of your conduct. The
brethren will pray for you, but they won’t loan
you a billy of water even if your blasphemous
tongue sticks out as long as a ship s jibboom. Bead
Paul to the Californians, 3rd chap. 4th verse, and
don’t come hanging round, when your pastor's at
his meals. Yours in the spirit, + Jerks, Bishop of
the Holy Mormon Church.” 1 hat settles the job
at once. Brother Shyrtale immediately grasps the
situation, and going down on his knees in the
market place publicly declares he was mad drunk
at the time he made his scandalous statements, and
that he is perfectly willing to believe Joe Bmith
not only saw angels in his sleep, but that celestial'
visitors used to frequently drop in and take pot-
luck with him for weeks: and, furthermore, he is
dead sufo there was a deluge, because he remem-
bers his old grandfather used to gab about losing a
brindled cow and a bull-pup in the general inun-
datiop. 'i here is really nothing in the Scriptural
line that the repentant sinner will not swallow at
Buoh a time as this; and we can. therefore, safely
recommend the Utah system of government by
water to the attention of Dr. Barry, and, in fact,
every, other clergyman throughout the land. Fire
as a vice deterrent is played out, and nothing
ffights a, man—especially a Rum man—to-day bo
much as water.


THE
M
IG N o||
ZPlaaa©. |
■n a. v>.'~-4ah*'
f
'H
m
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the HRignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE
can be found, and its
word.
GNON
is really a household
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for flrst-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSO? AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. 7
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
COMPLAINT positively cured by MOOLTON’S
ruL.il I ILLS. We meau cured, not merely relieved, and
e can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
ImppouitmentsL MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cur.
nL-n B H jI0UbNKSS > Prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
-PfclA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
™?^^ LIVER ’ re|?ulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
ink BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
wown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
1 ney are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere, Price 1m. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
\ REGISTERED.
SAFE. CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CTTRE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
L nat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
'oothaehe. Nervousness, Indigestion, I/iss of
'nprtite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power. &c. By its tonio
od Boothinsr effects it at once removes all craving
™ Alcohol. By its richness in pbosDhorous and
7,,. e , T ;j? owerfnl vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
I >NIC NEfIVTNE nourishes and gives vigour to
. r whole hyitom. 4s. 6d.. or 255. a case.
’ pProprietors, MARSHALL BROTHER?, M P.B
„ *oufaoturingr and consulting Chemists, 1(M and
, Market-street. near Hyde Park. Sydney, an d
> 't£treet. Circular-quay. TAKE No CEbll-
Rev. Father Wilds'
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 64 th St., JYeto York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen:
hast winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may'do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. WILDS.”
Tho above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all B”bsgssts; price $l, six bottles
for §5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. ?
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNFNG Sc CO.
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, Btrenghtens, and beautifies the hair: it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. p r
ROWLANDS’ ZALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect ehange in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glassy and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith’s Latest Kove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANf E SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERV
PICTURES, FANCY HOODS,’ CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, E i C.
Surprising Reduction oi -4». in the to expedite
rernoi h! of his enormous stock.
sm*ess Tbe FalG DOW pr<,Jrre?sin S is a gratifying
T. L SMITH, 899 G;eorge-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotei.
r’s boot;
rtf*' EQUALLED
,y SYDNEY
EITHER FOR
■ ’RICE or QUALITY
■404
m CEORCE S
stupa’s
nils
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy!
D ,?T®P^r ed from Dandelion, and free from the
sng ntest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
fooroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Ririooff ove r$ om e the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
f oave y®f to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
IMM
' c £LEBPtJ&:
v *g^cotdiW|F s
W HOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
machinery.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
«T MANUFACTURER OF THE OBLBBKATBD
SULTAN’S COFFBB.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-sfroet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenorbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION FLATeT
253
Wl
I
M*
'QtpM
&
IMm
cJHir:<cL*fi
SSgjggg
CHESTS) pOATSQ F ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
;
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
QTia.© 13©lia,"ble
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. *
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
IST BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
FLEMIITGr, Merchant & Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
!
jl STOCK
JPO
-
MliEE™
V "•
s
Fs*
%
zW'Zimt
to!
ft
/
s
IWIMM;
j
i i
< 6r 'a| s . H,
0k
' < CAMERAS iff%„ B ,
• r CARDS,CHEMICALS. 1 1 a Pn»c
-—;— ; — w«
-~4? W.JOHNSONtSONSF?®®
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD .


SO)NTCASTLE<SS%
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEIY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE'
NEWEST SHAPES.
Printed and Published by Tmßtjxjjtin
papej Co, M *Pi tt-st. Sydney, K.B.W.
For a good old mixed or job lot of poli-
ticians, commend us to the present New Zealand
Cabinet, which contains two Freethinkers—Messrs,
Stout and Ballance, president and vice-president
respectively of the Maoriland Freethought Asso-
ciation: two Roman Catholics, Messrs. Buckley
and Tole; one Anglican, Mr. Richardson ; one
Presbyterian, Mr. Reynolds; and a Jew, Bir Julius
Vogel. Such a Ministry seems calculated to give
every denomination a fair.show fer its money;
but, nevertheless, it is one to which the question
of State secular education —should it ever crop up
ig likely to cause as much trouble as a bushel of
green gooseberrys in the “ turns ” of a wholo Sun-
day-school crowd of youngsters.
This cheery little item fully explains itself,
and requires no comment from anyone. _lt ap-
pears that a party by the name of * Thargomindah
recently sent a perfect hummer of a query toi the
“ Answer to Correspondents ” editor ot a Brisbane
journal, and that distracted gentleman re-
plies as follows:-" If the J.P. was drunk on the
Bench, you should report the matter to the
Colonial Secretary. Further, it is your duty and
that of the other gentleman, to summon him it he
acted as you state. Though, as he is the only J .P.
in the town, I really don’t see how he could be
summoned. Unless a man of his extensive genius
should sit on the Bench, hear his own case, find
himself guilty, and let himself off with a caution
on account of it being his first offence. Rather a
novel and difficult situation, is it net ?
A Melbourne Daily
Telegraph man has
been having a real old
drunk, and in a column
or so of the paper he
describes a congeries of
thoughts and emotions
■with which he was affec-
ted in his orgy. The
thoughts were terribie,
the emotiens awful, and
he winds up with “ I am
haunted with fear lest
I shall be again led to
stray.” Now, is not that
genuine D. T. literature ?
Both delirium and tre-
mens are there.
Roma (Q.) was re-
cently the scene of one
of the most bang-up wed-
dings ever seen this side
of the equinoctial line,
and the preliminary fes-
tivities being through,
the happy pair started off
to their new home in a
buggy drawn by a pair of
showy, but evidently
oft-hearted, bloods. Five
miles from their destina-
tion, the horses knocked
up, and the disgusted
f room and blushing bride
ad to tackle the road and
tramp it. Finally, they
?'ot bogged, the bride
ost her wedding slippers,
and her tender little
ootsie-wootsies not being
used to the blistering
plainsof Western Queens-
land, she soon broke
down also, and tho gal-
lant groom had to sling
her over his back at last
and carry her home to
love and glory. And
talking of this having set
Bobbie Byrne in a mus-
ing mood, he heaved a
sigh like a burst balloon,
and said, ‘‘Wonder
whether he’ll be so ready
to hump her in the sweet
by-and-bye ?” Of course
he will. The man who
wouldn’t ‘‘is unworthy
the name of a Berritish
sailor.”
Says the Dubbo milk-
man who does the special
correspondence of the
Evening Slime:—“Pro-
bablv one of the sights
of Dubbo is the neat
little garden of our es-
teemed townsman, Mr.W.
E. Morgan ; the large
number of pansies in end-
less colours (many larger
than a five shilling piece{
are a treat to see. Besides
these, are roses, ranuncu-
lus, pelargoniums, and
others, growing pro-
fusely, which make up
one of those pleasing
sights so rarely met with
in country towns.” We
have no remarks to make
on the above, except to
say that it is rather more
eleanly and interesting
than the rest of the drivel
and garbage which ap-
parently luggages the
sympathies of Alfred’s
35001 daily readers. And
again— how one thing
brings up another; castor
oil, for instance the
names Morgan, ranimeu-
lub, and pelargoniums, re-
mind us forcibly of the
old lady who observed,
with a sigh, that there
was once a time when
she could remember the
Latin name of every
flower in existence, but
now, alas 1 Time had
rubbed his sponge over
the red-leaved tablets of
her heart, and a!l she
oould think of was the
names of two—delirium
tremens, and the sweet
Aurora Borealis.
Granny’s bantling is rapidly growing a
sarcastic little cuss, and, if the old girl doesot use
the shingle more, there’ll be a heap of troublein
the old home in Hunter-street. A late Echo, ror
instance says: “As our readers are doubtless
aware, a Mr.T. W. Chambers, described as bon.
secretary to the River Darling Navigation Com-
pany,* has propounded to the Adelaide Chamber of
Commerce a scheme for unlocking the
locking’ it. The pun is not ours . Certainly not.
When*the Echo puns, the world will crumple up
into chaos. The question, however, is not who
owns the pun, but where in thunder is it t
The Church Times remarks: “Tosay that
one is three may be numerically false, but there
are other departments in nature where it to time,
and thus, when discussing the Nature of God, it is
absurd to suppose that we are bound by arith-
metical considerations.” Or,
any considerations of reason. The Church Times
jrives. as an instance in nature, three
make up one chord, hence “ three in one. hot no
one pretends that each note is a chord. According
to the creed, “ each person by himself to Qpd
and Lord,” and yet they are not three Gods but
one God.” We cannot say of the notes, eaoh
note of itself is a chord,*' and yet there are not
three chords but one chord.” The Church Timfs
had better not be bound by musical considera-
tions in discussing the “Nature °* God. Equally
charming is the naivete of th© following.
rid ™if we are talking of Divine Persons where
is the unreasonableness of conceiving of relatiros
like Fatherhood and Sonship which had no begin-
ning!” And where is the reasonablenesss of talk-
ing of fathers and sons at all, if the persons to
whom the phrases are applied are contemporane-
ous ih point of non-beginning ?
Hear this hoary bit of muddy twaddle
that is going around again:—“ln his sermon on
secularism, Dr. Bteel tells the following anecdote:
“ When Napoleon I. was returning from France to
Egypt, some of the officers were discussing the
being of God. They were on the deck or the
vessel where Napoleon was standing alone. They
asked his opinion whether there was a God. Lift-
ing his hands to the starry heavens, he said 4 Who
made all that?’” This reminds us once more of
how many religious teaohers act on the notim
that on sacred subjects the very dregs of the intel-
lect are ample, and evidence on which they would
not stake a half-crown is perfectly admissible in
things supposed to be of eternal concern. What
grown man, for instance, cannot recall the ghastly
lies that used to terrify his youthful soul about
the last days of Voltaire and Tom Paine, and who
swallows them now, when it is known they died as
other men? Fancy the great Napoleon, a little
podgy bundle ol' brutal selfishness, sailing away to
carry massacre and destruction upan a helpless
race, and to cover a country with bleached bones
and drench it with innocent blood, being called in
as an authority on the existence of a God, to
whom, if He exist, the voices of millions of his
slaughtered creatures must then have been crying
aloud to avenge their death! And it is a Reverend
Doctor that hauls out this dubious old legend to
confirm our faith. We reverence not suoh reve-
rend reverencers.
This is the sort of thing that delves the
premature furrow into the eyes of a man who has
to read newspapers written by people who were
never credited with sufficient intellectual pene-
tration to master the preliminary attitudes neces-
sary to follow the occupation of a grave-digger.
The skirt of this elegant toilette of yellow virginie is trim-
med with two pinked silk flounces, and lace ones nearly
an inch deep going nearly up to the waist. The tunic is
richly pleated, and the place where the pannier is set on is
hidden by the front drapery. The basque bodice buttoned
before is trimmed with a lace stomacher arranged on a
stiff net foundation. Bunches of loops and ends of satin
ribbon.
The dress with the double apron drapery
exemplifies a pretty and ladylike toilette
of self-coloured wool trimmed with velvet
and coloured embroidery. Velvet trim -
mings which are now so fashionable, for
washing dresses, must be arranged so that
they can easily be removed when the
jatter require washing. The great
novelty of this dress is the way the front
drapery is put on—two triangular parts
falling over each other at the side. Kilted
flounces trimmed with velvet ornament
the skirt. The velvet stripes on the drap-
ery are four inches broad and the em-
broidery Corresponding embroidery
trims the bodice and sleeves.
A sporting writer has this time crunohed out all
the human feeling we ever had, for he has under-
taken to enliven, to sparkle, and coruscate.
“ Hanlan finds that the Sydney ducks have cut
their eye-teeth;” “the Beach and Clifford crowd
have him on the rope;” “he struggled long and
warily to get the boulge in;” “ he first scoffed
terapin in Toronto,” and so on, paragraph after
paragraph. To what shall we compare the head of
the editor who permits this sewerage to rank as
light and lively and decidedly racy ? A turnip is
an honest ana intellectual vegetable which we
weuld not insult by mentioning in this connection.
A boiled onion is a hard-headed philosopher, and a
block would flare up in spontaneous combustion
to be brought into comparison. But we see this
mad wag by the eye of faith. Horsey coat, cut
tight round the hips, over-lapping masher collar,
tight enough to strangle a civilised man; pocket-
book sticking out of breast pocket, tight trousers
around legs bandied to imitate his ideal—the shank-
legged jockey. Cigar-smoke and slang coming cut
from under a cavalry moustache, very high-
beeled boots, and seven rings as thick as quoits on
his dirty-nailed fingers. “ Ha," says the indescrib-
able editor, “dashing writer—witty, sir, witty I”
Oh, for a bludgeon made of a gum-tree upside
down l
The Bishop of Melbourne says that he
loves Jews. But he is careful to give his reason,
which is, that the Jews gave Christ to the world.
There it is, you see. Even the Bishop can t keep
the old Adam from asserting himself. His love
for the Jews is a clear result of evolution, as thus:
—The Jews, thence Christ, thence Christianity,
thence dogma, thence the Church of England,
thence the institution of Episcopy, ultimate de-
velopment—the Bishop of Melbourne Tis as
clear as mud. If there had been no Jews, there
would have been no Christ, no Christianity, no
church, no sects, no bishop. The Smouches, there-
fore, who may be inclined to cry, “ Grashus, Abra-
hamsh! vot a fine creeobur that Bishop is, may'
reflect that the love and admiration which his
Lordship professes for them are derived from no
sense of their special worthiness to inspire either.
It is simply, “mafrensh,” because your ancestors
of Galilee gave to the world the founder of Chris-
tianity; the which principle, being distorted, and
prostituted, and polluted, gave to the world the
greatest outrage upon Christ s teachings—to wit,
man-invented Christianity,and thence bishops. It is
clearly out of all reason, opposed to even the
most cynical conception of the sentiment of grati-
tude, as influencing humanity, that a Bishop
should be indifferent to the claims of the Semitic
race upon his love and admiration. He owes his
position, his power in the Church, bis fat sine-
cures, his wages—all to the Jews. No Jews, no
Christ, no church, no bishops. Logical as a Krupp
gun. We like to get at derivatives, and trace
motives to their source.
As it has been found that the lowest-
known type of mammal—the Australian duck-
billed platypus—lays eggs like a bird (though it
subsequently suckles its young), and that the
structure of the egg is analogous to that of rep-
tiles, a high probability arises that all mammals,
including man, descend 'from reptiles, instead of
from amphibia, as has been imagined by the Dar-
winians. “The discovery is of value,” says the
Spectator, “ though it helps little towards the
ultimate question—the origin of life on this planet.
The existence of progressive energy in the original
germ is not the less wonderful because it was de-
veloped first through reptiles, instead of amphibia.
How did it come there at all ?” This reptilian dis-
covery will, of course, be held by the orthodox to
chime in exactly with the Biblical legend as to the
events which occurred in the Garden of Eden soon
after the Creation. It must also be taken by the
unorthodox to explain the presence of so many
“crawlers” in this world. We’ve beard lots ot
old maids say that man has a deal of the snake in
him, and we’ve known a poet, when writing about
the women of his acquaintance, to savagely apos-
trophise them—
“ O Woman, allied t■>'■ u e serpent,
O Beauty, w.tn vouj-u c.m linadl”
Our opinion, after fully and '’r’iberately consider-
ing this matter, is ttiat Adam and Kve and the
Devil were all Australians: that the Garden of
Eden was at Parramatta; that Adam was an abo-
riginal king or an old-man kangaroo; that Old
Nick was a big, handsome carpet-snake: and our
good mother Kve, “ who damned us all for a bite
at a golden pippin,” was a ilying-doe, afflicted
with a kleptomaniacal habit of stealing apples and
“planting” them in her pouch. We commend
this piece of advanced and patriotic theology to
the attention of Pastor Allen. But we are rather
inclined to believe that that reverend and learned
gentleman will sneak out of adopting our theory,
and will proceed to argue that man was made of
dust, thus—that dust became mud, that mud be-
came worms, that worms became snakes, that
snakes branched off into platypi and ceratodi, and
so on, and that finally the monkey stage (at which
so many teachers of the people still remain) was
reached.
When we pencil out our little will, w#
shall certainly remember to insert a clause for-
bidding our remains to be planted up Forbes way.
And why ? Well, just because the loved and
honoured dead have such a poor time of it in the
local boneyard. Directly that a decent corpse has
had some little tribute of affection placed on his
silent tomb, and begins to take a pardonable pride
in his surroundings, he gets ail broke up, so to
speak, when he wakes up in the morning, or when-
ever it might be. to And that the scenic effects
which he had set his heart upon had vanished like
the baseless fabric of a dream, or something, aDd
that a barren, cold, and cheerless mound only re-
mains. And not only from the neighbouring
corpses are depredations to be dreaded, but in-
tending candidates join in the spoliation. This we
learn from the editor of the local Winding Sheet,
who is an undoubted authority on matters of such
grave importance. The bright-hued flowers wnich
imparted an airy lightness to the sombre and sua-
gesti ve mound in “ God’s acre ” at Forbes have been
transplanted to adorn the garden patch of a live
citizen; and it would appear that even the gravel
walk, which affectionate friends had formed round
the 6xB allotment of another of the dear departed
had been surreptitiously removed and fixed up as
a parade ground for an opposition corpse. So long
a 3 this state of affairs is allowed to exist in Forbes,
respectable and tolerably honest citizens refuse to
peg-out; and in consequence of slackness of trade,
the local undertakers are about to start a Grave
Protection Society to prevent what the local paper
calls “ Inhuman and barbarous robberies.” How-
ever, if we should te carted to Forbes (which the
saints forfend), we ask that the office bull-dog
shall be allowed to prowl round occasionally.
Pat. Ford had better
look closely after the
dynamite laurels of his
Oirish Wurrld, as there
is a new competitor in
the field, who apparently
hates the bloody Sas-
senach as much as he
does. The Decca Pro-
kash, a Bengalee news-
paper, is the new candi-
date for treason-felony
honours, and part of its
recent chat runs :
“ Foreigners have taken
possession of India, and
are sucking her dry. The
people of India look on
in a helpless manner.
Their best interests are
sacrificed for the benefit
of the English. Over and
above this, the innocent
natives are insulted and
killed. At every step the
people send up a cry for
succour, when the Eng-
lish whip or the English
kick falls upon them.
The demons are engaged,
heart and soul, in viola-
ting the chastity and
taking the lives of Indian
females. What a heart-
rending scene ! It is
matter of regret that the
people of India do not
gird up their loins to get
rid of the oppression of
white men. 1 ' Had that
lot appeared in an Irish
journal, the proprietor
would be snugly but
securely lodged in gaol
and his office sacked be-
fore he could sell a hun-
dred copies of his sedi-
tious sheet. God save
Ire —we mean India.
History tells us of a
French adventurer who
wormed his way into
society by treading on
ladies’ dresses and gentle-
men’s corns, and at once
apologising with such
grace and politeness that
n managed to strike up
a most favourable ac-
quaintance. A similar
proceeding appears to be
attempted by the Nooze,
which barefacedly insults
a respectable citizen to-
day, and to-morrow in
serts a grovelling apol-
ogy. The only difference
is that, in the case of the
Nooze, most persons can,
without the slightest in-
convenience, put up with
its calumt ies, but few
can stand its excuses.
i o so great an extent has
this apologisiog habit
seized on the Nooze, that
it has actually started
publishing excuses for
faults never committed,
as was shown by a late
“ suckin edishun,” whiC'
says: “In reference to a
resent paragraph which
appeared in thesecolumns
in connection with the
arrest of the boy Thomas
Kooney in Melbourne, on
a charge of having stolen
jewellery from Mr. Wil-
liam Alderson, it appears
that the victim of ths
theft is Mr. Thomas Al-
derson. The incorreet
information was tele-
graphed to us from Mel-
bourne.” In justioe to
the poor devil who has
the misfortune to repre-
sent the Nooze in Mel-
bourne, we now state
that iii the information
referred to he tele-
graphed, and the NoozE
actually printed the name
“ Thomas,” not " n ~
liam.” This comes of
running an apology for a
paper.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham*
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*


Tb
if
fjg UUEENSLAND CURE >
1 -is *Y« PREPARED bNLY BY %>u
ihomas Ingham
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have y our Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Mill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
euted
ftL EX. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
COLOR MERCHANT,
Olgj, AND DECORATOR,
"ilverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
f® of Paperhangings of the most
881gns over seen in the colonies.
sent pos t f r ee.
81 George street,
Hunter Street.
ÜBBYANDCO.,
King-street.
t . ’»lters, k
gL- ——
\nv3i 4s. 6d., seldom equalled I Never
C«>twl ', quali ty or finish.
ar for Winter, large variety, lowest
Dew and stylish shapes.
’ Uffs ’ Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &o.
& CO., 96 King-street.
Y
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
Anglo -Australian investment
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital £103,570.
Reserve Fund £SOCO.
Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. WrKJHt, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
C. C. Skarratt, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P.
J. H. Newman, Esq.
Benjamin James, Jr.,
Esq.
Deposits received at following rates
At call Five per cent.
3 months .. .. Five and a half per cent.
Six per cent.
Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 12)4 per
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES: !
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
BflTiT. ARC! A Till. QBORGB ST.. i«l BVBNItY
SSASOIT, ISQ4.
PEAPES andSHAW
» Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
IW 6 N °W OPENING FOB THE COMING SEASON,
Arming millinery and straw mod?,
all the newest dress materials,
'S’ PARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and LTntrimmed, Gilt Bibs, and Newest Handies
v
ancL Imitation LACS GOODS,
eatQ * White, and ißlack, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods,
:UlttCA, txo TTVXJ. MO uwv
fe^Ebt 180 ’ EW GOODS and NOVELT
SI LK HANDKERCHIEFS
in the following departments:—
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
Our Plain Drapery Department
». With an unusually assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
% Sh e t- qUlte BUre our prices win compare favourably with any house in the trade.
ln ßs, Towellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &c
St-ti Gentlemen’s Departments.
Sklape -Scarfs ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
ana colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing; Gentlemen’s White
Bj. and Coloured Shirts of every description,
te* READY-MADE CLOTHING. —We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Boys’
w 'I’ATt ng ’ Cut on the most scientific principle, andol a reliable and durable character.
°RING DEPARTMENT.—AII thivNewest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 320, 32S CEOBCE STREET, SYDNEY;
J;s p ALMEBSTON buildings, old broad street, London.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
iTo'W Opein.-
HOTEL,
of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS,
tstv !•*■ McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
&Wr UP-STAIRS*
Barry’s Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make tlie hair grow on hald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry’s Florida Water!
The Original and the Best. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnungg and Co.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
War ran ted f i rst q u a I ity
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
i'OßiSoil t lOC MASgEI-S* E
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and>complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hotel.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private * Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
XT xx d-exteilxex,
84 HUNT ESS & PHBULIF STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
I
E 3
k
%
•■s
■K
m
r*
&
&
Q
£s*
INVALUABLE
ion
"$$
u
m
Ne
J'Vqu
She
s $
Ce
!bii
ADAPTED FO
Colonies?
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKEE & IMPOETEK.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS In Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
\sr THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT J
m died deposits for 12 months: FIVE PER CENT,
md UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
‘ TCNT on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st,
I. Y. WAREHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY:
tar THE PREMIES WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t'u.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 Oeerfge Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is iDOttled In bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “Whiskey Doctors.”
W hen you ask for it, see that you get it, look for tho
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Half Brothers,
Bole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT Olf PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rol'leston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors :
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq l
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke. Manly and Byeroci
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-stret-
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. T. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, fi?"
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking- and Final-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable term
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. H. ikriell & Co.’s*
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 71 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flou&.
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tinq
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeaf
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in oOlfe-s
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Co -
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
14, J 4 and lib. tins.
R- WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Dags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Strest,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
w
Ell
mnmKaUmm
mat
»<i?m# i i
R BUR ?
St;
TRY BURG IS £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. od. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for seAV-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
RE
/n Tfte
ACC DENT
(U M/TED)
/NDEMMTY
x
★
MOON
W
er
it
ie
UCLI


(RE® IBTERED.)
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 EOYAL AECADE.
pm
St..
LATEST FASHIONS.!
' ■WATCHES, T'TZOJvL 30s. EACH.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
V.3
"•s>
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, *
At all Druggists and Chemists.
dbinkM?*
D»IN« I(Cl
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods .
348 GEORGE ST
(OPPOSITE WYNYABD STREET.)
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
9
THOMPSON
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING S
91 King-street.
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
FRY’S
ASK. YOUR GROCEIi FOR
X S. PKIT 8z «SOHS, Bristol, Xjondon, and Sydney.
Ad ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Male than a pint of the besttale or porter. — Lancet.
COCOA
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
*oxw.
MNDW
'Z4t&n/ltS
<2*l
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being- imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VtRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
HIG-GrlKPS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
aLBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street. Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
2TEW
FURifITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY-
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
EXHIBIT*
it'®
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ARB
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T, GAYEN’8
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVINand SON8’
Edlnbm gn Pale A ie.
AFT Eil OtFOnB
MOUSTACHE acd W HI SEES 2. mfo#g af taw
Copyrighted.
Boyd’t Beard BUxirdid thin,and s
i lain do it encither bald bead or i
bare face, forest heavy Meat.
taeheinfromS tot necks and never >,
fails, 20,000 young nets already
wear full beards, having need i to
Copyrighted
3 pkti
No injury
mch.ZJor 3».6 d.,pott paid, mnt cov'Zr ?jre&jSom'ob^rvati£ t ',
certain in effect.
Tackett- it
**-■ frank IMugU., gj. Agent. Bax
T>OBERT BUTCHER & (JO
"**" (Late William Long),
vr WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, 8YDN1IT
Country Orders receive prompt attent
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT ‘
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER. "pi
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: COWPERWHAEF,
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S f» _
STEAM
H. P.
17 PITT STff**
SYDNEY.
ABE SOLE AGENTS FOB T 0
and have In stock and to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
■tJui.ujiawf.EjßD PUMP»
TANK OR LIGB.T SERVIC® r
MINING PUMPS}
COMBINED AIR; & CIRCU^ 1 *
TANNERY PUJ APS
SUGAR-HOUSf i PUMPS
VACUUM PUN iPS
DEEP-WELL-g iINKINU
SBNfl FOR P.’ftPCES AND Al*
CATA .LOGUES FORW
coLi/r
qI£ND
COLLIE BLEND WHL‘
ol the PUREST MA'
bining fulness ol body, wi<
or taste and flavour. (
Agronta.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, «»
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vk I
Ballarat, Melbourne, and at " p rietor ot ¥l| I
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY V
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Boio Medal for ACrated and Mineral Waters; also, another GoldMed'af for Uquours.
