

CHRISTMAS, ISS3- HET7 TEAR, 18S4.
HBRIERI i SOUS,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
• ■ ■ AER
DURING THIS MONTH, WE ARE MAKING OUR SPECIAL SHOW OF
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S GOODS
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
In view of the present Summer Season, and the approaching Christmas Holidays, we have made unexampled preparations to meet
the requirements of our numerous patrons. Never before was our Mammoth Establishment so replete with New and iaslnonable
Goods for personal use, wear, or adornment, as at the present time. During the last six weeks we have received and opened
2000 O&SBS OF
Drapery, Furniture, Fancy Goods and Household Requisites,
and we claim to be the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Palace Emporium is one of the Sights of Sydney, and visitors should not omit to take a walk through our vast Establishment.
WE HAVE ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
ANTHONY HOHDEHN AND SONS,
Pala&e Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.
The Bulletin New Series


PffllCE il Hew M Wales.
jf ©
9
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OF SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HUNTER has mueli pleasure m informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacturers
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes embracing the infest
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales The enormous
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of a«i\t..nfs
and those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction. d ’
Orders fiom the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY Of 1 CANTON—Head Office :
Principal Agencies :
‘ HONGKONG
J. C. Gostiing and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sous and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal,and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &e., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester— The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley-Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thus. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Pels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
'Thos. Bell and Co.—English Mams, Bacon, &e., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, fee.
De Wendel ar.d Company, liayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Tron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Boston— Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co,, Edinburgh-Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth-Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port W hir,
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hinfeks.
f-gr INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the worid. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
MEINRATH AND CO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
• / ■■ — ;
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
R. TBrTraiajr^
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines Ld Spirits personally
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe He run n P y
~ ... ~ ~ can therefore confidently rooommouu
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the followino- ir.i- i. t ,
~ , .... ’ ' ° louowmg hst, hopes to merit a share of their
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDT. Per Bottle.
-•#*B d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..6 0
Hennessy’s V.O. ((vei-y old) bottled by P. R.L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 0 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 6 6
Fine Old Pale, boi tied by P. R. L 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) . . 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) r 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 6
Hall-llasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart .. .. .. 6sand 5 0
DARK BRANDT.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .. ..6 6
Martel I’B Very Old *** 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
MarteU’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..6 0
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality-Good 2 0
Better 2 6
Still Better .. 3 0
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 6 0
No. 2, „ „ .... 4 6
3, ~ „ • • ..4 0
. No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3 6
Flasks Is 9d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALIS.
Tery Finest .. ..4 0
Red Heart .. ” ” " " ** "4 g
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial "quart .. ..60
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on band.
ALBURT (N.S.W.) WINES.
Sffi&re* :: i }
Muscat :: ;; ;; l l
FaUon’s Shiraz 181 ?! 1 * " ” ” ” \jj
*» •» pints 1 6
Per Bottle
8 d
6
4 0
6 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
2 0
2 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
PORT WINE.
P l -. 9 ilboy’s
6n^if rato A Four Oiamond ..
Vuiriity—No. l ( ve ry superior old)
No. (frape
]\ o. ****
No.*** ’’
No. ** ”
No.* ... ”... ;;; ;;;
Biaught Port Wine, per Imperial quart |
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
fiSoBaT* 0 (very dry) ::: :::
Commonihe o rry.? iamond
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart j
BRITISH WINES.
g»w*j4£*mnr«rwto. ... ... ...
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s ***
JSSSSj-fiSfWiS,;
Dunville’a... **,* "
Jamoson’s Drau * bt > P°r Imperial quart'
Masks ... ” *>
« 0
0 fl
6 0
4 0
0
0
0
5
4
3 0
5 0
4 9
4 0
4 0
3s 6d and 4 0
3 6
5 0
... 5 0
2s 6d and 2 3
Won .rt SCOTCH WHISKY.
Thf S tlo r Bl 7 eT° ld ' lßbulk
Royal Blend , 4
Lome Highland.. 4* and 5
Kilmarnock .' 4
Gleniivet ... 4
Glenlivet Whisky’ , ••• Os 6d and 4
Masks ... y * per Bnperial quart 6
2s 6d and 3
Blue Bell or Yellow Snoi^vL
Celebrated Key Brand a iS.P?? va
bottle size, each
Flasks Key Gin * orG than a Quart ... 3
- - ... lsand 1
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best mnnt- „
allowed for. Cases of Wines an,d Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers. returns
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. ’ ehvered at the Rail
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receint ~
genuine will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a °* t^le following
5 Quarts KEY GIN. i wmsftrv i •"
5 Quarts KEY GIN,
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY,
uai t uuinauo, uiivwrvij J/aCADU. 11l ft PQOa • 7 v rr au®
1 Quart WHISKY, l Quart SUpwnm®
5 Quarts WEST INbIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPER#?? o P t 9,F T WIRE,
TOTAL-16 QUARTS. &URH.RIOB SHERRY WINE
have
Office
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No.3s.—New Series
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 1884.
Price—Gd.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 1884.
Camps and Scamps—Home and Foreign.
The reports furnished by Police Inspector
Brennan and Mr. Quong Tart, r, specting
the condition of the Chipeso camps in this
colony, are very instructive documents.
These two commissioners have effected their
work in so practical a fashion that the idea
at once suggests itself that they should be
commissioned to continue their
investigations, taking for their
field of inspection on this occa-
sion the European camps at
Woolloomooloo and Waterloo.
We are disposed to apprehend
that, deplorable as is the con-
dition of affairs brought to light
by the present investigation, the
one we suggest would reveal
facts beside which the morality of
Chinese camps would appear
positively cheering. It seems
that in llie camps are quartered
942 persons, mainly of the class
which constitutes a large pro-
portion of the population of an
\ ordinary city: that is to say,
persons whose occupation in life
is in some way to minister to
the comfort or entertainment
of country workers, with an ad-
mixture of scamps who live by
pandering to the vices of visitors
and by various styles of iilunder,
of which also the visitors are the
regular victims. The commis-
sioners seem to have compiled a
sort of rough census. In one
camp, that at Narandera, of 303
Chinese resident at the time, 14
described themselves as store-
keepers’ assistants, 20 as engaged
in opium-shops, 10 in cook-shops,
12 as gardeners, 20 engaged in
gaming-houses, 124 as labourers,
and 68 did not define their occu-
pations. With these were 2G
European women, and 10children
—the proportion of children to
women sufficiently indicating
the probable moral character of
the latter.
• • •
On this subject Mr. Brennan is
sufficiently explicit. What the
women are, Chinamen did not
make them. They are the dregs
of European “gallantry,” not
more debased than some of their
sisters in vice in the European
camps of Waterloo and Woolloo-
mooloo, and decidedly better off
in material comforts. True, they
are opium smokers, in addition
to their other qualifications; but
as the opium craving appears to
quell the alcohol craving, it may
De doubted whether the Chinese
camp women are not in this
respect more tolerable than the Waterloo
camp women with their habits of drunken-
ness. The same query applies with equal force
to the male practitioners of the opium vice.
It may be very seriously questioned whether
the low Chinaman who has become a slave
to opium is not a very preferable nuisance
to the low European who has surrendered
himself to the infatuation for intoxicating
liquors. Of the opium-smoker may be said
truly what is so often falsely asserted of the
drunkard—that he is no man’s enemy except
his own. Opium is a sedative, whereas fer-
mented or spirituous liquor is a stimulant.
Both are intoxicants, but each operates in a
different fashion. The opium-smoker or
opium-eater doses off into a repose, harmless
to everyone but himself and those who may
be dependent upon his activity in business.
He may sink into the condition of a lost
man, but he is at least inoffensive during
every stage of his intoxication. A balf-
dozed opium user is not a beast. What a
drunkard is, during all the different stages
of his intoxication, we all know too well.
He is stimulated to a brutal activity, and
exhibits either a revolting imbecility or a
savage ferocity. He does not lie in sensuous
enjoyment, dreaming away all usefulness or
value from his life. He courts publicity,
CAPTAIN CHAS. DE AMEZAGA.
COMMANDER OF HIS ITALLAN MAJESTY'S WAESHIP, “CAILCCIOLO.
plans outrages which in his normal con-
dition he would hesitat eto essay, and oft-
times is precipitated by the passions which
his poison excites, while it obliterates or
weakens the restraints of sense, into unpre-
meditated violences and crimes, which
inflict injury upon others and render him-
self a burden to the community as an
incarcerated felon.
• m
Assuredly the comparison is not one which
we Europeans can afford to dwell upon.
And for that reason the urgent insistance of
Messrs. Brennan and Quong Tart, that
special prohibitive legislation shall be pro-
vided to check the sale of opium, has a
flavour of satire. So also has the recommen-
dation of these commissioners tbat the Legis-
lature shall take measures to suppress
Chinese gambling. When one contrasts the
injury done to the community by strong
drink with that wrought by opium, and
the prevalence of European forms of
gambling with that of Chinese games
of chance, it cannot but appear a sort
of invitation to write ourselves down
hypocrites when an urgent invitation to
suppress the Chinese vices is pressed, al-
though our own vices, so tremendously more
prevalent and destructive, are in full swing.
Neither Mr. Inspector Brennan nor Mr.
Quong Tart are, of course, chargeable with
inconsistency. Mr. Brennan simply con-
fines his remarks to the subject upon which
his report was requested. Mr. Quong Tart
may be regarded as, naturally, having a
special and predominant interest in the con-
dition of his own race, leaving Europeans
to look after one another —the dead to bury
their dead. Mr. Brennan, in fact, speaks
out manfully, in a fashion quite remarkable
for an official report. Considered in a lite-
rary point of view, the worthy Inspector’s
style cannot but be regarded as florid. But,
apart from questions of manner, it is a
capital report. The writer’s meaning is
never obscure, and his downrightness nnd,
above all, freedom from racial prejudice,
shine brightly throughout.
* * *
Perhaps the most remarkable features of
these reports, which present so many that
are remarkable, are, first, the testimony
which Mr. Brennan bears to the generous
disposition of the Chinese people, as illus-
trated even by the dregs of the race who
tenant these camps, in affording shelter and
sustenance to the helpless and unfortunate
of their countrymen. Not only might
Woolloomooloo and Waterloo, but Darling
Point and other fashionable
quarters, take example in this
respeot from these festering and
unwholesome camps of the “le-
prous Mongolian.” Secondly, the
declaration by Mr. Quong Tart
—who, by the way, has himself
done much to assert the high qua-
lities of his race by the intelligent
fashion in which he has executed
the functions entrusted to him
by the Government in this matter
—respecting the facilities which
exist for the suppression of the
opium vice. Mr. Quong Tart
makes the staggering announce-
ment that not only are the vic-
tims themselves desirous of being
subjected to the mild form of
restraint which prohibition of the
importation of the drug would
provide, but the very men who
make money by importing it—
the Chinese merchants, so much
vilified of late in consequence of
the adoption by oneer two firms
of that very popular method of
money-making, sojgeneral among
European tradesmen, insolvency
—would nearly all join in peti-
tioning for the abolition of the
traffic and prohibition of the
drug.
* * *
If such be indeed the ease, and
the professions of the Chinese
dealers be genuine, it is a heighth
of magnanimity infinitely supe-
rior to the level yet attained by
merchants of our own race. It
is a matter of notoriety that
every effort to regulate with a
view to diminishing the trade in
intoxicating liquors, has been
contested with most determined
opposition by the traders—retail
and wholesale —in the stuff. And
it is equally a matter of notoriety
that this is not merely true of
men and firms of “ worldly ” re-
putation, but that it has consti-
tuted a glaring and frequently
satirised anomaly in the charac.
ters of men and firms, who, in
all other matters, have habitually
made most demonstrative profes-
sions of high moral tone, deep
religious conviotions, and the
most sensitive conscientiousness
But perhaps this is not, after all, so
very surprising. We learn from Mr.
Brennan’s report that, in that Chinese
Alsatia, the camp at Narrand era, the deni-
Eens have likewise studied the proprieties,
and struok a balance with their consciences
by a remarkable sacrifice to Chinese ortho-
doxy. Just as Woolloomooloo contains,
within coo-ey of each other, churches and
bagnios; and as at Waterloo, the “ green,”
where the wretched woman, Owen, was
murdered, is almost under the shadow of a
chapel, so,.at the Narrandera camp, there
are lottery-houses, brothels, opium-dens,
and-Hft Joss House!


Ml. I. &
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
It is bonded for several years before being- bottled
or racked for export. When well matured by age,
it is carefully bottled under supervision of the
officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in enor-
mous quantities to all parts of the world.
AUSTRALIAN CONSUMERS will find BRIAN
BORU WHISKY pure, mellow, and wholesome.
The great demand for this OLD IRISH BRAND
in ENGLAMD, SCOTLAND, and the COLONIES
is a sufficient guarantee for its quality.
SOLD by all leading Merchants throughout
the Colonies.
JAMES YOUNG,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
YOUNG, KING, & CO. have never ex-
hibited their WHISKIES, and therefore
cannot boast of Gold Medals, &c.
Young, King, & Co’s Lammermuir Blend line old
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Young, King, & Co.’s 33 O.P. WEST INDIA RUM.
Wheeler & Co., world-famed Export Bottlers of
Bass’ Ale and Guinness’ Stout, and manufac-
turers of the celebrated Belfast GINGER ALE.
Sole Agent in Australia for above Brands :
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 CHANGE ALLEY, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 25 Fliuders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street:
And at BRISBANE.
T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Department,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
ea..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of suoh a Quality that cannot bo surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Scots wha Hae'nt.
A few years ago, when Irish agrarian agitators
at last forced the hand of the English Government,
and compelled them to deal with the system of
land tenure of the smaller island, a wail went up
from the Conservative camps dotted over the Em-
pire, that the thin end of the anarchy wedge was
at length being inserted into the body politic.
From the “ Blairs ” and “ Topps ” of Australia
welled streams of racial and religious venom, to
Show that, when a few millions of people endea-
voured to alter the scandalous political conditions
that render life intolerable, there is nothing like
the dragoon or the rifle to bring them to their
senses, and persuade them to starve in peace. In
the eyes of these reasoners, Irishmen were dis-
affected, not because they were half starved, but
because they were Celts and Catholics. They were
Inferior to the Anglo-Saxon, and therefore must
Sweat to wring a scant existence from mountain
farms, or die in a ditch, if unable to comply with
the hard conditions. True, this all-powerful
Teuton had gone down like nine-pins before the
ragamuffins that accompanied William. True that
English Radicalism—that vast, imperfectly deve-
loped power daily making its way to the front—is
constantly crying out against the palpable iniquity
®f English law under which the poor have no
chance against the rich. Still our colonial scrib-
blers could see nothing but lawlessness in a
nation’s struggles for decent food and quarters*
They were paid for daubing, and they daubed*
But more than a year since a cry came to us from
Bcotland, which showad that hardship and oppres-
sion affect all men in pretty nearly the same way,
whatever their race or creed. The Scotch crof-
ters were disaffected, rebellious. Policemen and
soldiers had to be told off to reason with them.
The “lairds” and “factors,” like the Irish land-
lords, have at last succeeded in reducing them to
the point where life becomes no longer endurable.
The evidence lately given before the “ Crofters’
Commission ”is simply astounding. In the parish
of Moiklo Atlas, the crofters were contented and
happy till, in 1870, the estate was sold to Mr. G. G.
Mackay. Then, they were warned to quit in forty
days, or submit to have their rents doubltd.
When a son succeeded his father, double “feu-
duty” was charged; so that “a man was fined a
year's rent for dying.” In 1855, the rent of the
Sutherland estate was £45,000 ; it is now £93,000 !
At “ Ballaon,” when a man dies, the successor has
an increase of frefcn 10s. to 40s. added to the rent.
Should the new owner die in a week a fresh
addition would be made to the rent. These are a
few, and a few only, of the oppressions that have
at last driven the industrious people to resistance.
They are precisely similar to those that have so
long kept Ireland in a state of chronic discontent.
They have no connexion with race, no bearing on
religion. They date from feudal times, and will
continue until the enfranchised Radicalism of
England obtains the privileges which cannot be
long delayed—of selecting its representatives from
the shop and the factory, rather than from the
“ stately homes of England ” embosomed in “ an-
cestral trees,” and margined with poverty and
starvation.
+
The Lady and the Women.
“Thebe is a general consensus of opinion.” No.
This style of starting a par. we leave to country
papers when instituting a parallel between Magna
Cbarta and the early closing of public-houses.
Our present subject is one that concerns every-
body in the land, and so we shall treat it in a
manner that everybody can understand. Some-
how a pernicious error has got abroad that all
Governments, evon the most despotic, are journey-
ing towards democracy—some by choice, others in
spite of themselves. We ourselves—so our papers
and representatives tell us—are well on the road,
jf we have not reached the winning-post. It is a
pleasant belief; but every now and then an awk-
ward fact comesjto the front to show us that,
while possessing most of the forms and habiliments
of democracy, we have somehow missed its spirit.
The compensation given to Lamont Young’s
widow is sueh a fact. His strange disappearance
is still fresh in the public mind. He was the chief
of the party, but this supplies no reason whatever
why the widows of his companions should have
been quietly ignored. Either compensate all o*
none. There may be a difference of degree in
their claims, but there is none at all in kind.
Indeed, their belonging to a lower stratum of
Bociety (should such be the case) but entitles
thorn to prompter consideration at the hands of a
presumably democratic society. The affair is
discreditable to any Government, most of all to a
Government resulting from universal suffrage*
It is a straw that shows the old “leaven of privi-
leged classes” and “precedent” to be not. yet spent*
It reminds us of the exhibition of—“snobbery,”
we suppose, is the proper word, made by the
English middle classes on the occasion of the
Prince Imperial’s death at the Cape. Two troopers
were killed along with him. It was their duty to
be there, and they sacrificed their lives in trying
to save a youngster who had no business at all to
be where he was. The English people knew all
about the young man—that his father was as free
from Napoleon’s blood as the Duke of Edin-
burgh from prodigality—that the same father had
reached a throne through the blood of murdered
French women and children—that while there he
proscribed all that was best in a splendid nation,
and introduced a code of political and sexual
morality equalling in shamelessness the worst days
of the “Regency,” of Catherine, or of Isabella.
They knew all this, and so they raised, in West-
minster Abbey ! a monument to the son of the
hero of Sedan. How much farther they would
have gonejit is hard to say, but for the appearance in
Paris of a stinging little brochure “Lea Deux Autre#’’
referring to the two poor troopers whose lives
were just as precious to them, and far less likely
to disturb the peace than that of the young
“Bonaparte.” Yes, we babble about “demo-
cracy” and “equality,” but the old Adam of
“ privilege ” is still potent among us.
Major Sargood, in measuring his new militia
had to draw the line somewhere. He fixed it at
5 feet 4 inches. But many of the old Volunteers,
who have been a dozen or eighteen years serving
this country, don’t reach this gigantic height, and
having no hopes of stretching in the futuro, com-
plain bitterly at being forced to retire into in-
glorious ease. “ I think the small man is the best
kind of fighting man,” says one little hero, with
wrinkled brow and clenched fists, “for there is
less to expose to an enemy, while his shot is as
effective as the big man’s shot.” There's no
doubt of it. We never heard an argument
yet in which the little man hadn’t the better
reason on his side. Wasn’t it Attorney-Gene-
ral O’Doherty, the Brobdignag of the Irish
Bar, who threatened to put Richard La dor
Shiel, the satirical Lilliput, in his pocket? “If
you did it,” said Shikl, “you’d have more law in
your pocket than in your head.” Wasn’t it some
other little man who sot a son of Anak thinking by
suggesting that they bore the relation to each
other that a threepenny-bit does to a penny ? But
wit doesn’t scare off invaders. And, although all
the little men argue for is right, we approve of
Major Sargood’s keeping them off the battle-
field. Shunt out the big men who have no wit.
Blow the heads off them. They’ll not be missed in
the world of mind. Let the little man stay at
home, and nurse the children, and fill the air with
laughter.
-4
The British contributions to foreign mission work
during the past year amounted to £1,093,569. That
was a great deal of money to send away out of a
country full of rags and poverty, of disease and
crime, to sunny lands where people have enough
to eat, and are clothed to the extent of their re-
quirements. These latter people are reputed to
bo behind only in a few theological maxims. They
don’t know how big hell is, or what sort of fun
goes on in heaven. But they feel that a warm sun
isahovethem; that round about them the earth
produces abundant fruit, and they help those of
their people who are old, and protect those of
them who are weak. Yet a million of money is
sent out from home, where mouths are empty,
where the old are very much neglected and the
weak are very much forgotten; where the sun is
very cruel and the earth very barren. And the
people who send out that money made it mostly,
as Nathan, of Melbourne, made his—out of the
lives about them, out of their hunger and tears,
©ut of their forced crimes, out of the fact that
God’s image had been blotted off their souls. Poor
tortuous human minds! Will ever the eye look
straight before it ? Still the total last year was
£15,381 less than in the year before. Small, small
reduction; slow, slow progress to Light and Truth!
Festina, blind dolts!
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
!>'(•—Tnr nn« 248.: half-year, 12s. 6d.
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The advertising Raj er» are ss. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, apd P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Tree’d by Dingoes.
A taste for calves has been the cause of
much trouble lately. We record, and illustrate
elsewhere, the remarkable feat of a committee-
man in wolfing the calf of a pedestrian, and now
from the Dawson River, Queensland, comes an
account all about a young lady and calves. The
heroine was out looking for calves, and so were
sundry dingoes. They showed a delicate prefer-
ence when a choice was presented to them, and
leaving the cattle, went for the maid. She, to
escape their attack, shinned up a tree and took
some of the calves with her.
Cannibalism at Hurrumburrah.
On Boxing Day at Murrumburrah Races, accord-
ing to the Cootamundra Herald, two men
quarrelled over the sports there. One was a pedes-
trian, and the other a member of the committee
of handicappers. The former, in trying to escape
a savage attack by the latter, had to climb a fence,
and as he was getting over, the committee-man
seized the pedestrian’s calf with his teeth, and
worried it like a dog till he tore away a good
mouthful of flesh.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
L Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.']
‘■Bella”: Yes; the lesson to be learned by
you girls from the parable of the seven wise and
seven foolish virgins is to watch for the coming of
the hridegroom “Onion”: Will look them up
at earliest opportunity and post them—“ W. J.
Blake”: Your verses, “Jessie: a Memory,” are an
improvement upon former contributions that
found their way to our wastepaper basket, but
are far from being up to Bulletinic standard.
Try again... “Baxter”: Yes f if suitable
“Finis” (H.W.): Your screed on the text “the
ladies have too large a share of this world’s esti-
mation and enjoyments, and are overpetted and
overindulged, and permitted advantages and im-
■ muniti* s to which they are not justly entitled,” is
altogether too long. Besides, we are mostly mar-
ried. You bad better make it up with her, for we
can see plainly that that’s what’s the matter—
“T. Costello ”: (1) Dr. Fortescue, Hyde Park. (2)
The physician you name is also a duly qualified
man “Tintern”: Thanks for your hint and also
yarn, which we use “Lorna Doone” : Very
welcome... “ Boaz ”: Glad to hear from you again.
“ C. 8.” : A good preventative for sand-fly
bites is to keep your sand-flies muzzled, or draw
their teeth, or else keep them on the chain at
nights. If you think this too much trouble, liquid
ammonia rubbed on the exposed parts (of yourself,
not of the sand-flies) will keep them from eiting
too much, and will mitigate the pain and itching..
“Berone”: Certainly: eels can be legally speared
in N. S. Wales without a license if it suits them.
They can also be legally skinned in N. 3. Wales.
All that would be necessary would be tor them to
employ a lawyer, or a laughing jacksss. Ttie bill
will do the skinning in either case—“ltalian”:
No, by eliding the “ e ” in De Amazaga you would
become accessory to an unnecessary blasphemy...
“Nicholas Nickleby”: John Shaw, of Merriwa,
notwithstanding, the original of Wackiord
Squeers, was a pedagogue named Shaw “ Phila-
telist” : The paragraph from the European Mail
which you send us, in no way tends to refute our
previous utterances to the effect that Philately is
all bosh. What it tends to prove is that the obli-
terated stamp-forger works a very profitable little
game out of the less knowing philatelist. Phi-
lately as a fad is harmless enough, and none the
less so that it affords a livelihood to the ingenious
fabricator of “Mulready’s” “V. R. black” penny
stamps or Mauritius twopennies.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses, Moss A Co.. General Agents.
Captain Charles De Amozaga.
The distinguished officer whose portrait appears
in our front page is Commander of the Italian
corvette Cariocciolo, now in this port. Captain
de Amezag'a is an officer held in high consideration
in the Italian naval service. His strong natural
abilities have been matured by high culture and
by eminent services alike in naval warfare and in
administrative and professional employments.
Early in his career, while serving on board the
gunboat Veloce, he won the decoration of the
Two Crowns of military merit by his gallantry in
engagements of the Garigliamo and Mola de
Gaeta. In consequence of the abilities displayed
in his profession, Captain de Amezaga was ap-
pointed Secretary to the Commission charged with
the compilation of the system of marine signals
and tactics for men-of-war now in use in the
Italian navy. In 1872, he was one of the first com-
missioners appointed to study torpedoes as em-
ployed in naval warfare. At the affair off
Cartbagena, in 1868, the style in which the vessel
commanded by de Amezaga was handled, so ex-
cited the admiration ofthe British Admiral Yelver-
ton, that, by an exceptional departure from strict
etiquette, he addressed to the Italian Govern-
ment a recommendation that the young officer
should be promoted, which was accordingly
done, and de Amezaga was raised to the
rank of captain. On this occasion, commanding
an old ship, while embarking royalist refugees
from Carthegena, then in the hands of the revolu-
tionary party, who had also obtained control ot
the ironclads in the port, Captain de Amezaga
ran his ship under the guns of a powerful iron-
clad, at a distance of but a few yards, and accepted
the risk of being sunk by a broadside. While
thus engaged, de Amezaga gave orders to man
the guns, and to await the Numancia opening
Are on him. At this moment, Roque Barcia(Revo-
lutionary Minister of Foreign Affairs), a man of the
great est inti uence with the insurgents, appeared on
board, with a tender of thanks for his gallant
behaviour and amiable disposition. Hearing what
had happened, Amezaga quitted the poop, and
informed Barcia that he wouldsuffer no further
insult to his flag, apprising the insurgents he
knew that at his back stood the whole of Italy.
The words had a tendency to quell the intransi-
gentes: Roque Barcia answered that he felt
grieved for what had happened, and directed that
the ringleader, Peters, who wa« in command of the
Numancia, be relieved of his office, and make
proper reparation to Captain de Amezaga, who
was thus enabled to leave the harbour with
his freight of helpless refugees, comprising a large
number of women ani children. Captain Paoli, the
British Consul, Dr. Austin, and other Englishmen,
who were on board, paid high compliments to Cap-
tain de Amezaga for his resolute courage, and de-
clared that they would be proud to have him for
their countryman. The prestige which this ex-
ploit gained for Captain de Amezaga resulted in
his election to be Deputy in the Italian Parliament
for the third College of Genoa, his birthplace—the
highest distinction which the citizens had it in
their power to bestow. In this capacity, the
culture and abilities of the Deputy won for
him additional consideration, and he was twice re-
elected to the Sime position. In 1879, Count
Cairoli, Minister for Foreign Affairs, selected him
to establish the colony of Assab, in the Red Sea, a
looality he had previously studied, when in com-
mand of the Rapido. In this mission he encoun-
tered a great many diplomatic obstacles, which he
successfully overcame, and on his return to
Italy, was again elected to Parliament. Again he
went to Tunis with the Rapido, where he installed
Consul-General Cum Maccio. The command was
then given to him of the Caracciolo to unite with
the Italian fleet in the Pacific Ocean, and watch the
interest of Italy during the war between Chili and
Peru, and arrange the claims of Italy caused by
the different bombardments during the war. In
her trip to Valparaiso, the Caracciolo stopped at
Monte Video, and whilst there he by mere chance
became cognizant of the infamies current at this
place by the officials of the public prisons upon
two Italians, Volpi and Patrone, although guilt-
less of any offence. Captain de Amezaga, accus-
tomed to make others respect the rights of civili-
zation and the honour of his flag, remained here,
and placed his valour atpj sagacity at the service
of these two tortured Italians, and became the
shield of the diplomatic body there, when i*. a few
hours, without threats and while fully respecting
the laws of the country and the constituted autho-
rities, he changed the aspect of affairs, setting
free with honour the two victims of official bar-
barity. His present voyage is of a more pacific
nature, being undertaken mainly for the training
of young seamen and for scientific objects.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Alfred Orlando, at the Water Police Court
last week, gave a new definition of the term “ in-
former.” “I am acting,” said he, “under the in-
structions of the Police Department for the pur-
pose of preventing sly-grog selling.” Queens-
land total revenue for quarter ending Dec. 31,
shows an increase of £140,000 on that for corres-
ponding period of ’B2. Tasmanian revenue for ’B3,
very satisfactory: considerable increase over that
for ’B2 Christy Gretz, Australian'aboriginal, said
to be smartest shearer on the Barcoo. This season
he shore 9700 sheep in 10 weeks, on one station—
N.S.W. revenue for 1883 (£6,476,134), shows a total
decrease on that for 1882 of £942,402 A bailiff in
possession of a York-street warehouse, hanged
himself, last Monday, and was dead some hours
before he was found. Prosperous times when
bailiffs, suffering from depression, hang them-
selves Large numbers of unemployed in Otago
and Canterbury, N.Z A Katoomba district
miner,asserts that a practical road 18 miles is easily
constructable from Fish River Caves to Katoomba.
saving 20 miles. Track to be surveyed... Another
mining cage accident, defective keying this time ;
Union Gold Mining Co.’s mine, Mount Greencck
(Vic.). J. Beckman, M. Whelan, J. Rehir and J.
Selthorne being lowered, cage got adrift and fell
220 feet, into the well-hole; all frightfully smashed,
Rehir fatally Drought still severe up Bourke
way. The Si-ring at Yanti Bulla, which for years
has stood all seasons, is fast giving out. Travelling,
stock can only get water in two places between
Hungerford and the Warrego, via Yanti Bulla
It is quite true J.P.-ship in N.S. Wales is no
more a test of education or decent conduct than a
C.M.G.-ship J.H.N. (writing from nowhere that
we can make out) tells of the amorous and general
bad conduct of a Wesleyan local preacher up his
way. Alas! this is nothing new.... December ’B3
hottest December since ’59... Sydney Hospital
crowded: only very urgent cases to be taken
N.S.W. Marine Board hold that both Dietrich (in
charge of the Dreamland) and Groat (master of
s.s. Glenelg) were to blame for the collision, the
saddest result of which was poor Lamb’s exit to
the other dream land : at same time Board don’t
consider that Groat’s momentary default war-
rants them in dealing with his certificate. This is
the N.S.W. Marine Board all over Parkes ex
pected back on Ist April—Appropriate day —
Government offer £5OO reward re Waterloo out-
rage E. A. Stone, formerly Crown Solicitor,
West Australia, gazetted a Judge of that colony...
Victorian yield of gold for’B3 was 740,3730 z.; de-
crease of 139,1080 z. on that of ’B2 About a fort-
night ago Harry Salwav left home (wife and eleven
children) near Bermagui, to look for horses. Never
since hearj of, though some thirty people l ave
been searching for him since his disappearance,
Query: Has he found the Lamont Young party in
one of the many local quicksands ?


Pofitical
Points
Lord and Lady Loftus, having tried their
summer residence at Sutton Forest, are quite
satisfied with its charms. They are chiefly hot
winds, dust storms, and bush fires, at present.
£40,000 wanted to complete the wings of
Prince Alfred Hospital. Sandy Stuart says Sir
Alfred Roberts must be economical; and we agree
with Sandy, though the hospital deserves support
from the wealthy.
Quarter’s and year’s revenue show a de-
cline. Fact is, G. R. Dibbs is game enough to give
dry, solid facts, which the country has to face,
rather than inflated returns, which only, in the
end, prove delusive.
On dit, that when Sir Anthony Musgrave,
the Premier and party left Brisbane for Mackay
lately, to turn the sod’of a new railway, his Ex-
cellency refused to allow the contractor to travel
in the same steamer.
Says an English journal, alluding to the
House of Lords:—“An irresponsible Chamber is a
relic of absolutism and barbarism. It is a rubbish-
heap into which inconvenient dust may be shot,
but which one day will be carted away by rude
and inconsiderate hands. In the meantime, in the
words of Pascal, ‘ It is a terrible thing to reflect
on the effects of rank. It gives a child newiy-born
a degree of consideration which half a century of
labour and virtue cannot procure! ’” We love
“heredity” ourselves; but there may be some-
thing, after all, in what the paper and Pascal say.
Still They Come.
Last week, a boy who was fishing off Mllson’s Point dock caught a shark, or a shark who was fishing caught a boy—at least, a shark and a boy—Hang it! these shark stories
are confusing. Our reason totters.
Poverty is attracting serious attention at
last, and the Peers have expressed intentions of
reforming the houses of the poor. The poor, on
the other hand, want to reform the House of
Lords. And they’ll do it with a vengeance if once
they start.
The hollowest politician is Holborow. He
and his party condemned the Ministry for junket-
ing all over the country. Now he damns them for
not leaving pressing work to attend the Tarago
railway opening. Holborow says he could, if he
liked, tell the reason. Well, we’ll tell the reason.
It s simply this: Holborow was sure to be there.
That honorable old fossil, W. A. Brodribb,
who is fifty years past political harm, announced
at the Tarago railway epening that he had written
a book of his life. Ten chances to one it includes
the speech which he hadn’t the opportunity of in-
flicting at the Albury ceremonial. Mr. Brodribb
must be a very courageous man to write a book
about his own political life.
The Victorian Postmaster-General has
been officially informed that the Imperial German
Government cannot agree that the Australasian
colonies should be entitled to a single vote each at
the ensuing Triennial Postal Union Convention.
Whilst Australasian jingos clamour for Imperial-
ism, it will be difficult for them to do otherwise
than to own that the German contention is per-
tectly consistent.
Parkes has been given the credit, by a
London daily, ot having presented N.S.W. with
the three Fontana statues. Inasmuch as there is
no record in any of the Government departments
or any official authority for procuring these
statues—and, moreover, as Parliament never made
any provision for the expenditure—it would only
De a delicate compliment to Parkes, on the part of
bib coIODy > Permit him to square Fontana’s little
There is a rumour that Sir Henry Parkes
will resign Tenterfleld, and that Mr. Dillon, S.M.,
retirement ia announced, will go for the
seat. With regard to the Stipendiary’s position,
rne applicanffi number near upon 200, and embraoe
p w - , B ’ barristers, solicitors, magistrates, country
• s> “ c - &c. Mr. Dillon has now leave of
~?5 enc e>. and it may be that he will withdraw his
resignation till an opportunity offers for his re-
entry to Parliament.
. Rev. George W. Pepper, of New York,
tL evidently a remarkably hot piece of property.
oration, for instance, he mildly ob-
nifwlf Ireland possessed 5000 such men, mag-
men > like O’Donnell, her deliver-
“ be achieved. His shot has reverberated
round the world, making English Tyranny tremble.
The storm raised by the mighty spirit of that heroic
man, I trust in God, will tear up, root and branch,
traitorism to Liberty in my native land.” Bung!
If Ireland possessed 5000 men like O’Donnell, what
a lively time the new official “remover,” Mr.
Hutton, would have when the fun began I
Persons in the habit of committing suicide
will be interested to learn that the proper Parisian
style to do the business now is to stroll into a lead-
ing restaurant, dine well, drink champagne, write
on a sheet of note paper the cause of self-destruc-
tion, and when the dessert comes on blow out
your brains. One of the admirers of this mode of
shuffling off the mortal coil recently scattered his
brains in a caf6 in the Rue do Holder, and when
the debris was being swept up a piece of paper
was found, on which was written—“ Oysters are
good for the stomach; old wine tends to prolong
life; but politics are the banc of existence. There-
fore I kill myself.” Unfortunately all politicians
are not of the same opinion. That’s why we weep
to-day.
The Service-Berry coalition is not answer-
ing the expectations of Berry’s leading supporters
ofthe place-hunting variety. They expected that
there would be an even apportioning of the loaves
and fishes, but now they find “ the spoils are all to
the Conservatives.” “ Has it been a question of
sending a commissioner to Calcutta ? a Conser-
vative was taken ; of appointing a colleague to
Mr. Service and Mr. Berry at the Conference ? a
Conservative was taken; of appointing Harbour
Trust Commissioners? Conservatives were taken.
And the first local Commissioner appointed on the
new Boards is a Conservative.” The legislation
has been allowed to have a liberal complexion,
“ but it would be premature to predict at this
moment whether evil or good has been achieved.”
It seems quite plain that Service has humbugged
the confiding patriots.
It is known that a man can be penny wise
and pound foolish, but it seems he can also be
Twopeny wise and a certified blank cheque
foolish. Exhibition Twopeny, for instance. In
the little matter of opinion about Parkes and
Berry, he is as near right as need be. But he could
not well, unless he had dined with them and got
the promise of a billet at the country’s expense,
miss the fact that they are both schemers. He
goes away into the region of thick ineptitude,
owever, when he calls Service the first of Aus-
tralia’s politicians. Why, what has Service really
done or conceived as a politician ? He bosses an
Assembly in Melbourne at present, but it is be-
cause there is no man in R whose honesty of char-
acter is trustworthy, or whose intellectual feats
the world will not thankfully let die. And it is the
weakness of his principles and the jerkiness of bis
reasoning faculty that have actually placed him
in such a boss-ship. But you can’t make much of
anything, even of truth, out of tuppence.
The accidental meeting in the peaceful
waters of Port Jackson of two war-ships bearing
the names of naval heroes most dear to their re-
spective countries, inspires us with strange and
conflicting thoughts. In 1798, Nelson, the hero par
excellence of all true and free Britons, was helping
Queen Maria Caroline and Lady Hamilton to re-
store in Naples the most disgraceful slavery known
to modern Europe; and Carracciolo, the intrepid
Italian Admiral, still covered with the laurels he
had won by the side of the English, was shame-
fully given up, in violation of a capitulation, to
the vengeance of a camarilla, who hanged him at
the yard-arm of his own frigate. Eighty-five
years later, in the peaceful waters of Port Jack-
son, in an English colony, we have seen an Italian
Bhip, named after the Neapolitan martyr, exchang-
ing salutes and courtesies with a British man-of-
war called the Nelson, and the countrymen of
Nelson vising with those of Carracciolo, who live
amongst them, to do honour to the Italian visitor.
The man is dead— so the story can be told
straight out. He was a trusted officer in the Lands
Department, and knew the run of things. Just
after the general election, he came to a Minister not
now in office, and pointed out to him several areas
of lands on the proposed Newcastle and Wollon-
gong lines of railway. Now, none but this trusted
officer knew of this land, not even the Minister of
his own Department, for it was what had passed in
at auction years ago, when offered at about 10s.
per acre, with no buyers. Under the existing law,
this land could be taken upat.fi l per acre; and
people with whom the “ trusted officer ” aforesaid
stood in, were absorbing it almost by the section.
He proposed, without a blush, that the Minister
should start the affair with the aid of a third party
—they both standing in. The Minister pretended
to be completely taken with the proposal, and
got the whole particulars. From his own office
to that of the Minister for Lands was not far to
walk . And that’s the history of how lands
passed at auction cannot now anywhere be sna-
velled by selection with the aid of public servants.
By the way, there’s plenty of such servants living.
So a wretched compromise—to be debited
to the vaguest conjectures of danger on the part
of an influential section of the Indian civil service
—has been made in connection with thellbert Bill,
the object of which was to give Native criminal
courts jurisdiction over Europeans. As amended
the measure provides that Europeans shall be
tried by a jury containing a majority of their
countrymen. The certain effect of this fatuous
weakness of the Secretary of State for India in
Counoil will b# to [alienate the people of Hindostan
yet further from their British rulers—unnecessary,
because a long experience has proved the com-
petency of the Native magistrate. As Sir Arthur
Hobhouse pointed out in a recent number of the
Contemporary, “ For many years Native magis-
trates have exercised that jurisdiction over
Europeans in Presidency towns, and it is in those
towns that a large portion of the whole European
community of India is congregated. The Native
High Court Judges have precisely the same juris-
diction with their European colleagues. In appeal
cases they take their turn with the other. Native
Mofussil magistrates who exercise criminal juris-
diction at all, exercise it when Europeans are
complainants ; and the complainant is just as
much interested in a proper administration of the
law as the defendant. They also exercise their
jurisdiction over Frenchmen, Germans, and other
Europeans who are not European British subjects.
In Ceylon, where the relations of Native and Eng-
lishman are precisely the same as in India, Native
magistrates exercise criminal jurisdiction over
Englishmen as freely as over Cinghalese. Through
all this wide range of experience there has been
no charge of incapacity against Native judges as
a class, no charge of unfairness towards Euro-
peans, no allegation of scandal or mischief result-
ing from their employment.”
An assumption i hat it is inherent badness
and savagery in the Irish race which is responsible
for Land-league outrages has pervaded press com-
ments for the last few years. The Land-leaguers
and the Invincibles have been persistently de-
scribed as monsters of spontaneous malignity such
as only Ireland could produce. The plea or Eng-
lish and Continental radicals that the crimes were
the inevitable results of oppression and mis-
government, and would equally have made their
appearance amongst people of any other race
under like conditions, has been scouted as a libel
upon manly Englishmen and decent Scots. Yet
now listen to the evidence of Thomas Carlyle, and
discover that even “ Number One ” had his proto-
type. Thus the Sage of Chelsea on Chartism—Oh,
that Sir ’Enry of “loyalty resolution” fame were
here to read:—“To say that it is mad, incendiary,
nefarious, is no answer. To say all this in ever so
many dialects, is saying little. ‘Glasgow Thug-
gery,’ ‘Glasgow Thugs,’ it is a pretty nickname;
the practice of ‘ Number Sixty ’ entering his dark
room to contract for and settle the price of blood
with operative assassins, in a Christian city, once
distinguished by its vigorous Christianism, is,
doubtless, a fact worthy of all horror; but what
will horror do for it ? What will execration—nay,
at bottom, what will condemnation and banish-
ment to Botany Bay do for it ? Glasgow Thuggery,
Chartist torch meetings, Birmingham riots, Swing
conflagrations, are so many symptoms on the sur-
face. You abolish a system to no purpose, if the
disease is left untouched. Boils on the surface are
curable or incurable, no matter which; while the
virulent humour festers deep within, poisoning
the sources of life, and certain enough to find for
itself ever new boils and sore issues, ways of
announcing that it continues there, and that it
would fain not to continue there.”
There are many things and people we
would like to see before death peeps into our bed-
room, and invites us aloft to practice “fugues ” in
Elysium, as a reward for the determined crusade
we have carried on against “ humbug ” here below.
The “ Witch of the Alps,” the “ Bell of Moscow,”
“ harnum,” Bradlaugh, and the writer of the
“Shandridan Papers” and the Jawbone of Ba-
laam’s Ass,” will-at once suggest themselves. Of
course, we would like to see these; but we would
cheerfully forego them all for one half-hour’s
gossip, in a public-house parlour, with the imagi-
native people who supply the European telegrams
to our daily papers—especially the fellow who
devotes himself to Spanish affairs. Spain has, for
hundreds of years, been an exceptionally loyal
country. Its mountainous character, and physical
characteristics, predisposed I the inhabitants t@
superstition. The Church twisted this predisposi-
tion to suit itself. Centuries of conflict with Mpors
and infidels kneaded the impressionable mass into
unquestioning loyalty to Pope and King. The
Inquisition stamped out free-thinking, emasculat-
ing the nation in the process, until, at last,
things arrived at such a pass that a monarch
of Spain had to courteously refuse a present
of a fine horse—because, if he once mounted
it, the animal became useless to anyone else, it
being treason for a subject to throw his legs
over a charger which had once borne the Royal
person. But the chasseurs of Napoleon, to whom
nothing was sacred, made a big hole in this little
legend. Since then, Republican risings have been
as common as evictions in Ireland. Constantly
put down, they as constantly broke out in a fresh
place, until the “Catholic” Isabella put up her
shutters. Since then, we have had a sort of bastard
Republic, a short Italian regime, and, at last, Isa-
bella’s son, whose father —but we are treading
on delicate ground. All this time, Republicanism
was gaining ground. But the person who supplies
the S.M. Herai/d with Peninsular news was asleep,
so that when the Parisian mob hooted and spat at
Alfonso, and when, subsequently, the ‘‘ clac-
queurs ” of Madrid worked up a fictitious enthu-
siasm to welcome their monarch Ijome, we were
told how deep-seated was loyalty in tfi® Spanish
breast, and how futile were the efforts to under-
mine it. Now we are told that they are ripe for
revolt, and that Alfonso’s chances of remaining in
the saddle are about equal to Gavan Duffy’s in
obtaining a hearing in Tipperary to aeoount for
his accepting a knighthood from’ the English
Government. Yes. Give us a brief five minutes
with this Spanish correspondent who fools us by
telling us that Monarchy—the system of govern-
ment we love—is secure in Spain, and—well, onp
of us would come away damaged.
Egypt, the laud of the servants of slaves,
has presented an ultimatum to Great Britain. If
England will not help the Khedive to put down
El Mohdi, Egypt will surrender to Turkey eastern
Soudan and dispense altogether with the British
army of occupation. This would-be sublime port
on the part of Tewfik and Co.! is really past
Baring.
The] (feeling against the English, from
Waterloo till the departure of the British Army of
Occupation, in 1818, was bad enough, but it was not
a circumstance compared with the feeling against
the Germans even up to the present. Some
amateurs gave a charity concert in Noumea the
other day, and a Scotchman sang “When the
swallows homeward fly.” Whether he sang it in
the original German, or in French, or English (it
is to be found in every European tongue), we can-
not say, but, anyway, it was looked upon as an
insult. Again, in the same town, the son of a
German would probably have been elected to the
Chamber of Commerce, but for his Teutonic taint.
Oh, and from Noumea we also hear that the
schooner Saucy Lass has arrived from the Sand-
wich Islands, consigned to the British Consul. It
wasTwith this vessel that—we forget his name—ran
away from Fiji when he heard his first wife had
arrived and was looking for him with seven kids
and a shot-gun.
George M‘Donald was a West Australian
shepherd—lmnioungo an aboriginal. Christmas
was approaching, game was scarce: and Imni-
oungo wandered listlessly in the bush in pursuit
of some mental relaxation, to enable him to forget
the tedium of existence, and participate in the
general festivity. He had a spear, and behind him
was his wife carrying a case of boomerangs, a
couple of waddies—to whose knobs a double row
of tenpenny nails added ornament and effective-
ness—and a pair of piccaninnies gambolling on her
back. With quick womanly instinct she observed
her husband’s moroseness increase as no kangaroos
or wallabies hove in sight. Experience taught her
that when his melancholy had become, as it were,
settled, his cheerfulness could only be restored by
treating her to a sound drubbing. Just then she
fortunately spiedJJM'Donald behind a she-oak, and
directed her loved one’s attention to him. Imni-
oungo’s'pensiveness disappeared. So did his spear;
and, oddly enough, lodged in the shepherd's ab-
domen. By and bye, the white police appeared
on the scene, and persuaded Imnioungo to accom-
pany them. Their invitation was ably seconded
by a dray-chain. On the road, they came across
some blacks who were also wanted. Leaving their
prisoner in charge of a native assistant, who was
m training for the “force,” they started in pur-
suit of the other niggers. When they returned,
they found that their “assistant” had removed
ail further trouble by sending a bullet through
Imniougo’s eye. He simply said that his prisoner
had attacked him, and ; well, there was the
result. What we would like to hear is Imnioungo’s
version of the story. And this reminds us that, at
Geraldton (W.A.) Quarter Sessions, Charles Clifford
was committed for trial for the manslaughter of a
native. He was “ bringing in ” the nigger, and, as
the latter was bumptious, Charles fastened a chain
to him, and dragged him along the ground till he
died. They have all the sport over there.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
STOCKBROKER’S GOOD INVESTMENT
Sandhurst, Victoria.
Gentlemen,—For a considerable time I suffered
from acute rheumatism. I tried remedies innum-
erable, without experiencing relief. At the solici-
tation of a personal friend, I was prevailed upon
to try your St. Jacobs Oil. After two applications
the pain modified, and before the bottle was half
finished the complaint entirely disappeared.
You are at liberty to givo any publicity to this
testimony of the efflcaoy of this justly celebrated
remedy.
Jas. O’Brien,
Stock and Share Broker.
St. Jacobs Oil relieves and cures
Neuralgia, Headache, Toothache, Backage, Sore
Throat, Quinsy, Swellings, Soreness, Chaflngs
Eruptions, Inflammations, Chapped Hands, Corns*
Bunions, Frosted Feet and Ears, and all bodily
pains for which an External Remedy may be ap-
plied. Sold by Druggists and Chemists. Price
Half-a-Crown a Bottle. Directions in Eleven
Languages accompany every Bottle. Elliott
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N.S.W


356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
&
til
■Err
EASY TERMS SYSTEM 12? INSTRUMENT.
OZKOh^ILTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
IV. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
H. 3E»A.X a S3MTC3- J)
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & CO.,
IE WMI ail HARDWARE MUSTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
W and 113 YOIIK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOG ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
EXGIXES
Robey's celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and lloistiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
& L?
ruMP»
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing-
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers. °
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joir.ers and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
> Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
C.,*c„ BUILDBRS' StraDfurt-Art* Spring Loathe,, aod FurntotUnm. Varal.bc, and
L. re e Stocks always baad of £ Sb ffi Anjlo sjoil£! ‘
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpackr, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hmg-ee, Nails, Sorews, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAXE AND CO.
397 Georg® Street, Sidney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from tulflliing their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these syra ntoms tnere is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion cl
the maladies and ailments attacking tne human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set ‘his
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboeatery,
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; -will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no riva l ; the oftenei
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
»
HIBIT
s*s
14 and 1G Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HA RI) WARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WA. RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T iA YEN’S
Scb n.Hp ps ,'.ni 1 <jtvn e ?a.
A. Msr/V -N ,nd SONS’
Kdinbu .fin Pale * e.
PAPERBANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to ’’v.atC';,
NURSERi W^EHS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &c.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT ia.d.©rta,lrea:,
84 HUNTER &. PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ELLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The o y Tobacco c jamming Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
83Y Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
twill’s Trim Ci., Li.
a 7
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An ' o.u be obtained wholesale at t-heir Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and willb© used by every
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBAUCO
Roistered according to Act ofPariiament, to pjro-
teot the public a*t"inBt spurious and worthless
'mttotiona.
"OOBERT BUTCHER & CO.
- 1 -*' (Late William Lon#),
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfield.
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares
besides his owner’s, ’
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal
Season ends on Ist January, 1884. Marcs not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN EALBS.
Duckenfield. September 18th. 1883.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
JtAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 12 do. do.
do. 12 do. do.
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauelerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
Ail Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
f^LYDESDALES
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-clafs Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with eveiy care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
[AVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
Cl I 1 ILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we oan prove what we say. There are no failures and do
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cur#
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THtf BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price In. .Id.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
B OAK’S HEAD STOUT. —This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from tbe
best of the brewings of the oelebrated Arm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot, be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO.. Solo Agents.
C5W'
TONIC NtRVINE
REGISTERED,
SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all eraving for Alcohol. By it s
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
tho whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere
Sole Proprietors. .MARSHALL BBO'fHKKS.
M.P.S-. Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street,
near Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations
illegal.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Writes De Miklouho-Maclay to Lord
" h ‘—“The native of the Mac-lay coast, not
h,fvin(r ever seen a white man before my landing
L The coast. in September ’71,” etc. So the Baron
wou h ld have it inferred that he is a white man.
wmv egotistic all these Mew Guinea explorers
; -even Tartars. Ta-ta, Baron.
Another of Rosebery’s little larks. He
out that he intended to go back to the old
fod in the P. and 0. ss. Parramatta. Straightway
„ lnt of people who meant a trip to England
made a dart for berths on board of that
comfortable craft. And now ’tis said Rosebery s
by another vessel. Wo scout the biise in-
sinuation that Rosebery and the P. and O. Co. s
niTcrit worked this little game between them. Any
way, it’s gruel for the tuft-hunters.
THOMAS HOLLOWAY.
A cablegram informs us
That an old apd famous friend
Has brought his earthly journey
To a brilliant, honoured end;
He bas kept bis last appointment,
And has gone his holy way,
But his goodness, pills, and ointment,
Are his monuments for aye.
In Anthony Trollope’s autobiography there
is a varn descriptive of a scene in which Trollope,
when a Post Office clerk, and Colonel Maberley,
his departmental boss, were the dramatis personae.
A letter containing money had been lost out of a
room to which no ono but Maberley and Trollope
had had access. To the former’s not unnatural
insinuation that under the peculiar circumstances
the thing looked queer for tfli junior, the latter
resented the suspicion with a ‘-Then, by God, it
was you!” Here’s a companion picture to the
above scene (we aro quoting Skene’s just issued
“ Life of Lord Stratford de RedclifTe”): “An attacht
had made one or two mistakes in copying a de-
spatch which he took to the ambassador for signa-
ture * Mistakes may be made,’ said Lord Stratford,
after pointing them out, ‘ by tho most careful
attache - how much more by the most careless!’
The young diplomatist, exceedingly incensed, told
Lord ■'tratford that, although he was his ambassa-
dor he had no right to reprimand him for what
was not true, as he was not habitually careless.
‘You accuse me of untruthfulness! D your
eves’’ exclaimed Lord Stratford. ‘D your Ex-
cellency's eyesl’ retorted the youth.” We guess
that both these yarns are ingenious lies, of the
same stamp as that about Washington and his little
axe, or Cambronno and the Guard dying but never
surrendering.
Louise Lateau is dead.
Born in 8 0, the lived dor
about the same period as
the Master she served so
well. Louise early deve-
loped physical peculiarities
of a startling: nature. In
1867 she was very bad, and
received the last sacre-
rner.ts. Her cure was mira-
culous. In the course of
the next few years the
marks of nearly all the
wounds suffered by Our
Lord in His passion ap-
peared distributed on her
outside. She w> s blotched
all over. Blood issued from
the upper surfaces ol her
feet, and the “stigrrata”
showed on her bands. In
September, 1868, the crown
of thorns put in an ap-
pearance. Then she stop-
ped sleeping, and began
lasting. In this she has
been equalled by few and
excelled by none. Over the
poor ecstatic’s dying bed
was hung the Papal Bene-
diction, given lmr by bis
late Holmes® Pius IX. M.
llridtt, curd at Lyon,
wrote, “ Being present at
the Euchjarstic Comm S 3
at Liege, I profited of the
occasion to pay a visit to
Louise Lateau. thi« liviog
wonder of the Blessed
Sacrament.” Boor Louise!
Her last words were “St.
Louis, what a beautiful
bouquet,” just as they
would have been "God is
great, and Joe Smith is
His Prophet,” had her let
lain in Utah.
On his birthday, Sir
Moses Montefim-e re c lived
as a birthday present from
Sir E. Watain “a life pass,
of gold,” for the S.E. a/ d
Metropolitan fuiilway. .As
the baronet is over 1(0
years old, and very rich
uesides, the "life pass in
gold” is,perhaps, tie meat
ridiculous present ever
made in the world.
Jules Verne, who was destined for a law-
yer, but fortunately escaped that doom, published
ids first novel, “Around the World in 80 Days,”
when he was 30. He is now 50, with whitening'
hair, but brain and bodv active. Alike at home in
society or in solitude, described by a literary
confrere as “ one of the best of us, frank as gold,”
he spends the summer nearly every year in a small
yacht, cruising round free from cares of business;
and in winter life goes into society, or constructs
his wonderful novels at his villa residence in
Amiens, with brain full of fresh ideas gathered
from earth air, wave, and sky. While reaching
the extreme of sensationalism, h'S novels are of
the purest style. And Verne is the only novelist
we know who absolutely "ignores the exfitence of
woman.
Tiie devices for “ raising the wind” are
not nearly exhausted, MM. Spinelli and Onfray
were recently accommodated with seats in the
Paris “Black Maria,” on their way to explain
their share in selling bdgus degrees of a bogus
Roman Academy, The purchasers paid from 30 to
100 francs a year for the privilege. The diplomas
were headed with a violet insignia—a delicacy
which was duly appreciated at the Vatican. Pain-
ters, poets, generals, grocers, mountebanks, and
mouchards swelled the list of graduates. But the
authorities though' tiiat Messrs. S. and O. had
mistaken tneir vocation—that picking oakum was
more in their line—and so a place was found for
them where their privacy was protected by a high
wall. There is a moral to this. We in Sydney
should get it by heart. Among us medical moun-
tebanks masquerade. The Paris swindlers pan-
deredAo vanity only. The Sydney quacks fatten
on tnSir victims’ fears. Until they also exchange
confidences from the seats of “ Black Maria,” we
shall feel that The Bulletin's mission is but half
complete.
More despotism and more oppression!
Those who go up or down Bourke-arreet, Mel-
bourne, on a Saturday night, must have noticed
the almost constant crowd at the corner of
Russell-street. The crowd is about Benjamin
Judkins’, and Benjamin Judkins is one of the
martyr-authors of the age. He hasali tie pam-
phlet which he sells at 6d., and which, in the
oration with which he advertises it, he describes
as being so extreme in its views, so destructive of
despotism and oppression, that no Government
will permit him to sell it, and no shopwindow will
permit him to exhibit it. We don’t mind giving
Judkins an adv. gratis, for we do the same now
and again for Mortimer Franklyn. Besides, we
always thought lhe martyr a little bit “off his
chump.” But on last Saturday night he was
shoved into the iock-up for being an obstruction.
When brought before the 3ench on Monday morn-
ing, Benjamin gave the Court as much eloquoneo
as will do it for many months. His peroration
was extremely line, it was constructed in the
spirit of an Age leader. The professional icono-
clast had one great complaint. Ho had to sit in
the lock-up instead of in church all day on Sun-
day. His recorded opinions would not have made
onothink thatu deprivation; but Judkins averred
that, whatever opinions h« might ventilate, lie
liked to be seen among respectable people. The
Bench said it was the way with all like him.
1? ined It's.
“Dosh” Machattie, the member for
Bourke, is about to bo testamonialised for “the
valuable services,” &c.; and as the Bourkers
either go the whole hog or none, it is expected the
affair will be a big boom. Dosh is the son of the
late Dr. Machattie, of Bathurst, once one of the
bast-respected mea in the Western district. Sur-
veying first claimed the attention of the Bourke
member, but he finally settled down to the stock
and station agency business, and soon waxen lat
and prospered, lie was opposed at the Bourke
election by Mr. J. B. Oliffe, who was well ahead
when all the returns but one were handed in. So
certain were the friends of the latter of victory
that they invited him to a grand congratulatory
banquet in Sydney, and the rejoicings were just
about to be fired off when a “ wire ” Hashed along
saying the miners of Cobar had plumped for
Michattie to a man, and he was duly declared
elected. Over 200 guineas have already been
collected for the testimonial to Dosh, and when he
handles the “ puss ” we believe he intends to pur-
chase a monster ice-chest—that being the most
desirable article of virtu for a Bourke man to own
at present.
When Parkes left this country> ho took all
the poetry and several other things away witli
him. Only he left a piece of his poetical mantle
to Tenterlield. Of course, we are now excepting
Sladen, who was born, not made. If he had been
made with human hands, the chief business of
one half of the population and the relaxation of
the other half would consist in hunting with
hatchets for the man who made him, But let the
Tenterlield Tibullus afliate:—
“ What’s sweeter than the anvil,
That beats upon the ear;
It wakens us from slumber,
And sends us forth in cheer.”
Well, we don't know; tastes differ. For ourselves,
we prefer to be awoke at rosy morn with the
familiar fire-shovel. But “ sends us forth in
cheerl” We suppose that, speaking proportion-
ately, they then go out, kill a Chinaman, drink a
bucket or two of rum, and return to a breakfast
of stuffed alligators. But, if they sleep so hard in
this life that they’veto be awakened with an anvil,
we think they stand the best chance of any people
we know of resting in peace when they die. The
Archangel Gabriel is not going to burst a blood-
vessel just for the sake of rounding up a few
Tenterlield skeletons.
CANNIBALISM AT MUBRUMBURRAH.
A HANDICAPPER SAMPLES THE CALVES OF A PEDESTRIAN AT THE BOXING DAY SPORTS.
Bob Smith’s youns friend, Prince Albert
Victor, is going' through a course of studies at
Cambridge, and papa and mamma honoured the
University with a visit recently, to see how Bertie
was getting on with hi* books. He is quite a big
boy now, you know, and the highest-toned of the
English papers are Hading fresh charms in him
every day. We are told by a penny gusher that
“ he is much taller than his father, somewhvt slim,
dark, very pale, and is what the ladies call “ inter-
esting.'” Now, who on earth ever heard of a
prince that was tminteresting ? Why, all noble-
men, down to C.M.G.’sand baronets—more espe-
cially Australian baronets-are positively thrilling
in their interest. But the most startling item of
intelligence respecting Albert Victor has yet to
come—“ Like his Royal father he enjoys a cigar-
ette.” How gratifying this is to smokers! Here
is the one little touch of nature which makes the
youthful Prince of a kin with the humblest of us.
We, also, enjoy a cigarette—when it "won't run ”
to cigars.
“ The Royal, Cigarette.”
Oh, the Heir Apparent’s eldest—
So runs the latest tale,
Is tall, and dark, and well-dressed,
And somewhat slim and pale;
The ladies (well, yes, rather— HD. B.)
Think him quite a little “pet”;
And, like his royal father,
Ho "enjoysa cigarette.”
This piece of information
Ts pleasant news, indeed;
For, as mahy of the nation
Are addicted to the weed,
As subjects, true and loyal,
They would really feel upset
If they thought his Highness Royal
Couldn't smoke a cigarette.
Travellers between Dunedin and Inver-
cargill, overland, in the old pre-coaching days, had
a little roughing to do. About the middle of the
journey, they usually arrived at nightfall at a
Roadside shanty, kept by an old heathen squatter,
who combined the double industry of growing
sheep and lambing down the shepherds with plea-
sant and profitable results. Old Smiles, as he was
called, was of a most iraseible and bi utal tempera-
ment; and people who stopped at his house for a
night were kept in continual terror lest they should
witness the wholesale murder, by him, in one of
his mad iiis, of his wife and family, over whom he
tyrannised in the most revolting fashion. On one
oictsion a traveller found his wife and several
grown-up uaughters bailed up together in the
stockyard, while the old villain surrounded them
as it they were so many sheep or cattle. crac>:ing
his stock whip viciously about their ears, andswear-
iug horribly all the time. On being remonstrated
with, he let them go; and on inquiry afterwards,
the traveller found that the row took place because
tho women had allowed the bull to stray from the
yard while they were milking 1 the cows. The ac-
commodation for travellers at the ancient hostelry
was simply atrocious, while the charges were on
the most elevated scale. On another occasion,
several hungry travellers having been provided
by him with tea, stale bread, and a leg of mutton,
found the latter articlo in a condition bordering
on putrefaction. Old Smiles, on being appealed
to on the subject, took up tho piece of m°ac with
both hands, and passed it slowly several times
within au inch of his nose. He then slapped it
down on the dish, telling his guests they wore
devilish particular, and if they didn’t like to eat it
they could do the other thiDg—ho had nothing
better to give them. They got nothing better,
accordingly, but paid all the same as if they had
dined royally off tho finest lamb and mint sauce.
“Self-slaughter his end!” Itis said of many,
but seldom so sadly as of Francis Hodgson Nixon,
late editor ot the Daily Northern Argus, liock-
hampton. Just 30 years ago, when liecebwottb
was in its prime, among the splendid array of
rough but manly men that the diggings life pro-
duced, F. H. Nixon was one of the brightest stars,
one of the most rollicking and genial spirits.
Reared from early youth among the relinemenis
of cultured society, with a liberal education, gener-
ous disposition, and adventurous mind, he soon
threw up the office of Government Architect, with
all its official routine, and souvht an opening for
himself. His attention had before turned to litera-
ture as an amusement; now he took to it as a pro-
fession, and founded the Ovens and Murray
Advertiser. It was a wearing, hard life, that
just suited his earnest, eager spirit: a life where
limbs as well as brains were taxed to the utmost
iu the rough struggle of tho times, i hey were
not arm-chair editors in thoso days. Hut
though the paper was a success, it did not much
enrich its founder. He was manly, generous, ami
spirited, we have said. Such men are no more
likely to have the traits of character which go to
make a successful financier, than a llnancier is
likely to have the soul of a man. He afterwards
tried his fortune at papers in Victoria, and then in
Queensland. Ho never made much money ; but
he married a wife who was handsome, and better
to him than gola (a daughter of tho pioneer Cap-
tain Cadell), and he was always the samo gay,
gallant comrade, to dash oil a song or a satire, to
ride a race, or do some turn for a friend. There
are many who hold that, at times, suicide is neither
a madness nor a wrong—that it is simply choosing
a way out of tho pangs of life when they get in-
tolerable to bear. However that may be, it is
certain that Nixon was scarcely sane when he
mrned the pistol on his brain. His brilliant and
active mind had long been affec;ed by the strain
upon it, caused by wearing wora. and we believe
tnat under this stress of insomnia ho knew not
wh-<t he did.
As people already know, the father of the
advertising art, the most munificent public bene-
factor of recent times, and the inventor of the
mildest pill that was ever swallowed by a gullible
public, has paid the last debt ©f nature; in other
words, Holloway is dead. That Holloway should
have amassed Ills colossal fortune bv the agency
of the pill which bears his name (for the “oint-
ment” is very small potatoes in its money-making
properties as compared with the “pills”), is a
tribute to the genius of a man who first perceived
the golden harvest to be reaped from bold adver-
tisement of a nostrum which by no possible moans
could do any harm. In Thomas Holloway’s early
days, advertisement, as we now understand the
term, was in its infancy; and the popular idea was
that a medicine advertised in such a phenomenal
style must necessarily possess all the curative
powers claimed for it. Every man who was suffer-
ing from indigestion, the result of overfeeding at
dinner, forewent his usual supper, and took a
couple of the pills he had “ read so much about.”
Next morning he experienced the benefit of his
unusual abstinence, felt much better, and swore
by Holloway. Even at the present day, compara-
tively few people are aware of the fact that
twenty of these pills, at one dose, will have
very little more effect upon them than the two
or three to which they so carefully restrict them-
selves; but they may certainly make the ex-
periment without fear for the consequences.
Our little brother once ate a box-lull of the pills
of Hollowav, a d wound up by swallowing the
wrapper, yet he still lives. However smolingly
we may smile at the original audacity of Hollo-
way’s venture, all must admit that the money
made by working upon the weakness of people,
who for the most part are pretty well off, has been
nobly spent. General regret will bo felt th°the
was not spared to witness the completion of the
two magnificent institutions which will stand hs
monuments to his medicinal memory —the Sana-
torium for Lunatics and the College for Women.
Each of these palaces, according to the founder's
arrangements, which wilt doubtless be carried out
by his executors, will cost nothing short of half a
million, a hundred thousand pounds having been
expended in a collection of pictures, alone, for the
reading-room of the College. The Sanatorium, it
is expected, will be opened bv the Queen in a few
months’ time, and a little later, when it has re-
ceived its complement of unhappy tenants, the
practical luxuriousness of all the appointments
will be fully appreciate i. and no poor lunatic will
begrudge tho money which, in his weakest mo-
ments, ho may have laid out in Holloway’s Pills.
The late F. W. Meymott may have been
(as the S. M. Herald tells us) “ a constant visitor
at the musical parties of the great Duke of Wel-
lington, ” and may have “ brought to this colony
letters of high recommendation from some of the
most prominent statesmen, famous artists and
publio men in the mother country.” Many a
“ Queen’s Bad Bargain ” has done as much. What
the Herald neglected to record in its obuttery
notice of Mr. Meymott was that he was an unju—
wed, a bad judge; that his habitual conduct on the
district bench was calculated to bring the
administration of justice into contempt; and tho
moral of bis whole career as a public servant in
this colony may be summed up in this Discount
hsavily all high recommendations from prominent
men in the mother country.” This colony has been
had that way scores of times.
Concerning Marie AJexandrovna objecting
to certain Jadics attending her birthday ball, a
writer says “ Everyone does not agree in ap-
plauding the Duchess of Kdinburgh in the Coburg
affair. Like society in general, she visited the sins
of the fathers on the innoceut children. If the
Duchess is so prudish, she should have abstained
from visiting the actual sinner, but to vent her
disapprobation on the unfortunate daughter is a
ridiculous thing. The fathers are petted by
society, while the women and children suffer all
the opprobrium. It is neither fair nor just. Our
English Court is full of such scandals, hushed up
or only noted with a smile, and it was quite going
out of nor waj for tho Duchess of Edinburgh to
dictate at Coburg. She should have remembered
her own father's conduct, and been silent. . . .”
We would remark, t hough, that in visiting the sins
of the lather upon the children, society follows
Bible teaching.
In November, Abbe Liszt re-appeared in
Roman society. At one of the receptions he at-
tended he offered to piny. Breathless silence in
the room. Tho Abbe passed his hand once across
his face, and then, touching some ihinor chords
gently, filled the vast saloon with softest harmony,
broken now and then by the wail of a long-sus-
tained note, like a sudden cry of pain in tho calm-
ness of a summer night. Then camean answering
peal low in tho bass, which was succeeded by
sounds which can best be described as a perfect
storm of notes. Bass and treble, treble and bass,
united their efforts to bring forth one perfect
whirlwind of melody, which was suddenly suc-
ceeded by the wailing i.ote and a sobbing echo in
a minor key. Then the great composer rose irom
the piano. “ It is extempore,” he said to his
hostess, and in another instant ho had left Die
room. During the summer, he has composed thi ee
anthems and a grand requiem mass, lie considers
the last his gieatest work.
James Gray, M.L.A.,
who represented Tasmania
at the late Irish Conference
held in Melbourne, is one
of the first batch of Irish
patriots who were exiled
to Austi’alia. He is fami-
liir.y known in Hobart as
“ J immy ’ Gray, and con -
bines all the genial good-
nature with ail the head-
strong impetuority that is
so often found iu the Irish
character. In person, he
is rather short and obese,
with agood-humoured ana
somewhat rub cund coun-
tenance. "Jimmy” is al-
ways a favourite with re-
porters, whom he believes
to be altiicted with a per-
petual thirst lor luscious
Tasmanian ale. Wherever
"Jimmy” si ies a siribe,
be his paper un opponent
of his views or not, up goes
the inevitable umbioila,
with the too well-under-
stood beckon, and, in a
br» ceof shakes, tbe M.L.A.
and the journalist are put-
ting down the Cascade
brew quick as a phono-
grapher jots his notes.
Many a reporter has got a
pretty warm "gruelling”
loi rolling up tne stairs in
“ the noon ot night, ’ with
an unsteady gait aud shaky
report, after having inter-
viewed the hospitable
"Jimmy” Gray. He can,
however, be as pugnacious
as genial, and has been the
hero of muny a senatorial
fight, in which he, poor
balfe, and others figured.
A grandson of Maiie
Antoinette, and pretender
to the French throne, died
recently iu great distress
in Holland, aud was buried
iu a pauper's collin. A
morbid desire to appear
original forbids us to add
the usual, Bfc transit uloiia
m uncU.
Fred. Lyon Weiss, of Sydney, has been
elected a Fellow of the Educational Institute of
Scotland The undermentioned have been ap-
pointed instructors at tho Sydney Technical
College John ItiDlocb, M.A., in mathematics ;
John Hannessy (assistant city architect), in archi-
tecture ; P. Fitz-Stubbs, in music; Dr. E. il.
Rennie, in physics ; and John Connery, in eiocu-
tion. Good appointments The will of the late
Hon. E. King Cox has been proved lor £1)5,572.
He was not a poet; that’s very evident Lewis
W. Gilles, the first man to introduce the merino
sheep into Tasmania, died on the tfnd inst., at
Glen Ormond, 8.A., at the age of> 80. He has left
a diary containing his 00 year’s colonial ex-
periences for publication... l . ..John Gregory,
a Victorian J.P., committed for wholesale
forgery by Horsham bench The grass is 3 leet
high on the unfinished grave of Michael Fitapatriek
Somebody to blame—and he’s iu Parliament—
The ltev. Joseph Barnier, of St. Barnabas, lelt on
Thursday, by fihe City ot Sydney, for ’Frisco. A
number ot friends saw him off—H.cbard Capper,
who died last Friday, at 94, was connected with
the first theatre opened in Melbourne, and with
drama in that city ever since—Mr. Lewis Gilles,
who died at Glen Ormond, S.A., aged 88, claimed
to have been the first man to introduce merino
sheep into Tasmania St. Andrew’s choir pre-
sented ltev. Dr. Ellis with an address and puise
of sovereigns on Ins severance from them
Mr. John De Clouet, an old Bathurst identity,
handed in his checks, and started off to spend his
New Year in the next world on January 1. “ Hon-
est John,” as he was familir.ily culltd, lived to
breals the Koyal Psalmists' record of three score
and ten, and during his long career never lost a
fri«nd or made an enemy. He was once Mayor of
bathurst, and in bygone days was one of tue fore-
most men on the Western turf Ninian Melville,
M.P., J.P.-d by the Victorian Government. Tho
‘•why” not gazetted. Brewer Aitkin, of Mel-
bourne, died last week. Bet rto bier—old Tom
Thompson, swagsmau, while getting a billy of
water, last Saturday, out of the Yass River,
dropped dead. Bank deposit lor £BO uud £97 in
notes found on him.
* * *
Lowell, United States Minister to London,
elected Reet tof St. r- ndrew’s University. First
foreigner on whom the Rectorship of a British
University was ever leatowed '.fanner, whose
stomach the American landlady hymned because
lor forty days it eschewed grub—
The stomach deserving to take the cake ,
Because for custard it never craved,
And tor forty days went without beef steak—,
has bpen run in for practising medicine without a
proper diploma. He should have immigrated to
Sydney, and called himself a Labrador baronet,


CHiARINI’S
MU ITALIAN CIRCUS!
AND
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
COMING.
THIS magnificent and always popular combi-
nation, greatly enlarged, and, if possible,
faore attractive than ever, having just returned
rom a three years* triumphantly successful tour
of the far Fast,
WILL OPEN IN SYDNEY
ON THE EVENING OF
Saturday, Jan. 12,1884,
on the oentraland commodious reserve,
known as
BELMORE PARK.
The troupe now comprises no less than
THIRTY-FIVE FIItST-CLASS PERFORMERS,
male and female,
Selected by Signor CHIARINI’S agents, regardless
of expense, from the leading circuses and hippo-
dromes of Europe, among whdm are the
VERY BEST EQUESTRIANS, ACROBATS,
GYMNASTS, CONTORTIONISTS, EQUILI-
BRISTS, CLOWNS, SKATERS, and SPECIALTY
ARTISTS,
who will present during the season
MANY NOVELTIES NEVER BEFORE GIVEN
IN AUSTRALIA,
SWEETMAN’S AUSTRALIAN BAND,
the LARGEST and BEST in the Colonies,
under the direction of
PROFESSOR H. VON DER MEHDEN,
the famous Cornet Virtuoso, Piano, Violin, and
X ylophone Soloist, and Musical Director of
CHIARINI’S
ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS.
The WONDERFUL MENAGERIE
includes,
Among a HOST of STRANGE and RARE WILD
ANIMALS, a den of
PERFORMING ROYAL BENGAL TIGERS,
TWO PERFORMING ELEPHANTS from Ceylon,
Panthers, Leopards, Ourang-Outangs, Monkeys of
various species,
the EDUCATED ZEBRA,
i
and the
LARGEST and MOST FORMIDABLE
DEN of PERFORMING
AFRICAN LIONS
in
THE WHOLE WORLD.
SIGNOR CHIARINI’S PEERLESS STUD
of
TRAINED HORSES and PONIES,
from every
country of the Globe, all educated to a degree of ]
perfection which must be seen to be believed.
GREAT SPECTACULAR WINTER CARNIVAL
NEW COMIC PANTOMIMES,
and a
DAZZLING and EVER-CHANGING ARRAY OF
NOVELTIES,
all under our two Mammoth Pavilions,
Brilliantly Illuminated,
And with a Seating Capacity for Five Thousand
People.
This is no ordinary Travelling Tent-show,
as witness the
SUBSTANTIAL and COSTLY
EDIFICE,
now being constructed for this
GRAND COMPANY
in
BELMORE PARK.
REMEMBER !
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12th,
at 8 p.m.
A GALA NIGHT
in the
HISTORY of AMUSEMENTS
in
SYDNEY.
PRICES OF ADMISSION:—
Boxes, containing six chairs £1 10
Dress Circle (chairs) 6
Stalls 3
Children under the age of 10 years half-price to
all parts of the house.
For particulars of Opening Performance, see
future announcements.
G. AGRATI.
General Agent.
Tlh-e ÜBeliaTfole BuLg'g'les!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM! FLEMING, Clarence-street.
10 Mm
PATEN*
Mil,::
, n«
! l!
ta'i
M
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
HAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried oil the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
TD & CD., Sill Agents, 257 George fa
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Peapes & Shaw’s
“ STANDARD" CLOTHING.
We have now
now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
STANDARD CLOTHING
is
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
i “ STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS,” 335. 6d., 355., 435., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 435.
I TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
II WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 31s.
IBLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d„ 31s.
TWEED TROUSERS, IQs. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
\TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
IiTfIHT TWEH.D OVERCOATS, 425., 505., 565.
“SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH-
CHRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
BOYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
RELIABLB >m & I ACiNTOSH CL O T HIN G.—All
H £ITS.
white' FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or hoat-
TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d, 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. Cd. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
PS APES and SHAW, George-streec.
OUR MERCERY DEPARTMENT la stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
GENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
Anglo-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or 8.8., 305., 405., 50s. half-dozen. . _ _ _
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 305., 405., 425. the half-dozen.
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, wlw patent
side tabs for holding scarf in position. „ . _ .
SCARFS in all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Four-in-Hand. „, , „
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
THE NEW TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
THE NEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
The most
Suitable
For a Lady
or Gentleman
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies’ ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle made.
or
BICYCLE
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADUITS.
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Bicycle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been offered, in Australia.
OUR BOY’S' BICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Mange from £5 ss. for Juvenile sizes
to 30 guineas for our highest styles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Range from S guineas for Roys' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
We send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in the Colony. Write for it.
James MAETIIT&C OMPY -
Opposite Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(iiIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Brig,
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Buninyong
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive
3000 Geelong .. .. 600
1000 Keilawarra .. .. 900
1000 Konoowarra .. 1606
1600 Leura 1600
600 Moreton .. .. 000
400 Rodondo .. .. 1200
3000 You Yangs .. .. 700
600
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
O
PE R A
OUSE
Lessee and Manager W. J. Wilson
Stage Manager for Mr. Darrell.. Mr. J. H. Rainf ord
Notice.— To prevent disappointment, secure your
during the day, or be early at night
Dress Circle, 6s; Stalls, 3s, PIT, ONE SHILLING.
| JBox office at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be had at Roberts', tobacconist, next Theatre.
_ THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK
of the most successful of all successes.
The greatest sensational drama of modern times—
THE SUNNY SOUTH THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Written by Australia’s Actor-Author,
GEORGE DARRELL,
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, JANUARY 10.
Third week and unabated success of
GEORGE DARRELL’S
Anglo-Australian Drama
THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Furniture supplied from Globe Furniture Ware-
house, Park and Castlereagh streets.
N.B.—Children in arms not admitted.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
and every evening until further notice,
THE GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Academy of music.
Lessee - - - W. H. Thompson.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
EGYPTIAN WAR.
LAVISH DISTRIBUTION OF NEW YEAR’S
GIFTS
will take place, at the discretion of the proprietor,
without the slightest element of chance.
Lecturer, W. H. Thompson. Agent, H. Eastwood.
Author and Actor.
“ ONE OF THE MOST VERSATILE ACTORS
ON THE STAGE.”
TMMENSE SUCCESS IN MELBOURNE!
“THE WANDERER,”
AND
“MYLES-NA-COPPALEEN.”
SONGS encored again and again.
TOUR POSTPONED,
In consequence of having accepted a “SPECIAL
ENGAGEMENT” with Signor Majeroni. Thanks
to C. F. Coutts, Esq., Theatre Royal, Sandhurst,
for offer of £25 weekly. Letters, Telegrams, &c.,
respecting future engagements, to he addressed
“ Bulletin Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Till called for.”
TO THEATRICAL MANAGERS AND
SPECULATORS.
For sale.-rainer’s original pano-
rama of the
AMERICAN WAR,
and the New and Beautiful Panorama of the
EUSSO-TTJRKISH WAR.
The above exhibitions, having cleared for the
proprietor a net profit of £30,000, are for sale, Mr.
Rainer, now being Independent, wishes to retire.
If not disnosed of within two months, the pano-
rama will proceed to South Africa and India*
where it clwe.. m wo years £7OOO, and where
another splendid success and certain large returns
await it.
BLISS & PERYMAN, Auctioneers, &c.,
32 Collins-street, Melbourne*
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Children, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpin.
Conductor—Herr Hugo Alpin.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jeannerett to run additional steamers, as well as
trams, to the Park gate, five minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The building will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. S. Cracknell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; in
the evening, Is.
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
Hon. Sec.


T7I7HAT CAN ONE GET THAT’S WORTH
VV GIVING AS A OHRIBTMAS GIF l'
WITHOUT EXTRAVAGANT OUTLAY ?
The above is a question which a million people
will be asking' themselves this season. One wants
to show affection and good-will by a handsome
and appropriate gift, which will be tasteful and
useful. It is the most puzzling and tiresome job
to And anything which answers these require-
ments, and is yet obtainable at a reasonable price.
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 414 George-
I street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets).
has solved this problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £6:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alohemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
* irien+al Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metai, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other;
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Some of the goods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Pariiian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT-EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time.
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At 5s. each.
Neat Scarf Pin. . .
Pretty Dreos Ring 1 .
Set of Shirt Studs.
Natty Brooch.
Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings,
n Elegant Pencil Caso. ,
At <jB. Gil. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm. .
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Culf-pins.
At 10m. cat'll.
Orand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem King.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each. *.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £JI each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled 81ide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies' Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—sB. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and tassels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting:, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-lOths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases
(With Oriental gold chain— los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At *S.
A Combination Parcel, comprising: any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postago. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
twwa.tre Royal-** Christmas Pantomime . .p. 8.
opera House-** The Sunny houth ib.
academy OF Music-“ Zulu War ib.
ChiaßlNX’s Royal Italian Circus ib.
They’re still drawing houses to pay.
Syncopation, largo and larghetto
Were given correctly, but—say,
Who the deuco composed their libretto ?
* * *
We are speaking of the Turners. “ Lucia ”
“Tl Trovatore” were given in English. In-
of (riving the freest of translations and
making up as far as possible.for the sonorous
mlian terminations, the charming music of Dom-
and Verdi was wedded to words anything but
flhcitous Not, after all, that it makes much
differ to the musical enthusiast what language
“opera is rendered in;, but when a thing has to
he done at all, it might just as well be done pro-
Horlv Some of the recitatives reminded us of
Pho French translation of “ Macbeth.” where lay
on Macduff ” appears as “prenez garde, M sxeuMac-
-5?,V - The intervals were entirely too long, and
many estimable people of long assets and short
wfmi had to “ spurt ” for their trams, while many
others had to give up the race to their favourite
“nub.” and turn into the first one they met for a
„i£ht.oao And now we have done with fault-
finding The soprano (Miss Annis Montague),
tenor g (Mr. Turner), and baritone (Signor Verdi),
can always bo heard with pleasure. The Signor
was in fine form each night. In “ Lucia ’ he sang
mostly in English, but would occasionally sand-
wich in a piece of choice Tuscan, much to the dis-
comfiture of the “supes.” The wholeof his “II
Trovatore ” part was given in Italian, and a change
to English will not improve it. A lolemn an-
nouncement from the stage that “ar, Signor Verdi
found himself under the necessity of singing his
oart in Italian,” as he had not had time to study it
in English, elicited shrieks of the wildest-and, of
course, most meaningless-laughter from the
•nailery. In “Maritana,” Don Cmsar’s slight
allusion to his “creditors,” while tete-a-tete
with “William,” was, for some reason or
another which we have not time to go
into greatly relished by the audience. It was in
the mad scene of “Lucia ” that Miss Montague ap-
peared to greatest advantage. We would like to
sav something nice about the flautist, but the re-
membrance ot Siede and Creed Royal makes us
unhappy. * * * *
After an absence of three years, Chiarini’s
circus is once more amongst us, with star per-
formers by the score, trained horses, lions, tigers,
panthers, sacred cattle, and enough monkeys and
snakes to make it the greatest combination ot dis-
cordant nature now travelling. An ourang-outang
from Borneo, said to be the ongin«l holder in fee-
simple of the land lately secured by the North
Borneo Company, has been induced to join the
show as ne is a widower without encumbrances.
Bel more Park has been obtained as a site; and
the management think of tacaing on Hyde Park
is they find themselves cramped for space alter
all.
** * *
A head-ache in five acts and eight tab-
leaux. palpitation of the heart, and a necessity for
keeping down our startled eyelids by hanging clock
■w eights on them are what wo have earned bv pay-
ing too close attention to “The Sunny South,” at
the Opera House. But that’s because we tried to
understand it all. But this is a feat only demanded
of the critics. We have tried to understand a
good many things in our day, and have succeeded
in some instances. We understand, for example,
what is the Italian for Bill Green. And we have
failed occasionally, as when we have sought to
imagine what an Evening News leader would
read like in English.
* * *
The audiences at the Opera House don’t
go in for philosophy. They accept George’s seven
plots with cheerful confidence, and roll up every
night wanting seven more. Geqrge is a generous
author. He piles up fat in his own little plate,
cprtainlv, but then he splashes a lot round besides.
He slaps a piece on B. N. Jones, and greases Jimmy
South from the mast-head down. He supplies J.
P West with a part so tremendous that J.P. dives
for his voice at every second sentence, and appears
to find it in the cellar in a rusty condition.
* * *
George himself is sublime as Matt Morley,
an Anglo-Australian who exhibits a superb supe-
riority to the convenances, when, as a returned
colonist, he visits incog, his ancestral home, and
airily requests-and receives T irom a young lady
whodoesn’t know him, permission to finish his cigar
in the drawing-room with her. This instance of
Anglo-Australian superiority, to the effeminate
customs of English society is received nightly
with cheers bv delighted audiences; and as George
has madeT repeated trips to the old country, and
makes a point of framing his scenes from real life,
we learn the little charms of manner and so forth
which have won for members of the Royal Colo-
nial Institute such popularity in English society,
and also the r. asonwby Henniker Heaton cafit
tear himself away for any length of time from the
English drawing-rooms of which he is the orna-
ment and the darling.
* * *
Mr South’s idea of a lawyer is very close
upon' our own-about the other fellow’s lawyer.
The ecstacy of surprise he evinces when Bon
Brewer—a “ representative digger,” who finds a
£9OOO nugget in his boss’s claim, while working
alone, and doesn’t plant it-declares that" what he
savs he means,” is a touch of nature which borders
onthe sublime; and the easy matter-of-fact fashion
in which he justifies any dirty work undertaken
for a client, on the ground that, it is ' a mere
matter of business,” shows that before Darrell
wrote the part he had minutely studied the
eharacter. 9 * i
The points in the dialogue took hold like
fish-hooks. At the pathetiejscenes, the audience
was so deeply affected that the tears oi the people
Ke dress y circle poured down on the stalls to
such an extent that two old squatters in that part
of the house thought it was raining, and excitedly
congratulated each other on the breaking up of
the drought. In the scene where the bank was
stuck ud George’s attention to detail was specially
observable! The junior clerk’s hair was curled in
the most realistic style; and, in fact, the general
conception of showing bank-clerks as being stuck-
up, was recognised as extremely happy. So
realistic was this scene, indeed, that it
nearly created an exodus of all the Civil
Servants among the audience, who cowered
at the annearance of the manager, under the
impression P that he would call their attention
to the imperative necessity of extinguishing that
little overdraft.” Three pitched battles, an abduc-
tion, a free-flgbt, and several jammy episodes of
love-making fill up the measure. As the hero,
George has both the lovelv women in love with
him all the time. He killing every-
body he doesn't like, and marrying but, go and
find out.
** * *
A theatrical “ ben.,” if well managed, can
always be made a congress of Pros. Mr. I rank
Lloyd’s, at the Masonic Hall on Monday night, was
well managed, and the congress included the light
and heavy dramatic villain, the comic singer (both
sexes), the unappreciated operatic artist, the
cloggist, the character man, the contortionist of
the arena, and the nigger minstrel. Nearly sixty
on the programme-all competing. At the en-
trance to the Hall, fifteen pros , awaiting engage-
ment, were discussing the ghost, while at the
ticket-box were ten more, not watching eacti
ether —perish the thought I— but protecting the
treasury' chest. There were fifteen more pros, to
see people to their seat-,and fourteen out ot twenl y
of the front audience were either pedestrians, jaw
performers, balloon tumblers, or Prospective
stars of one kind or another. With the
exception of Clark and Ryman s Muldoon
Picnic, the affair rivalled the Varieties of
the dim past in York-street, the programme ap-
pearing to he arranged not so much for the enter-
tainment of the public as for giving disengaged
talent a gasping chance. There was a big sale of
tickets, but many investors were not present;
so that Mr. Frank Lloyd, after an absence of four
years, “holds it.’’ “Behind the Scenes” was,
indeed, the thing of the evening. There’s no stag e
here capable of holding all the friends that had
volunteered; hence the front seats of the hall
and the passage were chock-a-block with ladifs
and gents waiting to go on; and the air
with which a narrow-headed, wiry-haired deli-
neator of character would leave his “gyril”
in the body of the hall, and struggle to the
stage and back t© his seat again—creating as
much trouble and attraction, at the same time,
as was possible for one man—was indeed amusing.
The scene on the stage and in the wings—aye, and
the flies—w»s grand. Female talent of every
kind, that hadn't had a show for years, was there
arrayed in every description of toggery, for that
night only. An encore threw the lot into a lit of
temper—the horns were going along, and they all
could never get a show. And, oh! when some of
them did sing, it was like clearing the disused
downpipe of a coal-mine.
• • *
The star character men were more funny
than capable—and they weren’t funny at all. The
lady operatic artiste was not a success, having
struck four notes above her salary; and a scene
was nearly enacted between her and the first big
drum. A stout little lady wearing a number five
boy’s suit ventured out, and sang something about
“ Wait till you’re married,” and retired covered
with blushes—mistaking the amusement of the
audience at her comical figure for approval of her
vocal success. A fair-haired young thing, with a
face as keen as a south-coast blast, performed a
variety of vocal and physical gymnastics with
flags, but what she was singing we don’t re-
collect. What “took most, and gave pleasure to
all,” was her new cream and cardinal costume
lit up with jimoracks and bangles, which, in
the gaslight, fairly dazzled the eye. Her song
had for its finale a pictorial scene, in which
a stout party, perspiring a hurricane, in
widows’ weeds, represented the Queen—with
A CATASTROPHE.
A man out west got a lot of cats up from Sydney and turned them loose Rouffe
to extirpate the rabbits. Next night he awakened from that an
Company had opened at Bourke, and going out he saw—as above. The cat is a
domesticated animal.
one-lunged heroes of the field and the deep on
either side of her shield—rod fire in the wings, and
tornadoes from, the drums, sea on the prow,
&c. &c. It was said to be the best thing in the
scenic line, since Kyan, the heavy villain ot the
Sydney Haymarket Theatre (open three nights—
ever since closed) set fire to himself instead of the
“viller” where the heroine slept. Far and away
the best thing of the show was, however, not on
the program me—a scuffle and slangwanging set-
to between two minstrels, just before the inter-
mission, and at the very moment when Lily
Somebody was bewitching the audience as a
soprano. What the ’Meriltun gentlemen quar-
relled about—money or beauty didn’t appear;
but they were asking each other to say
it again,” for half an hour. Nearly sixty-
four pros, congratulated Mr. Lloyd, after the
performance, on the success of his ben.; and it is
feared the congratulations will continue for some
time. If so, Mr. Lloyd will have to take a farewell
benefit.
* * *
“Jack and (or without) the Beanstalk”
draws nearly as well as Hennings—and that
despite the feeblest libretto an audience
was ever cursed with. N.B, (i.e. nota beany)
Pantomime is dead. The show at the Koyal is a
burlesque—a well-made pasty pudding (bar the
aforesaid libretto) of jingle, breakdown, whimsy-
fantasticality, lime-light, and the nearest approach
to the naked truth in the human form divine we
ever blushed at-and we do blush occasionally, and
“smile," too, when anybody asks us. Jack and
the nota beanystalk isn’t pantomime. C est mag-
niflque, mais ce n'est pas le pantomime.
Pantomime ? though the libretto’s the slimmest!
Pantomime ? though the puns are the dimmest I
Pantomime? No 1 Where’s the pantomimist?
No, dear Goodie, not a pantomime, and yet we
liked it. It was that scarf which did it. Tell us,
Nellie darling, vou artful little dodger, did you
really hurt your arm, or wasn’t it, now, a little
feminine device to get leave to put your scrump-
tious arm in a sling, in a killing scarf, like a Kiss-
and-don’t-Tell-el-Kebir hero? The shafts you
threw did rankle. No Grim ’un ere so grown, but
in the struggle thrown, tripped up and trodden
down by your trim ankle! But we must drop out
of poetry of this kind, as we believe, on calm re-
flection, that we are married already. A touch of
humour had instigated somebody to fix up the
Giant to represent Slattery. in-
tended, probably.
Thus to burlesque our greatest men
Is oddest kind of flattery;
But who can wonder at it, when
They magnify Tom Slattery
* * *
The most, nay, really in strictness the only,
pantomimic feature of “ Jack and the Beanstalk ”
was the ballet of birds, and even that would be,
perhaps, more appropriate to a Hop-era. The
Pasta (Moore power to her dear little toes) recalls
the days of the ballet. But she wasn’t supported
to rights. Some of the corps were just a trifle
ill-leg-ant—and [another noter beaney] any astro-
nomer fellow, who had seen the calves, etcetera,
of the girls who terpsichoreed around Pasta will
thoroughly understand whence the ruddy after
sunset glow is fetehed.
• • •
Taken as a crowd, the ladies of the Royal
are attractive. You’ve only to watch the dudic
section of the audience to see that. ‘Twould be
impossible to calculate the superficial area of
symmetrical shirt-front that is nightly agitated.
That of the moon-calves who ogle Minnie Hope,
in speechless admiration of that charming bleu has,
must be nearly equal in extent to Wisdom's south
coast selections.
• « •
We conclude as we began, “ Pantomime is
dead.” And Burlesque, more or less good or bad,
reigns in its stead. The transformation scene (the
“ Birth of Venus El Mohdy would think he had
won elysium had he a berth there), and the Cow,
and the ballet of birds, and. in a measure, the
little games of Clown and Pantaloon, and, in a
large measure, the graces of the Columbine, were
the only things suggestive of pantomime. The
funniest part, and what touched us most —yes, it
was “Funny, very funny”—was that the jingo
touches didn’t fetch. The charge of the Black
Watch, and “ Garnet Wolseley’s great and
honoured name,” won not one-fiftieth of the ap-
plause that was given to Nellie’s grace and
Minnie’s beauty, and the funniments of Harry
Taylor and the Cow. Which shows that people
prefer a (rood cow to an indifferent hero.
** * *
Nothing succeeds like success that’s a
truism you can lay on (mark the skill with which
we're leading up to the fact that the St. hay on
Circus was nightly crammed). The Old Saint his
first appearance these hundred years—proved an
immense hit; as for the young sinners, Gus (you
should just see him and the Vernon-and Di),
Eugene (of the Globe), and Walter (of the haut
manege)— well, the same phrase goes for them sons
dire. Then there was Billy Jones, who, in ins
travels, must have found the elixir vitce t he
looks just as young; (or, rather, as old) as he did
when we first saw him ride to Brentford, via Gee-
long, goodness knows how many decades ago.
And then the remnant of those camels! And the
gorilla, and the clown, and those other things-not
to omit the archangelic Rafael on the slack-rope,
and the boneless bounders, and the invincible
vaulter. But they are gone afay in de-no, not de
ewigke't, but the Newcastle steamer. Hence dese
tears.
“Roastbeeflambmuttonandham,” said the
girl who “waits ou the table” at the Coffee
Palace. “ Well,” said the old gentleman, “ I’ve
never tasted it, but you may bring me some and
I’ll see what it’s like.”
The Roman Catholic Bishops of Australia
recommend either Archbishop Croke, of Cashel,
Walsh, D.D., President of Maynooth, or Moran,
Bishop of Ossory, to succeed the late Archbishop
of Sydney. Query: Will Leo be able to avoid the
’Erin net ?
During; the past two sporting weeks, I.
M Alcock’s establishment, at the Haymarket, has
been visited by several well-known sportsmen,
the attraction being the celebrated Hunting Chro-
nographs, by Nicole Neilsen, which are rightly
regarded as the marvels of the age.*
That Husband or Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using Wells Health
Renewer.” Druggists. Monos. Moss & Co.. Sydney
Oleneml Agents.


BRIEF MENTION.
A certain cure for indigestion—Starvation.
The lowest card in the human paok —
Drun-kard.
In his decision on the railway fares in-
crease, it strikes us the Minister is Wright still.
It was at Lithgow that the plate was sent
round at a choral wedding service. Very practi-
cal joker, that parson.
It was rich, wasn’t it, the other day, when
Baron Miklouho-Maclay, on being asked to accept
a C.M G.-ship, said he’d rather have a yacht?
Haviland, the “lirycal,” lectures on the
abolition of barmaids. We should like to hear a
barmaid lecture on the abolition of Haviland.
Honesty is the best policy. This is not
new, we believe. In fact, we give it because it is
so old that a lot of people seem to have lost sight
of it.
Another woman brutally outraged by
larrikins. This time near Adelaide. More inter-
colonial jealousy. They are envious even of our
horrors.
The Herald begins the new year by mix
ing the married with the dead, ana the dead with
the married. We thought this the duty of the
Shroud.
Heenan, the Sydney sailors’ agont, fined
£2O or three months for crimping French sailors
ut Newcastle. Another of our great men gone
wrong, you see.
Two Justioes of the Peace in Victoria con-
victed—one of forging, the other of cattle-steal-
ing. We know some N.S.W. Justices who haven’t
been convicted of either offence—as yet.
You sometimes hear of it, but not often.
An Adelaide exile named Murphy is now so in-
tensely anti-Irish that be is at present engaged
cultivating a Parisian “goatee.” and spells his
name Murfi. Now, then, you Smythes, Jonnes,
and Shawes, cheer up !
A Vegetarian Conver-
sationo: Jack and the Beane
talk at tho Royal.
“Up King-street” is a
phrase that has lost Its sig-
nificance. “Up Fillup
(one’s schedule) - street”
(Denham Chambers to wit),
is now the tip.
The Campbelltown
Herald, in its notice of
Harold Stephen’s “ Saved
by a Ring.” says that it
has a fine fresh Australian
Relish about it, which is
tantamount to saying that
it’s all Soul.
At Emmaville, there
is a zealous police sergeant.
“ From information re-
ceived,” he laid a trap for
a sly-grog seller in the
neighbourhood. The trap
was the Chinese cook to
the station. This guileless
Confucian obtained a glass
of rum from the shanty,
and, rushing to the door,
spat it into an empty sai-
dine-tin held by the ser-
geant. For this service he
boasted that “ me ketohee
Horn sergeant ten pounds.”
£3O or three months was
the sentence, and, when
the shanty-keeper chose
the latter, both officer and
infortaer left the Court
with contemplative coun-
tenances.
Tramway Locomotive
Superintendent Downe, at
the reunion of tramdrivers
and firemen held last week
at Compagnoni's, made the
extraordinary remark that
there was a class of per-
sons who seemed to bo
continually and purposely
throwing themselves in
front of the motors. We
Bhould like to get some
statistical information on
this point. The Evening
Nooze, we all know, has
long had a down on Jug-
gernaut; can it bo possible
that Alfred has hired men
to kill themselves so as to
support his views and pile
up the agony ? No one
but a Hard-Shell Baptist
could keep on throwing
himself in front of a motor
with impunity. Now, we’ve
done with Downe, and
await the next speaker.
One Downe and another
come on.
Au “Old Bushman”
gives aMudgee paper what
he calls an infallible recipe
as a cure for snake bite.
This is his prescription :
“ Drink as much grog as
you can, and as strong as
you can.” “Oldßushman”
is evidently an homoeopa-
thist. All tneMudgee jour-
nalists are now on the look
out for snakes.
So the Marquis de Rays gets four years
hard labour, and is fined 3090 francs. This is a
dear way of Raysing the wind. We will have our
little joke, you see. Now, what’s a New Guinea to a
franc ?
“ Did you ever think what you would do
if you had Big Clarke’s son’s money?” “No,”
replied the “sUn-down-er,” “but strike me dead
if I can idealise what Big Clarke's son would do if
he had mine.”
In Wagga a hungry loafer shoved his head
through a window and tried to make off with a
pound of butter. It was so strong that it hauled
him in, held him, and whistled for the dog. Wo
have met butter like this in some Kent-street hash
houses.
Charles M'Clure, a olerk “ holding a good
position,’ was fined £8 in Adelaide for throwing a
* irick into a tramcar. It’s a rough, brutal thing
to do, anyhow. The Sydney style is far more re-
liued. You simply get on top of tho car, and spit
down below on the people you don’t like.
Ellen Begley was found in a paddock at
Herbarton last Thursday night, in her night dress.
Delirium tremens. Death soon followed. And she
was only 24. Our Waterloo girls never die so
young. They’re too well seasoned, and seldom
touch anything stronger than port wine and
brandy.
Says the Nooze: “We are favoured at
times, and have been shown a series of very droll
sketches of holiday times in India, intended for
the Town and Country Journal.” People
generally have seen a lot of very droll sketches in
the Down and Gumtree for a long time. D’ve
hear, Alfred. Very droll!
When Sir Anthony Musgrave visited
Mackay (N.Q.), the other day, his curled and
Boented adude-camp considerably astonished the
natives. When the gubernatorial party landed,
this perfumed masher was packed into a buggy
with two pressmen and four democratic alderuieD,
who literally sat on him during the triumphal
progress through the town. This was bad enough,
but imagine the gallant fellow’s horror when, on
alighting in a limp condition at the hotel, he heard
one of the city fathers singing out, “ Where the
blank is that blooming aide-ae-congV’
Russian judge sentenced a lawyer to re-
ceive a flogging which his client should have got
but didn’t call round for. What all utter such an
arrangement as this would cause in the eight-bob-
a-week chambers of our rising young lawyers.
But, on second thoughts, it wouldn’t. They would
never get a flogging till they got a brief, and they
never get a brief.
Another idol gone! “Ouida,” author of
“Moths” and other books regarded by some as
very naughty, is a ’vert to Roman Catholicism.
Monsignor Capel was the diplomatist. Sydney was
startled the other day by the rumour that the
Monsignor had been selected to succeed the late
Dr. Vaughan. Had he come, he would probably
have netted John Davies—just before an election.
“Who are you going to vote for, Pat?”
insinuatingly inquired a municipal candidate, as
he endeavoured to button-hole an honest Hiber-
nian at an election out West the other day. “ Why,
av coorse, I’m goin’ to vote for mesilf. D’ye
think I’d be aftfier personatin’ any wan, ye gos-
soon ?” retorted Pat, as he slipped in with a sly
twinkle in his eye and gave an independent vote.
Except that the heathens keep sober and
annoy no one, there is not much to choose between
the egregious tomfoolery with which Australians
and Chinamen usher in their New Years. Many a
poor wretch writhing on his sick bed must have
fervently cursed the semi-lunatics who started
the pandemonium held on last New Year’s Eve.
There’s a heap of the tom-tom-punching savage in
us yet.
There are two missionary items from New
Guinea which mustn’t miss the light. One is that
when Mr. Cameron’s surveying party, bent purely
on scientific work, reached the island, they found
the natives primed with the slander that they (the
surveyors) were tho advance members of the
lowest type of villains and scoundrels. Mr.
Cameron leaves it to be inferred that the mission-
aries were the authors of the slander, being loth
to have their cocoanut-oil field invaded. The
other item of gospel importance is that, as the
traveller proceeds inland in New Guinea, he finds
the natives possessing a livelier sense of decency
than those living in the districts captured by the
missionaries.
TREE’D BY DINGOES.
A PRETTY GIRL ON THE DAWSON RIVER, QUEENSLAND, TAKES REFUGE FROM THE ATTENTIONS OF NATIVE DOGS OF
TOO MUCH TASTE.
A crushing blow was struck at the Tem-
perance cause on New Year’s Day at Randwick.
Just before the race for the “ Gift,” Old Gold was
treated to half a.bottle of Walker’s whisky whilst
the rest of the field was refreshed with a drink
from the ker-rystal spring. And when the tussle
came, whisky beat water in a common canter.
This proves that whisky is better than water—for
brutes.
A prominent officer in the Department of
Public Instruction of a neighbouring colony was
wont to facetiously catechise candidate teachers
as to their religion. As each one replied, he would
give an ominous shake of his head, until someone
proclaimed himself or herself (say) a Buddhist; then
with a quiet chnckle, he’d interject “ Ah, there ’ll
be no fear about your getting on.” And, as he him-
self was a Buddhist, his prediction generally proved
true.
An ounce of good luck is worth a ton of
good guidance. This aphorism is our own. It
cost us several thousand pounds and some of the
best years of our life to find it out, and now we
give it away for sixpence. We have also several
tons of good guidance on hand, which anyone
may have by sending a van round to our office.
The ounce of good iuck we have not struck yet,
but we hope to strike it when we are dead—if the
clergy permit us.
Lord Carnarvon’s suggestion to annex the
coast only of New Guinea, and let anybody that
likes exploiter the interior, is very funny, and
shows what a grasp his lordship possesses of
humour. As only a maritime nation can secure
any part of the island—we have not heard that the
Swiss navy has made a demonstration that way—
the prospect of having to send their boats up
rivers whose mouths are in our keeping in order
to ‘squat” on the country inside, is just the sort
ot tning that would attract French or German
settlers. Lord Carnarvon’s proposal reminds us
of the resolutions adopted by the Dundee Town
Council, in view of the necessity tor erecting a
new soup-kitchen:—lst, That a new soup-kitchen
be built. 2nd, That the materials from the old
kitchen go to build the new. 3rd, That the old one
be not touched till the new one is finished. God
save the Queen.
Parkes’s proposal, in his article in the
Nineteenth Centurv, that the most distin-
guished Australian colonists should bo created
peers of the realm, reminds us that once on a time,
ere the Illustrious Order of SS. Michael and George
was converted into a device for turning the heads
of Australasian snobs, a certain Liberal politician-
poet murmured to the sea:
“ Shall we not learn, Australians born,
To smile on tinselled power our scorn ?”
But, then, there is a difference between the mur-
murs of the stream and those of the K.C.M.G.
Old Sydneian (just arrived from England
by sailing ship, to passing pedestrian): “Hullo!”
P.P.: “ What I back! Glad to see you.” O.S.
(heartily): “ Come and have a bit of dinner some-
where.’’ P.P.: "Can’t. I’m going to a banquet
at (suddenly)—Of course, you’ve heard about
—(mentions name).” 0.5.: “No. The d r ,
&c. I’d like towring his neck.” P.P.: “ What!
Not heard? Why, he is Minister for .” 0.5.:
“Eh! —(recovering himself)—well, he always was
a hearty fellow, and I But tell me, where's his
office? I’ll go and look him up.” (Goes to look
him up; and curtain).
It was at Deniliquin. The railway from
Echuca was approaching completion, Young
people, who knevr of a train by hearsay only, slept
uneasily until the first engine went by. But it
went by at 2 a.m., when they were all abed—all but
one. He was not young, but he was black and
vigilant. In fact, he was the monarch of the Deni-
liquin tribe, and wore round his neck a brass plate
as large as a frying-pan, setting forth his rank and
titles. He was between the rails—but not a sleeper.
Ever and anon he looked Echuca-wards, to see this
“ debble-dobble ” of which be had heard so much
from his white brothers. It came in the shape of
a goods’ train, with a glaring, red, Cyclopean eye
in front, and fifteen heavily-laden trucks behind.
Over the hill it came, with a wild, uncanny scream.
The king was unmoved for a moment; but his
subsequent gyrations made amends for his present
supinenes-i. It was savagery disputing the road
with civilization. They met and parted. The red
lamp of progress and the woolly head of the chief
c Glided. His gin discovered him in a “ billabong,”
and his first words were: “Oh—! who frew dat
red lamp ? ”
The Echo is either epigrammatic or no-
thing. Occasionally it is not epigrammatic. In
tho following instance it is which our readers
please to think. We quote:—“You cannot make
a Thackeray by christening a Brown, William
Shakespeare.” This is a sentiment which has our
heartiest concurrence. You cannot do this any
more than you can make a cow by calling a puuip
Brindle, or a Montaigne by naming your son after
one of the Echo genuises. Certainly not. If you
could, it would be just as good to be a pump as to
be a poet. And better, as you would have more
water in that form. And lots of other things
which we have forgotten.
An establishment of Tropical Barataria is
administered by a gentleman who is rarely sober.
This circumstance, combined with the fact that
some of his subordinates rre almost invariably
drunk, has a tendency to render the transaction
of business with the establishment a matter of
difficulty and irritation. A correspondent of ours,
who called there the other day, found tho boss
(drunk) trying, with the aid of an inebriated car-
penter, to get into his office, into which his deputy
(dead drunk) bad locked himself, presumably with
theintention of having a “bange.” The business,
which was of importance, affecting as it did the
comfort of several new chums, had naturally to
be adjourned.
A salt and sympathetic tear may well be
spared for poor ./Eneas English, the Melbourne
City Missionary, who shot himself on Brighton
beach, end straightway took his departure for a
land—let us hope—wherein missionary work is
never needed. /Eneas appears to have been in a
state of great domestic trouble, to which, we
fear, his own giddiness must have contributed,
seeing that some very unholy medical evidence
was forthcoming at the inquest. Well, well; even
Missionaries are only mortal; so, with the hope
that the unfortunate fellow’s fate may prove a
warning to certain others of his profession, we
will drop a tear as we think of the heavy penalty
he has paid for his indiscretion.—
When poor /Eneas stooped to folly,
And let himself be led astray,
What words shall tell the melancholy
That made him take his life away ?
[ Give it up I—En. B,]l
The very latest dodge to scoop a oheap
drink comes overland from Pyrmont, and the way
the rosy little game is played runs thusly:—Just
about 10.55, the thirsty bummer enters a pub.,
pulls out his watch, and, dropping a very signifi-
cant hint as to his connection with the detective
force, observes it is past eleven and the house has
been kept open beyond the legal hours. Thinking
his clock has gone slow, the seared landlord bustles
round to close up. This finished, the careful D.
remarks there’ll be no more about it this time, and
he doesn’t mind if he does try just a little Walker's
whisky. And so the landlord’s soul is filled with
content, and the dead-beat’s hide with whisky.
This is another satisfactory result of the working
of the new Hact.
One of the Windsor editors recently killed
a large snake, and acting on the Scriptural hint
that it is not desirable to hide one’s light under a
bushel, he treated his readers to half a yard of a
war-correspondent-like account of how the battle
raged. And then he laughed consumedly when he
thought how the beggar opposite would squirm
when he read the thrilling tale. But the other
fellow was equal to the occasion; and, sitting down
ia a cool spot, he tied cold coffee round his throb-
bing brow, and wrote a long leader, the substance
of Avhich was, that as it had now been proved that
jackasses do kill snakes occasionally, they should
be at once protected by a special Bill. Just at
present the coolness that exists between the rival
pair would freeze the nose off a salamander.
When an Australian orator rises to his
subject, he mostly indulges in a splendidly reck-
less, hang-the-expente sort of spirit, in setting
those old rhetorical fogies, usually called figures
of speech, in a flurry. It would be interesting to
try to complete his conception of "the bird of
evil omen stalking majestically over the desolate
plain and holding up its hands in exultation on
realising that it has dummied the entire country:”
or of “ the wild beast of plutocracy that spreads
its wings and flies from roof to roof with tho
heart’s blood of the people in its trouser's pockets
or of “the butterflies that hop from branch to
branch, caring nothing about the bird of evil
omen, or the wild beast of plutocracy, so long as
they can gorge themselves with roast beef and
Scotch whisky.”
A missionary suicided
in Victoria. This is self-
conviction in earnest.
The Australians are
likely to win all through
their English tour. All the
matches are sure to end in
a “ draw” for them.
If a boarding-house
keeper is lined £6O for sly-
grog selling, what should
a back-slum publican get
for selling ” sly ” grog ?
The astronomers are
all at fault about our
blood-red sunsets. Do they
know that Rowley Picker-
ing was out west reporting
recently ?
You can dip one hand
in the holy water fount at
Mount Carmel, and with
the other lay your fingers
over the soene of the
Waterloo tragedy.
It’s a joke as big as
th pyramids to hear that
the Protection Association
(Luscomte, Richardson,
&c.) represent the Wealti
Exhibition of N.S.W. that
is to be. The Protection
Association of Sydney is
certainly wealthy in
hope.
Elizabeth Gaunt was
hanged at Tyburn, 200 hun-
dred years ago. by Jeffries,
of “ Bloody Assizes ” lame,
for ignorantly sheltering
James Burton, one of tho
Rye-House conspirators.
William 111. granted the
family an annual indem-
nity, which was paid up to
1776, when the pension-
paper was lost. It has now
been found among the pa-
pers of the lately deceased
Margaret Gaunt, aged 96,
in Am' riea; so her nephew
is about to start for Eng-
land for the $2,000,000 due.
We are sure he will get
it.
Thus London Society:
—“ It may not be generally
known that the Queen in-
variably takes her own be 1
with her wherever she
may be travelling. An-
other detail of the royal
m&nage may not he unin-
teresting to the curious in
such matters. The toilet
service used by Her Ma-
jesty is of solid silver, the
interiors of the ewer and
basin being gilt.” All this
is deeply interesting, in-
deed. But Society has
forgot to mention that the
most treasured article in
our Mest Gracious Sover-
eign’s diamond dressing-
case are the scissors where-
with Albert the Good was
wont to trim his princely
toe-nails.
When Nathan (the Melbourne “pimp,”
you remember, who got 12 months, tho ot icr day,
for deriving a princely income from encouraging
prostitution by furnishing brothels on the time-
payment system) opened his new place of business
in Elizabeth-street a short time ago, legislators,
magistrates, pressmen, and (it is said) priests
flocked to partake of his hospitality, and drink
success to the venture. The daily papers stated
that “ his establishment was a credit to the city of
Melbourne, &c. &c.” This was in tho town where
Marcus Clarke and Gordon were sometimes hard
up for a meal. But we have no right to heave the
first brick. Not many nights ago, at a swell house
on the Waverley road, about 60 of the “ jeunesse
dotoe ’’—many of them no longer young—attended
a quiet “ at home ’’—just a little music, you know,
and a mild dance or two. The ladies were en des-
habille. and as the “ ruby ” went round, the desha-
biUe diminished until—well, until the wind up.
Oh, and at Redfern too, some 60 or 80 scions of our
“ oldest families ” attended a social evening given
by an arch-cocotte. The sun dappling the east
warned the revellers that it was as well not to be
seen about.
The popular cry, that we have no great
writers nowadays, is hushed, and the pulse of the
bookworm beats high as he reads the cablegram
announcing that Her Majesty the Queen has pub-
lished the sequel to "Leaves from the Journal of
our Life in the Highlands.” The first portion of
this great work appeared in 1889, and we have a
vivid recollection of the intense pleasure with
which it was devoured by the Queen’s faithful
subjects. We wept big loyal tears when we read
that exquisite passage describing how that, on one
bright summer’s day, “ Dear little Vicky sat on a
wasp’s nest, but was not the least flurried or put
out.” "Little Vicky” has grown-up sons and
daughters of her own now, and will soon be occu-
pying a seat on the Imperial throne of Germany;
but, even to the present day, we can never think
of the Queen’s eldest daughter without a thrill of
admira'ion running through our hardened edi-
torial frame, as we remember her heroic behaviour
under those trying circumstances. How many
commoners could be placed in such an awkwafd
predicament without being “flurried?” None,
we venture to sa>—none ! Why, the sight of a
“ sojur ” ant causes cold sweat to accumulate upon
our brow.


Here’s a wrinkle for the disinterested
members of our own palladium. At Hurlingame
(Kansas), recently, the foreman of a jury refused
to return a verdict, which had just been decided
upon, until the fees of himself and his coadjutors
were duly paid. As he said, they were business
men taken from their occupations by force of law,
and ihey therefore demanded what was written in
the bond The judge insisted on a rendition of
the verdict, but ihe foreman merely pointed out
that although the law compelled persons to sit as
jurors, still it did not compel them to return a
verdict. So the judge had to order payment of the
fees and grovel. D’ye hear that n >w. Sir Jimmy ?
At Mackay, N.Q., society is divided into
parties. The paper-collar mob, or haw-haws, who
consist mainly of planters, broken-down swells,
and jackaroos, and who, with a slight sprinkling
of successful kanaka storekeepers, dub themselves
the local aristocracy, and regard with withering
oontempt the radical tradespeople, publicans and
sinners of the town. At nresent, the sam-culotlen
predominate in the Town Council; but, on the
occasion of the recent banquet to the Governor,
the sugareos” took a deadly vengeance by shut-
ting out the City Fathers lrom the programme,
and compelling them to sit dumb whilst the big
bugs dfiated on the necessity of “ culled iab-aw,”
and the importance—aw—of the sugaw industry—
aw!
During the Crimean War, Czar Nicholas
borrowed two million roubles from the Kieff Con-
vent. Some years after, bis Bon, the late Dolgo-
roukied Alexander, visited Kieff. The Prior of
the Convent produced Nicholas’ l O.F. Alexander,
shedding many tears as he reverently kissed his
lathers pro - note, remarked (as head or the
Church):—‘‘Truly, holy Father, my sire’s hand-
writing. Oh! on 1! oh!!! What a treasure vou
pa Y®‘ Keep it in the sanctuary, and mav the God
of the Romanoffs eternally bless you.” Years roll
on; the monks of Kieff eternally blessing the
memory of the Dolgoroukied and Piddingtonskied
Alexander, and then before the shrine of the
1.0. U. stands Alexander 111., who at the bare
mention of taking up the bill shrieks sacrilege,
and denounces Kieff as the centre f Nihilism.
At the Williamstown Pier station, near
Melbourne, a child fell off the platform on to the
railway line, the other day, just in front of an ad-
vancing engine. This would have been its last
performance, only a young man, to all appearance
a tip-top masher, jumped from the platform, and,
at the serious risk of having his collar and what
was inside of it broken up, caught the child, and
saved it.
Down comes the masher of bones,
And a thrill through the multitude starts;
For there, on the rail, lies the child,
In a stupor of agony wild.
Down comes the masher of hearts,
Whose divine patronymic is Jones,
And catches the child
In its agony wild,
And loudly the masher of hearts laughs at the
masher of bones.
Bravo, Jones!
A country correspondent of the Herald
has taken up the question of snake-bite, and gives
s ime practical hints on it. It is a very bad case,
His Programme.
Jackey: “Go it! Taylor. No obstruction, of course. Just a few little Amendments!"
he thinks, that will not yield to wax-end and
brandy—the former to prevent absorption into
the system, the latter to neutralise any virus ab-
sorbed before the wax-end was brought into play.
This correspondent seems a matter-of-fact fellow
enough, and suggests among other things that the
medical men of N.B. Wales should send to the
emtors of the leading journals for publication
advice as to the best thing to do.in the event of
being bitteD. We also have a little advice to give.
Instructions are very well in their way, but they
are not all. Now, if the doctors would supply the
necessary advice and the Government the requisite
wav-end and brandy, we guarantee that before
the snake season is half through one of the re-
storatives will have been applied—and it won’t be
the wax-end.
Rockhampton is a reckless place in some
ways. People bet there. Everybody bets there.
They are much like the Spaniards of Pizarro’s
time, who gambled the sun away before it rose.”
(We are not usually so erudite in illustration, but
we just throw this in to let you see how we could
write if we wanted to). And they bet on every-
thing. An eclipse of the sun is not too sublime,
nor a .flea-fight too mean, for them to wager on.
The first use that a Rockhampton infant makes of
speech is to lay the odds against his mother that
bis lather will come home drunk. And the infant
usually wins. Only the other day a gentleman
we j S' 60 a s “ op up there, the owner of which
owed him an account. The owner was out, but
his five-year old grandson was in. “ What do you
want l said the little lisper. “ I want a cheque in
of my account,” replied the creditor.
j®t, y° u five bob to one you don’t get it,”
replied the shocking infant. The creditor said
nothing, but silently stole away.
There is a breakwater at New Plymouth
(N.Z.) which the inhabitants aro very proud of. A
certain captain, visiting the township lately, gave
it as his opinion that the Government in con-
structing the breakwater were simply “ throwing
money into the sea.” Now. as the money had to
pass through the hands of New Plymouth store- 1
keepers and publicans on the way to the sea, wo
tbink the captain was very indiscreet iu express-
in# such an opinion-at least, while he was in the
district. The local paper, however, makes it
appear that his only claim to be an authority on
breakwaters consisted in his having once “ ridden
across the Atlantic on a dead whale.” Which
shows what a difference there is between New
Zealand ideas of the qualifications of a critic and
our own. The performance of such a feat as that
mentioned would be to us sufficient guarantee for
the ability of the performer to fill in the credit
ary office from that of Chief Secretary to that of
dog-inspector. We cordially invite Captain Jack-
son Barry—that appears to be the name of the
whale-rider—over here to give us his opinion on
our coast-defences, and to state what he thinks of
our post-office carvings. We invite him also to
pay his passage.
Go it, west, West! Tatura (Vic.), which,
if it were washed and cleaned and had the noses of
a few of its old identities painted white, you could
set on the mantelpiece of a city half the size of
Manly, is to have two newspapers shortly. Its
growing prosperity and the magnificent future
that is hungry to fall upon it, have tempted a
Naframbte man. He dreamed three nights running
that there is a crock of gold for him in Tatura. so
he has set off with a pint of ink in his breast
pocket and both his trouser pockets bulged out
with long primer type, to lind that crock. Kut the
same dream came to the Mooroopna Telegraph
and another splendid specimen of Australian jour-
nalism sallied forthwith a red bundle uuder his
a 'f I rn * ST®*' th a t same crock, vs e have memories
of Tatura, and can certify that there is certainly
a crock there. It had butter in it one time, but
when we saw it it was up-ended and doing dutv
thn fC w the i S ,T 4 S -, Y®. can ®ay nothing about
f didn t look for gold when we were
'ZP&T r ? li * ioa we looked, and we
got it heavy. We left a lot ot it behind us. If the
I ress can t get the gold, w«’d advise it to lay hold
of some of the Tatura religion. It will give as
80 re a head as the gold every bit.
An interesting funeral ceremony—not but
wuat all funerals aro interesting-took place at
Mount Pleasant, Launceston, on Now Year’s Day,
during a picnic promoted by the Mission Church.’
” Hiddlestone appears to have worked
up njB Jambs to a due sense of tbe enormity of-
“immDral and pernicious habit of
smoking-,' and as everything “immoral” Is re“
pug-nant to the ieelings of a Mission Church con-
ftT eB ?Ju lori ~ more , eBl,eciab y at picnics—several of
E a ®, he Wr°l erB -> c aro told * determined to
begin with the New Year a holier and a happier
life, and to let. their light shine forth before men
unobscured by “clouds” of their own blowing"
or,mri, mucil cerem 9 n J' a grave was dug, and to the
accompaniment of the “Dead March in
“aul (always depressing when played by an
amateur band) the pipes were lowered with rever-
a r dS i to - t , heir place. Whether
this delicate joke received its finishing touch bv
irnKi 0m * lc Parson reading a funeral service we are
unable to say, nor are we informed as to whether
nrp o u,s a a, y f Bm KaT-” dropped back into sin and
d f^ 8h b l iars n<?xt day ; but that the
™aidens of the P art -V returned to their
S.MkLfl 11 that strong flavour of tobacco
about their holy little mouths which they had
always been accustomed to acquire at church
picnics, is a well-authenticated fact.


Oou
RUMfOjS!
tsm
Prepared according to the directions o. Prof.
B. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENBED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
Ef No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate ana can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of uiadoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
‘ Gan be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomaehs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as suoh
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,gfic Oil,
the best general family remedy,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works liko a Charm."
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Borns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou ttke colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say thkt arb thb
bust.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM A GO..
*o;« Aganii
Toowoomba Grammar School Magazine
(No. 4) to hand. From it we gather that the Too-
woomba Grammar School boys, between February
and December, ’B3, physically Increased one inch
and a seventh in height, an inch and three-eighths
in the chest, half an inch in the forearm, and ttve-
elghtbs of an inch in the upper arm. By rights
that is, according to the “law promulgated by
Maclaren in his “Physical Education the aver-
age increase in height of lads of average school
age should have been two inches and a quarter.
From this we infer that, though the Toowoomba
Grammar scholars may be getting on, they are not
getting up as they should ao.
Dr. Anna Potts, the American medicine
woman, is giving a series of lectures at the Mel-
bourne Town Haul, and the worthy lady makes no
end of an impression upon her numerous audi-
ences. At her first lecture, which was given on
the Saturday of Christmas week, Dr. Potts stated
that the head work going on in Melbourne is such
that “it is a wonder how the people live,’ and the
sprinkling of bank clerks and civil servants pre-
sent groaned a sorrowful assent, and thanked the
kindly fate which was about to make January Ist
a day of rest for their overworked brains. Later
on, Mrs. Potts exhibited the broken bonesi ot a
young lady, whose husband’s most original inter-
pretation of “ love and cherish ” led him to kick
her downstairs and hurry her to an early grave.
This provided a splendid opportunity for the mar-
ried ladies to gaze reproachfully at “hubby, and
express the hope that their bones might never be
exhibited under the same melancholy circum-
stances as those of that “poor young thing.
Altogether, the fair Doctor possesses a very splen-
did collection of bones, and, as there is an interest-
ing history attached to most, she uses them to
point a moral, recalling, somehow, memories of
Hamlet in the graveyard scene.
Quite right! The sanctity of the Sabbath
must be maintained at all costs. What’s the use
of calling it a day of rest, of quiet communing
with the invisible court, if slavey has to use soap
and wash towels as on any other day. Elizabeth
MCaffrey, cook in the Commercial Hotel, Mel-
bourne, would smash up the whole civilised con-
cern rather than stain the sanctity of the sacred
day. The barmaid asked her to wash some glass-
towels last Sunday. Margaret didn’t trouble her-
self explaining any nice points of doctrine, or
dogma. She took these for granted, and just
caught the barmaid by the hair and dragged her
on her back round the kitchen, kicking her gently
time and again, and singing one of those sweet
hymns she learned in choir. Old Dick La Fonta,
the landlord, heard the chorus of two, and rushed
in. Margaret let go the barmaid, and gave him a
tap with a tomahawk. He caught the little
article, and then she stooped backwards gently,
and, lifting half a brick, struck Dick with it fair
in the mouth. For a while after that it was up
and down, up and down, the sanctity of Sunday
against Dick and the barmaid; but at last a grand
triumphal march was inaugurated, Margaret, the
champion of Sunday, heading the procession to
the lock-up.
A doctor in a Victorian town visited a boy
who had received a fractu re of the skull. When he
returned he sent some leeches medicine, and a
certificate stating the cause of death. The boy
died, and the medico thereby avoided a second
visit; but his smartness will get him into trouble
one of these days. We remember a man once
brought to the Alfred Hospital (Melb.) with his
skull as unBymmetrical as the pantomime police-
man’s hat when the clown has done with it. The
surgeons gave up the case at once, and gave to his
fiiends the money he had on him when admitted.
They held a glorious wake in memory of the de-
parted. The next time we attended the Police
Court—never mind the circumstances—our frac-
tured-headed friend was in the box trying to
recover from his relations the money they spent
in waking him. We were just about closing this
par. when a newly-arrived stranger begged us to
include a little adventure of his in the same line.
Last year he was at an inquest in Mayo. A row
arose over the corpse, and as the neighbours joined
in the “divarshun ” there was soon plenty of sport
to be had for the asking. The whole thing ended
as rapidly as it began, until only two couples could
be seen on the floor—the doctor and parish priest
composed one, the coroner and corpse the other.
Why peopla with suicidal likings don’t
get the littie business done for them instead of
doing it themselves is rather strange. When the
yearning for a big spell of unconsciousness comes
over them one fancies they could find plenty of
ways of attaining the end, and at the same time
leaving a little heritage of happiness to the dear
ones behind. There’s the railway carriage, for
instance, with Woods' brake attached. There is
moderate certainty with it, as was proven by a set
of figures in a paper lately, and the dear ones be-
hind are quite sure of drawing a thousand or so
from a deeply interested country. Then there s
boating at excursion times. Down South you re
almost sure of being thrown into the water, and it
you simply put your hands into your pockets there
you are rifrhfc into your spell at once, and your old
woman will got twice your value from somebody.
The spirit of self-help can be carried too far, and
the man who goes and takes his own lile with
such opportunities before him as Governmentand
public companies supply, must be insanely lond ol
work and insanely heartless to those he ought to
assist. These reflections are suggested, somehow,
by the new tramcars they are about introducing
into Melbourne. We do hope that we shall see no
more poor old white-faced women standing, be-
reft, on the banks of the Yarra, while a policeman
drags the body of her fool of a husband out ot the
water. We do hope he’ll give up doing it himself
and let the trams do it.
This is shocking. A few Sundays ago, the
Rev. Dr. Bromby, preaching in St. Paul’s, Mel-
bourne, offered as an example for irritation the
conduct of a female anthropoid ape with whom
he was once acquainted Among other things, the
reverend gentleman said—we quote rigidly: As
a proof of her intelligence, I may remark that, on
observing how her cage was unlocked, she not
only did it herself, but even stole the key and hid
it under her arm for future use. Also, at her
meals, she not only filled her own cup from the
jug, but invariably stopped pouring before the
cup ran over.” if his hearers took this lesson to
heart, they will probably become, in time, either
burglars or bishops. The extraordinary intelli-
gence this ape showed in staying her hand before
the cup ran over, mark her out as one who, it she
had been human, would have been an equal orna-
ment to either a Dorcas society or a gin-saloon.
Again, when the director came to see her when
she was dying: “ She put her arms round his neck,
digged him three times, and then, giving him her
hand, fell into her last sleep. May we not some-
times my friends, learn a lesson from the animals
beneath us? ‘Go to the ant’ (is a Scriptural pre-
cept), • consider her ways and be wise;’ so may we
go to the dying bed of this simple ape and learn a
lesson of affectionate gratitude.” Here the audi-
ence took out their handkerchiefs. The moral of
this advice is for ladies who are about to die to
call the young curate in, and, if they can disen-
gage his attention from the chambermaid, to do
likewise. The opinions of their husbands, if they
have any, can, we suppose, be discovered in the
police court after the curate has come out of the
hospital.
A Beautiful Painting. —Mr. G. G. Green,
pf Woodbury, New Jersey. U.S.A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
fine pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee's German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for Cd. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
prove their value at a trifling cost.*
Until last week, we were under the im 7
pression that “ Lord Rosebery” was the name of
a nobleman, whose ‘‘amiability and condescen-
sion,” &c. &c., had caused such a pleasurable
fluttering in society circles, but a par. in the Mel-
bourne Herald makes it evident that the object
of our worship is a thoroughbred home. Says the
Herald, in discussing the prospects of the New
Year’s Day meeting at Flemington: ‘‘We are in-
formed on capital authority that Lord Rosebery
has eagerly looked forward to being present at the
meeting, and we believe that the noble owner of
the primrose and rose hoops will be pleased with
the appearance of his stable companion, Frying-
pan, in the event of the champion not facing the
starter.” Seeing that the Herald makes this
statement “on capital authority," it is evident
that wo have been labouring under some strange
mistake, hitherto.
The Newcastle Regatta eventuated as per
usual on New Year’s Day. The weather looked
dickey early in the morning, but later on it
cleared off, and a good day's sport ensued. The
race for Youth’s under 16 fell to G. Hughes. G.
Hughes carried off the Watermen’s Race, G. Camp-
bell won the race for Youths under 20, R. Hickey
(101 b.) won the All-comers’ Handicap. The Victor.
16ft, won the 19ft. Dingy Race. The Sydney boat,
Sopnia, capsized. G. Sherman carried off the All-
comers’ race for those who had never won an
advertised prize. Cruise and Hughes won the
All-comers’ double sculls. The Latona won the
Canvas Dingy Race. Sutton and Snipe carried off
the Fire Brigades Race. The Sydney boat, St.
Crispin, won the 25ft. and under open-boat race.
R. Hickey, J. Bedford, A. Cruise and C. Cruise ap-
propriated the four-pair scull race; and the Clara
Jackson won the Coasters’ race.
From a daily paper:—“A respectably-
dressed man, whose name we refrain from pub-
lishing, occasioned some considerable excitement
in the dress-circle entrance of the Theatre Royal
last evening, by his anxiety to administer personal
chastisement 1 o a gentleman who in some way had
displeased him. He had already thrown off his
coat,” &c. &c. Huml “Whose name we refrain
from publishing.” Now, had it been the pit en-
trance, we should have had something like this
“ Great excitement and alarm was caused by the
violent an-t abominable conduct of a young man,
whose name we have ascertained is John Thomas
Smith, of 24 Jones-street. He was, of course, very
properly arrested. He has an evil face, and, from
FASHIONABLE EVENT AT WATERLOO.
CHIEF WITNESS: “I was there, and so was prisoner—he was drunk when he came.
He had no coat or vest. It was a party, and they was singing. At five minutes past 9
nrisoner went away for some beer, and was away five minutes. He was under my
uotine all the enening. He returned with the beer in good spirits. He didn’t seem
ruffled.”
his villainous features, would, it is easy to con-
ceive, be guilty of anything,” &c. But the dress-
circle is quite a different thing; and when a man is
respectably dressed, we must ‘‘refrain from men-
tioning his name,” for, like the Post Oihce clerks,
he is probably well-connected. If the guttei-
snipe throws a stone, let it be lash 1 lash 1 But a
respectably dressed man—hush! hush! and, above
all, refrain, oh, honest dailies, from ‘‘mentioning
his name.”
We understand that Minister Reid has
issued an edict by which it is made compulsory on
female teachers that they shall pass in cooking.
They may get classification without possessing a
knowledge of music orof drawing, orof advanced
mathematics on the use of the globes, but they
must know how to cook. See what a thing it is to
have a gourmet in charge of the Public Instruc-
tion Department—a bon vivcint, who sings with
Owen Meredith :
“You may live without poetry, music and art,
You may live without conscience, and live with-
out heart, , ...
’You may live without friends, you may live with-
out books, ~, , , „
But civilised man cannot live without cooks.
The fact is that although this sounds like satire, it
is truth. A young nation has much more neces-
sity for good housewifery than tor female mathe-
maticians, or geographers, or pianistes. Go it I
Beid.
By far the most exciting incident of the
New Year’s Day meeting at Flemington was Lord
Rossbery’s visit to the saddling-paddock. The
news of his august arrival spread like wildnre
among the amateur touts engaged in picking a
fancy for the Normanby Stakes, and at once they
were seized with a burning desire to “ have a look
at Rosebery.” And a good look they had. In fact,
the way in which many of tin in walked round him,
discussing his various points, led one to imagine
that his Lordship was certainly going to be pulled
out for the forthcoming race, and that his condi-
tion was a matter of paramount importance.
However, it is gratifying to know that “the noble
owner of the primrose and rcse hoops” (as the
Melbourne Herald calls him) was pronounced to
be “pretty fit” by his horsey admirers; and, fur-
thermore, it is gratif> ingto learn that he was not
“out” on the day—an investment of a “pony ”on
Archie, at evens, and an unsuccessful dash on
Bohemian foi a similar amount, leaving him “as
you were.” Whether Lord Rosebery’s “plunge”
was the cause of Bohemian being made such a
“ hot pot ” for the Normanby Stakes is not quite
clear; but if it was, then may the radical Peer
congratulate himself upon having conferred a
practical benefit upon the masses in Victoria, by
enabling them to get on their fancy, The Broker,
at rather remunerative odds.
Speaking of Mace’s challenge to Sullivan,
Al. Smith, the latter’s representative, said:—
“ The truth of the matter is this: When Mace was
here before, I was his firm, fast friend, and was
his umpire when he faced Coburn in Canada, and
until I saw Sullivan I thought he was the best man
in the world. When he first talked of meeting
Sullivan, which was before the Maori went against
him, he came to me and said: * I want to meet this
young fellow, Sullivan, but I don’t want to be
knocked out. It would break my heart if I was.
Now, I want you to fix it so I won’t.’ I told him it
was no use to talk to Sullivan on this subject, but
he urged me, saying: ‘ Won’t you see him and tell
him that after the four rounds are over I will get
up and say ho is the best man I ever met, and the
coming champion?’ I replied: ‘.Tern, why
not go against him on the dead square?
AVe can pack Madison Square garden at two
dollars a ticket for common seats. It will hold
20,000 dollars, and suppose you do got knocked out,
we will split the rece'pts in two with you, and you
will have 10,000 dollars for your trouble. He
asked me to give him until next day to think it
over, and I did so. The next night he met me and
urged me to see Sullivan about his proposition, as
it would break his heart to be knocked out. To
oblige him, I went to Boston, where Sullivan was
training for his fight with the Maori, and delivered
Mace’s message, saying as I did so : ‘ Now, do as
yon please about it/ ‘Tnere is only one thing I
will do about it,’ answered Sullivan, * and that is I
will do my best, and let him do the same. All I
have ever made as by doing this, and I won’t
quit to oblige Mr. Mace.’ I met Mace, and told
him what John said. After Sullivan beat the
Maori, Mace resumed his challenges. One day I
met him and said : ‘Jem, you had better accept
our proposition. You are getting to be an old
man, and in a year or two no one will believe that
you will have any chance to fight Sullivan. You
had better make this 10.00 J dollars while you can.’
He refused again to meet Suliivan on the square,
saying that he was the wonder of the world, and
it would break his heart to be knocked out by
I him. When he issued his challenge to meet Sulli-
I van in three matches, he said to me : ‘ Don’t mind
what I say or do, I have to make some money, and
this is the best way to do it.’ John would be only
too happy to meet him with the gloves, but it
would have to be on the square.”
Writing to the D.T. regarding Sir J. B.
Darvall, Richard Sadlier supplies some illustra-
tions of the late gentleman’s readiness and wit.
Once, when J.B.D. came late to the Assembly, he
hurriedly took up the business paper and started
on a characteristic oratorical canter. *1 ou mis-
take the question,” whispered Sadlier in his ear.
“Aye. Well, now gentlemen I hare treated the
one side of the question, let us look at the other,’
said Darvall as he proceeded to show tb* versa-
tility of his talent by pulling his recently-expressed
opinions to pieces. Now that this venerable anec-
dote of our youth has been resuscitated and
offered to the public as a proof of the late knight s
originality, we await death with stoical insou-
ciance. One by one all the hoary anecdotes of the
post-pliocene period have been filtered through
Adam, Noah, Homer, Pilate, the early Popes,
Boccaccio, Rabelais, Nell Gwynne, Talleyrand,
John Philpot Curran, Sydney Smith, Judge Hali-
burton, Dan O'Connell, and-skipping a hemis-
phere—have been fathered on Victorian Aspinall
and N.S.W. Darvall, Buchanan, and M’Blhone.
This last one, of a counsel for the defence arguing
for the prosecution, finding out his mistake, and
tearing his previous arguments to tatters, alone re-
mained to us. Now it goes overland, is jettisoned,
and becomes the property of J.B.D. What wonder,
then, that all the sweetness has gonejoutof our
life, and death will bo a welcome release ? Yes, it
is hard—very hard, to sec the old friend whose
genealogy we traced through themedimval migra-
tions of Europe, away back to the swarming of the
Aryan family from Central Asian table-lands, baok
still till it was lost in a solar myth in the twilight
of our race—to see it doing duty in the Assembly
of N.S. Wales! Oh, and K. Sadlier gives another
specimen of J. B. D.’s humour and refinement.
Once, having treated some obnoxious members to
a severe castigation, he was about to resume his
seat, when his piercing eye lit on a representative
whom he had omitted to scalp. “I really forgot
you,” he remarked; “ but what can I compare you
to but a political blowfly, that pollutes everything
it touches ” There, Mr. M’Eihone, you haven't
reached that yet.
“Rough on Rats.”—Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for
|j»op Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If yor are a man of business or
‘labours weakened by the strain of
‘your ov<ary-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengliten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the ease,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
* farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or duo-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAMA
TAILOR,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
M 3, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well .
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 88. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, <fcc<
43 BRSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
The Referee.
SPORTING PIXTURES.
We shall he olad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Bega J.C'. Races January lfr, 11.
Canterbury Park Race Club January 19.
New England Races Janury 25, 26.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Junee January 26.
Goulburn T.C February 1, 2.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran January 24, 25.
Braidwood Races February 6, 8.
Cooma Races.... February 20, 21.
Gundagai J.C February 28, 29.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3. 5.
A.J.C. Autumn April 12,14,16,19.
Hay May 15,1«.
AQUATICS
Snails Bay Regatta January 12.
National Regatta January 26.
S.A.C. Dingy Club Races January 5 and Feb. 9.
ATHLETICS.
Wrestling Match, Miller v. Victor, at
Sydney January 12.
Mudgee Sports • * January 26
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Dispute” asks: “In a game of euchre,
if a player makes a misdeal, does he lose his
Yes.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Young M‘Glinchy, of Newcastle, is stated
to be a coming bowler.
In the wrestling match—isn’t it strange ?
Miller, if were he to win, would be Victor.
In 100 yards race at Oregan.
Kittleman allowed Martin 4 yards in 100. The
former won in the alleged time of 9%5.
Dudedom has been purchased for Mauri-
tius. Charley Hutchins, who rode The Assyrian
in the Melbourne Cup, will accompany him.
In America, a new trotting wonder has
turned up in a small bay gelding called Frank,
who has done an alleged private trial in 3.11%.
Hornpipe was the only horse on the En-
glish Turf that never ran until he was five years
old, and then proved capable of winning races.
31 intercolonial cricket matches have been
played between N.S. Wales and V ietoria. 17 have
been won by Victoria to New South Wales’ 13.
John Keen, the English bicyclist, in an
exhibition at Hampden Park, Springfield, Mass.,
November 3, rode a bicycle a quarter of a mile in
38% sec.
Another promising young sculler arrived
on Christmas morning. The wife of W. Beach
confined of a bouncing boy. Nice Christmas box,
that, for William.
Commodore Kittson, of St. Paul, Minn.,
U.S., now owns the two fastest pacers in the
world: Johnson and Little Brown Jug. The
former’s record is 3.10 and tho latter's 3.11%.
Millionaire Vanderbilt, while driving his
crack. Early Rose, in the Gentlemen’s Driving Park
collided with a skeleton waggon, The day after
the accident Mr. Vanderbilt was himself again.
Roysterer, who won the last City and
Suburban for Lord Rosebery, has been purchased
by Sir Hercules Robinson to go to the Cape. Cape
colony has just founded its Jockey Club, aDd
started a Racing Calendar.
Hon. lon Keith Falconer, holder of the
two-mile amateur champion bicycle record, 5 33%,
has been appointed lecturer of Cambridge Univer-
sity; which proves a case—so very seldom found—
of brain and muscle running together.
A veterinary surgeon, who examined
Girofle for “ Plunger ” Walton, stated she wa« not
poisoned, but he pronounced her “lacking in
bone.” An English paper states that Walton’s
losses on the mare amounted to under £l5O.
J. B. Martin (the banker), W. M. Chinnery
(of the Stock Exchange), and Sir Reginald Hanson,
will look after the future affairs of the London
Athletic Club. The Waddells recently passed
through New York, bound for pastures new.
George M. Hendee, the American amateur
bicyclist, defeated A. H Robinson, an English
ditto, in a ten-mile race at Hampden Park, U.S.,
on November 3. The time, 39min. 12sec., was slow,
but the weather was raw and the track rough.
On 28th December, Mr. J. S. Foulkes, of
the Normanby Bicycle Club, rode from Ballarat to
Geelong in four hours, the distance 54 miles; then
returned to Buninyong, completing the entire
distance of 101 miles in 10% hours, including all
Steps.
Under the heading of “ remarkable bat-
ting.” a Yankee paper states:—“John Large, of
the Young Americans, made the unprecedented
score of 178 in a match against Germanton.”
Some of our Australian scores must rather open
their eyes I
George Hosmer, the Yankee sculler, in-
tends to vary his gymnasium practice during the
dull season with walking exercise in the shape of
public contests for money. He has figured credit-
ably in several medium-distance races against
good men in past years.
The roads about Corowa being good and
level, the bicycle persecution is carried on there
with vigour, and on Boxing Day there were two
public races. J. Johnson won one, and D. Oswald
the other. The track was a grass paddock, and
caused some lively croppers.
Madame Englo, an Englishwoman, has ac-
complished the feat of walking 1500 miles in 1000
hours. When Captain Barclay walked 1000 miles
in 1000 hours, it was thought the performance
would never be equalled. It is enough to rouse
the Captain out of his long sleep.
Neither Webster, the lexicographer, nor
his latest editor can have understood much about
cricket, since, in the authorised edition of the
dictionary that bears his name, “ wicket-keeper ”
is defined to be “the player who stands with a bat
to protect the wicket from the ball.”
G. Hall and W. Brown (the latter a negro,
born in New York), were opponents in a match at
seven stand-forward springs, for £3O, at the Hig-
ginshaw Grounds, London, Eng., Oct. 30. Hall
won by clearing seventy-seven feet, which was
3ft. % in. better than Brown could do.
At the Strathbogie races, on Boxing Dav, a
serious accident happened in the Hurdle Race.
Six of the horses fell in a heap, two of the riders—
Viney and P. Emmett—sustaining concussion of
the brain, Cann had a fractured collar-bone, and
the others were more or less shaken and bruised.
That spicy young lady, “ Gladys,” who
favours our Melbourne contemporary with her
ideas in general, gives us a very neat little dig.
Volla:— “The public are getting rather tired of
seeing this one-sided game of cricket with the
Victorians always at the top of the poll, and are
anxious to know if there is any other game the
Svdneyites know better, that they might try and
play with more success to themselves, and more
credit to their one-horse colony than they ever can .
do with cricket.” There, now!
The best fencer in England is declared, by
the London World, to be a Mr. Farquhar; and
the next best Walter Pollock, who recently became
editor of the London Saturday Review— facts
which lead the World to remark that at last one
important English periodical possesses “a flghtiDg
editor.”
The billiard tournament lately held at the
Aquarium (England) resulted in a tie between
Mitchell, Taylor, and Peall. Mitchell succumbed
to both his rivals in the play off, and Peall beat
Taylor for first prize. Roberts afterwards chal-
lenged the world, offering a start of 500 in a game
of 5000 up.
Donald Dinnie, the great athlete, arrived
in N. Zealand by the s.s. City of Sydney. He is a
fine athletic man, stands 6 feet, and weighs, in
condition 15st. 101 b. He expects to visit Australia
about March, when he will be prepared to meet
Miller in wrestling, dumb-bell play, and heavy
weight lifting.
The N.Y. Spirit op the Times pays us a
compliment in connection with the weight-for-
age scale. It says: “We might, if we had space,
by the use of further tables, prove that the Aus-
tralian scale far surpasses those of either England
or this country in the equitable adjustment of
weights, as proven by everyday experience.”
A match for £lOOO aside, has been made
between the Hon. JamesiWhite’slolanthe, Bst. 81b.,
and Mr. W. Cooper’s Buckingham, Bst. 101 b.; dis-
tance, six furlongs. The race to be run on the last
Saturday of the next A.J.C. meeting. With Hales
up, the blue and white of the Hon. James should
be the first home. The terms are half-forfeit.
In India, the Australian-bred Ween won
the St. Leger at Hyderabad, Gudarz finishing
third. Baltic and Paragraph were among the con-
testants. Ween also won the Hyderabad Gold
Cup by a length from Gudarz, who was racing him
at level weights. Gudarz carried off the Peish-
kar’s Purse, and Baltic appropriated the Civilian’s
Cup.
The exact distances covered by the con-
testants in the recent seventy-two-hour bicycle
race in Chicago, 111., were J. S. Prince, 889 miles
4 laps; W. J. Morgan, 883.9; W. M. Woodside,
865.10; Shock, 855.1; Dowse, "50. The competitors
have entered for a 36 hours’ race, six hours daily,
to commence there Nov. 12, at Battery D Ar-
moury.
Federmeyer and G uerrero, who are trund-
ling wheelbarrows across the continent of America
for a purse of £4OO, started from San Francisco on
October 7. Their time of starting was entered on
their books there, and their books are to bo
stamped in every post-office that they pass. The
two will travel together to Cheyenne, and then
each will take whatever route he may choose.
They expect to report at the New York city post-
office about the middle of March next.
T his is a Pre historic
man He is shov
ing him sell with a
Pre-historic Oyster
shell He would have
gone to the Pre-his
toric Barber bu[?]
would cost 6d and
besides he world have
loanswer so many pre
historic questions-a-
bout the weather and
if the razor pulles
Let us be thank
ful that we do not live
in pre-his toric times
Here enderth lesson IV
George W. Hamilton, the professional
jumper, who made the best record in the world at
a standing long jump with artificial aid (using
weights in his hands), viz., 14ft.6i in., at Romeo,
Mich., October 3, 1879, has beaten his own record
recently, at the Northern Pacific Junction, Minn.,
in presence of a number of gentlemen, by jump-
ing 14 ft 9J4in.
Speaking of the recent Tattersall’s Club
races, the Even Lyre observed “ The Governor
and party were present.” As a fact, however, His
Excellency spent his holiday at Moss Yale, where
an elderly party was seen actively engaged chasing
the hens round the yard to make them lay. This
comes of writing race reports the day before the
event comes off.
Clifford, in tackling Pearce, in our opinion
has flown at game a shade too high for him.
Clifford pulled a game race for the Punch and
Peebles trophy, but it must not be forgotten
M‘Donald led him nearly to One Man Wharf, and
Reynolds and Davis were well up all through the
race. Given Pearce is in anything like condition
on the day of the race, he should win it with any
number of lengths to spare.
M. Alexa Lein has again won the race
on the Seine for the sculling championship of
France. This makes his eighth consecutive vic-
tory in this race. MM. Lein and Lacroix (French)
and MM. Mathieu and Declerie (Belgian) rowed
recently for a money prize at Brussels, and the
Frenchmen won easily. This will prevent the
French champion, M. Lien, from competing in
amateur races across the Channel.
Next Saturday afternoon, Sydney sports-
men will have a new sporting dish served up to
them, in the shape of the wrestling match between
Miller and Victor, in which the champion is to
throw Victor five times within an hour’s wrestling,
for £lOO. The match will lose much of its interest
in the fact that Victor will act only on the defen-
sive, as he will not gain anything by throwing his
bulky opponent, even if he could do so.
At the New York Athletic (Jlub meeting,
on 27th October, some record breaking was done.
Frank Murray won the mile walk from scratch, in
6min.293-ssec., which time has neverbeen equalled,
and is only 6 3-ssec. slower than the record of
William Perkins, the fastest professional cham-
pion England ever saw. C. A. J. Queckberner
achieved a best on record for throwing a S6t>.
weight by the ring. His best was 27ft., but each
of the three throws passed the previous best, 24ft.
l(Min.
Jerusalem stoned the prophets, and well
she might, if they were anything like some of our
turf oracles. Out of the whole of the Boxing
Day and New Year’s Day’s events (12 items), the
Nooze tipster only spotted two winners, and in
one of his successes only two horses started. 60,001
subscribers armed to the teeth with guas, axes,
shovels, poisoned wheat, and tubericulosis are
now madly yelling for that misguided young man’s
gore, but he lives in a cask down the cellar now,
and can’t hear them. When his cast-iron clothes
arrive, he’ll return once more to the scene of his
former triumphs.
W. G. George, the famous English runner,
and H. Anderson, of the London Athletic Club,
engaged in a private match or 120 yar s recently,
at the Lillie Bridge Grounds, London, Eng. Odds
of six to four were laid on Anderson, who got
quickest to work, and led easily at the half dis-
tance, and 20 yards from the finish he was a yard
to the good. George then came up with one of
his rushes, and won by about a foot in a trifle
under 13 sec. George’s unexpected victory was
hailed with tremendous applause.
Sullivan pitched five innings for a picked
team against the St. Louis club. The score at the
conclusion stood at 15 to 3, in favour of the St.
Louis club. At the finish a great crowd sur-
rounded the champion, and he found it hard work
reaching the dressing room. He escaped from the
ball park by way of a rear entrance, and it was not
until he and the Maori had gone some distance
that they found they had left a cigar box con-
taining a part of the day’s receipts behindlthem.
They returned to the park on the run and; re-
covered it. Sullivan received as his share 00 per
cent, of the gate receipts, which amounted to
about £285.
This is how they do things in America.
Says a Yankee paper, under the heading of “ An
Exciting Race ” "At Winnipeg, Manitoba, a ten
mile race was run, October 28, by George Irvine,
champion of Canada, and Little Plum, son of the
chief of the Blackfeet. A number of fouls oc-
curred, and finally Irvine knocked the Indian
down, and severely injured him by stamping on
his wrist with spiked shoes. Nevertheless, the
Indian regained his feet and pluckily renewed the
race, winning by five yards in fifty-five minutes,
and fell fainting at the winning-post. The excite-
ment was intense, many thousand dollars being bet
at 2 dol. to 1 dol. that Irvine would win.
Some wise things were said at the fruit-
soiree given in Clements’ Caf<i to the New South
Wales cricketers after the late contest. Mr. J. C.
Stewart, the chairman on the occasion, compli-
mented the visitors on the plucky way in which
they had “fought out to the bitter end an uphill
contest.” Why, it was three to one against Vic-
toria during the first innings. It was onlv a bit of
the contest that was up-hili. And Mr. smith said
that the mutual visits of English and Australian
visiting teams “ would do more to bring about the
federation of the British Empire than all the
political influence that might be brought to bear.”
We called these wise things. We meant foolish
things. And at a lruit soiree, too !
At Fast St. Louis, 111., U.S., James Miles,
weighing 10 stone, undertook to stand before John
L. Sullivan two minutes, both using soft gloves,
for £lO. He was knocked down four times in one
minute, the last time going o<f the stage, and being
picked up insensible. Sullivan says the story
about his giving up drinking for a year was all
bosh. “ How it got into the papers I don’t know;
but it got there, and spread over the country as a
piece of news, as the people want any news about
one who has gained so much notoriety as myself.
It spread more rapidly than if it had been said of a
man not so well known. I don’t drink much—say
five or six glasses of ale a day, and a bottle for
dinner, if I feel like it.”
After the death of Frank Queen, about
twelve months ago, his heirs developed various
views as to the disposition of the estate, and his
principal property, the New York Olipper, was
advertised for sale at auction. Subsequently all
these misunderstandings were amicably adjusted,
the sale was stopped, and the Clipper will con-
tinue to sail under her old crew. In announcing
this happy result, the Clipper mentions the note-
worthy fact that the individual terms of continu-
ous service of the present editorial staff have been
as follows: Nine years, eleven years, twelve years,
fourteen years, sixteen years, twenty-three years,
and three more than twenty-four years. The
Clipper is the oldest sporting and dramatic paper
in the States.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Queensland blood mare, Caprice, is
dead ...Albers of Adelaide and Memnot of Mel-
bourne played a billiard match at Adelaide. The
local man won by 61 points.
• a
Fred. Lees, English bicyclist, received a
bad fall and was severely cut and bruised by col-
liding with a boy while training at Leicester re-
cently — Lewis T. Fyre, one of the iinest pro-
fessional bicycle-riders in America, has perma-
nently retired from the track Charles Rowell
and Patrick Fitzgerald, with their respective
backers, met in N.Y.. November 7, and signed
articles for a six days’ go-as-you-please sweep-
stakes-race, open to all, at £lOO each. Time and
place have not been fixed upon as yet A team
of female baseballists are playing in'the States
In America, the trotter St. Julien, recently de-
feated by Jay Eye See, has met with a similar fate
at the hands of Trinket. Trinket won the three
heats.
Thousands die annually from some form
of kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Hop Bitters. Read.
Thousands of wealthy sufferers, sur-
rounded with every luxury, would gladly ex-
change conditions with the robust sons and daugh-
ters of labour who minister to their wants. Sweep
away the tormenting maladies, then, with Bristol’s
Sarsaparilla and Pills.


Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
1
fffffffjff#
m
m
BASS PALE ALE.
The B E9T ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son,*& Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICH AD DS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
{trade}
JMARAj
jl
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskios, oom-
binintf fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
wmm m
s«iv=
a
17
t&r VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT BTREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.fI
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
"^j^ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
1
-s 3
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP.
In consequenon of the death of Mr. H. T. Petersen.
GENUINE CLEARANCE SALE of an immense
and magnificent stock of Gold and Silver
Jewellery, Diamond Goods, Watches, Clocks :
Sterling Silver, Electroplate, acd Optical Goods.
Total value, £30,000.
WORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Abcad a, King-street,
regret to announce that, in consequence of the
death of their Partner, Mr. Petersen, they are
compelled to dispose ot the whole of their VALU-
ABLE STOCK, to pay out the interests due to the
Legatees under the will of the deceased partner,
and, to effect a speedy clearance, will SELL AT A
GREAT SACRIFICE, and positively no reasonable
offer for any of the Goods will be refused.
The Stock comprises
GOLD and SILVER JEWELLERY of the most
recherchi description, and WATCHES from the
best and most well-known makers; and, being a
BONA FIDE SALE,
offers an unusual opportunity for procuring
Christmas and Now Year's Gifts.
HORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Arcade, Ivinq-street.
rEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEW ELLERY.
CASH SALK.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAM It & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg- to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous pricer.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, tho opportu-
nitv should not bo missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations c I
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon tW
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public tho benefit of our Mr. Young’s 35 years
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 29 in N.B.WJ,
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we arc selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £36 cash, Eleswhere
£lO more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
y?- 286 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
WRfl. RUSSELL
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from ss. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance. All work guaranteed.
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters.
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS. MTHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 DERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MAUGARET-STUFET, SYDNEY.
Ext RACTof Dandelion
Complaints,
W MARSHALL BROTHERS.
CHEMISTS, MARKET STREET.
THE GU N I) AG A I HERALD,
Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published evGrv
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing-, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Konalrs neatly exe-
7>lltVAj4
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading journals
and magazine* of Australia, supplies origi-
nal 1 aders, essays, skotches, &c., and newsletters.
Communications may be addressed to “ Marco,”
care of Bulletin office, Sydney.
TATTEBSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
W INCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
rj announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Distribution as follows
First Horse £lOOO
Serond Horse 400
Third Horae 200
Starters (divided among) .. .. 200
Non-Starters (divided among).. .. 200
£2OOO
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“I* 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrotheb.”
. Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
*
Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
w r as tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May IC, 1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5, 1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, Delieving as I do that
hut for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAODON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22,1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot he greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
PREPARED BY «
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLTOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO..
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tr THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’B
Old l/Catuxed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,,
Dublin, and consumers may, t.' Tefore, rely thatit :
has not been in the hands of ° V 'hiskey Doctors.’
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule^
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR
I3T 308 GEORGE STREET.
. i. '•
' c £LEßßtf&:
V
WHOLESAILff
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE JELEBRATHD
SULTAN’S C* 'FFEB
AFTGfI BEFORE. UOUSTAOHB Wd WHISSE2S. BEFOGS after
Eoyd’a Beard Elixir did thin, and
tciU do it an cither bald head or
bare fare. Fir. cea heav\ / Mont .
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
Jails, 20,000 young men already '
Copyrighted, wear pull beards, having used Ito
3 plcts . A r o injury,* easily applied, ter tain in effect,
each , 3 for 3*. (id., post paid, sent under cover, fre t
r Addrta* } Frank lhMiglaa, Sole Agent, Box 730* O.P 0
Copyrighted.
Packets Is. 6d.
from observation .
Sydney,N.B. W-
I
Cjrl
A
w
o
z
a£
&
- ,
______.., vr ] OPPOSITE POST Of ptCSj
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following' Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST anil Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 800 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUjMIIEHFIELD & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Savillo Row,
London. „ a „
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. H. nOKRTSBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Bftr. W. sHAVf.
LL.SIUBMO.
THE PEO PEELS TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEEJH
jj. Warranted first quality
Chafes:?«r^tly MODEßATE
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon DEtrrio 106marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttractcd Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, Jt is or great service, as it acts not only as
a nor re stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
.. „ „ fi .. 1 .. .. 24/-
Price per case containing 10 dozen H pints ...2f/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
WALL
PAPERS
lOffice: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
Iy N.R. Pattern* and Prion* sen*.


VANITY FAIR.
Married men who are anxious to shme in
the best society should—stay at home At
Brighton, a lady glistened in a dress and bonnet
made entirely of silver beads; gloves and boots of
grey kid to match.... Charles (trying to hold up
his end of the conversation): “How much did
that hat cost, Jeanie?” Jeanie (who is on tho
alert): If vou really want to know how much it
costs to clothe me, Charlie, there is a way to find
out.” Charlie took her... In the Sandeman Islands,
the bridegroom sends on his marriage day a cup
of poison round to everyone of the bride’s former
admirers—that is, everyone he knows. Each one
must, in honour, from that moment cease to think
of the lady ; or else, if he feels he cannot banish
the thoughts of her charms, he takes the poison
and dies. So Sandeman husbands always feel safe.
“Poor Tom, I wish you didn’t have to slave
so,” she said, depositing her pretty head on his
waistcoat fiap. “ Well, Susie,” replied Tom, who
had seen it there before, “what is it this time—
another bonnet, or some more of those stockings?”
....At a bazaar for destitute sailors in London, the
hall represented a ship’s deck, with masts, ropes,
etc., and the girls were ail Nancy Lees, or other
nautical characters. Naughty-gals! Numbers
of prominent hostesses in London have received
anonymous circulars, asking them not to offer
wine at any entertainments—At a high wedding,
all the bridesmaids wore dresses of coffee-coloured
lace over silk; bonnets to match Two ladies at
Grosswardien, in Hungary, contested one husband,
lie belonged legally to Madame Gethfalvi, an
actress, but as a Viennese lady desired to annex
him, the rivals decided to settle the matter
by a “Tambaroora”—tbe loser to commit suicide.
The lawful wife lost, and carried out the contract.
A lady who lately met Miss Chamberlain# de-
scribes her as having rather a captivating wav,
“oddly combining a spirituello Marguerite air
with the peculiar dash and c onfidence common in
Yankee girls.” It was ovening, and the light was
electric, so that every bit of artificiality was made
clear by the glare. Her face was painted like
wax-work. The red of her cheeks stood out like
daubs. Her tall figure was very shapely, but
what was her best poin f was her freedom
from all toadyism in manner. She was nei-
ther abashed nor deferential before the Prince
A new fashion is, when a domestic event occurs,
to send a vignette of the mother round to friends,
together with a photo of the newspaper announce-
ment .. .Three American girls took the first prizes
at lawn-tennis from the best players in Paris
Humming Bee sa< s:—“ There is not much that is
novel in petticoats.” Right; fashions change, but
the contents of petticoats are very similar to what
they were years ago.... Professor: “Another,
minute, Miss, and I shall go and speak to your
Mamma.” Wilful Girl: “Well, take care Pa
doesn’t catch you, ttiats all. He’s awfully
jealous.” The favourite corset is the “ Lang-
try,” which is a beautifully-moulded contrivance,
rather short, to allow a droop in the bust, <1 la Lily,
and presenting to the eye a pink and blue satin
exterior—Swimming soirees were in vogue tho
past summer at Washington. The disused skating
rink was converted into large baths, a band
played, and the electric light was employed.
Reund the basin of water were balconies for
spectators. Each lady and gentleman had a room,
and the gaudiest of fancy bathing suits prevailed.
And we may mention, in case anyone should be
shocked at such doings, that the water was not
deep enou<h for Adoiphus and Agonisa to dive
out of sight together Since 1850, the British
taxpayer hus supported, in 8226 publio offices, 4533
members of 261 “noble housss,” at a cost of over
sixty-six million sterling. How dear, how excru-
ciatingly dear, to the Briton who won’t be a slave
must be the blue-blooded aristocrat!. ...This is
very rich. An American diver says :—“ Once I
went to Twin Lakes to dive for the body of a man
who had gone in swimmmg with two companions',
I found an immense concourse of people on the
shore. The grief-stricken mother had erected a
stand, and was doing an immense business in
sandwiches and lemonade. I searched several
hours, but found no body. Months afterward,
a man said —‘Say, Mister, do you snow why you
couldn’t find that body?” i gave it up. ‘Why,
the fellow wasn’t there. When he sank, he swam
to tho opposite shore, and put on a dry suit of
clothes he had hid. Ho wanted to get away from
his wife, and that’s how he did it.’”
It is intended to really make a test of “ oil upon
the troubled waters ” on a large scale, as some one
says that the Straits of Dover could be perma-
nently oiled for £75,000 a year; sea-sickness thus
abolished when crossing the “silver streak.”
An Aberdeen editor once wrote a leading article
in this way : —“lt is all very well for some people
to pretend they know more about a thing than
other people, but what on earth does the Pall
Mall Gazette mean by the following?” The
tollowing’' consisted of a whole “leader” clip-
ped from the Pall Mall, and occupying the
entire space that the Aberdeen editor had at his
disposal. [ vVc believe, though we are not certain,
that John P. hails from Aberdeen.] In Paris,
when a great crime is committed, it is asked, Where
•?t u® 'J’oman? In London (says Max O’Rcll, in
John Bull et Son lie ”) the question, undersimilar
circumstances, is, “ Where is the chapel?” ...The
80Dg of the salmon (consigned toN.Z.) Ovathesoa.
•...Luther used to fall back on his “uncle” occa-
sionally. On one occasion he says : “ I have been
obliged to pawn three goblets.” Emptying gob-
lets usually winds up with interviews at one's
u hh* e ’ now, as 400 years ago ...The old Onety-
oneth ana tb o Firsty-first were amalgamated
into the territorial North Loamshire. The Ooety-
oneth had valuable mess plate, that of the Firsty-
nrst was electro. The Firsty-flrst affect to be
surprised that the Onety-oneth Tibject to an equal
division of the jo'nt plate betwixt the two
battalions of the North Loamshire....Prosy Old
Gentleman : —“ I have bfeen married now, more
than thirty years, and have never given my wife
a cross word.” Terrible Infant:—"lf you had,
auntie would have made you jump.”
The Benchers of tho Middle Temple have con-
demned to be pullod down No. 3 Garden Court, in
the attic of which chambers Oliver Goldsmith
wrote the “ Traveller.” “ Dagonet ” informs us
—and we acknowledge him to be an authority
where grog is introduced—that in High Church
circles five o’clock tea has given place to five
o’cloct gin-and-water The winter season at
Monaco opened with the suicide of an American
masher and three elopements of English wives
with three other fellows. The few Monacasques
who are of the Low Protestant persuasion «re
utilising these items—their object, subscriptions
to a fund for the establishment of evangelical
chaplaincies in the naughtier spots of the Riviera.
Five-year-old Flippancy. Mother: " Sit still,
dear, or you'll fall out of the tram and be killed.”
Five-year-old: “ Well, if I did, Ma, you could pick
up the pieces of me, and press them in books.”
Tois conversation occurred in a Waverle.v tram.
There is a good deal of wit travelling to and fro on
that line. We sometimes travel on that line
Kendall’s volumes of pure Australian poetry
won’t sell on their merits-more shame to the
Australian public. Were an edition dc luxe
published, with a dedication to and portraits
of the K.C.M.G. and C.M.G.-virate of these
colonies, we believe it would move off. Per-
haps George Robertson will take our hint.
“No more of the fruit, which is
delicious, but a little of the juice,” was the remark
of a prominent Blue Ribbonman when his hostess
suggested to him another “ help” of the preserves
(brandied peaches!) Miss Nellie Veitch is a new
elocutionist, who has given private recitals in
Melbourne... The spade and barrow used in turn-
ing the first sod of the Parramatta railway, are
shown in the Exhibition—The Windsor Philhar-
monic Society's first concert was good musically,
but poorly attended Six ladies in London have
graduated as druggists Lovely woman has long
been suspected of helping some of us into the
world. She will now assist us out.
It will interest a lot of people to know that
that time-honoured simile, “ Drunk as blazes,” has
nothing whatever to do with the land flowing with
fire and brimstone. It is derived from Bishop
Blaise, patron saint of tLo wool-combers—who
used periodically to get drunk, as pious folks
should do, in his honour. Hence “Drunk as
Blaisers,” or, as we more neatly nut it, “blazes.”
Oh! and that awfully sanguinary expletivo, which
commenciH with a big big B, has its root in the
holy vow, “By our Lady.” And so on with a host
of similarly-judged naughty modern phrases.
The Duchess of Montrose, it is said, intends
to place her stud under the charge of Captain
Machell for the next English racing season. The
bucolic lady couldn’t possibly make a more pro-
mising arrangement. ‘ Bob” deai-ly loves to bring
off a big handicap coup when the public are “not
on,” and the finesse lor which the Captain is so
famous is the one thing which has been wanting in
her schemes hitherto—they having invariably been
too transparently artful. There is no ’cuter man
on the turf than Machell. It was he who had
charge of Mr. Chaplin in his “salad ” days, and the
celebrated Hermit surprise was brought off under
his personal management. Since then, he has
taught a great many young swells “ how to shoot,”
and his pupils have usually profited bv the course
of instruction: for the matter of that, 8Q has the
wily Captam himself,
From every haunt of London’s poor there comes a
bitter cry—
The cry of pain from those who dwell in rookery
and stye;
Where many wretched beings herd together in
each room,
Their lives a daily round of woe, of misery, and
gloom!
Disgusting dens are in our midst—unfit for human
kind;
Rack-rented to the toilers who are to these spots
confined.
Here Squaler, Want, and Sin abide—and Vice holds
powerful sway,
For it finds the poor and outcast young a very easy
prey.
Be not too harsh in judging those who daily lower
sink,
Alas, tis want drives many to a life of shamo and
drina.
’Tis true that some would choose that life if e’en
their lot was fair,
But thousands to temptation yield through canker-
ing despair.
Yes, many London outcasts bear the sinful, vicious
brand,
And make us say, “ Can such things be, in this,
our Christian land ? ”
But have wo always done our best such matters to
prevent ?
Can our consciences be reckoned clear to any great
extent?
Ah, no! we’ve slumbered cn till now—neglectful
of their need;
And now we find to stem the flood is difficult in-
deed.
The scenes of misery and pain of which we daily
learn,
Makes every heart with sorrow and with indigna-
tion burn 1
Thank Heaven, England’s roused at last, to battle
for the poor—
To remove, or to alleviate, tho sufferings they
endure.
And the titled land-preserver, who but thinks of
game and deer,
And the rookery-owning landlord, both may well
have cause to fear!
Might now may seem all-powerful, but tho Right
shall yet hold sway—
Reform shall heal this festering wound, and bring
a brighter day.
Men daily are appalled at London’s deep distress
and need,
And all true hearts will aid the cause—God grant
it may succeed!
The above is from a London paper, and, by tho
way, so is the following:—“The Prince of Wales’
huuters, nearly thirty in number, arrived at San-
dringham, last week, from Cumberland Lodge,
Windsor Great Park, whero they have been quar-
tered since March. They were conveyed from
Windsor by special train direct to Wolverton.”
Now, if the London poor were only trea ed like
hounds, or housed liked hunters, or permitted to
live the life of a dog, how happy they would be!
We would be serious. Away with wine
and women; sermons and soda-water. We have
now to deal withJfacts—hard, unmalleable, psy-
chological facts. Sergeant Cox did not convince
us, and Harriet Martineau’s autobiography but
hardened our unbelief in mesmerism, thought-
reading, and second-sight. But another “ thought-
reader” has come to the front, and his perform-
ances stagger, bewilder us—prompt us to bare our
wrist to the family physician and beseech him to
say if our pulse does “temperately keep time.” it
is a Mr. Stuart Cumberland this time, the locality
is Newcastle-in-Tyne (England), and this is
what he does: He wanders unattended on to the
stage, and the audience select half-a-dozen of their
best known and best (scientifically) trained towns-
men—old army officers, doctors, mathematicians
to join h'm. Then one of the committee goes out
and hides a pin in some out-of-the-way place half
a mile away.“On his return he is attached by a
wire to Cumberland, who is blindfolded. Then
the latter, followed by the committee and half the
town, starts out and finds the pin stowed away be-
tween the leaves of a minute book at the Police
Station. Again, the Mayor encloses a bank-note in a
letter sealed with the Corporation arms. The letter
is handed to Dr. Angus—one of the committee—on
the stage and the number told him. Then Cumber-
land places a white board in front of the audience,
draws five squares on it, is bandaged, grasps
Angus’ hand which holds a pencil, and, requesting
the doctor to think of the five figures constituting
tho note’s number, guides the pencilled hand till
the figurea 7-5-8-5-1 (the correct number of the
bank-note), one for each square, are filled in. One
Dr. Wilson is attached to the performer with a
piece of pianoforte wire, and gives into the chair-
man's hand a sealed envelope with “ ham sand-
wich, Scotch buffet, Turf Hotel ’ ’ written on a slip
of paper inside. The blindfolded Cumberland
takes him straight to the hotel, and returns to the
hall with a sandwich in his hand. The tests are
precisely similar to those laid down by Mr. La-
bouchere (of Truth) in his late famous dealings
with Mr. Irving Bishop. These psychological
exhibitions are not new, but we do not remember
any with such an overwhelming array of trust-
worthy evidence in their favour. Cumberland’s
performances, in fact, open up a whole world of
curious possibilities. If the matters on which one
man thinks intently can be comm nicated to an-
other by a piece of copper wire, what is to pre-
vent the valets of great men from learning their
masters’ secrets while the latter are asleep t It is
probable that to a larrikin at the triangles the
subject of ante-physical pain is tho most absorb-
ing of all. How would it do to collect a batch of
well-known Sydney roughs, and attach them by
wires to the next candidate who has to undergo
correction? Wo throw this out as a hint of tne
useful purpose to which Mr. Cumberland’s exhi-
kitione may lead.
We have just seen the first number of the
Narrabri Northern Argus. It is an alluring
journal, and at once makes a decided departure by
publishing a leader with the novel title of " Our-
selves.” Another pleasing instance of originality
in the now paper is found in a paragraph playfully
labelled “ Avis,” which contains the following
flash:—” The want of a second journal in Narrabri
has been long and urgently felt, and the proprietor
of the Narrabri Northern Argus, in acceding
to a repeatedly expressed public wish, feels confi-
dent that the inhabitants of Narrabri will accord
him that measure of support so cordially promised.”
In alluding to tho alleged poisoning of Keep, at
Maitland, there is a par. headed “ .Domestic Mur-
dor! ’’ This item concludes as follows:—" The jury
found that deceased ded from the effects of poison
administered by his wife, Sarah Keep, and Mary
Ann Burton, her stepmother. Both were at once
committed for trial for wilful murder.” Consider
ing it was Sarah Keep’s husband who was poisoned,
we can’t quite seo how Mary Ann Burton can be
that young person’s stepmother-tho more espe-
cially as, before her marriage Sarah rejoiced
herself in tho name of Burton. But this is
Tnoredetuil! Wo are glad to notice a paragraph
about “ the weather,” but it grieves us to observe
that “ owing to the unavoidable dolay in the pub-
lication of the first issue of this paper, and a
consequent misunderstanding on the part of our
Sydney agent, no telegrams appear in this issue.”
On the whole, wo should say that the N. N. Argus
will go ahead—tho more especially as it announces
that it is to be illustrated by one of our artists. In
tho first issue there arc two small blisters—one
representing a fisrht between M’Elhone and Stuart
(uni thcr novel idea! , and the otter an artistic blur
which at once pleases and interests the spectator.
The Narrabri Northern Argus comes out twice
a week; and ii. will do so till the populace fall upon
the editor with bludgeonsand with boulders—hem!
to make him bring it out three times.
No hospital needed for patients that use
Hop Bitters, as they cure so speedily at home. See
and believe.
STOCK EXPRESSIONS FROM MODERN LITERATURE.
“He stood rooted to the spot.”
“His lips were glued to hers in one
long, passionate kiss.”
“As the rich colour mounted to her
brow, she buries her face in his bosom,
exclaiming-",[?]
The Bibulous Bard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When my head is hot and aching
With the drink that I’ve been taking,
Oh, it’s hard to keep on making
Pretty rhymes.
And, in fits of melancholy,
I bemoan the wretched folly
That is known as "being jolly,”
Oftentimes:
Then I form firm resolutions
To abjure those institutions
For the wreck of constitutions.
Known as “ Bars.”
All my bright ideas I’m losing
Through this tendency to “ boozing,”
And my metre gets confusing
Through cigars.
So, hencoforward, smoking, drinking,
Idle jokes and barmaid-winking
Shall give place to steady thinking
On my part;
For the future, I’ll act wisely:
Drinking tea will suit me nicely,
But I do not know precisely
When to start.
So I won’t start just at present,
For my thirst is most incessant,
And the sight of whisky pleasant
To my eye;
And I’ll take a drop this minute
(For I’m sure there’s no harm in it);
As for tea— well, I’ll begin it
Bv and bye.
Too Tight.
[FOR TJE BULLETIN.]
’Twas close by Paling's on the Block,
They stood together;
Ho was so nice, you’d fear to knock
Him with a feather;
And she. Dudlne, was just a sweet,
Small, bunched-up doll,
Who dropped beside ner tiny feet
Her parasol.
Smiling as sweet as sugar candy,
And looking coy,
She signed to him, ner darling dandy,
Her thing of joy—
Alas! in vain Dudine beseeches;
Her pretty friend
Has got his legs in masher breeches,
And cannot bend!
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1870,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work-
They arrive at tho regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to tho adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what 1 have seen, gentlemen! I from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of tho
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, l persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
s conds. And this watch is of the fifth American
gride; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Locle, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘ take it down ’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, 1)4 seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘ heated room,’
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watoh
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
gentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
I have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
LA round of aDDlause followed the sneaker as he
dnsoenrtud the tribune. I


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Mb. DeCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken, Titles a
speciality.—Ad vt.
TTI URNITURE SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, P nd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
tables; BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
T\RAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
| f taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. . —-
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c. f
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T7IURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
b THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-str eet.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
iEDROOM SUITES complete in varies wood
B'
■ m and very handsome designs, with T-f-_
ro'SS? 1W SrSt , VSi^.“"BBlpS > Wl^
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table aod
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
ST"
V-
o
OOK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound,
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
HIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AS Y OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
HA I R B EDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. ,
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and tVASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas,
DlNING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
tINING with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durabie, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
iTIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNl-
tj TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
neil-street.
'ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
\Y
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.— A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
MARRIED.
Pearson— Langdon.—On Thursday, January 3;d,
at St. Luke’s, Burwood, by the Rev. Canon
Moreton, Charles Pearson, of the Mounted
Police, Longbottom, formerly of H.M. 14th
Light Dragoons, to Rhoda Grace Langdon, of
Burwood, late of Kiama.
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
R
EMEMBER REMEMBER,
REMEMBER
that
HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET,
are the
SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTORS
for
CARPETS and DRAPERY
to the
GOVERNMENT of N. S. WALES.
MORAL:—
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Fitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street* sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, sell cheapest
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
fx
X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXA
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
THE Inhabitants of Paddington, Woollahra,
Waverley, and the people in general are
respectfully solicited for their patronage of Dr.
Degner. The great light which shines over the
dark, clouded mind of mystified sophistry is
“Reason.” By all the advertising and eminence
of medical men, there is still dissatisfaction in the
cure of patients. It is not the sanction of a
medical faculty only, or the influence of powerful
people, or favourising friends, and their crushing
relations which developes or destroys talent; it is
the divine and practical nature of the individual,
the inborngenius which predominates over all and
crowns the book learning. Reason is the supreme
power of all things in the world, and the new
rational system is the only true and safe one. All
curable ailments are curable and to be cured by
the rational system. Dr. Degner’s new rational
system may be tried—and has been tried success-
fully by thousands and thousands of sufferers of
all classes, and speedily cured, without endan-
gering health by modern or ancient experiments.
Mark the Address
DR. DEGNER,
Paddington,
Oatley-road,
Second door off Old South Head-road,
Facing the southern wall of Victoria Barracks.
Tram stops at the door.
R. V. DEGNER, M.D.
E
IGHT THOUSAND AND ELEVEN ACRES
FREEHOLD.
DUNNB’S PH INS, DUNNE’S PLAINS,
DUNNE’S PLAINS 1
18 Miles from Bathurst and adjoining the Town of
ROCKLEY.
AN EMBRYO TERMINUS.
8011 ACRES FREEHOLD
in one compact block.
To CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS, SQUAT-
TERS, and all others desirous of securing a
REALLY MAGNIFICENT ESTATE, in one
of the Healthiest Climates in New South
Wales, or perhaps in the world.
DUNNE’S PLAINS,
well-known for about 50 years as tho estate of
the late William Bowman, Esq., M.L.A., com-
prises 8011 Acres, grants of the Crown to the
late Major Burrows, Captain Paine, Captain
Sealy, Messrs. Porter, Robert Smith, and
William Bowman. Most of these grants were
made over 50 years ago, therefore the grantees
having then THE COUNTRY TO PICK FROM
should be a guarantee of the great value of
the property as a whole.
The estate is delightfully picturesque, much of
it is the really richest arable soil; immense crops
have been obtained during the past 48 years.
The plains, flats, and all parts hitherto cultivated
can scarcely be excelled. The hills are of basaltic
and schistose formation, affording abundance of
grass in ail seasons. The whole property is per-
manently watered by the Dunne’s Plains Creek,
Pepper’s Creek, Dunne’s Hall, and other creeks
and springs.
CLEMENTS and M'CARTHY, in conjunction
with T. M. SLOMAN, have received instructions
from the Administrator of the intestate estates of
the deceased, Mary Westcott, Sarah Bowman, and
Annie Bowman, to sell by public auction, at the
ROYAL HOTEL, BATHURST,
at 2.30 p.m. on
THURSDAY - , 17th JANUARY, 1881,
The above MAGNIFICENT ESTATE,
so well and favourably known, situated in the
centre of a prosperous district, SURROUNDED
by COUNTRY PROVED RICH in GOLD and
COPPER. Prospecting has been strictly pro-
hibited on the estate, the tenants being bound to
occupy for farming or grazing only; for the latter
Eurpose it has been chiefly used, and, although
eavily stocked, large numbers of fat cattle and
sheep have been sent to market or sold on the
ground periodically.
Gold and copper have been found on the pro-
ueriy*
As a DRAUGHT HORSE STOCK BREEDING
and REARING COUNTRY, on a large scale, it can
hardly be equalled.
Dunne’s Plains can only be appreciated after
minute inspection, to which all intending pur-
chasers are specially invited.
The PROPERTY is for POSITIVE SALE, and
VERY EASY TERMS will be allowed, viz. One-
third in cash, and balance at three or five years, at
6 per cent, per annum, secured by mortgage in
the usual mode; or the whole may be paid in cash
at the option of the purchaser.
Further particulars may bo obtained on applica-
tion to the auctioners,
CLEMENTS and M’CARTHY,
Stock, Station, Land, Estate Agents, & Auctioneers,
William-street, Bathurst.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th January, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Wooden Building- for Public School pur-
poses, at Peat’s Ferry, Hawkesbury River.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Peat’s Ferry Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
Wednesday, 80th January, 1884.
T he Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
Gr. U. REID.
SOCIAL.
The first Subscription Ball took place in
Noumea, which was a great success, dancing’ was
kept up till live in the morning. The Governor
kindly permitted the splendid convict hand to
perform, ad went off smoothly ; those that pre-
ferred ecart<s had a place set ash’e tor them, which
is an abominable practice at any balls, being the
first step to gambling amongst the young people.
The ladies dresses were very elaborate. Mrs. A.
carried off the palm, and Miss M., youngest
daughter of a German squatter, was considered by
many to be the belle.
• • •
At the close of the year Miss M, Cope,
eldest daughter of Judge Cope, Melbourne, was
married to Mr. W. Brodie Locnore, son of the late
Rev. G. Lochore, of Orkney. The ceremony was
at the residence of the bride’s parents, and a large
gathering was there, and the number of prsents
showed the popularity of the bride. She wore
ivory satin, and two sisters acted as her maids.
After breakfast, the new pair started for Sorrento,
where they began the honevmoon at Ocean Park,
the late residence of Sir C. G. Duffy.
• • •
On Boxing Day, at Vanderville Church,
a very happy young man, Mr. William Stevens,
was married to the adopted daughter of Mr.
Thomas Albery, of the Oaks, near Camden. At
breakfast, we learn from the local paper man’s
version of the affair, “ the sight was a magni-
ficent one, so much so that it would be impossible
to give a full account,” and Mr. Williams pro-
posed the bride’s health. Then sports, and after
the bridal party had been “driven to the orchard,”
where, we suppose, there was more enjoyment of
the kind of which it is “ impossible to give a full
account,” dancing began. In the morning, Mr.
Stevens and his wife departed for Orange.
At Camden, two interesting orphans were
wedded on Saturday week, by the Rev. Mr.
Moran. The bridegroom was a son of the late
Mr. H. G. King, M.D.; and the bride, Miss Agnes,
daughter of the late Mr. Charles Macartbur. No
names in the colony are better known. The Rev.
G. Macarthur, of King’s School, was unable to be
present. Miss Macarthur wore cream corded silk
and broche, lace-trimmed, and the four brides-
maids were her cousins. Breakfast was held at
the residence of Mrs. Onslow, Camden w ark, where
Mrs. Macarthur and Miss Best did the honours.
Sir John Hay proposed the toast, and Messrs. G. H.
Reid, T. A. Dibbs, P. G. King, Arthur Kin ,
Onslow, &c„ also spoke. After some gentle
sports, singing, straying, and so on, the company
returned to Sydney, and the happy pair started
for Katoomba.
• • •
Last month, Miss Lily Berry, daughter of
the Hon. Graham Berry, Chief Secretary of Vic-
toria, was married to Dr. C. A. Stewart, son of Dr.
Stewart in Launceston. The ceremony was per-
formed by the Rev. S. Robinson, at Viletta, St.
Kilda, in the presence of a large party of friends
and onlookers. Dr. Louis Henry was best man,
and there were four bridesmaids. Miss Berry
wore a rich white satin, draped, and fringed with
lily of the valley, side panels of white Spanish
lace, back in waterfall pleats with long train. A
grand banquet was given, and Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart left in the afternoon for Gipp’s Land
Lakes. The four bridesmaids were all sisters of
the bride. • # #
A delightful way of spending Christmas
season was indulged in by Dr. C. B. Piesley, of
Wagga, who visited St. John’s Caurch in company
with Miss E. Wood, and underwent the operation
of matrimony at the hands of Archdeacon Pow-
nall. The bride looked charming in a rich cream
satin bruch<s dress ornamented with orange-
blossoms and Parisian lace. Eight bridesmaids—
the Misses Wood wore white silk and blu« satin,
the Misses E. Mumford and E. Byrne pink nun’s
veiling and satin, and the other ladies crushed
strawberry and pale blue. Dinner was served at
Mr. Walsh’s residence, over the bridge at New-
town, where a large number of friends of the
happy couple assembled to wish them well.
At Burwood, on the 3rd inst., Mr. Charles
Pearson, of Longbottom, entered the bonds with
Miss Rhoda G. Langdon. At 2 o’clock a large
party assembled at the residence named, and were
driven to St. Luke’s Church, where the Rev.
Canon Morton tied the nuptial knot. The party
then returned, and after slight refreshment, were
taken for a long and delightful drive round the
suburbs, presumably to snow other people how
happy they Were. The bride was handsomely
arrayed in a beautiful white sateen costume
trimmed with honiton lace and blossoms, also
wreath, veiled with silk brussels net. The four
pretty maids were Miss Pearson, Miss E. Morrow,
of Kiama, and two Misses Anderson, of Peter-
sham, all dressed in pale pink zephyr brochti and
cream lace trimming. Presents were choice and
many. Returning from the drive, the party found
they had acquired sufficient appetite to deal
suitably with a splendid breakfast spread at Long-
bottom, where dancing was afterwards carried on
till 4 o’clock in the morniug, together with sing-
ing and other pleasantries. Accompanied by Mr.
C G. Greenham, who had come purposely from
Melbourne to give his cousin the bride pway, Mr.
and Mrs. Pearson started by Friday’s evening train
for the capital of the Cabbage Garden, there to
dream the happy hours away.
• • •
Oil New Year's Day, Mr. ami Mrs. D.
Scott, of Stanmore, gave a dinner and garden
party on a large and enjoyable scale. Sports were
devised to suit young and old, croquet and cricket
being chief, for which the well-laid-out grounds
gave every accommodation. Drning the after-
noon, Mr. D. Scott, junr., fixed his camera, and
“took” the company. He “took well, and gave
pleasure to all.”
• • •
New Year’s Day races at Melbourne were
sparsely attended, notwithstanding the Earl’s
Eresence, and that of a distinguished Government
touse party. Both the Countess of Rosebery and
Lady Des Yceux wore cream dresses, the former
having blue silk vest and trimmings. Lady Jen-
nings favoured maroon, Lady O’Loghlen black,
and Lady Clarko brown brochd and pale blue
surah. Mrs. Hurtle Fisher wore the elaborate
creation that drew notice on Cup Day, and Mrs.
Malleson’s costume was a black satin polonaise
over white skirt.
• • •
The first Mayor of Balranald, Mr. Herman
Levy, gave a grand ball at the Masonic Hall on the
last night of the year, which was attended by all
the «51ite of the neighbourhood. Being an im-
portant occasion in the history of the town, the
Mayor was determined it should be remembered,
and he spared no trouble and expense to make it
a success. Dancing commenced about nine, and
was kept up until six. The evening, for the time
of year, was cool. The music was first-rate, the
services of a professional pianiste being secured,
with two auxiliaries. The costumes all round
displayed excellent taste. The Mayoress looked
charming in a white satin skirt and blue satin
jacket, very tastefully decorated. One of the most
handsome dresses was a fawn silk and satin orna-
mented with silk flowers, worn by Mrs. Bucking-
ham. Mrs. A. Jefferson (from Deniliquin) was taste-
fully dressed in cream silk skirt, cardinal velvet
body with train and short sleeves. Miss Ada Soulhee
looked very pretty in pale blue. A striking cos-
tume of cardinal and cream satin sat elegantly on
Miss Tydde, and Miss Amy Russell, in a similar cos-
tume, looked charming. A pretty pale blue satin
blue Madras muslin well suited Miss Pollie
Russell's petite figure. Miss Agnes Dawes, Miss
Johnson, and Mrs. H. B. Jefferson, and others too
numerous to mention, were tastefully costumed.
As to the belle amongst the married ladies, Mrs.
Levy, it was generally conceded, ranked first; and
as to the younger ladies, opinions differed—but
the majority gave the palm to the little brunette
in pale blue. Supper was served in a marquee
erected outside. Everything passed off very en-
joyably,» nd the Mayor and Mayoress were heartily
congratulated on the pleasant evening they had
provided.
•• # #
More injustice to Ireland! Mr. Henry
Herbert, the M.P. for Kerry, had nearly landed a
good matrimonial prize, in the person of Miss
Rebecca Williams, a Baltimore heiress, when
“ papa ’ ’ discovered that the Romeo was not so
well off for wordly goods as had been imagined—
no better off, in fact, than most Irish members —
and quashed the bridal arrangements immediately.
Mr. Herbert’s “mission” doesn’t appear to have
been so successful as that of certain other of his
colleagues, owing to this untoward discovery; but
possibly Mr. Parnell may spare a little cheque
out of his £35,000 testimonial, to console the mem-
ber for Kerry in his grievous disappointment
Mr. J. N. Vickers, of Sydney, N.S.W., was married
at Melbourne, on Boxing Day, to a Tasmanian
lady, Miss Emily Boothman. Her dress was prettily
unique, being cream nun’s veiling with an Eliza-
bethan frill, and a Watteau pleat ending in a train,
trimmed with lace, lilies of the valley, and orange
blossom. Four assistant couples. Breakfast at
residence of the bride’s parents, Armadale—An
entertainment and dance in the Literary Institute,
which was very crowded, netted £3O for the oraid-
wood Hospital Townsville, also, has a noble-
man. He is Count Bologna Strickland, who arrived
from Batavia in the Merkara. He is a Maltese, and
is staying a while in the North, interviewing his
countrymen wherever he can hear of them
Caution! A Mossman’s Bay picnicker was severely
cut through an aerated water bottle bursting in
his hand Mr. A. W. H. Anderson, of Sydney,
married Miss Florence Elizabeth, daughter of Mr.
S. F. Mann, Ballarat, last month. Four sisters of
Miss Mann were bridesmaids. Seems to be room
for another Man or two in the family —Silver
Pen writes from ’Frisco “ The abominable hop
waltz obtains, though the exponents of its beau-
ties are not so numerous as last year, some
being apparently ashamed to indulge it in
public. I hope, ere the season ends, we
sha'l have seen the last of it in all respec-
table circles of Society It is decided that
Consul Kahlo’s party shall start their American
tour in March. Names have to be submitted for
approval The Londoners’ Club is looking round
for rooms. Subscription to the Club is £1 per year,
the first 200 members having the privilege of pay-
ing no entrance fee....On dit that the dark-eyed
daughter of a lady residing near the vice-regal
summer residence, who has been hospitable in
parties and picnics, has capitulated to a recently-
returned young Australian. Orange blossoms
ordered for May —An Albury pedagogue ref used
to let a Chinese boy into his school because he
wore his hair in a queue. The Inspector decided
that this queue-rious reason was about as reason-
able as to exclude other children because they
wore their hair “in any one of the numerous ex-
traordinary styles which European custom sanc-
tions.” There was no band on the lawn at the
big cricket match in Melbourne on Boxing Day.
Sydney can crow 1 Braidwood Oddfellows
opened their hall at Christmas, with a play, songs,
dances. Hall very pleasing A number of per-
sons drank farewell to Mr. J. Henniker Heaton,
at Compagnoni’s, last Friday afternoon. On Satur-
day, Mr. Heaton, his wife, and four children, left
for Marseilles in the mail boat, Caledonien, and
expect to be absent several years. Thank good-
ness Melbourne letter-carriers held an anni-
versary banquet on Saturday, in the Atheneeum;
over 200 present- There were speeches, of course,
and some speakers seemed to have a good “de-
livery.” There’s rumour of a very naughty
divorce suit in the Southern capital. Two profes-
sional men in it. ..Engagement announced in
London of Capt. Morland to Lady Alice Nevill,
sister of Lord Nevil, who recently came out to
Victoria At Mrs. Dr. Pott’s lecture for ladies in
Melbourne, last week, one of the plain sex got in
among the pretty ones. He was probably a masher,
and not quite sure which sex he belonged to
A Lands’ masher was heard observing to a com-
panion on the Block that he had been to “ three
balls” this year already. Those who know him
best suspect they were at his “uncle’s.” The
fine four-master, Port Jackson, is to be the flag-
ship at the Snail’s Bay Regatta this Saturday, and
there will be a band.... Next Monday, a Com-
glimentary Garden Party will be given at
otany to Alderman Thomas Playfair.... A.
M. Garcia, Grand Sire of Australasian Oddfel-
lows (I.O.), banquetted at Callaghan’s booms last
week The married lady whom the Duchess of
Edinburgh refused to invite to her birth-day ball,
at Saxe-Coburg, turns out to be the illegitimate
daughter of the naughty old Grand Duke; and
thus is his action—in ordering all the nobility of
the Duchy to absent themselves from the ball-
accounted for. The annual visit to Coburg (which
his position as heir apparent to the Duchy
entailed upon him) was none too lively, probably,
for “ Edinburgh ”or his better half; so the affront
| put upon them by the Grand Duke will relieve
them from a tiresome duty in future.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Snail’s Bay Regatta Jan. 12.
Comp. Garden Party to Aid. Playfair Jan. 14.
Petersham Owl’s Social Jan. 15.
Masonic Ball (Castlereagh-st.) Jan. 24.


F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
Wmm
Xs*s
A v
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. W ABE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN'S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Hours, 9 till 5.
EVERY' 1
Mm
SHOULD
REAP
Dr. Marstog’s New fe Work
Describing how sufferera from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTBNT
HEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physioian
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
u
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the fellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. —To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
ASTHMA. COUfiH, bronchitis.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 839 Oxford-street, London.”
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS
DOBSON and Cl).,
375 George-st., Sydney.
W TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
V
s*:
l CR°%? .'
<o ry q oj
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT Is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this trand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the Palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
BKOTHEE#4€O. NeW “ sUe AKent3: W 0 0»
a YDNE Y HIGH SCHOOLS.
BOYS’ SCHOOL, CASTLEREAGH-STREET.
Head Master :
JOSEPH COATES, Esq., University of London,
late Head Master of Newington College.
Assistant Masters :
JAMES F. M’MANAMEY, Esq., B.A.
ALBERT B. PiDDINGTON, Esq., B.A.
Teacher of Modern Languages :
DR. E. THIBAULT.
Teacher of Drawing:
ARTHUR D. RILEY, Esq.
GIRLS’ SCHOOL ELIZABETH-STREET.
Head Mistress :
Miss LUCY WHEATLEY WALKER.
Assistants:
Miss LUCY HIGGS.
Miss MARION O’BRIEN.
Teacher of Modern Languages :
DR. E. THIBAULT.
Teacher of Drawing:
ARTHUR D. RILEY, Esq.
COURSE OF INSTRUCTION.
1. Classics: Latin, Greek.*
2. Mathematics.
3. Modern Languages : French, Gorman.*
4. English Language and Literature, Elocution.
5. History.
6. Physical Science.
7. Drawing: Geometrical and Perspective.
1. Latin.*
2. Elementary Mathematics.
3. Modern Languages: French, German.*
4. English Language and Literature, Elocution.
5. History.
6. Physical Science.
7. Drawing: Freehand and Perspective.
8. Music.
9. Cookery.
10. Needlework.
* These are optional.
EXAMINATION FOR ADMISSION.
An examination of Candidates for adniission
will be held in January and July of each year in
the Schoolrooms. The next examination will
commence at 9 o’clock a.m., on the 14th January,
proximo.
The subjects of Examination are:—
Fob Boys.
Beading: To read a passage from some standard
author, pronouncing every word distinctly,
and giving due emphasis and modulation to
each sentence as a whole. To have an ac-
quaintance with the meanings Of words
selected from the passage read.
Dictation: To write a passage of about fourteen
lines, dictated from some standard author,
or an ordinary newspaper, with correct spell-
ing and punctuation.
Arithmetic: To solve questions in proportion, vul-
gar and decimal fractions, interest and dis-
count.
Grammar: To parse the more difficult words in
a passage of about six lines. To distinguish
the true subjects, and the true predicates in
sentences. To correct inelegant or ungram-
matical expressions. To exemplify the cor-
rect use of picked words.
Euclid: Book I, definitions, &c., propositions Ito
XX inclusive.
Algebra: First four rules.
Latin: Smith’s Principia Latina, Part I, to exer-
cise XV inclusive.
For Gibus.
Reading: As prescribed for boys.
Dictation: As prescribed for boys.
Arithmetic: To solve questions in proportion, vul-
gar and decimal fractions.
Grammar : As prescribed for boys.
French: Schneider’s First French Course Exer-
cises, I to LX inclusive.
SCHOLARSHIPS.
The ten Candidates (five boys and five girls), not
over fourteen years of age, who gain most marks
and shew the necessary proficiency at each en-
trance Examination, will be awarded Scholarships
entitling them to free education for a year, and,
subject to the Teacher’s favourable annual re-
ports on their proficiency and conduct, for the
two following years.
FEES.
Two Guineas a quarter, payable in advance.
Candidates whose parents are duly certified t« be
unable to pay the fee may be admitted free, pro-
vided they pass the entrance Examination.
HOURS OF INSTRUCTION.
From 9.15 a.m. to 12.15 p.m.
„ 1.15 p.m. to 3.15 p.m.
When pupils are necessarily absent from School,
a written explanation of the cause of absence,
signed by the parent, must be sent to the Head
Master or to the Head Mistress on the following
day.
VACATIONS.
At Christmas, four weeks; and at Midwinter,
three weeks.
Applications for admission, addressed to the
Head Master or to the Head Mistress at the Schools,
will be received up to the 14th January next.
G. MILLER.
Acting Under-Secretary.
Depirtment of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 28th December, 1883.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, m
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Bth January, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
io wing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
P. A. WRIGHT.
GILBEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey'a Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney.
EORGE GOULET and CO.’S
Extra Quality
DRY CHAMPAGNE
has been selected for the
CORONATION
of
HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY THE CZAR OP
RUSSIA,
and Festivities at St. Petersburg, and was the
ONLY CHAMPAGNE
served at the
ROYAL BANQUET
given in honour of the
OPENING of the AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION
to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF HOLLAND.
“ 154 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
“Dear Sir,—Of the sample of George Goulet’s
‘extra dry’ Champagne, I cannot speak in
terms too highly. Its qualities are certainly of a
very high order. It possesses a charming bouquet,
fruity and pronounced. It is essentially a dry
wine, with attenuation, and free from acidity.
It is full, crisp, and clean on the palate ; and
whilst it exhtliiates, it unquestionably aids diges
tion.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) James Geo. Beaney, M.D.
“To li. H. Blackwell, Esq.”
GARRICK & CO., Sydney Agents.
THE “CHAMPION CONSULTATION.’'
All Prizes, No Blanks. 5000 Members, at £1 each
THE SYDNEY JOCKEY TURF CLUB
Beg to inform the Sporting Public of New South
Wales and the adjoining colonics that they have
made airangements for nolding a £5OOO Consulta-
tion on the CHAMPION RACE, to be run on the
Flemington Course, Melbourne, the Bth day of
March, 1884, when the following prizes will be dis-
tributed, less 10 per cent, commission
First Horse...
Second Horse
Third Horse
£lOOO
500
300
Starters (divided)...£2oo
Non-starters(do.)... (500
100 prizes, £lO each, £lOOO. Total, equal £3500,
leaving a margin of £l5OO, which will be invested
by the Club in making a book on the “Autumn
Meeting.” The members of the S. J.T.C. being well
informed, and connected with the principal train-
ers, and performances of their horses, are in a
position to state that the £l5OO will realise a hand-
some profit, the whole of which will be divided
amongst those subscribers who were unsuccessful
in either drawing a horse or a prize in the £3500
Distribution. There will be no blanks whatever.
All subscribers are sure to obtain a prize, the
highest being £lOOO. This Consultation being
straight and bona fide in every particular, any sub-
scriber can be present at the drawing. Those
living at a distance can be represented by a friend.
The i-epresentativcs of the Sydney papers will be
invited to be present at the drawing. Add ex-
change to cheques ; two stamps for reply and
result. Address: J AMES WALLACE, Sec. S.J.T.C.,
G P. 0., Sydney, New South Wales ; or Queen-
street, Woollahra, Sydney.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R- McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
%2T PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
The Rev. A. M. Sullivan, in a letter to the
Evening News, categorically disproves the state-
ments otan anonymous contributor, who wrote to
the effect that Dr. Vaughan's appointment to the
Archbishopric of Sydney was the result of acci-
dent and not of selection.
The Rev. James Jefferis is labouring to
prove to young men that Christianity is older
than Roman Catholicism. But, do even Roman
Catholic divines say it is not? Mr. Jefferis likes
putting up bogies, that he may enjoy the pleasure
of fancying he can knock them down.
At the Wesleyan Church, York-street, on
Sunday evening, the Rev. J ohn Osborne preached
on the “ Waterloo Tragedy.” The person who
filled up the musical portion of the programme
made a mistake as to the particular tragedy and
so chose the earlier one of 68 years ago at Mont St.
Jean for illustration. This is the real reason why
the pieces consisted of “Nunc Dimittis,” “There
is joy ” and “ Come ye children.”
The address that certain Anglicans of the
congregation of St. Andrews presented to th© Rev.
Dr. Ellis, on the occasion of “ his severing himself
from the work of the Great Master in this parti-
cular section of the Church by the way, we
rather thought it was Dean Cowper who had cut
the painter which held the ritualistic precentor to
the cathedral—contained some very extraordinary
English. For instance, read this:—" In social inter-
course with your fellow-men, your capacity and
readiness to amuse, in amusing to instruct, and in
instructing to raise and purify, are everywhere
acknowledged.” How is that for high—church ?
And then the bit in which “ We respectfully com-
mend you to its (the Newcastle diocese’s) shelter-
ing learned and devoted bishop.” “Sheltering,”
thouvh, is a good word whereby to define a prelate
who, in argument, invariably seens to shelter
himself behind some Cambridge don or ecclesias-
tical bigwig.
Unshaken in popularity by the competi-
tion of worthless imitations and importations
mendaciously represented to be equally remedial,
or to possess the sanae qua ities. Woefe’s
Schnapps will soon drive from the field thsse
trashy competitors.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla works directly and
promptly to purity and enrich the blood, improve
the appetite, strengthen the nerves, and brace up
the system. It is in the truest sense an alterative
medicine. Every invalid should give it a trial.
The Boundary Rider,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He has just lit the fire in his cabin,
His horse hobbles oil l'rora the door;
The rounds of the steed and its rider
Are ended, with sunset, once more.
The rider is straight, stern, and grizzled
By the touch of Time’s hand as it flies;
A man you would deem has a story
From the look; in his laughterless eyes.
He was once—in the years that a*-e over—
A soldier, and gentleman brave,
And rode, leading Cardigan’s squadrons,
In their world-famous ride to the grave.
Later on, he made one of the handful
Of heroes, who saved by their swords
The land of the Sun to old England,
From the grasp of the Musselman hordes.
Undaunted by numbers and slaughter;
Hoping on, when Despair was ,r the main”;
Unto all their traditional glories
Asserting their right once again!
Well, “ the Mutiny ” ended, he beat out
His sword into pastoral shears,
Bid farewell to the Lancers for Queensland,
The place of wool, wealth, sweat and tears.
His “ commish,” his “ loot,” and his fortune,
All were sunk in the famed “ Mirage Plains,”
Which he held for three years as part owner,
Looking longingly out for “ the rains,”
As ever in days of his soldiering
He had looked for the gleam of the spears,
When hemmed in by legions of foernen,
With his case far too desperate for fears.
But the sky remained molten and cloudless,
The sunsets were fiery and grim;
The rivers ne'er came down “a banker,”
So the Bankers came down upon him!
He was ruined—a fate not uncommon
In Queensland, when seasons are dry—
And found “ Mirage Plains ” were to j truly
A delusion, a snare, and a lie!
Now, when soldiers and gentlemen meet with
A “ facer ” of this sort, too oft
They seek solace in whisky; and this one
Thus tried his hard lot to make soft
In the way above hinted, and quickly
Went down the broad road of despair;
Ab, how easy and smooth the descent is,
None can tell, save the few who’ve been there
And returned. The police, billiard-marking,
Horse-training, and driving a cab,
Groom, androuse-about, man fora circus,
All in turn he endured as a stab
To the pride of the past, to the memory
Of honours and victories o’er;
Until, old recollections awaking,
His soul could sustain it no more.
From the towns, and their memories bitter,
For ever he turned him away,
To ride boundaries on far-northern stations,
Until sooner or late comes a day
When the wrecked, broken heart of the soldier
Will stop—and one wasted life more,
Which began full of glorious promise,
Has ended like thousands before!
W.J.B.
Albury, Oct. 17, 1883.


There was a great scandal iu Paris when a
princess 6ang to a rowdy audience in a loav cale-
concert hall. The lady, Avho is young, plump, and
shoAvy, looking, Avhen carefully dressed in decol-
letAe garb and diamonds, really handsome, is
Princess Cerchiara. Sh« is allied to some or the
bluest blood in’both Italy and France, and is sister
to a millionaire countess, Potocki. But she is not
“good.” Owing to her unconstrained ideas ot
wifely duty, she was divorced from one husband,
and a second left her : so, Avith a fair A’Oice and
plenty of audacity, she took an engagement at
£4O a month, to sing to the rabble, who came in
vast dirty crowds to see a princess dressed in the
height of Parisian fashion on their stage. The
whole affair, intended to coerce money from her
sister’s husband, the aristocratic Potocki, was
unsuccessful. And although it jpay be unusual
lor ladies of her rank to do so, it is believed the
princess will quickly step over the verge on which
she has been hovering, and join the ranks of those
who gain a living without either toiling or
spinning.
He was a new chum
from the “ Sod,” and had
never soon a tram-car. In
fact, he had seen little but
hard times. His first job in
Sydney was driving a han-
som, and one evening last
week, as he was trotting
down Elizabeth-street,
whistling “Harvey Duff,”
he saw the Waverlt-y motor
approaching. “ Faix,” said
he, with a great laugh, *as
big as ye are, ye’ll larn to
kape yer own side o’ the
road by the time I’ve done
wid ye. Kape yer own
side, ye unmannerly divil,
or i’ll run into ye.” He
said no more for a week.
What ho chiefly regrets,
when the removal of the
bandages enables him to
express his views, is that
he didn’t get a good “ belt ”
at his enemy before being
fired through the butcher's
window.
A contemporary tells
of Emerson’s loss of
memory, how his daugh-
ter observed him one day
searching for something he
could not name, how he at
last turned to her and said,
“It is the thing that people
take away,” and how she at
once fetched the family
umbrella, which was just
what the philosopher
wanted. This merely shows
how far behind, with all
their boasted smartness, the
Yankees are in civilisation,
Even in this young commu-
nity of ours, umbrella-
snatching is rather looked
down upon as too primitive.
With us, a man cannot claim
to be entirely respectable
unless prepared to “take
away ” his neighbour's wife,
chattels, or good name ; to
cheat his creditors, or send
his parents to benevolent
asylums to be supported by
the State. There are, oi
course, other roads to re-
spectability, but those are
the principal ones.
During his visit to
London the Crown Prince
of Portugal was allowed
the privilege of staying at
an hotel and paying 1m own
expenses. This system of
penuriousness is at last be-
ginning to exasperate the
English people. They ob-
serve Avith pardonable an-
noyance that their Court
has been for 20 years the
most inhospitable in
Europe; that, Avhilo im-
mense sums have been
voted for royal allowances,
an economy bordering on
meanness has been the rule
among those to whom the
plunder fell. Buckingham
Palace Avas built and is kept
up at the public exDense.
Six nights a year has been
the aA'erago during Avhich
the Queen stopped there
during the last 20 years.
Why it or some of the other
Royal residences so seldom
used are not placed at tho
disposal of distinguishe i
foreign visitors is the ques-
tion that the people are be-
gan ning to ask a little
angrily. Can it be because
of the expense ?
A new soup-kitchen
was opened in London the
other day. Who presided
at the opening? Messrs.
Plimsoll, Blight. Bradlaugh
or Chamberlain? Not at alt.
These men earned their
living at one time. No; it
was the Duke ot Cambridge
avlio presided, and gave
some really sound ad vice on
chanty. Of course he
didn’t see (these people
no sense of humour'
the exquisite absurdity of a
lecture on those to whom
aims aro to bo given or re-
fused, by one who owes all
he ever did or will possess
to the charity of the British
public. But, after all, it
might have been for that
very reason that tho pro-
moter; asked him to pre-
side. They might have
argued thus:—“lf you want
an opinion on music, you do
not apply to one Avho can-
not tell a crotchet from a
shake or a trombone from
a first violin. No: You go
to a musician. Similarly,
when you want an opinion
on mendicancy, why. of
course you go to one of the
first mendiemts of the
nation.” They went.
The Duke of Argyle has announced that
Noah’s deluge really happened, because there is a
heap of gravel high up Ben-something. We al-
ways expected that much-vexed question would
be authoritatively settled one day. We are easy
now, unless the Queen should pronounce against
the deluge on the grounds that there is no gravel
drift about Balmoral.
The well-known Dr. Parker, of the London
“ City Temple,” recently gave a sermon on “ The
Washing of the Disciples’ Feet,” and, by way of
bringing the subject home to the hearts of his
congregation, asked, “ How many of you would
like to come and wash my feet?” This graceful
query rather disconcerted his admiring Hock, and
the ladies more especially hung down their pretty
heads with conscious guilt. They felt the differ-
ence between working unlimited pairs of slippers
and undertaking the task he suggested, so the
pastor, perceiving their confusion, charitably re-
fi-ained from touching upon the little matter of
nail-clipping.
It is commonly understood that although
Gr6vy is nominally President of the Republic, the
French form of Government at the present
moment might be fitly described as gynocratic.
In other words, that the power behind the throne
takes the interesting shape of “ muslin.” Nutions
have been governed in this way before. It isn’t
Madame Grsvy—who is an honest creature, about
equally ignorant of politics and polish. And we
diverge a moment to observe that on first being
elevated to her present position, Madame was a
good deal out of place for a time. She who had
begun life in the back shop of a lingerie, in tho
Quartier Latin, found herself, all at once, com-
pelled to entertain the people Avhose underclothing
she would once have been rejoiced to iron. So
great was her inexperience, indeed, that the day
after her husband's election, she went round to
the “swell” dress-maker's with a bundle under
her arm, and, after having been ignominiously
kept waiting in an outer room by the great
creature for a quarter of an hour, nerfectly
amazed every one by pulling out some old gowns
and asking to have them “ re-trimmed as soon as
possible.” It is not Madame Grfivy at all who
pulls the political strings. But, until lately,
Madame had a daughter Mademoiselle Alice, now
Mrs. Dan Wilson, who, in spite of her mother’s
gaucherie in company, had manners and experi-
ence enough to redeem the situation. She played
and sang well, dressed passably, and could talk
about Shakespeare or Plato, Malthusianism or the
musical glasses. Every one who weDtto the
came away saying, ‘ W hat an intelligent girl that is! ’
This astute young person (young by courtesy, she
is past thirty) is not beautiful. She has a rather
ungraceful figure, an oval face, a long and un-
classic nose, dark eyes, and no great charm of
colour in the opinion of most men. Her beaux-
ycu.r would not have led St. Anthony much astray
if she had tempted him with them, nor—apart
from her intellectual brightness, and her lady-like
manner, and her position—had she much to attract
Dan Wilson, a notorious vbveur, Avhen he began to
court her The match Avas arranged by Mdme.
Pelouze, Dan’s sister, by whom he allowed him-
self to be floated into the fair Alice’s arms. Madame
Pelouze, who is immensely rich, played her cards
well. Her brother had long been an intimate
friend of President Grdvy’s, used to go on shoot-
ing excursions with him, and it was on one of
these that, prompted by his sister, he proposed for
Alice Grovy, and was accepted. The marriage
took place soon after, the happy pair Avere in-
stalled in a wing of the Elysde. close to the rooms
occupied by Monsieur and Madame GrAvy, and
before the world was a year older, Madame Alice
duly presented her lord with an heiress, who was
given the poetic name of Marguerite, and pro-
nounced the very finest baby that ever, etc. And
ever since then the President, Avho grows old, has
suffered his son-in-law and daughter-in-law- aided
by the counsels of the clever Madame Pelouze—to
do most of the tugging at the reins of the State.
Hence, the “ muslin ” behind the throne. Indeed,
it is no secret that even before her marriage,
Mdlle. Alice had a large share in overthrowing
Gambetta the Dictator, who once flouted her with
a rudeness a woman never forgets. It was when he
was in the heyday of popular favour, and the only
regret of M. Gravy’s daughter was that the great
man never visited her salons. If she could only
get Gambetta to her soirees! And one evening,
Leon came, was very amiable, and stopped nearly
a whole hour. Mademoiselle was as brilliant as
possible, and fairly “spread ” herself to entertain
the lion. She talked to him of politics, enlight-
ened him as to the Eastern Question, and was pro-
ceeding to develop her views on the reform of the
magistrature, when Leon rudely cut her short,
bowed, and retired to the adjoining room—where
he was shortly after overheard making game of
bas-bleus, in general and particular, with a knot of
his chosen companions. Mademoiselle Alice never
forgot or forgave the snub. She transferred her
attentions to Monsieur Freycinet, persuaded her
papa to pit him against Gambetta, and eventually
set the Parliamentary spring going which forced
the “ Dictator,” much against his will, to accept
office, and hurled him out of it.
This is the exaggerated yet not wholly inac-
curate way in which the Kansas State Sentinel
illustrates the value of tho liquor traffic to the
1 community:—A saloon had been licensed by the
Board of County Commissioners for $5O. One
morning a farmer, who, till the saloon was opened,
had comfortably maintained his family, was found
outside the mill with his head fatally crushed by a
drunken companion. Murderer sent to gaol for
fourteen years; family broken up. Murdered
man’s widow in attempting to support her family
Avorked herself to death; daughter soon followed
her mother, same came; remaining children sent,
at the expense of the County, to friends in another
part of the United States; account standing thusly:
The County got $5O; paid to keep murderer four-
teen years, sav $2OO per year, $2800; to convict
murderer, $1000; to send children to Ohio, say $75;
to industry of six persons, lost to the State, ten
years at $lO a $6000: total expenditure, $9875;
deduct license fe?, $5O; loss by transaction, $9825. a
There is a rumour that
at that little gamble at the
Union a millionaire’s son
dropped, and a distin-
guished visitor won, some
thousands.
In the States, 500 per-
sons (one-fourth ladies) at-
tended to see a wager
decided. Is was a bet of
250 dollars between two
men as to which would kill
and dress 10 sheep in the
shortest time. Most of the
applause came from the
ladies.
Here’s a jar for the
anti-smoking bigots. Aaron
Goldstein d>ed at Paterson,
U.S., lately, in his 108th year.
He leaves 33 grandchildren,
and 31 great-grandchildren
living, which is a pretty
good record. As a matter
of course he fought at
Waterloo. “He smoked to-
bacco almost incessantly
and was a moderate user of
stimulants. About two
months before he died, he
was unfortunately per-
suaded to discontinue smok-
ing on the ground that it
would injure his health.
From the day on which he
relinquished his pipe his
strength failed him. He
never rallied, and gradually
sank, owing, the doctors be-
lieve, to the sudden stop-
page of his tobacco.”
The profession of the
Church has been singularly
prolific in producing portly
prelates who, while wearing
the unctuous smile of sanc-
timony so natural to those
who have a full stomach, a
fat salary, little to do, and
nothing to annoy them, are
peculiarly apt at discover-
ing the faults of others. Of
course, the reason for this
is that being “sae guid
themselves, sae pious, and
sae holy,” they are relieved
from any necessity of
watching their own conduct
or character, and are thus
at liberty to concentrate
the whole of their sanctified
energy in guiding less meri-
torious people. Bishops
have even been—of course,
by scoffers—included in the
list of such self-constructed
saints- The Bishop of Ox-
ford has been greatly pained
at the sight of men of sin
rowing boats on Sunday ;
and he has lifted his voice
up to heaven, “in holy-
anger and pious grief,
against such desecration. It
was on a Sunday afternoon,
where (to quote his own
poetical plaint) “ hoary
Thames pursues his silver
winding way.” Now, as
somebody said once, there
is many a man thinks him-
self virtuous when he
simply has his stomach full.
These moral-mannered men
are like the old maids
who, as Burns reminded
them, never “ went wrong”
because they never had any
temptation. The young
men didn’t come near
enough. It is natural that
an average Bishop should
not see much to please him
in rowing on Sunday : he
wouldn’t see it any day. As
Truth says:—“Exactly, my
Lord, you and your friends
are not the class who need
to row on Sundays.” Al-
though to the clerk con-
fined in dingy office all
week, some rowing exercise
on a breezy, bright Spring
day, might seem reasonable,
to a person of a Bishop’s
years and dignity, it would
be probably more refresh-
ing and satisfactory to walk
on the bank, it is unfor-
tunate, perhaps, but it is a
fact, that piety is so often
found divorced from what
is physically manly. Can it
be that in the eye of the Al-
mighty there is such a vast
difference that he would
look kindly on a man who
walks, and with disfavour
on a man who rows, on a
Sunday? The Sunday ques-
tion is just on the border-
land between the Church
and the world. Ecclesiastics
of the anti-boating bishop’s
kind show themselves at
every turn to be either
above the world, innocent
of it, or ages behind it.
However, it doesn’t matter
much—not to the world. It
is getting sick of theological
cumberers.
It is hardly known that there is in a Sydney
Hospital a second Sister Dora, who has chosen the
life of nurse in suite of the objections of her family,
which is a prominent one in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne circles. Her only motive is that truest
womanly one—a desire to abate suffering; and
■while maintaining some pride of character, there
is no one more a favourite in the wards.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ,r Arnold V’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometime
offered.
Not So Good as It Looked.
•* -g— .
t H<t kA
' '=3®^|===;
ejgßt aowsyyi
t& dxejr <s>l(A.
£otv\&
ovrw dear j>*h /
kvA
ftewc i
< r
t>Wls
\ f
v '* l • •w- *
faut ffafc
SW\*
—n


Niger’s Sewing Machines.
& CO.
..Are the Recognised Agents of the
•msbrated SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
'”• Per week— 2s. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
EF- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,"
TURNER & COMPANY,
George-street,
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
678 G EORGE STREET.
SEARL & SONS,
SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
111(1 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
i»T ' Also,
Bl AIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
SPI
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &C.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturef, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
the SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
'Ramptq
AND
BRUCE.
P»j
m
m
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE]
HUNTER ST.
IftEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
4 CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
83T- THEN ASK YOUK GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
0. G. Churchwooa’s Crown Brand
BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA. JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
2v£a,rtlrL SZeesli-am.,
Star & garter hotel
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ho expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
EH. TXT"olff Sz Son’s
Hjbe had from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
Hina & glass atwholesale prices.
Broken services matched, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
It. S2^ITH,
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
o oo
%
S3S3!
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
m s sons,
are the largest consumers off American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
] Plat Tobaccos— Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
HR. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others. ° 1
Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
’ * Importers of Pipes of every kind. Guars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sund rlea
C. B. MODim,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
t# TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angele Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie m Brae, Articles of Yertu,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Sola.© Sazaai
352 George Street.
Hay market Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
85?"* HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
, System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
85?"* Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . .9to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PEB
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Saving’s Banh
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fjl H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Buffer.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
mm
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACTOF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John E ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: „ , _
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors j
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. .
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker'
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
54 4 GEORGE STREET^
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-544 GEORGE STREET.
a
Jig
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 RCing.street, Sydney.
“ GUNSLER, THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring- colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special 'effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
Is the loading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands,
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
QHOOSE YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES !
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURB GUARANTEED.
H r.
DRVYJJA
TREATM
ENT
kR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
P MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes fof 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to euro
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser will reeeive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


Gold- 0" OTxrolloxy" I
(REGISTERED.)
si
I
£>—
*
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVEK PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any othe*, Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
-A- 0-K-A-3iTl5 3D IS^L-A-’ST
J. J. RYAN,
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER, f
Is OPENING up, every day, a Large Stock of Choice ?“«
SUITS, TROUSERS and VESTS, SAC, FROCK, and PAGET COATS, HARD and SOt l | « j,
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every article is marK
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
SOT” Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and Inspect the Stock in both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose fro
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 Georgs Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
HAWKES AUD COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVES., Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
r
HEYDE, TODSIAH & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
W. H. Arie/I and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits. Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Aerated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup. „ .
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery. „ ,
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J. MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in MR), and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
f üblic generally that ho has a large assortment of
Rawing, Diniag, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office t'-irmturn, ell of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGE STREET WE'}T.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
l Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
m
■'rj
h6t water baths
HAIR CR£3:'INCAVQMAJ«Nc; ESTABLISHMENT
•' i 37. 139 A»4t OXFTO.RQ
, , HALF HOI tOA Y ei'£rt Y r/yv/?SOAY
<a
32 COLLEGE STKEET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will he undertaken by- the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 26 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make;
no charge for loss of diamonds, or wear and tear on;
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c,
fST" The new duplex barrel, introduced into the-
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free oft
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his pra©-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he wl
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as qulsifc
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tew.
I
s
HOIF^BIA,
Queensland Cure-
Asthma,
i ; Goughs,
~a PREPARED ONLY BY
Thomas Inch am
JJ^F^ckhampton
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Base, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very triflinur
expense. “
IIOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents "Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
m m«r boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
P
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
4
Oja, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHO?
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST.. SYDNB*'
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO*
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom Houst
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
SOUTH WALES
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Oootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandora
Hulong *
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
13ourke
ne^
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrjna
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Cbntrax, Line:
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junot# 1 *
Charters Towers
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Agents in Victoria and South Australia*
WM. M'CULLOCH ft CO. f
IST Agencies in all parts of the world.
■
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of afß kinds of /Erafed Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of VSgorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
