

ace
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET
SONS
ONLY.
P
Novell
,' j" 1 * Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
f Zf' 1 The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
any es III ,S. a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Itibbons,
s ° » 5 * los > Collars, Mowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
v sonars, blowers, Costumes, ana Dress materials, suitame ror wear uurmg me spring mourns.
stock of Eurniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, "Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
a r<?( Juisit * and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
i it. * • „ * ■m?nnrivEn> vr Arm? fi'TJ aat ir.VTi’.T? !
u <w«L UUOOSStU V l/U liuuu-n OIUUUL u, ujoouigrj ui t «
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER
Our Only Address—
„ ..... HORDERN AND SONS,
%k Palace Emporium, Haymarkef, Only,
PROVIDERS. universal providers.
The
Bulletin


siistit
$
9
$
S., s>Sr 36 LITTLE COLLINS St
' WEST. V.'
SHk^Jiicpsicjj
v.CAMERAS, "Won^,
card s.chemicals r
-—■ . . - ■-. -■■ -
W.JOHNSON&/$ttNS
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
H. L. SUH HER FIELD & GO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
238 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E. L. STOMEIFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTEITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
ISF” Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
470 S-SOHGE STj&EET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
OF
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
New Stock of Ladies’ Gloves,, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, Umbrellas, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Mare.
--r— m.;- _■...
W. W. CATES, Importer, IS3 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CATER’S system of importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, S ATI MS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
■ 11
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess
noW both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
We have
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICE-.
W-
-19 3 and
■W- CATEE,
195 PITT STREET.
JMEeurtftxi.
STAR AND DARTER HOTEL,
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
|HIS Hotel is Centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
Hi. A. & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
200 GEORGE ST BEET
(Cornet of Bond-street,)
From the Strand, London,
Champagne
Heidsleck & 0® ? s»
DRY 10N0F0LE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
gAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London,
jtois Ageata iw MetMeok & Go,, Hem,
C. B. BODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY^
, A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods ■will be faithfullv
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.8.-Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
BRISCOE, DR YSDALE & CD
l ui
Ifl
I i\
397 GEORGE STREET,
GS and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, B-
Of
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials,»General Ironmongery, and Ag
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
lag and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY. q lo ttiHg a “ d
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planihg,
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Ham
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. g a ffB. 0
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing find Moulding Machines. wer .
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand ana s
English and American Agricultural Implements
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, H°, r qhpnerB.'Tki' e8tlII)
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers ana cm
Railway Contractors’ Material and plal !^ rn ] g hin^ s ’
Coach Builders’ Sundries— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and £u
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. _ (jalva nlzea '
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. m
Squatters’ Supplies. . _ & n&
Woolpacks, Sheep Sheafs, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Was
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. _ rpe;
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on appii° atloß t 0
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
397 George Street, Sydney*
enters
WRIGHT,HEATON&GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.]
BRANCH OFFICES.
Socthhrn District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yaes
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong ,
LOOI
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northbrs District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamwrth
Uraila
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and Sooth-Western Line;
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Rogantungan
Emerald
Cbnibal Linb:
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswooci Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WM, M'CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
W" Ag eaoiefl & m Pftm Qt tbe VM
Foster s Bu$ e
GUINNESS’S' EXTRA STOUT.
The BEST ALE rfV
BOLD BY ALL S^^gA** 10
Virgoe, So#
5 ’ A aBNTS.
Ipw'
cavvs \.^®wfkk
Mlow Interest as


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 66.—New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 16, 1884.
Prioa—6d.
Mr. A. Q. Taylor as an Advocate for the
Cloture.
The Bulletin.
8ATURDAY, AUGUST 16. 1884.
It is but a few weeks since Mr. A. G. Taylor,
after making a disgraceful exhibition of
himself, under the influence of liquor, in the
Legislative Assembly, tendered an apology
which was as grovelling in tone as his offence
had been degrading. He expressed his con-
sciousness, on recovering the use of what
reason he has, that his fault had been totally
inexcusable, and volunteered a promise, in
a fashion which was tantamount to pledging
his word of honour, that he would not again
so offend. Yet Mr. Taylor is once more
suspended from the exercise of his repre-
sentative functions. It is natural, under
the circumstances, to examine the nature of
the events which have brought him into
that position, and to inquire whether he has
been hardly dealt with, or whether he has
violated his pledge and forfeited his honour
-if any. We may prelude our inquiry by
repeating what we have before often stated,
that to the principles of the cloture we are
utterly opposed. We regard the rules which
invest a Speaker with the power to silence
any representative, as repugnant to the
spirit and essence of the Constitution, and
as fraught with extreme danger to popular
liberties. It has to be considered that every
great reform has at first been advocated by
a minority, alike among the people and
among their representatives in Parliament
It has generally happened that in Parlia
ment a great reform has at first been ad vo-
cated by one or two individuals, and scouted
with scorn, and with more or less passion
and bitterness, by majorities. And it has
been the rule that the smaller the minority,
the deeper has been the contempt showered
upon proposals for reforms or changes; and
the greater the disposition to disregard
the canons of toleration and the maxims of
fair play, which were really the bases of the
rights of almost absolute free speech which
belonged to members of the British Parlia-
mentbefore the House of Commons invented,
and other Legislatures adopted, the new rules
under which Mr. Taylor is to-day suffering
suspension from his legislative f'uuclions.
* * *
A majority, supported by the apparently
almost unanimous feeling of the people in
general, and of the members of its own
body, is much more apt to silence by sheer
force or intimidation one or two members,
than it would be to take the responsibility
of silencing a considerable minority which
had a corresponding following among the
public. But the one or two may be—and,
indeed, often have been—simply the ablest
and the most clear-sighted and devoted.
The ideas which they have originated or
conceived, and which they Leek to promul-
gate, have over and over again been proved
by the outcome to be true and just-of
genuine principle and actual necessity. To
silence the few would have been in many
historical instances, when single men or
small groups have stood forth and thrust
unwelcome protestations and demonstra-
tions down the throats of obstinate, dull, or
furious majorities, a fearful and irreparable
injury to society. Under the new rules it
would have been possible for the Court
majority to silence Hampden, to stifle on
occasion the voices of Fox and of Burke, to
have expelled the elder Pitt, and for the
squirearchy in the House of Commons to
have gagged and suspended AVtlliam Cob-
ben and John Brioht in the early days of
the anti-corn-law agitation. They are evil
rules, these cloture arrangements, and we
denounce as enemies of their country
such men as address themselves to con-
vince the unthinking that such powers
are desirable and necessary for the pro-
per conduct of public business. Tfceir
guilt and responsibility is at least equal to
the guilt and responsibility of an officer of
Parliament, or any members of a majority,
who may employ the cloture oppressively*
The arrogance of these latter would surely
create a revulsion of feeling; and so long as
representation continued to be real, flagrant
abuse of the power of cloture would pro-
bably bring about its abolition and a return
to the ancient methods.
* * *
The best friend and most active propa-
gandist of the principles of lh6 cloture in
New South Wales, we discover in Mr. A, G.
Taylor! Every man who so strains the
J. G. BLAINE, THE PROBABLE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
forms of Parliamentary procedure and tres-
passes upon its patience, assumes the re-
sponsibility of diffusing an impression that
means of controlling and repressing the per-
sistence of minorities or of individuals are
necessary for the proper and uninterrupted
transaction of public business. This respon-
sibility is one which may be justified and
sustained. Its justification is proportionate
to the genuineness of the conviction and the
seriousness of the purpose which actuate the
persistent, eccentric, or obstructive mem-
ber. The earnestness of a public man can
only be gauged by the character of the pro-
positions which he insists upon forcing upon
a reluctant House, and by the reasonable-
ness or logical construction of the argu-
ments by which he urges and demonstrates
his objects. It is quite clear that no man’s
depth and solidity of conviction can be ihea-
sured by the amount of mere clamour which
he creates, or by the length of the extracts
from Hansard or the “Encyclopoedia,” which
he recites to the House, or by the number of
hours he stands in his place gibbering non-
sense. If such were admitted to be evi-
dences of earnest conviction—if clamour
and obstruction were tokens of patriotic re-
solution—the drunkest member of a Legis-
lature would, when any measure was being
stubbornly opposed, be entitled to claim ap-
plause as the most devoted. Again, if mere
physical endurance were to be recognised
as the test of what should and what should
not be enacted, a party of bullock-driyers—■
although illiterate and entirely unable to
comprehend the question to be decided—
would be entitled to prevail over a majority
composed entirely of philosophic statesmen.
Or, by employing the reductio ad, absurdum
method of demonstration, wo may put it,
that if physical force is the test of what is
right in legislating, there never yet have
been such clear and convincing demonstra-
tions as were given by the musqueteers
whom Cromwell introduced to settle the
business of the Long Parliament, and the
grenadiers with whoa: Geneial Bonaparte
broke up the Council of the Five Hundred
on the 13th Yendemaire.
* * »
Abuse of the power of cloture would, we
repeat, lead to reaction. Nay, we hold that
the sheer love for free institutions which is,
or ought to be, bred in the very bone of
Britons, would, in dne time, bring
about abolition of the restrictive sys-
tem, simply because its dangerous nature
would be recognised when calmly recon-
sidered. But that is presuming that
opportunity for considering the thing in the
abstract were afforded. Mr. A. G. Taylor,
beyond all other members of the New South
Wales Legislature, deprives the people of
that opportunity. His whole course of con-
duct is such that, were it his deliberate pur-
pose to treacherously reconcile the people
to the cloture , he could not better i ddress
himself to attain that object. It will be
observed that when the Premier moved that
Mr. Taylor be suspended, the resolution
was unanimously agreed to, and that neither
then nor afterward did any member offer
to justify Mr. Taylor’s conduct, or to ques-
tion the propriety and necessity of his ex-
pulsion. Now, it is well known that among
the members of the House there are many
who regard the cloture rules with disfavour,
and would gladly bring about their abroga-
tion were a tit occasion to present itself*
But Mr. Taylor’s proceedings had effectu-
ally closed the mouths of such members. He
had furnished an example so apposite, and
so strikingly illustrative of the apparent
necessity for such powers being exerted by
the House, that a general argument against
the propriety and value of these rules would
have sounded ridiculous, while a particular
argument claiming that there had been
abuse or impropriety in the exercise of these
powers in Mr. Taylor's case would have
been obviously preposterous. And the effect
on the country will be identical. There is
not a reasonable man who will think other-
wise than “serve him right,’’ however
deeply the individual may be convinced of
the dangerous character of the rules. Peo-
ple in general constiuct systems and build
up principles from detached instances, inci-
dents, observations, and experiences. Hence
many, heretofore disposed to generalize that
the cloture is dangerous and liable to be
turned against popular liberties, will now
qualify their repugnance by jthe relleotion,
what, in the absence of such powers, could
be done with such men as A. G. Taylor?
and how, after all, could Legislative bodies
conduct their affairs in the face of the new
growth of Parliamentary rowdyism, if de-
prived of the power given by these rules?
• • ■
A review of the debate will serve to show
whether Mr. Taylor was dealt with iu a
fashion which justified his complaint of
having been subjected to “ bloody tyranny.’’
In the first place, however, we may remark
that as there was nothing suggestive of
bloodshed, the form of expression used by
Mr. Taylor was not a definition, but simply
a vulgarity. The question was that the de-
bate be adjourned, and it was competent
for any member to adduce reasons w hy such
a course should or should not be pursutd.
Had the Speaker, or the majority, interfered
to prevent any member from making a
reasonable demonstration of grounds for
adjournment, as it was possible for them to
do—therein lying, to our mind, the inherent
danger of the cloture rules—that would have
been tyranny. But, analysing Mr. Taylor’s
speech as reported by the daily papers we
perceive no trace of coherent reasoning in
his utterances. In lieu of argument, all that
is reported is a tissue of rhapsodical declama-
tion leavened with abusive epithet. He was
permitted wide latitude of language before
being first called to order for using the ex-
pression, “ this miserable, wretched House ”
Now, it is necessary that any representative
of the people should be at liberty to show
that the Chamber as a whole is “ wretched,”
or “miserable,” or “corrupt,” or in any
other way undeserving of the confidence of
the country. But it is intolerable and in-
conceivable that there should be mere slang-
whangings. Such charges should be con-
veyed and demonstrated in solid ■argumen-
tative fashion. Just as in ordinary life a


Tub Rates of Scbsorip.io.. to Thb Bulletin
are—For ono year, 34s.; hail-yoar, 13s. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 3s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
Under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Coiony may be sent, if more convenient.
TIE POPULAR
BRIAN BORU
"J^jTOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THETR WHrSKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
I
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE
RUM,
Extra Strong,
Bfl. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartmes
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
ea_
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINF, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS*
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET BTREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thi most Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. fid. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
YERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. fid. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. fid. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’B STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. fid. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
ji Market Street, Sydney.
man may be demonstrated to bo a black-
guard by reference to his actions, or shown I
to be a liar by contrasting his contradictory
statements or any of his statements with
ascertained facts. Calling a man or a Legis-
lative body, by abusive names, proves no-
thing, and abuse which proves nothing is
intolerable anywhere.
* * *
Mr. Taylor was next chid for wandering
from the question of adjournment to com-
ment upon those cloture rules which he has
now done so much to reconcile the public
to. The Speaker, shortly after, interposed
to require the withdrawal of the words
“brutal and sullen ” applied to the majority
of members of the House. After a lengthy
tirade, in which the absence of argument
was supplied by the copious employment ©f
<?uch epithets as “ wretched travesty and
blasphemous parody of a Government,” and
“ miserable shreds and patches of a Govern-
ment,” Mr. Taylor was again checked for
irrelevancy, and ultimately ordered to dis-
continue his remarks, by the Speaker, who
explained and read the rule which gave him
authority to so order. Mr. Taylor, never-
theless, persisted, was warned, still persisted;
and at length wasnamed. He had not, during
all the time his address was endured, uttered
a single sentence which was fraught with
sense, or which oonveyed a valuable thought
to tho Hous3 or to the Country. He had
succeeded only in providing the advocates
of the cloture with an instance of unreason-
ing fluency, persisted in without regard to
any good purpose which ordinary minds can
recognise—an instance which will be hence-
forth quoted whenever the cloture is con-
demned, or an effort is made to abolish these
rules. For our own part, we are shaken,
indeed, in our antagonism to the rides,
extent that we perceive the additional diffi-
culty created by Mr. Taylor, of getting the
public to recognise their inherent liability
to be put to evil uses. Mr. Taylor, we re-
peat, Ims elaborately demonstrated to the
public the value of these rules under the
most favourable conditions. Shaken, truly,
we are yet unchanged. We believe the sys-
tem of cloture to oe intrinsically andradically
bad. Even in Mr. Taylor's case, we think it
would have been better had he been allowed
rope enough. There is a proverb on that
head, and proverbs sometimes embody a
mass of wisdom derived from the experience
of generations. Give Mr. Taylor his full
fling, and we believe the public would in
due time appreciate, despite his superficial
smartness, the shallowness of his menta'
resources, and the insensibility to principle
which he disguises under a pretended rage
against injustice and chicanery.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Land Bill.
When Mr. George Kanken, than whom no man
in New South Wales is more competent, by know-
ledge of the subject, independence of character,
and disinterestedness, delivered his lecturo on the
Land Bill on the 2nd iDStant, he held the attention
of his audience by a discourse which was equally
lucid and rational. Nevertheless, we find that the
ingenuousness of his mind induced the lecturer,
when he had got about two-thirds through. to
admit that “summed up, the incoherence of the
measure is so great that it is impossible at this
stage to define what it will do and what it will not
do.” This is precisely thej view we take of the
matter; and it is the incoherency of the Bill,
and the consequent difficulty of foreseeing what
may be the result of its operation, which have
thus far compelled us to refrain from com-
ment upon the measure. We do not cape to
talk for talking s sake: and when we have no
cogent reasonings to offer, we prefer not to mock
our readers with unmeaning essays, whh-b lead to
nothing. Briefly, however, we may express our
apprehensions-not pretending, nevertheless, that
these are based upon sol'd facts fully investigated
and established in our own mind, but merely pre-
senting our doubts and fears as sentimental con-
ceptions, derived from speculative and anticipa-
tory theorizings. With this necessary preamble,
we may say downright that the Bill, as finally
framed in committee, does not appear to us to
have preserved the characteristics so boldly
limned for it by Mr. Parnell, when first
introducing it. We do not recognize in it
the Bill which originally won our hearty ap-
proval and ready applause. We are oppressed
with a conviction that this will turn out to be for
the country, as contrasted with the system of Sir
John Robertson, which it was supposed to ter-
minate, seven devils worse than the first. We fear
that, what with Land Courts with all their costly
machinery of agents and counsel; non-residential
selection, rendering the whole larrikin population
available for dummies; the preservation of the
power of mortgage, operating to counteract the
risk of such dummies, otherwise assured bad faith;
and other features, which we will not trouble
to recite-the prospects of securing bona fide
selection and settlement will be smaller than
ever, while illicit alienation will progress at
accelerated speed. Mr. Parnell, we observe,
retorted to Mr. Sutton’s declaration that he saw
his way to “work” the Act, that, were be to do
«o, he would speedily find himself in Darlinghurst
Gaol. The reply was trivial, and, to the people of
this colony, its lack of significance is obvious.
Had Sir John Robertson’s Act been severely
administerec, the gaols would have been overflow-
ing during the last twenty years, and wo are nr*
clear that Mr. Farnell, the Land agent, might
not have been among their population. If one
law operates to demoraise a whole community,
other laws making penal the particular sort or
demoralisation, i .variably lose their efficacy in a
self-governed community. We do not yet de-
nounce tb" new Land Bid Wo shall have to see
iuore clearly first. But we mislike it.
A Dismal Hero.
. Respecting the law which revives (logging as a
part of the penal process, we have frequently ex-
pressed an opinion. We regarded, and still regard,
the revival as a retrogression towards the brutal
past. That Hogging is efficacious in checking
certain forms of crime may not be denied, in the
lace of the experience in London, where garotting
was absolutely stamped out by the passing of a
law making Hogging part of the punishment for
robbery with violence. But, even allowing this,
we hoU that there is a reilex action on society,
and that communites accustomed to regard brutal
punishments with indifference become brutalised
themselves in an appreciable degree. It is a
humiliating fact that among civilised nations flog-
ging had been abolished by all but the two most
arbitrary and backward Governments—Austria
and Russia—till a few years ago, when England,
in a lit of popular “funk,” took tho saddening
course of stepping back to join these two. The
circumstances which led to this colony introduc-
ing floggieg were somewhat similar to those which
hai the same effect in Great Britain. But when
all that can be urged against the practise
is said, not a shadow of justification is created
for the fashion in which an agitation has
been worked up respecting the man Ander-
sen. An infuriated attack has been made upon
ihe officers of the law, instead of a solid assault
upon the law itself. The magistrates have been
accused of “ brutal injustice,” and strong sugges-
tions—even that the constable who arrested and
prosecuted the man should he dismissed-havo
been thrown out. The facts of the case have been,
apparently with design, misrepresented; and the
drunken, dirty scoundrel, Andersen, has been
elevated to the dignity of a hero and martyr. A
subscription has been inaugurated on his benalf>
and there has been talk that the community
should “compensate” him; while one journal in
announcing that a meeting was to be held to con-
sider his case, actually held out as a great attrac-
tion that the creature would, perhaps, be present
Now, what are the facts ? First, was tho sentence
of flogging legal ? 'ibis has been denied, and tho
magistrates charged with brutal illegality. The
law is this: Any person “ who, in any publieplace
or in view thereof, exposes his person, or commits
any other indecent act,” is liable to be flogged.
Did Andersen so offend, and was his offence
flagrant? The actual evidence, as given in the
depositions, of which we have been at the
pains to procure a copy which lies before
us, is unanswerable as to the atrocity of
the offence committed by the beastly Ander-
sen. We cannot give the evidence, because it is
totally unfit sor publication in any other paper
than the Evening News. But the grossuess ol the
exposure and conduct as testified is fearful. Next
comes the question as to whether it was committed
withjn view of a public place. The Sworn evidence
is that it was within 40 feet of tho gate of the
Baden Baden Hotel, and within view of persons
then passing. A great deal has been made of the
circumstance that the arresting constable did not
summon as witnesses any cf the persons whom he
mentioned as having tacitly called his attention to
the outrage. If is not likely that anyonewould
have thanked him for being dragged unnecessarily
into such a case. We consider that a flogging law
is an abominable law, but that no abuse of the law
as it stands has been made in Andersen's case. If
ever human beast wanted flogging, Andersen,
drunken and devoid of sense and decency, was
such a man. But wc hold that society is not bene-
fited by Hogging any man. By all means, let the
law be abrogated. But, for mercy's sake, don t
let excitement swamp the public sense of decency
and reason, and cause a debased blackguard to be
foisted on to the sacred pedestal which pert tins to
heroes and martyrs.
Mr. O'Kelly, M.P., whose portrait we save
a few weeks back, has written to the Daily News
from Korosao. He claims to know more about
the Mahdi s movements than any white man out-
side the Mahdi's camp. Tbii seems to signify that
there are white men inside the Mahdi’s camp. Mr.
O’Kelly says that, in dealing with this Mahdi ques-
tion, it should never be forgotten that in the eyes
of millions of Mussulmans, Mohammed Ahmed is
the true Mahdi (Messiah ) So long as the struggle
seems to be between the Khedive and the Mahdi,
both claiming to act in defence of the religion of
Islam, the prudent among th(-> Moslems may look
on and leg,ve Allah to decide. Hut once Jet a
Christian Power attack the Holy Mahdi, the man
sent by God to restore Islam to irn pristine force
and glory, and all doubts and hesitation will dis-
appear, and every Moslem tribe in the Soudan and
in Central Africa will gird on their swords and
rush to the defence of Gud's prophet. In fact, the
process has partially begun in consequence ot the
defeat of Osman Digna by British troops As soop
as the news of Graham's victory spread into Kor-
fodan, the tribes began to muster and prepare to
march against the infidel; but as they were obliged
cross the Nile some hundreds of miles south of
Khartoum, where both branches of the river are
fordable at certain periods of the year.it took a
long time before the first wave reached Bex her.
An Arab, la ely arrived from Berber, states that
Caliph Noor ed Dcen has arrived at Shendy with a
force which he estimated at 300 000 men to rein-
force Abdullahi, who was already in that region.
When cross-questioned as to the number of men
with Noor ed Deen he declared that they were
“thick as the ieavc3 of the trees.” “I do not
believe,” says Mr. O’Kelly, “that there ate any-
thing like 300,000 men with No r ed Deen, but the
Arab's statement, if true, would indicate the pre-
sence of a considerable force. Any lorce, there-
fore, that marches to the relief of Khartoum must
be prepared to fight the whol i power of the insur-
rection. Ho far as getting to Khartoum is con-
cerned, 30,000 men, by keeping to ihe river, may
be able to do it, but as soon as they are sal ely in
occupation of Khar oum it will become necessary
to send another army to relieve them, and the first
movement of retreat will bring on them the whole
fanaticil population of the Houdan. A war by
Englaud against the Madhi w<,uld be viewed in
the light of a crusade against the Mahommedau
religlou both by African and Asiatic Moslems,
ana it might well happen that before an English
army could reach Obeid-and, if English sol iieis
come here, to Obeid they will have to go-another
English army would have to be dispatched to save
India.’’
Blaine and Logan.
To-day we present to the readers of The Bur,de-
tin portraits of the two men who, above all others,
are just now occupying the public mind of a
nation composed of sixty millions of people. We
refer, of course, to James G. Blaine and John A.
Logan, Republican candidates for President and
Vice-President respectively of the United States.
Both of these men have been identified with
American politics for more than a quarter of a
century, and tor fully that length of time their
names have been almost as familiar in their own
country as household words. Both are lawyers,
and each, while widely different from the other
in general characteristics, possesses a few traits
that are common to the other. Blaine, who hails
from the State of Maine, and is always spoken of
as the Plumed Knight, is pre-eminently a politi-
cian; but he goes beyond this, and may justly lay
claim to statesmanship of uo mean degree. He is
a violent partisan, but tuis is only because he is a
patriot and believes that his party is right. His
fidelity to the country was shown in his splendid
opposition to the rebel War claims that were
brought in by Southern members after the war,
the object being to secure indemnity to the rebels
for property destroyed during the progress of the
late Civil War. Advocated and championed by
such brilliant men as Ben. Hill, of Georgia, it re-
quired a bold and clear-minded man to lead the
opposition on in such a fight, and James G. Blaine
was the one to step to the front. Before each Re-
publican Convention for the past 12 years his name
has been brought as a candidate lor the Presi-
dency. Col. Bob Ingersoll presented him to the
Cincinnati Convention of 1876, in one of the most
eloquent speeches he ever made, but failed to
secure the necessary majority, and the Convention
finally compromised on Rutherford B. Hayes, who
was ultimately elected, only to let the people
know what an ass Ohio soil could produce when it
laid itself right out for business. In the Chicago
Convention of 1880 Blaine tied with Grant for five
days of persistent balloting, and, as neither
could get the required majority, a compro-
mise had to be effee'ed, and James A.
Garfield was the “dark horse,” who won
ihu race. Grant’s strongest workers tt this
time were Senator Coukling, of Now York, and
Senator Logan, of Illinois. Their opposition to
Blaine was extremely bitter, and their failure to
foist Grant upon the country as a third-term Pre-
sident, nearly split the party in two; but they
flnaliy swallowed their defeat with commendable
i race, and both took the stump in favour of the
nominee. The late Contention did a nice thing in
nominating a representative from cither wing of
their party to be the standar J-bearers in the pass-
ing compaign. John A. Logan, 1 ke Blaine, is a
seif-maue man. Blaine was a school-teacher, and
studied law while following that vocation. Logan
never taught school, and never knew enough of
text books to do so with any degree of success;
but ho is a good jury lawyer, and can make
mo t forcible speeches when occasion demands.
He is a man of brains, who got his education in the
worlds of business and politics, and he takes a
comprehensive view of every question that pre-
sents itself. His giammar is probably a little worse
than that of any other public man in America, but
his knowledge of public affairs is encyclopedias
and his logic irresistible. DuriDg the late Civil
War he commanded a Northern brigade, and was
known as “Black Jack, the Fire Eater.” Those
who know him best say that he will fight a rattle-
snake, and give the snake the first welt. John A.
Logan is a lineal descendant of Logan, the cele-
brated Indian chief, who boasted that he never
turned a white man hungry from his door. A
noble savage was this great-grandfather of the
present Senator. He was a tearless yet humane
warrior, and an orator of surpassing eloquence.
The arts of civilization commended themselves to
his superior intellect, and he is always referred to
in history as “the friend of the white man.” But
while John A. Logan inherits much of the nobility
of character that was so noticeable in his ancestor,
together with an Indian cast of countenance, his
blood has been considerably mixed on the way
down, and he can hardly be anything more pro-
nounced than an Qctoro >n. He is proud of hia
Indian origin, and keeps his long black hair well-
dressed and shiny. By his swarthy skin, high
cheek bones, and piercing black eyes, you would
at onoe mark him for an Indian. And right here
we might just as well tell you that woman is occa-
sionally a mighty power in American politics. A
great deal of the politioal success of John a.
Logan is due to his accomplished wife and two
charming daughters. “ Mrs. Logan is a bigger
man than John,” is an expression that one may
hear at any time when politicians are talking shop.
Altuough the Logans are residents of Chicago,
Mrs. Logan and her daughters spend nine months
out of the year at Washington. The Senator is
lavish iu his hospitality, and when he wants
any measure passed he tells Mrs. Logan just who
is likely to be its strongest opponent. Straight-
way Mrs. Logan begins to “cultivate” that man.
She gives parties at which he is an honoured guest,
and permits herself and daughters to be seen at
the theatre or opera with him. As a rule, Logan’s
measures pass, but the most convincing speeches
made in their favour are the courteous attentions
paid to their opponents by Mrs. Logan and the
really engaging Misses Logan. What Josephine
was to Napoieon Bonaparte, Mrs. Logan is to her
husband; and without her the probabilities are
that Logan would long ago kayo found a Waterloo,
had he ever gained sufficient prominence to give
the slightest importance to such an event. The
election occurs next November, and the chances
are greatly in favour of the Republican candidates
whose following have been invited by the forma-
tion of a “ brotherly love ” ticket. The Democrats
have nominated Grover Cleveland, of New York,
and Tom Hendricks, of Indiana, for the two
highest ollices. They are both good men, Hen-
dricks has been defeated for the Vice-presidency
before, and ought to be sulficientiy familiar with
the headwaters of Salt Creek to feel perfectly at
home after the voters of the country have sent
him up there next November.
Londoners have been growling greatly
about the loss of ‘'the season” owing to the
Queen’s love of mortuary reflection. At Ascot
tne Royal stand was closed ** by command;” and,
to the dismay of all the young ladies who had been
getting ready to "come out” this year, the Queen
decided that there should be no Drawing Room.
Colonial readers will please to understand that
in a certain rank of life in ureat Britain no young
lady is supposed to have “come out” until she has
been presented to the Sovereign; and when a girl
of 17 or 18 has been in training for a couple of years
expressly to be in prime condition and the pink of
fitness at a certain date, it comes hard on her to
have to throw herself out of training for a season
and go all through it again, with the risk of not
looking so “ blooming ” the second time. Hanlan
will bear us out in this.
American females who have married fo-
reign swells:-The two daughters of Jonas Fischer,
one, Comtesse d’Aramon ; the other, Comresse
Uheorardesebi; Miss Parsons, married the Prince
de Lynar; Miss Haigh, the Due de Ja Torre; the
two Miss Hallidays are now Baronne de Bussieres
and Comtesse de Pourtales; Miss M'Cail is Com-
tesse de Diesbach; Miss Chisholm, Comtesse Loon-
etti; Mr. Phalen’stwo daughters married the Mar-
quis Gabriac and Comte de Narbonne ; Miss
Ridgeway, the Marquis de Ganay; Miss Pennimen,
the Baron de Bremont; Miss Forbes, the Due de
Presiin; Miss Curtin, the Marquis Talleyrand-Peri-
gord; Miss Stevens, rhe Comte de Chavegny; the
Baronne de Charette was a Miss Pole; the Vicom-
tesse de Coetlogon, Miss BJake; Miss Miltenberger
is Vicomtesse d< Roys; Miss Blunt, Baronne de
Riviere. The two Misses Slidall became Baronne
Fdanger and Comtesse de Saint Romains; the
Misses Thorns, Comtesse Ferusac and Baronne de
Fierre; Miss Lcdoux is Marquise de Valori; Miss
Medge, Comtesse de Neffray; Miss Trench, Com-
tesse de Suzannet; Miss Mary Jones, Comtesse de
Trobnand; Miss Hing, the w ife of M. Waddington;
Madame Clemenceau hails from Connecticut: Miss
Fraser is the wile of Prince Lucieni Miss Wallis,
of Prince Aehillo Murat; Miss Klisc Hensler mar-
ried the ex-King of Portugal; and Miss Lee is the
wife of the Prince de Noce, uncle of Prince Chris-
ten of Schleswig Holstein.


Wells’ “ on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Hough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses*
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Woman Items
•SMadame the dog’s ooutunere,
nf Paris, has just invented a sea-side collar for
"‘nines: it is of white leather, simulating linen,
with a ribbon tie in front. She also announces
india-rubber goloshes for the use of messieurs lea
toutoua in wet weather.
Justice’s Child.
(AND THEY PRETEND JUSTICE IS WEDDED TO MERCY.)
“An English i">aper, in a notice of amateur
theat ricalf sivst hat the lover‘‘knelt on the wrong
knee " whence knelt down to a girl for so long
that we got a corn on our right knee. Is the right
knee e?
the right kne n .
M rs, O’Connell . o*- Bantry, coiinty Cork,
ot* the two surv\ iving] daughters or t he Libera-
tor* , thouirhTS years • old, is a 8 lively as a kitten ana
Quite charmingly garrulous, her reminiscences ot
,’ D iy father and GeOi 'ge the Fourth being peeu-
ha rly racy.
Read iu connectic n with the Grand Duke
of Hesse s morganatic marriage and divorce inci-
d» this from i Lom ioa paper is significant:—
“ The’Prince ot Wales l aving returned to town,
the Bili for legalising 34 arriage with a Deceased
life’s Sister is expected to be almost at once in-
troduced into the Mouse*®! “Lords.” Albert Edward
way make up his mind, te«s>\ wever, that even should
the Bill become law in Itag. land, he needn t expect
our Bishop of Graftoa to l e t any of his clergy
marry Trixy to Hesse.
The BishOD of Soder aifd B no, Man,
has lust irot Holiced a aoeond time. “ How can a
bUhop mi?rv?” asked Smith. “How can
he flirt? The most he say is ‘ I will see you in
the vestry But, the lively canon
notwithstanding, bishops can and do marry, and
rear olive branches ; indeed, bishops probably do
more in that line than men in any other line of biz.
Women dote on the scarlet of the soldier and the
blue of tho siilor, neither do they despise the
black of the curate, but they adore a saint in
lawn, and so does a bishop—when she’s comely.
The manager of a fashionable emporium,
observing that whenever an opera company came
his way, two or three expensive lace shawls had to
be sent home on approbation, and were returned
the morning after the performance with the inti-
mation that they didn’t suit, set to thinking, and
so, when Mrs. B. came in the day of an opera night,
and asked to have one of the most expensive
wraps sent home to look at, he just stepped out
and bought seats immediately behind those of Mrs.
B. and her husband. That evening, when he went
to the theatre a little bit late, there was Mrs. 8.,
with the elegant laoo wrap, to be sent home in the
morning, over her shoulders. When she turned
he greeted her politely, and said he was delighted
the wrap had r.uited her She looked rather un-
happy during the performance, but the shawl was
not returned.
In England a lady wants a divorce, chiefly,
it appears, because she found another woman's
false teeth in her husband's pocket. A female
must, indeed, love a man dearly when she will lend
him her false teeth to crack nuts with. In a cele-
brated t'ydney divorce case, not very long ago,
one of the leading allegations of cruelty made
against the poor husband was that he had put his
own wife's false te.-th in his pocket and stopped
her from going out. Of course, this contention
was a womanly and illogieal one, as we have soon
many old and young ladies walking about without
any teeth. All the?e things go to show the down-
trodden and degraded position man is beginning
to occupy. It is hard to believe that in this “so-
called nineteenth century” of Mr. O’Ryan, of
Sydney, a man can neither put into his pocket the
teeth of his own wife nor those of any other
woman without fear of Judge Windeyer.
The French Senate has passed M. Naquet’s
Divorce Rill. M. Naquet is the well-known Free-
thinker who is, or was, Minister for Education,
and represents with energy and determination the
anti-clerical party in France. So long as France
had a sovereign—Bourbon King or Bonaparte Bm-
poror—these rulers found it necessary to stand
well with the Vatican. No conspiracy against the
equal rights of man ever existed that hadn’t a
Church for one of the conspirators. Now the
Roman Church regards marriage as a sacrament,
and its influence has always been employed in
France to prevent the legislation of divorce. So
that, hitherto, legal separations, which afforded ho
liberty to re-marry, were all that French people
could obtain. The Republic, however, doesn’t
trouble to considc r the Pope or the priests. Under
the o'd restriction, a frightful amount of immo-
rality was caused. Cojples who could not agree
would not live together, and, of course, were
necessarily accessible to new accesses of love
for more sympathetic mates. The average num-
ber of separations for a long course of years
has been 3)00 annually. There are enough of
separated spouses in France to people a great city,
and there are few of them who have not liaisons
in the background. The children born of these
irregular unions are called adulterine, and neither
father nor mother can legally recognise them.
Nor can they inherit, unless by will, any portion
of the paternal or maternal fortune, or, when
under age, force their parents to maintaim them,
which natural children, who are recognised, are
able to do. The divorce courts will have, for some
time after they are estab ished, plenty of work in
enabling separated couples to take new matrimo-
nial departures. Naquet wanted to give ill-mated
husbands and wives the power to separate by
mutual consent, and to spare them the necessity
of publicly Hinging mud in each others faces.
This liberty exists in Germany and Catholic Bel-
gium, where the revolutionary divorce law, in-
troduced into the latter country by the French,
has not been abrogated. A noteworthy feature of
the debates in the Seuata, was that the orators on
both sides took uo positions as defenders of
women 8 interest. While the speeches were being
delivered the gallery was filled with ladies, some
of whom were unable to conceal their transports
of joy on learning that the Bill had passed, and
that for every case in which a tribunal grants a
separation a divorce may be obtained.
We often launch our little shaft of fun at
dear woman about her dre?s; but, hang it! what
would the world be worth if she took any real
notice of us, and ceased paying attention to it?
Would her intellect do instead? No, sonny, it
wouldn’t, so don’t make any mistake about this
matter. Man comes in from the cold, hard world
where he toils; he visits some house in the even-
ing. and sees a daintily-appointed woman. She
looks so placid, so sweet, so perfect there in tno
glow of the parlour light, that she throws around
him a feeling of infinite rest. Is it her erudition,
her exact knowledge, or her great grasp of mind ?
No, he’s too tired to care about those things now.
It’s her dress, and her dear self; it’s a charm of the
eye that catches him, and makes him want to see
that soft picture at his hearthstone every night,
and all his own. Her mind may be at Hongkong;
all he feels is a knot of ribbon, or a spray of
flowers nestling in the wonderful coils of her
silken hair; a floating sense of lace with some in-
tangible charm, a perfume that pervades the air
with every movement of the trim and shapely
figure, who chats and smiles and sends him crazy,
Thon he starts courting. Yes, that's right; he’s
very earnest, and girls don’t come into the world
with any natural hatred of the male sex that can*-
not be got over by a very earnest man. So, some
time later, she sits there doing the honours. At
breakfast, there she sits like a beautiful statue
white and fair, in dainty morning dress, with
the ineffable smile that a happy woman can wear;
and he feels at peace with the whole world, and
hates to eave that enchanted morning room.
Evening brings a yet more beauteous ichange
dressed in warm silk, with a flower in the coiled
braids or at the white throat, his love looks oven
sweeter than in her morning blush. And so they
drift on for a few months, until one day the young
I wife comes down with a dress hardly clean, and
I her hair all fluffy. Sh« is hurried, and thinks it
doesn’t matter. Well, that’s the bloom off the
! peach. He carries no picture into town with him
that day; and it’s because we want husbands to
carry a picture into town with them every day
that we write like this. Ladies, the
bloom that tirst made you beautiful. You can’t
hold him any other way: it’s no use trying. You
haven’t mind enough; and, i f you bad, it wouldn t
hold him. You remember when he was courting,
how you would never lot, him see an untidy head,
a rent skirt, or a soiled stocking ? That was what
won him, and nothing less titan the same care will
keep him. He wants to carry into town with him
every morning a picture of a little soft bundle of
loveliness that will gladden his eves and make him
proud after the day is done. Ladies, the wife who
thinks it not worth while to keep neat, rates her-
self in her husband’s eyes lower than the barmaid.
“Have you decided on your new suit?”
asked a tailor of a sud-pyed gentleman louDging in
the doorway of his shop. “No,” was the melan-
choly reply; “but I believe my wife has.” “Your
wife has! ' “Yes; I bel eve she calls it a divorce
suit.”


Personal
Items
Ldrd Shaftesbury, the besMnterttioned fel-
low alive, was presented with the freedom of the
City of London in June last. In returning thanks,
he said he hoped those who fixed no his obituary
would have the goodness to record he died, safe
in—nay, Brother tftiggfns, ho said not so, hut—“a
citizen of London.” About, the same date Lorno
was admitted to the freedom of the Company of
Tin-plate Workers-a Just tribute to his poetical
tinkering propensities.
An “attempt to assassinate the Duke of
Cambridge” was one of the latest canards of the
London newspapers. It appears that some poor
beggar, returning “ broke ” from the French
Derby, stood near to the Duke on a Channel
steamer, and “ looked miserable.” On the strength
of his unhappy aspect, the disconsolate backer was
Immediately arrested. After t his, passengers who
enjoy the felicity of travelling witr, Royal dukes
will take care to smile at ’em. That ought to be
easy enough, in all conscience.
In London, the other day, the Maori Kins
entered a restaurant and enquired the price of a
roast duckling—which lie was told he might have
for half-a-crown (not half his crown, you know
but half of what to Cockneys is known us a “ bull”)
‘‘Too much!” curtly ejaculated the taciturn
monarch. “ Your Majesty may have it for two
shillings,"grovellinglyromarked tho restaurateur,
as Tawhiao swung on his heel with the evident
intention of “sJiddering.” Whereupon the mon-
arch sat him down and ate. Which doesn’t look as
if Tawhiao meant a lilg spree in London.
It will be “ pop” with lots of those Parlia-
mentary windbags next general election. Andy
Lynch seems to be the only member likely to re-
turn, though John Harris should have something
of a Bhow. Andy is very popular in Carcoar. The
people there don’t care a “ continental ” for his
opinions. What interests them is his beer Mr
Lynch’s hospitality is proverbial. It is not, how-
ever, “ asserfive.” “ The team was then driven to
tho Royal Hotel aid entertained by ” but of
course, you know. Somebody might make a joke
about “of course” and “ofeursiDg.” We re too
busy soleing our left shoe with a lardine-tin to do
so this week.
At Wellington South, N.Z , there was a
terrific electoral struggle between Mr. George
Fisher, Mayor of the city, and oid Mr. Hutcheson,
who has represented South Wellington in Parli.'-
ment ever since George wore knickerbockers anil
stole marbles-and that’s a good while ago—three
quarters of a century, at. lehst, so you can guess at
George’s age; as for Hutcheson, ho bids lair to
run Methusaleh close, and we can t safely quote
within a century at least, of his real antiquity
Anyhow, George gave the poor oid centurian a
dreadful beating-no end of a majority considered
George the better fossil of the two to represent
them in Parliament.
“The fifth year of Lord Augustus Loftus’s
residence In New South Wales concluded yester-
day,” clucks the Echo. The Augustan era of j
fowl-farming in Australia may now be accurately '
noted by the coming historian. By tho wav, we
regret to hear that the last clutch of Brahma-
pootras turned out badly; but, in the lull of the
Federation business, some interesting enquiries
will be instituted into the construction of the
mashed bran and potatoes served out to the ben,
and a rigid personal scrutiny exercised by the
owner into the apparent scandalous neglect in the
chief hatch-inspector’s department. The question
Is causing great domestic anxiety, and we await I
developments.
Archbishop Benson, asked about the
necessity of publio prayer for Khartoum Gordon,
is most archiepisoopal in reply. He thiuks that,
prayer should be put, up for him; but, in order
that tho offered petitions should "be wholly free
from misconstruction on political and other
grounds,” he suggests that Gordon should be
wrestled for rubrically, as one in distress and
anxiety, with mention of his name before tho
£rayer “ for all conditions of men,” or beforra the
litany! Of course, anything more particular
would not do, aa God only knows what the
heavenly politics are. A too Jingoistic or too
Radical prayer might play Hades. O, Beneon,
Benson, most reverend Cant-u-ar!
Tawhiao, the Maori King, gave a dinner in
London, with the followingou the minu: “Organ-
grinder a l’ltalienne, Salvationists plain and
devilled, Stock Exchange bear on toast, ’Arryti
la Tamlse, and mother-in-Lw roasted whole.”
Tawhiao, while walking abroad, is in a sense in the
custody of the policemen whose duty it is to pro-
tect him from the ” resources of civilisation ’’ as
represented in the unmannerly inquisitiveness of
a London crowd. The King of the ZnJus used to
travel—like Bob Burdett Smith—“in a cab. ’ The
mention of Tawhiao s dinner recalls the fare at
the Chinese restaurant at the Health Exhibition:
“Birds’ nest soup, pur<Se of sec slug, sharks’ fins
au naturel, sturgeon's entrails a la chinoiss, fillets
of rat, ragout of puppy dog with snails, sulphur-
etted egg on toast, pigs’ brains and feet.”
“ James Rock eloped with my daughter on
Saturday, and, as she is under age, I hereby cau-
tion any minister or registrar against marrying
the same, or any .person harbouring her, as I will
certainly prosecute,” advertises a father. It will
bo seen from this that if James Rock has any de
sire to enter into the bonds of matrimony with
any minister or registrar, he does it at his own
risk; and if he is frenzied enough to marry anyone
harbouring her, he cannot say that ho has not been
cautioned. It is plain, therefore, if James Rock
wishes to marry anybody, his choice will be shock-
ingly limited. Perhaps, however, it was just as
well to caution ministers and registrars against
James’s blandishments. Should they, after vois
notice, be led astray by him and talk about it
afterwards, they will evidently split on a bad rock.
The late Prince of Orange, though an ad-
miral in the Netherlands navy and a major-general
in the Netherlands army, was, not to put too fine
a point on it, “off his onion.” Dutch courtiers
used to say his peculiar disposition was the result
of his studious habits; but a regard for truth com-
pels us to say he was cracked. He and his elder
brother, “ Citron ” (who predeceased him a few
years back), were grandsons of the mad Paul of
Russia, which accounts for the turned milk in
their cocoa-nuts. “Citron” was a low, sen-
sual beast; the prince just dead was an ec-
centric ass, who turned his bed-room into an
aviary, where he kept parrots by the score. “ Cit-
ron’s ” fad was Polls of another sort. The little
girl, half-sister of the above twain, who is heiress
to the throne of the Netherlands, is Wilfiam Hl.’s
daughter by Emma of Waldeck (sister of Helena,
Albany’s widow).
Of Henry Ward Beecher, Mark Twain saith,
Soking jokesat that holy and frisky man:—“ When
e bought his farm he found one egg in every
hen’s nest on the place. He said that here was
just the reason why so many farmers failed-they
scattered their forces too much—concentration
was the idea. So he gathered those eggo together,
and put them all under one experienced old hen.
That hen roosted over that contract night and day,
for eleven weeks, under the anxious personal
supervision of Mr. Beecher himstif, but sue could
not‘phase’those eggs. Why? Because they were
those infamous porcelain tnings, which are used
by ingenious and fraudulent farmers as nest eggs.
But perhaps Mr. Beecher’s most disastrous experi-
ence was the time he tried to raise an immense
crop of dried apples. He planted $l5OO worth, but I
never a one of them sprouted. He never nndei-
@tood what was the matter with tbo3? uppus.”
Give the devil his due. George Rankeu
did so by his old adversary, Sir John KobertsoD,
and we re-publish his expressions because we also
'dye persistently damned, and still damn, the
knight’s land system. “ Remember," said Mr.
Kanken, “ that for the last ten years every Minister
tor Lands that we have had has been a land-agent
—(applause)—with one exception; I mean Sir John
Robertson. I lind myself now, Mr. chairman, in
the character of Balaam, the son of Beor. I came
prepared to curse Sir John Robertson’s Dolicy,
and, lo! I am blessing him for his public vir-
tue. Well, then, with this distinguished excep-
tion, this instance of public virtue, which shines
like a diamond in a dust heap, every Minis-
ter for Lands that we have had for the last
ten years has habitually, as soon as he left
office, set up his sign as a land agent, and has
turned his administrative experience into coin by
snowing his clients how to disembowel the public
63C9,t6i
Liberator Symes is mad with Canon Potter
(as, indeed, he has a perfect right to be), in that
the said Canon, after his debate with fhe said
Symes, handot over the MS. from which he had
read to the Melbourne DT. reporter—the said MS
containing a lot more than he had actually read
from the platform. Then the D.T., having clipped
down its report of Symes’ argument to the baldest
summary, published Potter’s in extensn , plus a
good deal more than he had brought forward in
the actual debate, with the result that Potter is
made to appear in its columns as having knocked
spots out of Symes. Wo think Symes does well to
be angry. It was mean of Potter. But, then,
Symes ought to know by this time that one can’t
touch pitch without being defiled, or play at bowls
without expecting rubbers. In having ever sup-
posed he would get fair play from either Canon or
D.T. he displayed an amazing verdancy. He’ll
probably know better next time.
Captain Barry will be getting himself dis-
liked if he don’t look out. A Sunday or two a#o,
he raised his flag” in the Domain, and was
biffed out with exceeding expedition. Next
Sunday he again appeared on the scene—ap-
parently with the intention of interrupting the
eloquent utterances of Mr. Daniel Smith. “On
this occasion ”—as Maccabe used to say—Captain
Barry was more exceedingly “ biffed ” than ever;
and had to be hidden from the fury of the mob in
the Art Gallery ; where, we trust, the illustrious
Captain wasn't shocked by —, but who ever knew
a captain that was susceptible ? We don’t want
Captain Barry to go to the Domain any more; be-
cause we feel that his life is precious to the State.
Without Captain Barry—we are quoting General
JOHN A. LOGAN, REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
Joshua—would the sun revolve round the earth ?
We thiDk not. However, in any ease, we are
getting' aweary of the gallant Captain’s voice; we
might add—were wo not too busy—that we're
tired of his Barry-tone.
“ Dagonet ” (who Is at heart a flunkey)
tells us that Wales, “although absent from Eng-
land and compelled by his ivcent sorrow to forego
for a time his olticial duties, has kept himself well-
inlormod of alt that has come before tho Commis-
sion on the Housing of the Poor during his
absence.” What has really caused H.K.11. the
most sorrow is that Leopold’s death should have
occurred so awkwardly as to prevent it being
quite tho thing for him to be present at Ascot.
Anyway, Wales’s crowd don’t sorrow as those with-
out hope, since we read that on Ascot Cup day
“the lie complete and profound was given to
every previous idea either expressed or under-
stood about the English junior Court being one
scene of mourning.” It seems it wivs more difficult
than ever to get a place at Ascot this year, every
tenement in tue neighbourhood of the Heath hav-
ing been let for a fabulous sum. There'll certainly
have to be a Royal Commission appointed to report
upon thi Housing of the Heathery-less ones dur-
ing Ascot week.
G. W. Moore, the founder and boss of the
Moore and Burgess Minstrels, has been getting
married again in New York, and it’s to be hoped
that the “ young thing ” he led to the altar will
keep the volatile “Pony”—as he’s familiarly known
—a little more in hand than did his first missus.
Pony ” Moore, with a glass of drink in him, used
to be a terror to London cabmen, owing to his
strange fancy for knocking them down when they
raised auy delicate question about the fare, while
even members of his company —bassos, tenors, or
corner-men—seldom parted from the boss without
a bit of a brush up. “Pony,” too, is about the
only man in the world who has done much success-
ful “mashing” with a black face, but his achieve-
ments in that line are something wonderful. With
a great diamond star on his breast, and a myriad
of jewels glittering on his burn-corked hands.
Pony” wields the “bones” and ogles pretty
girls in the front seats wit h equal skill, so that it
very frequently bappens-but no matter, we have
all loved at some time or another. Anyway, Moore
is a remarkable man.
Lord Cork, who serves our Most Gracious
Sovereign Lady in the useful capacity of Master
of the Buckhounds (the Queen’s awfully fond of
hunting, by the bye), has so far forgotten himself
as to give a dance at his town house before the
period of coiirt mourning for the Duke of Albany
was quite expired, and it is hinted that both
Wales and hia mother are annoyed at the breach
lt was naughty when you come to
think over it. The Queen doesn't supply a Cork'*
screw that he may uncork his spirits at such un-
seemly times, and Cork's crude notions—[Excuse
him, he 11 know better when he's older. —bn. B.]—
°£, e eternal fitness of things may woi k incalcul-
able harm in society circles. Yet, after all, the
moral laxily of the Master of Buckhounds was as
nothing compared with that of his co-peer, Lord
pt. Leonards. The latter nobleman was so utterly
lost to ail sense of propriety as to indulge his ama-
tory inclinations towards the serving-maid before
the expiration of that same sorrowful period of
court mourning. Now, there was disrespect lor
the Crown, if you like.
What Prince Leiningen has done to entitle
him to the command at the Nore is pretty well
known to the English people. But the list of his
recommendations would be incomplete without a
statement of a few of the things he has not done.
He has never served as senior officer or com-
manded a s'ation. squadron, or division; has
never been superintendent of a dockyard or steam
reserve; has never served in, much less com-
manded, an iron-clad or reserve ship; has never
been in a squadron of exercise or evolution; and,
in fact, has never held any c unmand or served in
any position of importance in the Navy—and yet
it is now proposed to perpetrate the monstrous
job of making him Commander-in-Chief at the
historic Nore!—
“ German saw on English oak,
On Englisn neck a German yoke;
German spoon in English dish,
England ruled as Germans wish,”
Wo forget the last two lines of the verse we have
altered as above, but it is to be found in Scott’s
‘ Ivanboe,” and is to the effect that England would
bo all the better for getting rid of a lot of pam-
pered aliens.
A queer story is told in recently published
memoirs about the late Emperor Napoleon and his
wooing of Eugenie when Mdlle. de Montijo. Prom
this account, it seems that Napoleon tried all he
knew to get Eugenie on cheaper terms than mar-
riage, and regularly persecuted her vfrith his pecu-
liar attentions. Her resistance used to drive him
wild sometimes. On one occasion he was so en-
raged because she rebuffed his solicitations while
they were out riding alone in the forest at Com-
-1 iegne, taat ho put spurs to his horse and galloped
away. Consequently Mademoiselle Eugenie lost
her way, and didn't reach the palace till 9 o’clock
at night, all the guests being meanwhile fright-
fully embarrassed by her unaccountable disap-
pearance while • under the protection of the
Emperor. At last, one night Napoleon made his
appearance in Mademoiselle Eugenie’s bed-room
as she was about to undress. The spirited girl
snatched up her riding whip, and let Mis Majesty
have it over the head and ears. This soon brought
about an explanation, and in course of time came
the famous letter in which Napoleon expressed his
desire to have Mdlle. Eugenie for a wife—a letter
which the mother lost no time in making public
and which is now religiously preserved in the ar-
chives of the.faroily at Madrid.
Monsieur Boutibouse, the French savant,
served in Napoleon’s army. At Wagram (1809) he
was in the heat of the fray. While reloading his
musket, he was shot down by a cannon-ball. I'is
impression was that the ball had passed through
his between the knees, completcJy severing:
tnem; for he suddenly sank down, shortened, he
believed, to the extent of about a foot in measure-
ment ihe trunk of the body fell backward on
the ground, and the man’s senses were paralyzed
by the shock. At early dawn he was aroused by
one of the medical staff. “ What’s the matter with
you, my good fellow?” said the surgeon. “Ah
touch me t nderly, doctor,” replied Boutibouse:
a cannon-ball has carried off my legs ” The
surgeon examined the limbs ref rred to?and then
giving him a good shake, said, with a loud laugh
Get up with you: there’s nothing the matter
with your legs! Boutibouse sprang up, in utter
astonishment and stood lirmlyon the legs which
he had thought lost. He had not a wound about
him. He had, indeed, been shot down by an im-
“ense ca^ no °-,V^ 11 : but - instead of passing through
hia legs, the ball had passed under his feet, and bad
P‘°, Ui^ d . a . hol V.n the earth beneath at least afoot
in depth, into which his ieet suddenly sank, giving
him the idea that he had been thus shortened by
the loss of his legs.
The mystery surrounding the morganatic
marna/o of the Grand Duke of Hetseisio no wav
dmpeded by his letter to the Hessian Chamber in
which he says that, “After convincing hirastdf
that, a regretable deception had taken place, his
marriage was de facto dissolved, and steps are
Wh°t fc ? P r °cure a judicial annulment
Whatever the d ception,” the lelt-handed union I
has cost the bridegroom dear,since it >s said he has
a.'reed to pay the Ja y £25,000 dowu and £lOOO a
ln g found leisure lor repentance alt r
his hasty nuptirls, rhy Duke tells the world ‘ in
feel B +he ro rfl fu! ttme it , v waB a consoladon to him to
feel the deep sympathy of his fui hful people in
the fateoi his family. Thissympa hy will bean
encouragement to him in the future to app°y hik
whole power for the welfare of h;s
this mean thit hy wih rever marry any more—
moiganatically or otherwise V Time will ah-w. For
the present the faithful Hessians look on with
reelings of shame at their Grand Duke’s example of
the haste with which marriages may be made and
c iSBolv'ed—by royal personages The “deep sym-
pathy; What does Hesse maglne he has gained
sympathy for ? For marrying, or fur indecently
repu lating his marriage? Great personages have
a regular dodge of solemnly thanking their people
tor a sympathy which dots not exit, save in iheir
own or their toadies’ imagi ation.
No more genial fellowever sampled awine,
scientifically handled a microscope, or was willing
do fellow a good turn, than J. J. Bleas-
aaie, EL.D., who has turned up his toes to the
daisies in Frisco, whither, some four years back
he went from Australia. A Warwickshire man,
educated at Oscott and Lisbon, Father Bleasdale
was savant and man of the world rather than
cleric, tor some years he managed the temporali-
ties of the diocese of Melbourne for Archbishop
luoofd, to whose saturnine vinegar the jolly doc-
tor s oil made an astonishing contrast. Naturally,
they quarrelled, and the kindly-hearted Christian
left Victoria with a black mark against his name
in the Episcopal books. In California he made his
markkas he had done in Australia, as an authority
on viticulture and as an analytical chemist. He
was secretary of the San Francisco Microscopical
Society, and subsequently secretary of the Viti-
cultural Society. The ’Frisco Newsletter says
tn t in his death the lady plaintiff in the iSharon
case has lost an expert who was carefully kept in
the background, but upon whom her lawyers
principally, and with good cause, relied. His skill
as a wirnoss, precision of thought, profound know-
ledge of his specialty and his venerable mien,
could not have failed to have been impressive.
The mistake of Bleasdale’s life was taking orders,
nut lor them, his life would probably have been a
success. E.I.P.
Talmage has remarked, ex cathedra, that
the writings _of George Sand have cast a blight
UP,? n ab Christendom. George commanded, and
still commands, larger congregations than ever
lalmage did or will, and her teachings are sweet,
rational, and tender—things deadly as blight in the
idea of a blatant pulpit-thumper like Talmage.
George had her faults, but among her virtues were
toleration, justice, discrimination, and a ten-
dency to examine things before condemning
them. She was, therefore, the antithesis of
priestcraft—to be bated accordingly, and preached
at by the Talmages. Despite their clamour, the
immense vibration of her voice —the “ large utter-
ance of the early gods ’’—upon the ear of humanity
will not soon die away. Whilst priestcraft toils to
# a F the masses, to restrict, to fetter them, she
cries The contempt of the masses, there is the
crime of the present! To execrate the people is
the real blasphemy.’’ In this she was more Christ-
like than the Christian pulpiteer. “Heaven and
Hell, serving to cover the illogical manifestations
or tne Divinity’s apparent designs respecting
Man, had no hold upon her. Communion witn
the dreary, brutal God of the Talmages she con-
fessed to be impossible to her. But she trusted In
a Divine bense ” sanctifying life; and in her best
works she preached a social renovation to be at-
tained by conduct rather than creed. Tbe further
this sort of blight spreads the better.
At one time it’s Sir Julius Vogel, some
other time some other fellow, but at present J. L »
Coster puts them all in the shade in New Zealand.
The originator of the New Zealand Shipping Com-
pany, now running a number of splendid steamers
doing the distance between Plymouth and Wel-
lington in lorty-one days and some seconds: the
man to whom, more tnan all others, the New
Zealanders owe the immense privilege of hav-
,n®. P ay , sixpence a pound for mutton,
which they could get some time ago for one-
tbird of that price—this is the man they have
delighted to honour by returning him to Par-
liament as one of the Christchurch members
while he was on his way to the colony, and who,
after his arrival, they invited to a splendid banquet
in presence of Governor Jervois, in the Odd-
tel.ows Hall in that city. But, although the
Governor was there in full splendour, and al-
though Mr. J. D. M’Pherson, President of the
Chamber of Commerce, occupied the chair, yet
Coster himself was unavoidably absent, his medical
th ® las .t moment caving absolutely for-
bidden him the joy of attendance. During the
evening' (think of it, all ye muffin-munehers and
hash-concealers), a solid gold beaker, which had
been subscribed for a tesiimonial to Mr. Coster
wLni™, W,t J? champagne and handed to His
who pledged Mr. Coster’s health amid
great enthusiasm. Mr. Coster is now better, but
we have been sick “dreadfully bad with envy ’’ever
Wh«n We i ea l of baQ qu«t and gold beaker,
merits ?° h ’ when Wlll we have a show on our
Mapleson, in the Royal descent of mana-
v%* =Lii er i Ma ' iesty ’ s theatre the seventh since
1672, senior impresario of Europe, Colonel Com-
mandant of the Tower Hamlets Kifio Brigade, says
he has some twenty orchestral scores of operas
th e earlier days of Itaban opera
in London. The notation of the scores no one
h mohT Thi e " Bta ? d - ,JJ iS - luSt a series of square
Notches. The music of these operas is very lo vely.
with ai ?hition to pro uce one of tbegi
wj*h, the original instrumentaiion of a harpsi-
?,hord, three serpents, two oboes, and a drum.
Hatchard and Thompson, the publishers have
offered him £ 0,000 it he will write three volume!
of his reminiscenc- s. He made his theatrical St
at the age ol two uionths. “ One night,’’ so he
tells the story, “fc>ur house caught fire shortly
after I wa.s born. The cradle, with myself in it .
was hoisted out of a second storey window t < save
I was carried into Drury Lane Theatre into
r 1 , H in rle- h® ln a
Vlir., m which Edmund Kean and Mrsi
Siddons were performing, a dummy baby had been
spared for the grand scene of the baptism of tte
nf The baby was the production
and nnffV l, propert / man. Jt was so flattened
and puffy, and caused so much laughter and
funny comment, that Kean could not possibly look
sermus when he saw it. Harley then stepped for-
ward and said, ‘ Try. a real baby.’ I was brought;
behind the scenes lor the rehearsal, and behaved
so well that, at the solicitation of Kean and Mrs.
Siddons, my mother and Madame Anna Bishop,
who was a sort of second mother to me. I was
engaged for a regular performance. I received an
honoranutn of one guinea per night for my an-
P° a P an ';, e ' The piece ran twenty-one nights, andJl
received twenty-one guineas, and these I ha/e
still and shall always keep them.”
Mr- wko lias represent™ Wakatipu
in the N.Z. Parliament for several years, has lust
Hons re M® ec i ed under somewhat unusual condi-
tions. Mi. fergus is a large man phvsicallv as
well as financially, and he requires more
colony to find elbow-room for himself and spac!
to turn round in comfortably. Owing to this
trifling peculiarity of his, he has lately been en-
ed^A C . oatrac * or on a bi * scale in Tasmania,
and while there a tew weeks ago he took it into
his head tq accompany a lot of badiy-axled ballast
waggons in a little excursion over an embank-
meut. He was picked up in several places shortlv
afterwards, making use cf several most inflammii-
tory quotations from Shakespeare and the Bible
without any acknowledgement whatever. We
next find him trying to stand for the N.Z. House
of Representatives on two broken legs and several
crutches, at QueenstowD, Wakatipu. During the
heat ot the contest, he transferred his he d-
quarters and what remained of his understandings
to the Franklyn Hospital, and while there he wl!
waited on with a request to “undress’’ Z
patients. The request came from a man who had
been nlaying eucure with a sawmill, and had now
cmiy one good hand left to put up for a future
,J be chairman was appointed because he
had both hands and feet frostbitten, and could not
applaud. The most of the audience were in bed
and the candidate sailed in on crutches, with one
l«g in a sling and a bandage over his right blinker
Lord, to hear how Fergus “ pitched ’’ on that
bc a ca f ibn *. J l ,."’as magnificent, and would have
made a Wakatipu cow die with internal convul-
had chanced to look in at the window
le - ac^ e up m bpd - and held the portals
their mouths—wide open and took
it all in. When election day came, the hospital
was made a polling booth, and all the patients who
had votes went for their fellow-patient like one
himself* 6 WaS returned with a majority as big as


After War, Pestilence and Intemper-
ance, Colds lead to the greatest destruction of
human life, mainly in consequence of their being
systematically neglected—“left to go as they
came”—until a simple, curable affection is con-
verted into a serious and generally fatal disease.
It is better to take care of a Cough or Cold from
its incipiency, by using promptly Dr. Jayne's Ex-
pectorant, a remedy thoroughly adapted to remove
tnese complaints, and equally effective in the pri-
mary stage 3 of Consumption, Asthma and Bron-
chitis. To be had of all Druggists, Storekeepers,
and wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Irving Bishop, the “mind-reader,” has
taken a civil libel action against Labouchere, of
Truth, who, in that p-iner, has for a long while
nast been calli g him thief, importer, fraud, and
ih on. Bish >p applied for but was refused the
Attorney-Ge' eral's flat for a criminal prosecution
It, is supposed tha‘, as usual, L tbouchere ill con-
duct. his own defence. If the precedent of the
Belt case, in which Judge and jury retired to see
t,. e plaintiff at work as a sculptor, be followed,the
fortnomiug libel-show should he one of the most
attractive en ertainments in London. By the way,
the Globe says “a bust of the late Sir Michael
Costa is to be executed by Mr. Belt, assisted by a
mask”— taken afto; death. Envious rivals used
to say Belt did his busts assisted ,by a ghost, but
perhaps they meant the same thing—
A blast of cold air was hi-s creath.
And an echoless movement his tread,
A “mask” from the ball-room of Death
To assist in pourtraying the dead.
After the curious and apparently thoroughly
genuine feat performed the other night by Stuart
Cumberland, who read the number of a La )k-note
enc osed in an envelope in the presence of Mr.
Gladstone and a large gathering of tne members
of the House of Common , people are not quite so
sure as they used to be that Bishop, when tested
in court oy the terrible “ Labby," will not succeed
in giving a similar exhibition under unchallenge-
able conditions. By the way, Mr. Yat-s, of rhe
World, has to go to gaol for four months shortly,
over the Lady Lonsdale libel case, unless his ap-
peal. based, it is said, on not very substantial tech-
nical points, should prove a success. He isn’t
highly exhiliarated a the prospect. “I am getting
to no an old man, now," he says: “ray habits are
unalterably formed, and any violent change in
l hem means a coffin for me.’ Let us hope that
Mr. Yates, with a view to avoiding the occurrence
of a “ violent change,” has all these months been
quietly preparing to (literally) take his “burgoo.”
After Irvi g Bishop has hunted for a pin on the
Bench, and removed th Judge’s wig in obedience
to the volition of a juryman, Labouc ere and
Ya'es may meet in a place where neither Truth
por he World is considered lit reading for the
visitors.
Like many more of her profession, Miss
Minnie Palmer doesn’t object to being advertised
—provided the thing is done cheaply and pleasantly.
In several English papers we have from time to
time noticed copies of love-letters addressed to
Miss Palmer—which amorous epistles have, it now
appears, been supplied to the journals by the lady’s
manager. Tho other day ODe of the papers in
question published a statement to the effect that
Miss Palmer, who has always alleged she wassingle,
and has actually gone to the length of publicly
stating that she was under a bond to her entre-
preneur not to marry for two years, is in reality
the wife of Mr. “ Montague Vernon.” A married
woman, then, is not so attractive on the English
stage os a single one. When this statement ap-
peared, Miss Palmer telegraphed to the newspaper
MINNIE PALMER.
for the name of its correspondent, hysterically
thus:—“l ask for your correspondent's none.
Would you care to have your sister’s name played
with ? I have endeavoured to keep mine spotless,
and feel it the duty of every man who respects a
pood girl to assist instead of trampling on me
Voii know I am single.” The editor neatly puts
Miss Palmer on toas„ so':—“The week before last
Miss Palmer's manager was good enough to write
and say that Miss Palmer had been asked in mar-
riage by ‘one of the most wealthy and popular
pukes in England.’ Not one word of disapproba-
tion did Miss Palmer utter; but when she is sus-
pected of matrimony, it appears that her ‘spotless
name’ has been ‘ played with,’ and that Miss Palmer
has been trampled upon. Henceforth I shall look
upon Miss Palmer as a vestal virgin.”
“Your name is Spencer, I believe—Herbert
Spencer—a writer, and that sort of thing,” said
Henniker, drawing up a chair. “ Well, you see, me
and Bennett thought it would be a good thing for
me to stand for Parliament. I hold the sugar, and
you hold the brains, see ?” “Speaking of the
door,” returned the old philosopher, pointing that
way, “ it is easy to observe that it is open.” “ Ha,
ha,” said Henniker; "but, you see, philosophy
don't gee with me. I was going to say—by the
bye, send out for something in the jug—l’m not
nice when I stand in the Conservative interest—er,
1 was going to say that we might come to some
arrangement. How much a column, now, would
he a fair thing? The Times, say. Now, don’t be
afraid, I hold it. Me and Alfred don’t expect a
philosopher like you to go the ten bob a column
game. Speak up.” “Only a passing allusion
escaped me,” mused Herbert, wandering to the
door and looking out into space and passing his
hand thoughtfully over his brows. “ What are you
thinking about,” asked Henniker, pulling out his
wa ch ; “business is business.” “Only wonder-
ing,” said Herbert, “how passing strange it is
+ hat humanity is still at that stage of develop-
ment that when a door is open—means of exit, as
we say—and that door is pointed to by the fore-
finger of the right hand, humanity fails to grasp,
intuitively, the significance of the gesture.” “Just
so-very funny,” roared Henniker, “but you see
we don’t want ajestdr. Thisisa clean caseof high-
going slogging, understand me. Oh, don’t keep
walking around. What’s a fair thing now ? I’m a
Conservative, and you’re a Liberal. Very well.
I suppose I’m entitled to my opinions ?” “ On the
other hand,” urged Mr. Spencer, “I have yet to
hear of a popular agitation having for its object
tne deprivation of the monopoly you enjoy. At
the same time, however, you must admit that the
door is open.” “ Really—yes upon my word—
i wish you would stick to business,” said Henni-
ber, counting out two sovereigns on the table ;
i m not the man to go in against monopolies nor
for monopolies; and, as for your door being open,
why what elee is your door fer? Shut it, if you
feel cold ? About this election. I want your
support. Are you on ?” “ Without further refer-
ence to the conspicuous fact that the door is open,
and that the inhalation of ozone—” “ Oh’s which ?”
interrupted Henniker; “Oh, no. None of the O’s
forme. No dynamite: none of that for me. I go
straight on the loyal ticket.” “I was about to
remark,” continued Mr. Spencer, “that the modern
r.me for sociological distinction characteristic of
the Australian plutocrat indicates a tendency
regarding which ” “ Oh, that’s all right. That
sort of gag won’t wash in this election. Come
down to figures. I want to get into the House,
knd you can give me a lift. What shall we say ? ”
' The fact of the door being open not having
strict relevancy to the issue,” continued the host,
may or may not have many implications
collateral, not to say germane to the issue.”
No,” roared Henniker; “ let’s leave out the
wermans, too. Will you write for me? I am an
Australian, aud I hold more Coin than you do. If
it comes to that, perhaps I have brains—“ It is
my turn, Mr. Hennikor, to interrupt you,” replied
Mr. Spencer; “the question of whether you have
brains or not is of too abstruse a nature, and would
lead to a long discussion. Hut the door, as we may
say, being: open—er "I’ve said a hundred
times,” roared Henniker, “that I don’t feel the
draught. If you’re cold, why the devil don’t you
sit near the tire ? I suppose it's’your own house,
isn’t it?” “A question, sir,” he teplied, “even
more abstruse than the previous one. The door,
however —” “Ob, damn the door!’ roared
Henniker. seizin# his umbrella and making- a rush
for it—“if you don’t lick every" pressman I ever
come across, may I be ” The rest was lost to
the world, and Mr. Spencer watching the cab
round the corner, sat down and drafted a now
chapter for his “ Principles of Sociology,” under
the bead of the “ Bias of Bucolic Buffoonery’ as
related to the development of Beastly Bad Brag.”
“ I shall not soon forget the first time I
met Miss Anderson,” writes "Granville.’' “She
was playing an engagement in Chicago, and had a
suite of rooms at the Palmer House. Like Adelina
Patti, she is averse to being interviewed. After
sending several of mv staff, all of whom she re-
fused to see, I determined to try my skill or luck
in attempting to interview the obstinate little
lady. Having been a boarder at the Palmer House
for more than a year, I know every room in the
housB. I determined, therefore, to depart from
the usual rule, and, ignoring the bell boys, to take
my card to her sitting room myself. Upon reach-
ing her door, I rapped gently and the door was
opened by Miss Anderson’s maid. I said, ‘ 1 wane
to see Miss Anderson,’ and then handed the maid
my card. The young woman closed the door for a
moment, and then returned to say, ‘ You can’t see
Miss Anderson. She’s in bed with neuralgia.’
‘Just my confounded luck!’l exclaimed, ‘some-
body is always ahead of me.’ A smothered little
scream, followed by a rippling littlo laugh, came
lioatiug through the half-open door, and then
I heard Miss Anderson say to her maid, ‘Tell
the gentleman to come in, Flora, t want to
see him.’ I stepped inside, and found the actress
seated at a table writing. She looked up with
a misohievous expression of countenance, and
said: ‘Are you going to put that in the paper?’
‘That’s just what I’m going to do,’ I replied.
‘Please don’t. You’ll have the whole country
laughing at me.’ ‘ Don’t you think you deserve a
little punishment for being so discourteous to a
newspaper man as to send him away without see-
ing him?’ I enquired. ‘Oh, well, you know, I
have always objected to being interviewed. I
don’t know what to say, and am liable to make
enemies. I shall give a reception when I am
through with my engagement here, and shall be
glad to see you in the parlours then; but please
don’t joke me in your paper.’ I didn’t make her
any promises. I wanted to attend that reception,
but could not afford to be bribed by the fair'
tragedienne into neglecting the interests of the
paper on which I was employed. So I went back
to i he office and wrote up an account of the inter-
view, which, upon being published, was copied by
almost every paper of note in the States.”
* • •
Mr. T. K. Pater, the S. A. Magistrate of the
Northern Territory, has, though only there a few
weeks, been threatening the local press with con-
tempt. Being a highly temperate man, however,
it cannot be said that rum is the matter with this
Pater. Mr. Pater, when a barrister in Adelaide,
was noted for being ns short-tempered as ho was
long-winded... They won’t separate the virtuous
Wien from the immaculate Pauline. Judge Bou-
cant, of Adelaide, takes matters with a high hand.
He is considered by the loving couple to be not a
little over-Wiening— Mr. Charles lvablo has re-
signed. His diplomatic moustache will live in our
memories a life-time ...N. Walter Swan is dead.
He wrote a whole lot of very good stories in the
Australian papers, but could never get a show in
London for any of them. The poor fellow was
never given his due in this country, either. But
here it is the fashion for every father to think-his
goose a Swan—or more 60. We’re sorry Walter’s
gone; but they're not sorry at the Rum office. For
the Shroud has now" copped” its other subscriber.
Hughes and his brother Freethougbt lecturers
would do well if they were to conflDe themselves
to urgiDg their hearers to devote their energies to
elevating mankind in a practical way. rather than
waste them in speculations about the unknown
and unknowable. They are on solid ground when
they stick to that line; when they go in for trans-
cendental metaphysics (as they too often do) they
become as unpractical and as mischievous as the
dogmatisers they denounce...." Mr. T. Muddle”
(sic) advertises that they are going to give a ban-
quet to Mr. T. Correy, when that noble citizen
opens his new place on the Parramatta River. Mr.
C. is stated to be one ot the prides of the country.
Ought not, then, the feed to have been given on
Coney-nation Day?. ...Reid, the Parramatta hotel
barber, d:s:rves the sallylun, since he actually
shaved the local editor (Cyrus's own Morrison) of
a "Aver.” Morrison, not liking to play at cards
with such an enormous sum as five pun t«m upon
him, asked Reid to mind the three notes and two
sovereigns for him until the next day, which bit
of mind-Reiding was somewhat overdone, inas-
much as the barber was non est inventus the fol-
lowing morning. What adds to Morrison’s pen-
sive regret is that Ferguson-t’other editor-
goes about blowing, “ You can’t catch this child
so”—a remark which, for obvious reasons, is
felt to be true right down to the ground...
e . „
It now turns out that Madame Allban-
Moet never mentioned Prince Victor in. her will.
Item, that Plon-Plon has never quarrelled with
Prince Victor. Lord, how the society papeis are
giving to lying. .. We learn that Dr. Koch, the
savant, has been coolly received in Paris. Dr.
Koch is a Prussian. Hens these tears. Bishop
Claughton about to resign the Anglican Chaplain
Generalship of the Army. The billet, which is
worth £BOO a year, is held by Dr. Claughton along
with the Archdeaconry of London ad a Canonry
of St. Paul’s. This clerical pluralist used to be
Bishop of Colombo Times Editor Buckle ad-
mits signed articles. Professor Blackie has the
honour of being the first reviewer who was ever
allowed to subscribe his name to literary criticism
in the Thunderer. ..Charlie, son of John Braham
and brother of Sarah of Waidegrave, art collector,
dead. Failed as a tenor . The new Dean of Wind-
sor, who succeeds the late Albany as a trustee of
the British Museum, is a strong advocate for open-
ing Art Galleries, Ac., on Sundays. Windsor is a
deanery “in peculiars,” ’tis satisfactory that it is
held by a cleric sufficiently peculiar to hold
sensible views on an important question
The Church Times calls Wyctif “the ecclesiastical
Healy of the 14th century.” Is this meant as a
compliment to Mr. Healy ? A Mr. J. Charles Cox,
thanking the Church Times for its "admirable
articlp,” informs its readers that “if Wyclif were
now alive his position in society would be an amal-
gam of Mr. Henry George and General Booth,
with a Spurgeon-like power of fluent invective.”
Henry George was, at latest advices, industri-
ously expounding his views to his American fel-
low-oitizens. Very large audiences greet him
wherever he goes, and the “ Free Soil Society,”
which he founded, already has branches in all the
principal towns of the United States.... George
Gilbert Murray, youngest son of the late Sir T. A.
Murray, has done a big stroke at Merchant Tay-
lor's School (London), winning the St. John's
(Oxford) Schoiarship of £lOO per annum, tenable
for seven years; the School Centenary. £3O per
annum, tenable for four years; the Pitt. Club
Exhibition, £3O per annum, tenable for four years,
besides prizes in galore.
GUTIS AND GURA.
HOW TO CLEANSE THE SKIN AND SCALP OF
TORTURING HUMORS.
HOW TO CLEAR THE COMPLEXION OF HU-
MILIATING DISFIGURATIONS.
HOW TO PURIFY - THE BLOOD OF INHE-
RITED HUMORS.
HOW TO BE HAPPILY RID OF CUTANEOUS
DISEASES.
We know that every word we now write will
awaken hope in the breast of many a lifelong suf-
ferer. Can we in a broad and Christian spirit,
without prejudice, without reservation, say to
those afflicted, “Here* in the Cuticura remedies,
which may be had of any chemist or druggist for
a trifling sum, is a speedy and permanent cure for
diseaees of the skin, scalp, and blood that have
defied the highest medical skill?” With a just
sense of the responsibilities we assume, we say we
can. There does not exist a case of chronic salt
rheum or eczema, tetter, ringworm, pemphigus,
psoriasis, leprosy, lichen, prurigo, scald-head, dan-
druff, or itching or scaly eruptions or scrofulous
humors of the skin, scalp, and blood, that Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new blood purifier, internally,
and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the great skin
cures, externally, may not speedily, permanently,
and economically cure when all other remedies
and methods of cure have utterly failed. We have
the most positive proof of their wonderful cura-
tive power, in evidence of which we publish the
following remarkable testimonials, every one of
which has been solemnly sworn to before the
British Consul at Boston :
The first great home case was that of Hon-
william Taylor, ex-State senator, office 8 Pember-
ton-square, Boston. Cured of scrofulous sores on
the head, lace, and body of’ over twelve years*
duration, which had resisted every physician and
method of treatment up to the time of using Cuti-
cura reme lies. Then followed Charles Houghton,
Esq., lawyer, 38 State-street, Boston, who was
cured of salt rheum, which for ten years had
covered the entire person, and was treated in vain
by the most noted skin doctors in that city. Ex-
Alderman Tucker, of Boston, came next with
eczema of many years’ standing. The majority of
the noted physicians of the city experimented,
dosed, and drugged him without avail. And then
a host of minor ailments and diseases were suc-
cessfully treated in New England. Soon the case
of H. E. Carpenter, Henderson, N.Y., astonished
the world. We give his exact words:—
“ I have be»n afflicted for twenty years with an
obstinate skin disease, called by some M.D.’s
psoriasis, and others, leprosp, commencing on my
scalp, and, in spite of all I could do, with the help
of the most skilful doctors, it slowly but surely
extended, until a year ago this winter it covered
my entire person in form or dry scales. For the
last three years I have been unable to do any
labor, and suffering intensely all the time. Every
morning there could be nearly a dustpanful
of scales taken from the sheet on my bed,
some of them half as large as the envelope
containing this letter. In the latter part of
winter commenced cracking open. I tried
everything, almost, that could l>e thought of,
without any relief. The 13th of June I started
West, in hopes I could reach the Hot Springs. I
reached Detroit, and was so low I thought : should
have to go to the hospital, but finally got as far as
Lancing, Mich., where I had a sister living. One
Dr. treated me about two weeks, but did me
no good. All thought I had but a short time to
live. I earnestly prayed to die. Cracked through
the skin all over my back, across my ribs, arms,
hands, limbs, feet badly swollen, toe-nails came off,
finger-nails dead and hard as bone, hair dead, dry,
and lifeless as old straw. 0 my God! how I did
suffer.
“ My sister, Mrs. E. H. Davis, had a small part of
a box of Cutcura in the house. She wouldn’t give
up ; said, * We will try Cuticura.’ Some was ap-
plied on one hand and arm. Eureka! there was
relief ; stopped the terrible burning sensation
from the word go. They immediately got the
Kesolvent, Cuticura, and Soap. I commenced by
taking one tablespoonful of Resolvent three times
a day, after meals; had a bath once a day, water
about blood heat; used Cuticura Soap freely;
applied Cuticura morning and evening. Result,
returned to my home in just six weeks from the
time l left, and my skin as smooth as this sheet of
paper.
HIRAM E. CARPENTER,
* Henderson, Jefferson County, N.Y.
Sworn to before me this nineteenth day of Janu-
ary, 1880.
A. M. Lepfingwelu,
Justice of the Peace ”
Another wonderful case is reported bv F. H.
Brown, Esq., Barnwell, S.C., and endorsed by Dr.
H. Baer. Charlestown, S.C. He writes:
“I will now state that I made a miraculous cure
of one of the worst cases of skin diseases known.
The patient is a man forty years old; had suffered
fifteen years. His eyes, scalp, and nearly his whole
body presented a frightful appearance. Had had
the attention of twelve different physicians, who
prescribed the best remedies knowu to the pro-
fession, such as iodide potassium, arsenic, corro-
sive sublimate, sarsaparilla, etc. Had paid $5OO for
medical'treatment with but little relief. I pre-
vailed upon him to use the Cuticura Resolvent in-
ternally, and the Cuticura and Cuticura Soap ex-
ternally. He did so, and was completely cured.
The skin on his head, face, and many other parts
of his body, which presented a most loathsome ap-
pearance, is now as soft and smooth as an infant s,
with no scar or trace of the disease left behind.
He has now been cured twelve months.”
F. H. Drake, Esq., agent for Harper and Brothers,
gives an astonishing account of his case (eczema
rodent), which had been Ueated by a consultation
of physicians without benefit, and which SDeedily
yielded to the Cuticura remedies. Will McDonald,
3543 Dearborn-street, Chicago, gratefully acknow-
ledges a cure of salt rheum on head, neck, face,
arms, and legs for seventeen years; not able to
walk except on hands and knees for one year; not
able to help himself for eight years; tried hun-
dreds of remedies; doctors pronounced his case
hopeless; permanently cured by Cuticura reme-
dies. Thomas Delaney, Memphis, Tenn., afflicted
with psoriasisfor nineteen years: completely cured
by Cuticura remedies. George W. Brown, 48 Mar-
shall-street, Providence, R. 1., cured of a ringworm
humor got at the barber’s, which spread all over
the ears, neck, and face, and for six years resisted
all kinds of treatment; cured by Cuticura reme-
dies. Mrs. S. E. Whipple, Decatur, Mich., writes
that her face, head, and some parts of her body
were almost raw; head covered with scabs and
sores; suffered fearfully, and tried everything.
Permanently cured by Cuticura remedies.
The following complete and permanent cures
are condensed from the originals for want of
space, but the full statements can be had by re-
turn mail:— H. A. Raymond, Esq., Jackson, Mich.,
scald head of nine years’ duration; Frank A. Bean,
Steam Fire Engine 6, Boston, cured of alopecia, or
falling of the hair; Frank Ashley, 36 Portland-
street, Boston, ulcers in throat and stomach;
Henry Landecker, Dover. N.H., varicose ulcer;
Thomas Lee. 2376 Frankford Avenue. Philadel-
phia, dandruff one-quarter inch thick, twenty
years; Joseph A. Palmer, Hudson, Mass., running
sores on leg, seven years; Charles H. Tripp,
Alfred, Me., fever sore for years; Fred. Rohrer,
Pueblo, Col. (baby); Manuel Manintz, 71 Burgundy-
street, New Orleans, salt rheum; J. S. Weeks, St.
AlbaDS, Vt. (baby); Charle Eagre Hinkle, Jersey
City Heights, N.J., eczema on his son, twelve
years; S. G. Buxton, Milan, lffich., itching skin
humor, with copper-coloured skin; Andrew Dona-
hoe, East Somerville, Mass., erysipelas, six years;
Mrs. Benjamin Smith, Way’s Mills, P.Q., salt rheum
and psoriasis of mauy years’ standing.
Of su' h a record the inventors of the Cuticura
remedies may bo justly proud. They are a grand
medical triumph; a triumph that will be grate-
fully remembered by thousands long after the
originators had passed away. To relieve aud per-
manently cure diseases of the skin and scalp which
have been tho torture of a lifetime, to replace the
repulsive evidences of disease with the glow of
health, and thus render beautiful the face of man
or woman, is to deserve the gratitude of mankind.
That Cuticura and Cuticura .-map externally, and
the Cuticura Resolvent internally, will cure
speedily and permanently the worst forms of skin
and scalp diseases, with loss of hair, wo believe we
have fully demonstrated. Grand curative bless-
ings are thus substituted for death-dealing poisons.
Mercury, arsenic, ?,inc and lead, aud a thousand
and one other revolting, poisonous and senseless
things, must now sink into obscurity before the
wonderful healing powers of the Cuticura rfme-
dies, which may bo had of any chemist at less than
the cost of a single vleit of a physician.—Zion’s
Herald.
At the reception given by the good folks
of Hamilton (Vic) to the newly-inducted Arch-
deacon Cooper, we are told by the local Subctator
th«t an enthusiastic A: glioan oonntable spoke
IralizoicaUu Down our way. Constables speak
stoically, their word beiog “move on,” or some-
thin? sitnplo of that kind; but on welcoming an
archdeacon alter dinner, of course considerable
latitude is allowed. “ Kalizoically ” neatly ex-
presses tho idea of considerable latitude having
been taken.
“ Wo are not,” remarks the Hum, “especi-
ally anxious to advertise ourselves, but yet we
say the Tribune Cup,” etc. But yet—we do not
liko “ but yet ”; it doesa'lay tho good precedence:
lie upon "but yet’’—“but yet” is as a gaoler to
bring forth some measly culprit. Not especially
anxious to advertise ilself, the Hum? Phewl
Why, in advertising itself (whioh to do righteously
is no sin), it adulterates with such a lot of rancid
fat that Hum-butter is a term in the provinces for
journalistic oleomargarine.
A “ poddy ” immigrant of genteel ante-
cedents thus advertised in Guanny:- “A Young
Gentleman, aged 23, without friends, recently from
England, wishes to bo adopted by an old lady or
gentleman. This is genuine. Address L.L.” If
“ L.L.” had only had tho gumption to have added
“second cousin to a Marqiis,” “near connection
of a Viscount," or “ errandst n of a Baron” (not
barring even St. Leonards), it is by no means im-
probable that he might have netted the fool he is
in search of. That “without friends” cooks his
chances.
Oneof the London papers accuses the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury of being, owing to his callous-
ness, a llovolutionary Agent, it addresses him thus:
—"Oae of your first actions as Primate showed
that you had some sense of the pressing nature of
these questions. You visited the poorer parts of
London, and, startled as you were at the conditions
of life and work which you saw there, gave it as
the opinion of tho head of the Church that the lot
of the matchbox-makers “ might be alleviated by
spiritual consolation.” Many men have pondered
over that pregnant observation, and no more
terrible attack has been on the creed your
Grace professes than is contained in your travesty
of the words of the carpenter of Nazareth, “Come
unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,
and 1 will give you—spiritual consolation.”
It is now more than 1)4 years since “ A
Peasant’s Voico to Landholders,” &c., was pub-
lished by a piasant-proprie or, who wrote:—
“There yet remains in our village a number of
small proprietors and occupiers—fifty perhaps,
each ■ f whom is able, though with difficulty, to
pay his rent, employ his family, keep its indivi-
duals well fed and clothed, pay his tradesmen, pur-
chase his weekly shop things; in short, can make
himself and farail comparatively comfortable
and add to tho comfort of others. Now, let us
suppose that one of the fifty, by some means, gets
to be the proprietor or occupier of the whole, the
consequences would be—he would have no sym-
pathy for forty-nine; he probably would build
himself a stately mansion, keep his gig, purchase
more of the luxuries of life. But the forty-nine—
aye, the fallen forty-nine—what would become of
them ? Why, they would, in part, bo dependent on
the parish.” This is tho system that has been
going on, until the land belonging to whole vil-
lages has got into the hands of two or three indi-
viduals, a portion of which land, either great or
small, was in the possession of almost every in-
habitant. The enclosures have accelerated these
devastating transfers. The subject is one that,
ebouH receive the earnest attention of social
reformers.
The shocking ejeath of Prince Leopold has
evidently been so' iotly attributed by the Queen
to its true cause—ovor-cxcitement of a gambling
bout at Monaco. At any rate, Her Majesty has
just protested strongly against the gaming tables
there being continued. Of course, the true reason
is not hinted at. The courtly way of putting it is
that ” Her Majestv, while staying near the spot,
wa"! told so many stories of the terrible suicides
which occurred through ruination at the tallies,
that she thought It prudent to interfere. This is
very creditable to the Queen.” &o. The worst of
it is that the Monaco people have retorted by in-
viting Her Mttj sty to uiiDd her own business—in
short, to her moral reforms at home by
using her iuliuence to abolish gambling at horse
races, iteference is 'made to the fact that the
officers of her own Horse Guards quartered at
Windsor lost something like £60,000 duriDg Ascot
week, while the bookmakers won over £250,000
from the public, and in the London clubs hundreds
of thousands sterling are staked on every “great
event.” It roads, oddly, anyhow, to find in a single
issue of a London paper three detached items
thus:—“The Queen has protested against the
gaming tables at Monaco being continued,” “The
Prince of Wales will visit Newmarket during tho
July meeting. A select party are invited to meet
His Koyal Highness.” “It is understood that
there will be a Koyal party at Goodwood this
year.”
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
I have quite regained my strength and ap-
petite, and for the first time in nine years can say
I have some pleasure and comfort in life. I give
this testimonial, and with it my sincere thanks, for
the benetits I have received by the use of Bris-
tol’s Sarsaparilla and Pills, and am. very
truly yours, JAMES G. BENDALL.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, BrowD, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olivo Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these onee. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at Hd.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &c., &e„ by return post.*
The Test of Actual Trial.—This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing itg
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, whioh are
sold at od. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trilling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &0., &c. Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend It with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for. full-sized bottles 3s, 6d. S.ld
by all druggists.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
i. mm era,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
" One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 13th,
in his great production of the
“ CREOLE.”
%3T New Zealand Tour Postponed pro term.
All communications cn route.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction ot
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Another Immense Success for the Royal Comic
Opera Company, in con,iunction with
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE
and
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING,
PATIENCE. PATIENCE.
SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST Pith,
LES CLOCHES DES CORNEVILLE.
In preparation, two new and original Operas,
First—THE MERRY DUCHESS ;
Second —ESTRELLA.
PRICE 3 AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE
'bole Lesseo and Manager, Signor E. Majeroni.
IMMENSE FAREWELL SEASON SUCCESS
IMMENSE of Miss SUCCESS
IMMENSE JENNIE LEE SUCCESS
IMMENSE and SUCCESS
IMMENSE Mr. J. P. BURNETT. SUCCESS
TO-NIGHT, at 8 O’CLOCK,
DIVORCONS. DIVORCONS.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 16,
MISS JENNIE LEE MISS JENNIE LEE
will appear for the first time on any stage in the
Popular Irish Drama, the
SHAUGHRAN SHAUGHRAN.
CONN, the SHAUGHRAN, MISS JENNIE LEE.
Entirely New Scenery by ALFRED CLINT.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-street.
Business Manager for Miss Jennie Lee, LIDDY.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MR. WYBERT REEYE.
Gr
Last Night but One of Gilbert and Sullivan’s most
popular Opera,
H.M.S. PINAFORE.
as played so successfully by Mr. H. Stanley's
celebrated
JUVENILE OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT,
the Gorgeous Burlesque Pantomime
(specially localized),
JACK THE GIANT KILLER.
Box plan at Nicholson’s. Day tickets at Loder's
Hotel (opposite Theatre). Agent for H. Stanley,
W. Farmer. Business Manager, G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
l'.lth WEEK. 19th WEEK.
Unabated Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Glorious Reception of the Great American Come-
dian, Mr. FRANK HUSSEY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling's, where
Pianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
NEW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereagh-st., corner of Goulburn-st.
Professor and Clara
Baldwin,
Clairvoyants, Thought-readers, and Psychome-
trasts (who created such a sensation in Australia
in 1878), and who have lust finished their third
season in Sydney, after their third tour round the
world,
WILL SHORTLY APPEAR
in all the principal INLAND TOWNS, with their
NEW AND SENSATIONAL ENTERTAINMENT,
entitled :
SPIRITUALISM EXPOSED.
Professor BALDWIN’S entire performance is
Original and Startling, including Baldwin’s Lon-
don Sensation,
FINDING A SMALL PIN
hidden anywhere by the committee;
also, Reading the Numbers oq a Bank Note,
Telling Names of Dead Relatives, Locating a Pain
in any part ot the Body merely thought of by the
committee, Reading any Page or Line in a Closed
Book, Telling the Time by any Watch.
THE GREAT THOUGHT READING GIVEN
NIGHTLY.
BRAIN and SOUL TELEGRAPHY.
All the feats of Stuart Cumberland and W. Irving
Bishop.
New Clairvoyant Tests by CLARA BALDWIN.
George Lingard, Manager and Proprietor.
AFTERNOON
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN'S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.20,2.40, 3, 3.20,
3,40. 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
forte from the establishment of Nichols on and Cq,
Tickets obtainable at Botany
JQ A N C I NO.
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 351
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all bo
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decorations required.
A
GRICULTURAL SOCIETY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
METROPOLITAN EXHIBITION.
NEXT THURSDAY. FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
and MONDAY.
THE EXHIBITION
will be
OPENED
at the
SOCIETY’S GROUND, MOORE PARK,
on
THURSDAY NEXT, AT NOON,
by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, G.C.B.
THE BAND OF THE PERMANENT ARTILLERY
WILL PERFORM
throughout the days of Show.
EXHIBITS
of
BLOOD AND HEAVY DRAUGHT HORSES,
CATTLE.
SHEEP.
PIGS,
POULTRY,
DOGS,
Ac., Ac.,
MISCELLANEOUS HORSEvS,
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S HACKS.
FOU R3-IN-H AN D
CARRIAGES AND BUGGY PAIRS
HARNESS HORSES.
TROTTING MATCHES
JUMPING CONTESTS.
IMMENSE EXHIBITION OF MACHINERY.
GRAND PARADES OF HORSES and CATTLE
DAILY.
SPECIAL PRIZES
for
FOURS-IN-HAND CARRIAGES,
HORSES,
BUGGY HORSES,
LADIES’ AND GTNTLEMEN’S HACKNEYS.
GREAT INTERCOLONIAL TROTTING MATCH,
for Prizes £5O and Sweepstakes.
ENGL’SH, AMERICAN, AUSTRALIAN, and NEW
ZEALAND HORSES ENTERED.
JUMPING,
SPECIAL PRIZE. A SILVER CUP,
offered by the Proprietors of
THE TRIBUNE,
also
£5O COLLECTED BY THE SPORTING EDITOR
from
BREEDERS IN NEW SOUTH WALES,
for
HUNTERS BRED IN NEW SOUTH WALES,
carrying 13st. and over,
to be
RIDDEN BY AMATEURS in STEEPLECHASE
COSTUME.
First prize, Cup and £35; second prizo, £l5;
third prize, £lO.
TWENTY HORSES WILL COMPETE.
TRAMS WILL RUN DIRECT TO GROUND.
ZfESSSSii
EXTRA TRAMS will run during days of Show at
EXCURSION FARES.
ENTRANCE GATES, MOORE PARK and RIFLE
RANGE.
OPEN AT 11 a. mu
CLOSE at 5.30 p.m.
ADMISSION—AduIts Is., Children 6d.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
N.B.—Please to bring right amount of change.
GRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
METROPOLITAN EXHIBITION.
1884. AUGUST. 1884.
To be held at
THE SOCIETY’S GROUNDS, MOORE PARK.
SHOW OPENS ON 14th AUGUST.
SPECIAL PRIZES.
Four-ln-Hanis, Jumping, Trotting, Single and
Pair Horses, Hackneys, Ponies, &c., &c.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
BEAM MUD MATCH,
for the
CHAMPIONSHIP OF AUSTRALIA,
to take place
DURING THE CAULFIELD CUP WEEK-
Kessrf. Alcock & Co.
will present one of their
MATCI BILLIARD TABLES,
Value One Hundred and Fifty Guineas, to be com-
peted for under the following conditions, viz.:
1. The match to take place in Melbourne, be-
tween the 11th and 18th October, the game to be
1000 up. If •• ore than two players compete, each
game to be 1000 up. All competitors to start from
scratch.
3. Open to nil comers who have resided in the
Australian colonies, New Zealand, or lr.smania
for twelve months prior to the match.
3. Each player to stake £5O, and the winner to
take the stakes and Messrs. Alcock and Co.’s
trophy. If more than three compete, the runner-
up to save his stake.
4. Nominations (£10) to be paid on or before the
30th August next to the sporting editor of ’’The
Australasian.” Acceptances (£3O) to be paid on or
before Oth of September. The balance (£2O) to be
paid on or before oth October, or nomination and
acceptance fee to be forfeited and added to the
stake.
5. Proceeds of the hail (less expenses) to be de-
voted as follows, viz One-third to the Melbourne
Hospital, and two-thirds to be equally divided
amongst competitors.
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
• at ttds office.
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23.
Redman’s Estate, Canterbury.
THE BRIDGEWATER ESTATE,
on the Main Canterbury-road.
Over 200 Choice Building Sites.
MILLS and PILE have been instructed by the
Trustee to sell by public auction, on the
ground. Canterbury, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
23, at 3.3) sharp,
Over 200 CHOICE BUILDING SITES, being
the subdivision ot' the well-known Bridge-
water Estate, each lot having 30 FE*T
FHONTAUE, by DEPTHS OF 150 to 200
FEET.
This portion of the Estate is
FIRST-CLASS,
fronting the important Road from Canterbury to
Belmore. The situation is beautiful, and the
lots have been marked out "nth great care.
The Terms of the Sale will be very liberal.
The Title is fltst-clase.
Lithographs are now ready for issue.
Omnibuses will leave the Railway Station, Ash-
field, at 3 p.m. on the day of Sale to convey in-
tending buyers to the Ground.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers.
£IO,OOO.—MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.]
THE SYDNEU SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public gem-rally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every oppc rtunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan of DiSTulfiCTfoN t
First horse ... £3OOO i 10 prizes, £ICO . £lOO
Second „ ... 1(00 40 ~ 25 ... 100
Third „ .. 500 150 „ 15 .. 75)
Starters divide.. 5001100 „ 10 ... 1001
Non-etarters .. 250 1 200 „ 5 .. 10(0
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £30.0, by far the large t
offered in any consultation, isafortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round slim; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter. i?end addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Addrest—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall's Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
SINGER & CO.
J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W„
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 42 KING BTREET.
Wharves : Foot Of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direst (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited).
42 King Street. Sydney
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
5=S
So
11
%
ff
g}
ill Mi
ft
(S-i
INVALUA
.V ~i SUFTERI
N to rp
OSs
|on
o
vr>
m
in
Ne
LVou
ss
Sen
1 a IA LLY^^SOIIi
>> > ADAPTED FOR THE^***
Australian Colonies
T
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
HE LONDON CONSULTATION COMPANY
herewith submit their Programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP.
to be run for NOVEMBER 4th, 1884.
Capital, £5OOO, in 5000 shares of £1 each,
to be distributed as follows:
All prizes payable 24 hours after race. Result
posted to all subscribers, and advertised in leading
weekly papers. Manager,
THOS. THORLAND,
Globe Hotel,
ALBURY, N.S.W.
ELBOURNE CUP, 1884
M
ACHILLES CONSULTATION.
25,0J0 Members, at 10s.
£sooo
2000
First
Second
Third 1000
Starters 1000
Non-Starters 1000
25 Cash Prizes. £lOO each 2500
Address : WALTER MONTGOMERY, Chancery-
lane, Melbourne.
WOLFE’S ]
schnapps!
Buy Whole
Bottles.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTOIT & BRUCE
197 PITT STREET.
m
ML
■
-4
mmm
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE
197 PITT STREET
LOGH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAPiS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


John T. McInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. ESf Agents for the sale or purchase ou
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
The uses to which electricity has been
adapted in these days surpass the wildest dreams
of the enthusiasts of a century ago. In compari-
son with the adaptability of this subtle power to
man’s convenience and happiness,the adapt*Dili y
of other forces appears tame and commonplace.
With the speed of thought, it conveys messages
over pathless wilds, through burning deserts, over-
head in the air, and deep down along the beds of
turbulent seas. Where its services will stop, the
wisest cannot presume to say. In the railway
traiD, the tram-car, and the huge ocean-going
ship, it is rapidly displacing steam. But it is
equally adapted for overcoming the thousand-
aud-one petty inconveniences or every-day life-
inconveniences, separately of small account, but
aggregately immense. Its application has foiled
the buiglar, added additional safe-guards to tne
cause of law and order, and placed in the hands of
authority a potent power for detecting crime. At
the Electrical Manufacturing Co.’s Establishment.
62. Hunter-street, Sydney, some of the offices to
which this strange power can be applied may be
learnt. Electric Dells, equally adapted for signal-
ling the approach of an importunate creditor, or
ridding one s self of that pest of society—the prosy
friend, who does so much to make life unendur-
able—cun be and examined. No house is
complete without one.*
THIRTY SRILLINQS.
; ~
ft
KT' THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and Itia more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals:
but we do allirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling golu as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. Rut as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watoh and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the tritle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and 6end in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, wo will send to
any customer (post free, if ata distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,” is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in the long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE CIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 15s , 205., and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 55., (is., 7s. (id.,
Bs., Bs. fid., Ds , and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. (id. to 80s.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 80s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. fid., 205., 225.
fid., 255., 275. (id., 80s., 35#., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. (Id., Bs. fid., 10s., 15s , 205., and 80s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s (id. to Bs. fid. each; Bolid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Riogs, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsomo Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements arc of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert .. .. .. ..£4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and coihpensation balance,
with Oriental Gold. Albort .. .. .. £5 5 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert.. .. .. ..£3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
(Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. ... .. .. .. £6 6 8
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of ale the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. (id..
7s. Bd., Bs. 6d, and IDs each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Huby Rings, 7s. Bd.
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, fiat broad buckle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &e., from ss. to
8s (id. each; Gene’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d., Bs..
Bs. 6d., 'Js, 10s., and 12s. 61. per set; Same as
above, only half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 30b, per set; Gent’s eiegant Seals, real
Atones, 7s. bd., Bs., 95.. 103., and 12s. 6d. each;
Gent’s eleganr. Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s. fid. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, madespeci .'lly to our order, 17s. (Id., 205.,
i 25s , and 80s. eacn.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
thk4TK« Boyal-V Patience” P- 8.
House-”Divorvons \ ib.
Gaiety Theatre— “H.M S. Pinafore ib.
Academy of music—Federal Minstrels ib.
We have had so much comic opera and
no thing or other lately that our head hurts, and
®°. r e rapidly losing tiesh. Just for a change we
w ,ont to -'he Opera House, Saturday niirht to sec
»mvoreoas.” As the Widow O’Brien says: “ Per-
sons ver not Frinch loike meseif, and won’t know
hew to pronounce Divorvons. Well, pronounce it
iHvorsongs. and then you’ll b« right. We know
vmi'll he right, for we heard Tom Price speak it
that wav t’other night, and he is soawlully Fre-ich
that nothin -r but the hind lea of a frog comes any-
where near his idea of the eternal litness of things.
The pi y is a new one. That is, it is new to the
Austral an public, and the longer it remains thut
wav the better it will be for the public and those
who try to produce it. It was written origin dly by
Victorien Sardou, during one of his moments of
mnacy, and “adapted for the stage” by some other
unatic who didn’t know that we should ever see
St As a play, it isn’t worth powder enough to
alow up one of its lightest characters, and the
author of “ Fe-lora” and other pieces of that
stamp ought to sue himself for defamation of
Character for allowing bis name to be connected
with it. The plot is good enough to have hinged
Tome sparkling comedy work on. but the piece
last's the lustre which characterises such high-
dass comedy as “Forget-Me-Not” and “The
nnpen’s Favourite.” A couple get married. This
is Monsieur de Prunelles (Mr. James Carden)
and Madame de Prunelles (Miss Jennie Lee).
The Monsieur is considerably older than his wife,
and as a matter of course, she is somewhat
vounger than he. The Madame isn’t particularly
in love with her spouso, and gets up a desperate
flirtation with Adhemar (Mr. George Forbes). In
the meantime, the Monsieur is getting in his work,
and the way he flirts with Madame de Brianne
mianche Lewis) is positively awful. Both are
waiting for the passage of the Divorce Bill, then
before the French Assembly, so that they may be
free from the ties which hind them only to assume
others that couldn’t help being a confounded sight
worse. Finally, they get to be honest enough to
tell each other the truth, and they quietly agree to
disagree. Bach allows the other all the rope
wanted, and it might be made really amusing to
watch the process by which they gradually hang
themselves. Presently they begin to find out that
thev are not exactly unsuited for each other, and
the result is that after a short flirtation they fall
desperately in love, and wouldn’t have a divorce
on any account.
* * *
While watching this play, we couldn’t help
thinking of a lot of men and women we know who
during their courtship were sweeter to each other
than a handful of French caramels; after they got
married, however, all the little courtesies ceased,
and neither desired to want to please the other at
all If Maria complained, John would tell her that
courting a girl was just like a man choosing a
street car: after he caught the car, he didn't keep
on running like a blamed fool, but quietly took a
seat and enjoyed himself. After men get married,
that is some men, they seem to imagine that they
have caught their street cars, and all they’ve got
to do is to sit down and read the paper and smoke
and spit on the floor quite regardless of anything.
We have heard Bob Ingersoll delivering one of his
fascinating lectures, and in the course of it he said
that “ a man should never grow weary of courting
his wife.” The idea is a little funny, isn’t it ? But
we know a lot of men who think it pays; and it
does seem to do so, somehow, for their homes arc
happier, and there is an exDression on their faces
that married men don t wear as a rule. But, per-
haps you would like to know what this all has to
do with the play. Gentle reader, it hasn’t anything
to do with the play; but if we were to write just
what we think about “ Divor?ons,” the author
would go olf and die somewhere. and the managers
who intend producing it would be hunting us with
shot-guns and cork-screws, and things like that.
• * *
Mr. James Carden’s Monsieur de Prunelles
was a clever bit of acting, and so thoroughly
natural that we couldn’t help remarking how much
he looked like a real, live married man. Carden
always reads his lines well; and whether he looks
a character or not, he acts it so well that we can
never tell what we like him best in. Jennie Lee
played Madame de Prunelles in a captivating wav,
but we can't help insisting that, she is just a little
too much like a larrikiness to suit us in characters
such as Madame de Prunelles. But this isn’t alto-
gether to he wondered at, for Jennie has made a
study of the larrikin character so long that It
might reasonably be expected to come like second
nature to her. Every time we see Jenny Lee in
trousers we are sorry she wasn’t born so that they
could call her John, or Harry, or Claude, or some-
thing like that. Every time we see her in gown
and petticoats, we are cross because she didn’t go
to the tame school that we used to, and eat philo-
poeDas with us until the other boys were green
with envy. But, there, we can’t have everything
we want, and have learned to be patient.
• • *
We missed Mr. Burnett from the east. We
don’t know that he ever played in “ Divorvons,”
but we have grown so used to seeiDg him on the
stage with Jennie Lee, that the place seems strange
when he is not in it. Oily Deering played Gog oin
a way that would break your heart to look at.
Oily is so funny at times that he can’t look in a
mirror without surprising himself into a laugh.
Otf the stage, he is just as funny and irrepressible.
He belongs to the Imps, and his fines during the
evening lor contempt of the Arch Fiend, or the
society, or something, amount to about three
pounds ten a week. Edwin Palmer played like his
old self as Colonel Baston; but we must close this
paragraph for the present. On Saturday night of
this week, “The Shaughran ” will be presented at
the Opera House, with Jennie Lee as Con the
Shaughraun. Of course, you will want to see the
little actress in this character, for she always acts
the man better than most people who were born
that way.
** * *
We didn’t intend to go near the Baldwins
again, for the Profe-sor said that he didn't care to
try reading a man s mind if he didn’t have any.
You remember, he failed with us, and had the im-
pertinence to tell us that our mind wasn’t big
enough to read with a fifteen hundred ton micro-
scope. But we happened to meet Mrs. Baldwin,
and she told us to “dojeome down,” because the
Professor was going to “ explain all his tricks this
week, and show how it’s ali.done.” We knew the
Professor over in America, where he had the re-
putation of being a silver-toned liar of the first
description. Had he told us what Mrs. Baldwin
did we wouldn’t have believed him; buc w<- went,
anyway, and now we know how it's all done. The
Professor really explained his most puzzling tricks.
Mrs. Baldwin escaped from the pillory on the open
stage, and the Piotessor opened handcuffs, untied
ropes, and threw tire from his linger tips, until we
began to believe that he had been shaking hands
with the devil. Now we are open for an engage-
ment, and intend to break the bloomin’ Professor
up in business. But we want to tell you another
thing which the Professor did. He asked the
audience to all think of one thing, and he’d tell
them what it was. After a hit, he olinked his eyes
a bit, as though he'd been out the night be-
fore, and then he said, “It was a cussed
shame to liog poor Anderson.” Then the
people cheered, and said “kerrect” —but we
aren’t so sure that they wouldn’t have cheered
just the same if anybody else had got up and
uttered the same sentiment. We considered that
the Professor’s weakest trick, and believe that he
did it just to hoodwink folks, for he asked us out
to drina after the show was over, and told us that
“everybody don’t know everything—not by a
durnea sight.” As we smacked our lips, we found
time to ejaculate that “ they were, and no mistake
—spirits included.” Then we proceeded to include
the spirits for which the Professor had paid, and
now we are as happy as a hilly-goat with a new set
of horns. The Baldwins go away shortly, and
open at Orange, we believe. The worst thing we
wish them is good luck, for their show is certainly
worth the money; and then the Professor
* shouts ” every time we meet him, and that
makes a lot of difference in our estimate of a show.
• * * *
The Gaiety was better tilled the last time
we went there to see Stanley’s Juveniles in “ Pin-
afore.” Perhaps you don’t know who Pinafore
is? Well, you may remain in ignorance, if you
don't, unless you go to see the Juveniles. And do
you know we couldn’t help chuckling just a little
when the villain behind us whispered to bis mate
that the piece was quite appropriate for the
Juveniles, as most or them were scarcely old
enough to leave off wearing pinafores. The
attempt at a pun didn’t strike us as being par-
ticularly brilliaut, but it was well meant, and
that weighs a heap with us. Usually we have a
downright horror of " child ’’-perlormances, and
certainly do not go to witness them only when
dire necessity compels. The last juvenile troupe
we saw was a “Pinafore” push that Professor
Ballwin was running through the United States
and Canada. It was a better outfit that Stanley s,
which shows a lack of training—stage-mamgement
we should say, if we weren’t afraid of interfering
with somebody’s salary. Captain Corcoran was
assumed (?) by Master K. Stephenson. The lad is a
good little actor, and makes the part quite attrac-
tive. Amy child’s Ralph Kackstraw was rather an
ambitious undertaking for a mere child, but she
went through it with a grace and skill that we
hardly expected. The first thing her folks know,
we'll be waiting lor that girl to grow up. Amy is
a pretty little dancer, and the beauty of it is that
she isn’t qrite old enough to know it yet.
• • •
Dolly Juman played Sir Joseph Porter.
She didn’t play it exactly, but she tried it, and
failed abominably, not for lack of talent, but for
lack of training. Dick Deadeye, too (Willie Dris-
coll), was about as “ far off” as anything we have
ever seen. He has a fair voice and good action,
but the stage manager or somebody else should
tell him not to slap his thigh too far back in the
presence of company. This is only one little point,
of course, but the whole idea of the Stanley
“push ” seems to be to burlesque “ Pinafore, ’ and
to burlesque a satirical burlesque of such great
fame requires just a little more ability and a lot
better training than the kids at the Gaiety know
anything about. But now we have stayed long
enough at “ Pinafore,” and are not going back to
the Gaiety until next Saturday, when the Juve-
niles are to reproduce “the gorgeous burlesque
and pantomime” of “Jack, the Giant-killer.
We’ll not exactly promise to go then, but we may
if the right kind of carriage and pa:r is sent around
for us, and Stanley doesn't get on his ear at what
we have written this week.
* * * *
We went to the Minstrels again the other
night, and had a good laugh at the antics of the
four corner-men. There are Keenan and Hussey
on the bones, and Bent and Cowan on the tambo.
Yes; and there is poor Ball in the middle, who has
to take the brunt of all the jokes, and look just as
happy as though they pleased him clear out of his
skin. Wo wouldn’t Use to bo a middle man. The
last one we knew was Ainsley Scott. You remem-
ber him, of course, for he was out here several
years ago. If you don’t remember him, his tailor
and several other people do. But we were going
to tell you that the last time we saw Ainsley he
was running down Kearney-street, San Francisco,
with a woman shouting after him. Ainsley's
work tells on him, and that is probably what
makes him so slim. But Ball is so fat and jolly
that every time we look at him we wonder how he
can be happy and contented in the atmosphere of
such old jokes as be sometimes has to breathe.
* * * *
By the time the lights went down and the
curtain up on Saturday night the Royal was
packed like a court when the prosecuting counsel
blows his nose preparatory to reading the soicy
billets in a divorce suit. “ Patience ” was the piece.
Considering that the aesthetic fad, to whio'h this
burlesque owes whatever little raison d'etre it
possesses, never beoame (epidemic in Australia —
never attacked us in ’ he virulent form it assumed
in London some years ago when Mayfair found
relief from the ennui of life in slobbering over
sunflowers, knee-breeches, chipped pottery, and
tow-headed epicenes of both sexes—th« cause
of the success of “Patience” is not so easy
to be guessed. For the success of a tra-
vesty, however good, usually depends on a
close acquaintanceship with the thing travestied
“Don Quixote” and “Gulliver’s Travels” would
be as unmeaning as one of Sladen’s madrigals if
we were in the dark regarding the things they
were written to ridicule.
• • •
Well, the curtain rose, and the twenty for-
lorn maidens began their little chirrup. The
scraggy ones appeared to gravitate towards the
wings, leaving the centre to some really credit-
able specimens of full-blooded protoplasm, one
maid in the middle attracted as much of our
attention as we could spare from a stout lady
in front of us, who showed her appreciation of
Sullivan’s music by' a running criticism on the
Anderson flogging case, and the risks manv reput-
able churchwardens ran should the police and
magistrates continue their crusade against gal-
lantry. It was as well, perhaps, that the maid in
question kept in the background. Her appearance
suogested a lot of things—among others, a closer
acquaintance with tripe and stout tnan with
ideality. This suggestiveness was not banished
when Miss Montague appeared as Patience. We
are far from saying that Annis could fill her “ pro-
gramme” witn either steak and onions or Barclay
and Perkins. We merely hint that, as she appeared
on Saturday, she didn’t seem like one whom a
senna leaf would affect or the smell of a dafl'y-
dowu-ddlv satisfy. But she carolled as blitheiy as
a linnet, and carried the milaing-pail with a pro-
fessional abandon that elicited noisy approval
from the pit. accompanied with the remark from
a foreign lady sitting behind us, in green silk and
fourteen-button gloves, “Bedad, whin I luk at ’er,
I think o’the ould bor-on in Galway, an’ Darby
tbrowin’ down his flail to lift me an’ me milk over
the style, never dbramin' o’ the time whiu he’d be
a C.M.G. an’ me a layther o’ fashion.”
* * *
J here are soldiers in the piece—officers,
rather; for, in the British service as wo knew it,
long before the rather loutish young dragoon
sleep ng beside us bad blossomed into the greatest
war-correspondent and the greatest—ahem ! —of
the age, the soldier daren’t assume to be an officer,
and the officer disdained to be considered a so'dier.
And the sheen of those wari iors’ helmets on Satur-
day night brought back the long, dusty, swelteriDg
field days at Aldershot, when Her Gracious Majesty
and her cousin Cambridge (Prince George, you
remember, who played such havoc amongst the
Russians in the Crimea that Czar Nicholas, to save
the poor Muscovites, had to intrigue for the ter-
rible fire-eater's recall to England) drew up at the
saluting point, and we dare-devils swept proudly
by, hungry, but patriotic. The dragoons in
“ Patience ” recalled all this One honest swash-
buckler, we noticed, carefully avoided the trap-
door while marking time. 11 was, perhaps as well
—both for him and the door. And yet, had it
given way, he would not have been altogether lost
to us. His legs, of course, might disappear, but-
barring the opening was constructed to let a hearse
or a furniture-van ttirough—he would still have a
chance to finish his chirrup. Should an irruption
of French rascaldom ever call Australians to the
tented field, we pity the regiment of Zouaves this
fire-brand runs foul of. But, of course, he’ll have
to be properly mounted-say, on a hippopotamus
or a lorry.
• • •
During a tussle with a clarionet obligato,
Annis shyly told us that she was “light and gay.”
That she was gay anyone could see, out there was
some diversi y of opinion about her lightness. It
13 sometimes hard to translate the demon-strative-
ness of an audience—to say whether it means ap-
probation or irony. When Mr. Charles Turner, for
instance, meandered on and said to Annis, “ 1 am
beautiful, ’ there appeared to be some expressions
of dissent, more or less emphatic. This struck us
as odd, for we have seen Charles in many circum-
stances—in the street, at the bar, being shampooed,
and even struggling with a plate of corned beef.
Once we thought we recognised him in the Water
Police Court, but of this we can’t be certain.
Anyway, he always appeared lovelv to us, so we
can't make out why the audience—[There. This is
the last show you go to. if this is your style of
criticism the sooner you get back to that billet on
the Coogee tram the better.— Ed. B.j
" THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .l
Mr. A. G. Byrne (whoever the devil lie is)
has been playing the thrilling Temperance drama,
“Ten Nights in a Bar-room,*' at Ballarat, Victoria.
Miss Aggie Atkinson, who is described as a, neat
little actress, p ayed the heroine—Oh, and at \ ass
Dan Barry's company are playing an Irish drama,
called “ The Shamrock Green,” by Mr. Parnell.
In the exercise of a wise discretion, Dan doesn t
say which Mr. Parnell It appears that Mrs. Jef-
freys-Lewis is not a “go” in Adelaide, lhe L.V.G,
says:—“ Miss Jeffreys-Lewis belongs to a school of
actresses almost foreign to us. She seems almost
artilicial in her redundancy of expression.” Let s
hope, anyhow, her acting is as good as that writing
—we mean, “almost.”....We see by the News-
letter—a rather dull ’Frisco paper—that Mrs.
Langtry has made an enormous “ hit ” there, in an
adaptation bv Clement Scott of “ Nos Intnnes,
Fred de Belleville, the very much married masher,
this reminds us, is appearing in ‘’Monte Christo ,in
the same city. Fred takes the sausage roll—we
mean the title role—but we had jußt been reading
the Evening News Let’s see; —Oh, yes! Grat-
tan Riggs has been doing well at the Oddfellows
Hall in Tamworth, and Marian Willis’s Company
have been appearing at the Temperance Hall,
Pem-ith. Says the Nepean Times: “Minton N.
Griffiths, who was for some time a shop-mate of
the writer, is business manager, and as “ Mint ’
has had considerable experience in the line, the
public may rely upon a lirst class entertainment,
surely, this can’t be “Newton Griffiths, the cele-
brated English character actor.” Oh, Grat-
tan Riggs’s company includes ;Harry Jerdan
and Theresa Horan. Success is, therefore,
assured!!!... The Inverell dramatical cricket is
evidently mashed on Mrs. Kmpson. He’d better
look out, or he’ll make the acquaintance of Billy’s
boot.... The Marionettes are in Townsville with
Harry Santly, who has the longest moustache and
the biggest locket on record This is from the
Cootamundra Herald :—“ At the close of the
meeting, while Professor Simon bid good-bye to
his audience, he came down roughly on some local
persons, whom he held responsible for his having
got locked up here. This was rather indiscreet on
his part, as he thus added to the publicity of a
matter which is sure to do injury to his profes-
sional reputation. ' He would have displayed
better judgment had he left this alone.” What
does it mean ? Perhaps the Professor
It’s coming. Signor Kegciardo is at Charters
Towers with Antoni’s “Temple of Wonders.”
Hurry down, old boy, with your accomplished
native cat! Then Tommy Hudson seems to be
there still, with Ada, and Miss Nellie Oscar who
conjures ...And that reminds us that Phil. Stuart
is a landlord now, Oriental Hotel, Port Louis .
Ada Ward is in London again, and made her
entree as Pauline in the “Lady of Lyons.” Ada,
alter several years’ absence and one more mar-
riage, is looking much younger ...Fred Maccabe,
at latest, was playing to good houses at St. James’
Ha 11... .Sheridan's “ push” was in town last week,
having returned from a successful trip to New-
castle. Now they are on the way to Adelaide,
where they are to treat the public to “ Fun on the
Bristol ” hash until they can t keep a button on
Grattan Riggs’ party have gone to Queensland via
Maitland, and, of course, they will do a big busi-
ness, for Teddy Clarke is in advance, Charley
M’Mahon stays behind, and we have told every-
body how clever Grattan is in all his characters.
If Andersen deserved twenty lashes, how
many did the woman deserve ?
At the Shakespeare Show at the Albert
Hall, London, the well-connected young: ladies,
who did its charity business in character, seem to
have behaved in what that eminent judge of
female propriety, Mr. S. H. Terry, wouid term a
very pert way. An actress, who criticised their
amateur pretentions somewhat acidly, remarked,
in her stinging letter to the Era, that there was
only one character of Shakespeare’s of which she
was reminded at the Albert Hall and that was the
bold bad young woman who wants Cassio to come
home to supper with her.
Purify the blood, cleanse the stomach, and
sweeten the breath with Hop Bitters. Bead.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased .from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witb
flag and floral decorations. 60i Hunter-street,
Sydnev.*
Catarrh or the Bladder.—Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaints
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney. General Agents.
Knowing its absolute purity, its power-
fully invigorative and corrective action, and its
value as an anti-dvspcptic and diuretic, it is no
wonder that physicians so frequently prescribe
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla works directly and
promptly to purity and enrich the blood, improve
the appetite, strengthen the rerves, and braco up
the system. It is in the truest sense an alternative
medi'eiae. Every invalid should give it a trial.
Eat and Live.—Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoffnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Sir Alfred Stephen thinks Andersen de-
served his flogging. Certainly, Sir Alfred. Ander-
sen should have hired a cottage somowhere lor his
pleasures, like other pooplo used to.
• • •
Some people have no brains, but they have
•an unlimited supply of cheek. A certain New
■Zealand banker is one of these. One of the bank's
late customers has a charming wife, and the man-
ager had been in the habit of visiting her fre-
quently and turning over the music while she
played. Under such cireumstancee, it is not to bo
wondered at that the husband's overdraft should
have increased by leaps and bounds. It was the
only satisfaction he could think of that suited and
soothed his particular complaint, and ho made the
most of it. Still, a time came when, although the |
did qot '*bato bis visits, ho gave bis client J
This is the gay and festive
Tawhaio in the act of making
up his mind to go abroad.
Hia emotions on leaving his native land may be
easier imagined than described—especially as the !
aea was rather rough. On the snow capped peaks i
of the rugged coast may be observed a few of his
creditors waving him a fond farewell,
Arrived in London, be is welcomed by Mr Gladstone. 11 It will never do,”
said the grand old man, ‘to present him at Court in his native garb. I must
s persuade him to wear clothe«, eren if it. be at my own expense.”
He ia induoed to don a plug hat, a
pair of braces, and an ulster ; but. his
Majesty drew the line at trousers.
He is presented at Court, and acquits him-
self creditably, “ only.” The Earl of Derby-
told him afterwards, “ You ought not to have
offered to rub noses with her Majesty.”
At a tea-party, given in his honor by Mr». Pon-
Bonby de Pompkyns.. he meets Oscar Wilde, who
suggests that old gold instead of sky-blue braces,
would have harmonised better with the really well-
chosen colours of the tattoo upon his Majesty’s
features.
At a Court ball, he nearly
frightens the life out of La/ly
Saccharina de MiUeHeur (hit)
partner), by turning a waltz
into a wild corroburee.
Is much struck with Mary Ander-
son, but thinks that, with a little
tattooing here and there (after the
patterns upon his own face), her
beauty would be perfect. Offers to
call upon her some evening, and
show, her how to do it.
He has developed an
admiration for the ballet
\ which is almost beyond
restraint. The other
night he was con»picu~
ifcras at the Alhambra, where he ogled the
\ girls to hia heart’s content. Afterwards,
\ when ho had had his supper at the
Savage Club, he became so enthusiastic
in a description of the wonders he had
seen that he made a bold but abortive
and ludicrous attempt to imitate a pas
Beu].
In short, this ex ■ heathen
seems to be rapidly develop,
ing into something of a
masher
Hll"^
oft? I *'. 0^
,v* Y \> s»
u*V>
In point of fact, be seem*
to be “ carrying on ” to that
©Xtcnt, that we toe! it our duty
to remind Inm ul the girl he
left behind him. Won't she
tattoo his C*c« anew when he
returns P—Rather.
King Tawhaio’s Royal Progress.
to understand that, in future, he must decline to |
honour his cheques. This was bad enough, but
when the client one day met a bailiff in the street
who served him with a writ for his overdraft, it !
took him somewhat short. He went home in a
gloomy frame of mind, intending to ask his wife to !
help him to curse all banks and bankers, limited I
and unlimited; but when he entered his own par-
lour and found the lady playing the piano and the
manager calmly and complacently turning over
the music, he simply yelled out, “You internal
scarecrow, clear out of this domicile like a shot, or,
by Sir Julius Vogel, I’ll kick your insignificant
carcase into everlasting Hades before you know
where you are.” The husband's boots were No.
13’s heavily ironed, and carried fourteen-stone
good weight in full activity; the banker was a
smallish man—cheek was his great mainstay, but it
tailed him on this occasion, and he bolted from the
premises and never came back. The overdraft has
since been written off the bank’s books as a bad
debt and the manager removed to a more salu-
brious locality.
Weshould like to know what “Melburnian’
does, when he is not writing “ Over the Murray” for
the Rum. We wonder what his number is—we mean
the number of his cab.
* * *
I Considering that the Rum has nearly as
! many parsons on its staff as the Herald, one
might expect accuracy in Biblical references. Yet
1 on Friday it said:—“Mr. J. Mitchell, the genial
| member for Newtown, acted the part of a good
Samaritan yesterday morning- 1 A cup of cold
water,’ &c.”
* • *
The unlearned heathen often gives the
clever Christian a nasty jar. That’s just what the
untutored Maori, Titokowaru, did when brought
up before a New Zealand bench, charged with
using threatening language. The sturdy old war-
rior, not getting the hang of the proceedings*
pleaded through the interpreter, “guilty.” The
BeDch, however, undor the circumstances, thought
it would seem more just to take the evidence and
give Tito a chance. Freely translated, this is
how the sequel ran. Interpreter: “ The Bench
won’t let you say you’re guilty; they say you’re
not guilty.” Tito: “Good” (and he wrapped his
blanket round him, and proceeded cheerfully to
clear out of the dock). Interpreter: “But you
mustn’t go; they’ve got to try you yet.” Tito
(bewildered): “If they say I’m not guilty, why in
sulphur do they want to try me at all?” Inter-
preter: “You see, you might turn out guilty,
after all” Tito: “Well, didn’t I say I was, and
they say I’m not.” Interpreter: “Just so; that’s
it.” The Bench: “Tell him we’ve written him
downin this big hookas notguilty.” Tito: “That’s
a sanguinary lie; I said 1 was guilty.” The Bench
(pompously): “ Cali the first witness.” Tito (with
an amused air of resignation): “ Well, I always
thought these Pakehas were d—d fools.”
• * •
Ob, .just read this! There is a township
on the Bowen Downs, in Queensland, where “ the
residents have been reduced by the drought not
only to drink bottled porter, but to bathe in it
likewise.” Reduced! Surely it should he “ele-
vated?” We wonder if there is a paper there. If
so! Ach Gott, what a place for an editor 1
* ,* “ *
Some people think the Mudgee people
were rash in giving A. G, Taylor £3OO all at once.
It should have been doled out to him in three-
penny bits at intervals of two hours.
* * *
Talk about a goldarned libel on the whole
of the Rockhampton constabulary foorce ; read
this. A few days ago, a certain Samson up there
was on a brief visit to a Deiila who runs a shanty
for the accommodation of single men and their
wives, a few miles outside the township. About 1
a.ra., a facetious cuss ol’ a cabby, named Yankee
Dick, undertook to give the gay sojourner a bit of
a shaking up, and he accordingly began to thunder
at the door, like Richard Cceur de Lion at the gates
of Ascalon. “Jumpin’ Jezabel,” screamed Deiila;
“ here’s them gory coppers a breakin’ in on us.”
And Samson, being a valiant hero, immediately
hauled off and went scooting through the bush at
the rate of something over a mile a minute.
He was overhauled and arrested by the spor-
tive cabby and a friend, who proceeded to
escort him into the local lock-up. The genu-
ine police got wind of the fun, however,
and, just by way of adding a little novelty to the
programme, they promptly ran Dick and his mate
themselves into quod. Next day, the pair of jokers
toed the scratch to answer to a charge of personat-
ing the foorce, and the following dialogue en-
sued. Police Magistrate: “Did the prisoners tell
you they were constables ?” Piosecutor: “ Dmps;
they did, yer Wusship.” P.M.: “Did you, at the
time, believe they were ?” P,; “ I did, at first, yer
Wusship.” P.M.: “ What caused you to alter your
opinion?” P.: “Well, it kem about like this, sir.
I wuz a bit scared, an’ so I arst the fust feller an’
the other cove to come an’ do a liquor, an’ take a
crown a-piece an’ say no more about where they
foun’ me, an’ both ov them refused. Then I knew
they couldn’t be jinyuine ltockhampton trails, an*
so I cleared an’ give th’ infermashln’.” “ Soilince
in the Coort!” roared one of the libelled braves, as
the Bench went out in the yard and kicked itself
to check a fit of laughter.
• •
On hearing that the Wolverine was about
to be taken out of commission, there was much
excitement amongst the wood-yard men. If any
invading vessel wishes to fight our navy, they had
better toss for choice of docks and fight there.
Our men would bleed for their country, of course,
but they dislike being sea-sick. Besides, it isn’t in
the articles.
* * *
When a young married lady read the Van
Heekeren business, and learned the reason of the
female’s little contretemps, which she alleges was
the cause of her visit to “ Lupra,” she exclaimed
“And a doctor, too! I can’t believe it.” Innocent
creature!
The Balmain clerk who wouldn’t show the
depositions, now says that he will let any clean re-
porter read them. His hitter revenge.
* * *
The colossal conceit of America is about
to be colossally perpetuated. When we say about
to be, we mean about to begin to think of starting
to be. The statue of Liberty, which they talk of
erecting in New York, is to be 151 ft. Sin. high, and
is to stand on a pedestal 177 ft. fiin. high. It will be
the Tenth Wonder of the World. Our new Land
Bill is, of course, the Ninth Wonder. You will re-
member that the Colossus of Rhodes was the
Eighth Wonder, and yet it was only lOifeet. high—
that is to say, 46ft. lower than the proposed Ameri-
can statue, not counting the pedestal of the latter.
Do you know the real reason why the
are raising this statue? No ? Well, it is that they
shall have something in the coming time by which
io remember that they once had such a thing as
liberty in the land. Just that. If you don’t be-
lieve ue, ask Gerald Massey.


HE CALLED BOUND.
It was a new chum, who
Out here was sternly sent.
And who got on a tear.
And therefore owed his rent.
Of course it was a “ pull ” I *
And let him thus be chaffed:
Before his d-id “got wind”
He’d drunk his little draft.
It was an awful baw—
Had brother rich somewhere;
Rich brother would come round
And make the thing all square.
“ Can’t make out where he is:” —
And then, why. we declare!
Upon the floor there stood
The new churn’s oldest frere.
“ Saved! ” cried the new chum; “Yes,”
The other said —“ ’tis true;
I am your brother, but
1 am the bailiff, too.
“ it was a pull.”—Tommy Traddles, in “ David
Copperfield.”
JJodern 7 T on <oJ* Cba.&.
torx of Wood
ft hfetf, Just
">vzut a min-
iate dn-d iff
I Chafi you one
off /hi« fere.
r*/ s
(&)ee hc fe (Son.- 4
ju&f C\s.n ou-t I
fo jhc ad arid |
brine in ci not her
fan of Coa.d, rkio
Jtre'ds .
c&fz /~u<sfct& areff Senct ?n/ f>&*/
COiY/iit /7£,»/ ofzt Ida n't cnincC
Custan&r - Oc/on i w .
@a.7ry>n-<? h-om-e. c/. Zon.oJ Coer/ ( /*o(c{s/2/j ofoenj
ofc/ /fine Cba f Oord. tioco j/iaZeJaf--
fen eccoay f 1 usee/ to coeigh a. ton, note/ nty
fatTronhal* _ Just />Z &*** /'
Galled over the Coals.
Two verses from a poem on “Kindness,’
in the Morpeth Times:—
“ How deep within my heart doth rest
The deed in kindness done!
Ever remains within this breast,
Till life’s short journey’s run.
“ Thou who snatched me f rom the mire,
Degradation, aias! and sin I
Placed me on a rock much higher,
Formed me a new path to begin.”
Two of our own:—
Unhappy youth! how small a store
Of knowledge thou hast gleaned—
Or, sure, thou wouldst have known befoi’e
Th\ friend was but a fiend
He would have been a friend entire—
Thou, stainless of such verse—
If he had “snatched thee from the mire,”
And jammed thee in a hearse !*
Cooma joke—about a flour mill: “ The
company had to follow suit much against their
grain.” Very poor chaff, this. [Verypoor! Ed. B ]
A Rum man is anxious to know how the i
passing of the Land Bill will affect the “ allotment
of land ” he “ won ” at the diorama. “ Persons are
selecting on the property already,” he said, when
he came home after inspecting the property,
steeped in mud and indignation. “ Some miscreant
has shot upon the estate three fish-baskets and a
dog-kennel.”
J|c * *
Talk about the persuasive influence of cold
water, here’s a verbatim copy of a telegram which
was recently sent from a Back-block station in
N.S Wales to a leading Melbourne firm, and which
should be pasted on every temperance banner
lo the land. Voild: —“Two and a half inches of rain
fallen within the last four days: just in time to
save our lambing. Can't I have a cheque-book
now #” Of course he could. Fill high the bowl
with Botany wine!
* * *
Up Riverinaway thei’e were recently some
races. There were only two horses running in the
first race—a black and a white one. The finish
was very close, and on the judge being asked for
his decision, he pronounced, without hesitation*
for the (hie) “ piebaldsh.”
* * *
“ Load on is becoming simply unendurable.
The ground beneath one's feet is honeycombed
with railways, and their rumblings and quiverings
givß one the impression that one is living in the
midst of a chronic earthquake. Over one’s head is
a network of,” etc. By this we see that Henniker
seems to bespreading himself out. He used to be
“spreaded out” here sometimes, but in a different
manner. There was a rumour in Sydney that
Heaton used to wear, for armour, a copper coals-
scuttle. All Ilenniker’s armour was—behind.
The News calls the moving-on of their
favourite coffce-stall, in Friday’s paper, “ Judicial
Tyranny ” It’s no wonder the boys are angry
“Just a cup and a roll, only till to-morrow, and
then .” We wouldn’t mina believing the coflet-
stali was glad to be moved on.
Says the Blayney Advocate : “ The Press
is the concentrated essence of the vox populi.’’
Noble metaphor, though slightly mixed. The editor
must have felt proud after he wrote it. But we
suspect, for all the grandeur of the thought, he
would rather have been able to write that the
Press was the concentrated essence of corned-
beef.
* * *
We have been much hurt of late to notice
the spread of a ridiculous rumour to the effect
that the devil is dead. If any of our readers have
been led astray by this heartless hoax, let them be
warned in time by the fate of a man of Mossgiel.
We quote from a country exchange:—“A store-
keeper in Mossgiel has been missing since Monday
He came to Hay to buy some horses, and had been
drinking slightly. On Monday night hra went to
bed. At about 10 a tall dark man called for him
and went into his bedroom. Since then, he has
! never been seen or heard of, although the police
t have made every inquiry.” Miserere, Dominc! We
wonder nobody noticed whether the “ tall dark
man ” was dressed in a ftamc-coloured suit or not ?
But, after all, that is of no consequence. The
devil —no person of a religious mind can doubt that
the tall dark man was the devil —can change the
fashion of his apparel to suit the taste of the time.
We should not be surprised if his garb on this oc-
casion included a broad-b rimmed hat and gaiters*
Another point to which we respectfully draw the
attention of the Protestant Standard— the great
authority upon all matters connected with Hell—
is that the devil seems to have altered his hours of
calling. It was formerly the usual thiDg for him
to drop in upon his customers at midnight. The
ease of Doctor Faustus is a proof of this. You re-
member the Doctor in Marlowe’s play 7, watching
the clock and waiting for the Evil One to c >me to
claim his soul. The moments seem to whirl madly
on; the hands are near the hour. Then he cries
out in his despairing agony, “ 0 leute, lente currite,
metes equee ’’—and all that thereafter follows. But
now it seems that Satan makes his appearance two
hours,earlier. Perhaps increase of business will
account for this. Anyhow, beloved brethren, It is
a sombre and terrible thing to think that the
Enemy of Mankind is still going about like a roar-
ing bush missionary, seeking whom he may de-
vour. The only safeguard in these days for thof e
who wish to save their souls, is to rally together
and send in their subscriptions to this office at
once. Lose no time! Terms, tweDty-four shillings
a year—in advance. The devil will never touch
anyone who takes this paper. P.S.—He is one of
our most esteemed contributors.
* * *
Says a contemporary: “ The barmaid
question is exciting interest amongst all classes.
To be, or not to be; that is the question.” Hem !
should it notrather read, “ to beer, or not to beer ?”
[Notice to cashier: Let this man be superannuated
on a sausage next week. He is getting too fee h
-Ed. B.]
• • •
Fancy! There is a party in this oity called
' Beebag. And there are two butchers called Hogs-
Mesh. Curiously enough, this was the motif of
farce by Charles Lamb, called “Mr. H.,” which
was produced with great tc'at at a country house,
and damned with great expedition at Drury Lane.
There is also a Smith, but he qualifies it (probably
by Act of Parliament) with the prefix “Burdett.”
The man with the most aristocratic cognomen in
Sydney is Courtney. This' is the genial gentleman
who keeps a footman in a handsome natural livery
and an assertive goatee to open the front door
But, Horney soit qui mat y pense.” ,
* * *
Says the Fourpenny Firebrand, with re-
ference to some bigoted bosh it quotes about a
Papal bull: “ We advise every leader to commit
these dreudful words to memory, or cut out and
paste in your hat.” If we cared a curse one way
or the other, we should advise suoh readers to cut
them out and paste them in their boot-so that
they could always tread upon them. But we don’t
care. Still, we should Iketo be preset t when the
man who wrote ihat sentence was about to start
for the Hereatter. We have a message we should
like to send to Judas.


Useful Tonic fur Digestive Organs.
93 Collins-street Bast, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l have carefully examined the
samples of Bavarian Hop Bitters which you
sent to me. They contain some useiul tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
be quite free from any deleterious ingredients.
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a fine aroma, their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already recommended
them to several of my patients. W ishing you the
success you deserve,—l remain yours truly,
GEO. LB FEVRE, M.D.
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoi’ing agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
* without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y., U. 8.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decrv
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
themarston bolus.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
t i~v • **hvsicalDecay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis
now and direct methods and absolute
oushness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Oastleroagh St., Sydney
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in.MEDICINE and SURGERY. Regis-
t"ed Physieian of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NEDVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Honrs—lo a.in. to 4 pm.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address-ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President—P.<» Box 673.
Ladies' Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
li- 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.-Offiee
and Waitmg-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON
DOBEBT butcher & Co.
(Late William Long),
ET WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
BRIEF MENTION.
A dark 1 and bloody mystery: A Sydney
sausage.
A Chanpie-ter in History: The “ collec-
tion ” at Giblin’s.
TheNAMOi Independent is for sale. Don’t
all speak at oncel
What no man will ever admit: That he is
“the father of the child.”
Dean Sheridan is invited to all the Gover-
nor’s recgjotions. Levee and Distress.
‘Reading makes a full man—may be.
Drinking makes a man full—betcher life.
There is a very feeling par. in Brisbane
Figaro about a burnt-down Rockhampton pub.
The way to double a man up is to hit him
straight in the “ marine.” This is a sporting item.
The dullestcolumn in the London Weekly
Dispatch Is the coiumn of “extracts from the
comic papers.”
We are sorry to learn that a celebrated ex-
legislator is indisposed. He is suffering, he says,
from an “ulstt rated uvulum.”
Is the boss of the burned-out Armidale
Free Press a “ melancholy Jacltes ” ? Since he
was insured- —, well, perhaps not.
The reason we are not very well is that we
have just received “ volume 19,577 ” <-'f theCoROWA
Free Press Where, by the way, is Corowa ?
Prince George of Wales has been made a
Knight of the Garter in recognition of his eminent
and distinguished services in—sucking lollies.
It is said all over the town that J'aylor has
succeeded Plummer on the Shroud. It is surely
meet that a Taylor should succeed a Plummer.
What certain parties got into trouble for
here, a week or tw<-> ago, was not for giving Coke
but Littleton. This must have been done before.
We suppose, now the men are going to
strike at Hunter’s boot manufactory, we shall
have “ Shandridan ” again writing in the Shroud
“What are you most fond of?” was a ques-
tion deferentially put to one of Alfred’s
“ crickets.” “ Everything ,’* was the prompt reply.
“Is your Worship ready to take the
drunken cases ?” asked the sergeant of a country
justice down South. “ Yesh (hie),” was the reply.
Extract from one of Bobby Byrne’s
“ loaders "“ I not rest satisfied until I have
squelched the hell-bug.” Nice place, Queensland!
It is i umoured that the girl Plummer, who
murdered her child in Melbourne has been par-
doned. When let loose, she is to be told not to do
it often.
This is genuine. Mrs. Hadfields“read
heads,” the other evening, at the Piotestant Hall.
A Rom man submitted his bead, but she could find
nothing in it.
The Queen’s book has been a most terrible
“frost,” save among the Samuel Wilsons of
society and among those interested in psycholo-
gical researoh.
Two years for Mr. Morton, the C.P.S. of
Tingha. for embezzlement. In this case up North,
sympathy only of a diluted description is felt for
Morton s pickle.
That gallant old sport, His Excellency, has
declared himself in favour of cycling. This in-
telligence may be apt to make the gubernatorial
cocks and hens pensive.
A fraudulent insolvent was arrested the
other day with £753 on him, His name was “ Pop-
pens.” No sympathy can be felt—honourably felt
—for a man whose name is Poppens.
If we are to credit the evidence of a wit-
ness in the News, we must indeed be constrained
to believe that the University padlock is decidedly
a place for the purposes of recreation.
A maiden lady has died in England from
the effects of the bite of a gnat. We suppose the
maiden ladies of England would all die if they
only heard the Australian mosquito bark.
We wish, when the Narrabri Northern
Argus steals our pars., it would spell them pro-
perly. It filched one item of ours about Raynor,
and makes us write about his mosus operandi.
The Attorney-General—one of the best of
men-declines filiDg bills. We don’t decline; but,
though wa have plenty of bills, we have no file.
If we had a file, we should have no meat-hook.
The Marquis of Londonderry is extensively
advertising his coals at “21s. a ton. Lowest summer
prices.” Why not ? The day may come when he
will have to sell somebody else’s coals— hy the lialf-
bag.
“ Why,” cried Joe, after perusing the
paper, “here they say that Limoges is celebrated
for enamel; I thought it was for its cheese. Horrid
smelling stuff it is, too. The Americans eat a great
deal of it.”
“First,” said a certain barrister “I charge
a retainer, then I charge a reminder, next • charge
a refresher, and then I charge a finisher.” Not
many olients have enough money to get as far as
the finisher.
When in Waverley, the other day, we
encountered Alfred driving himself. When we
used to meet him ini what the immortal Bailey
called “the hold times” he used to be driving
somehodv else.
“Don’t throw those hootsaway, my dear,”
said a benevolent old gentleman as the girl was
placing his old twenty-fours in the dust bucket;
“ I see Gerald Massey is coming to Australia. He's
a poet, you know.”
The Herald's Paris correspondent not
being able to spell “ Les Diamante de la Couronne,’
again leads us to believe that she chronicles the
doings of the gay city from a selection on the
Parisian borders—of Dubbo.
They are going to form a “National Asso-
ciation of Journalists ”in London. The project is
now mooted here. Since this, all the butchers
who sell the cheapr st tripe have been sniffing
around the Athemeum Club.
The young boy, Gilholm, at Clunes, who
was giddy with a little girl, 13 years of age, named
Polly Wayrnan, was discharged, on promising to
marry the prosecutrix. His explanation to the
Bench was that he was in a hurry.
Mr. Harry S. Prescott is employed by the
N.B.W. Mission for Teaching the Blind to ttead.
After running through most of our exchanges,
we cheerfully lead off with a guinea to found a
Mission for 'leaebiug Readers to be Blind.
“ A scientific contributor to the Echo
says:—‘All the sponges of the Mediterranean to-
gether are hardly as numerous as those oc Port
Jackson alone”' Wed bet anything on that!
Just stand outside the Theatre Royal at midday.
Says the Rum : —“ The age is intolerant of
prosy articles. It wants clearness, c impactuess,
and brevity.” The Rum musthavean awful down
on the ago, when, apparently knowing its waats,
it so successfully endeavours not to satisfy them.
The Times’ Paris correspondent says he
wired a two-column and a-half speech from me-
mory. Eheu! It’s blow, Blowitz. However, he
got the old dame who represents the Herald
there to believe it. We wonder what's her precise
age!
A reporter read to a splitter that Glad-
stone had recently felled a tree two feet in
diameter in three hours. "Now, do you call that
good time,” he said, "for instance, what would
you get for a job like that?” “The sack,” he
replied.
When asked for ketchup by an indignant
boarder, Joseph at once ordered it up; but, on the
“residential resider” (non', Alf.l) making a too
free use of this condiment, Joseph said that any-
one would think he was “irritating the Egyptian
Cheops.”
, Vanity Fair gives us the intelligence that
! Down Place, Colonel Harford’s estate, has been
let to a wealthy Australian. Now 25,000 Browns
out hero are going round to the little shop, and
telling- the oleomargarine merohant that the party
is their uncle.
Jumbuck called for whisky, and the bar-
maid handed him the bottle. He stretched out
his hand for it, but the girl, grasping it by the
neck, shouted, “Sixpence, please.” “ What's your
hurry?” stammered Jumbuck ;does it kill so
d quick ?”
The Armidale Chronicle is angry with
us about something. What s up? The editor
sttjs “we have managed to grasp one of his
leaders.” He must have noticed that when reading
his paper we always wear gloves. This is milder
than saying tongs.
Mr. Dibbs walked across to one of the worn-
out stonewallers, who was asleep and saoring like
a blast furnace, and, taking him gently by the
hand, whispered, so as not to disturb him, “ Hear,
hear, old fellow, one of the best speechesyou ever
made in yourli e.”
The Dean of Bangor has committed suicide.
He hanged himself In hi» bed-room was a volume
of Dora’s Bible, opened at the picture of “Joshua
commanding th Bun” to stand stiii. If Josh,
lived in these degenerate days, by the way, he’d
have to go to a night school.
This is a step in the right direction : how
would it act over here? Victorian authorities now
declare they are fully determiued to put down
gambling, burgling, and all offences of a similar
nature, even if they have to arrest every police-
man in the Cabbage Garden.
It is reported that when the members
entered their railway carriage and found the waif
there, one hon. gentleman didn’t wait for the
child to awaken, but, coughing behind his hand,
suddenly said he thought he’d walk. And—hem !
there was no moon that night.
At Lisinore the magistrates recently non-
suited a plaintiff without any apparent cause. It
afterwards transpired that it was on account of
the papers in the case having been mislaid—the
C.P.S. having inadvertently taken them home
wrapped round a pair of boots.
The Gunned ah Advertiser announces
that “weekly numbers of their weekly journals
will be given away to subscribers as a Christmas
box. 1 ’ Then no one will be any better off. For
the Gunnedah paper sGems to publish “ Christ-
mas ” numbers all the year round.
Newcastle Hanby reports a lengthy meet-
ing to back the establishment of the Great
Northern Temperance Advocate, and being
anxious to be on the popular side, assured the
chairman, effusively, that if he would come outside
he would gladly drink it every success.
Dr. Slate, who has just returned from Fiji,
and who the Fi.ii Times says has earned “golden
opinions,” is pensive on the subject of this report.
“Golden opinions.” Thunder 1 That’s exactly
wha r the Rum says it has been earning, The staff,
however, has still a yearning eye for sausages.
A correspondent at Boree Creek writes to
the Albory Banner: “A live curiosity, worth
going a mile to see, is to be seen at Mr. Jackson's,
ip the shape of a sheep of the male gender with
two mouths.” The bidding for the animal is very
brisk between the leaders of the Opposition and
Mr. Stuart.
Thanks of a sixpenny restaurant have been
tendered to the Evening News for its genial sup-
port. This is so grim a joke that we cannot follow
it up. Fancy the whole staff turning up, and
[We run this paper to amuse and instruct, and
wish not to take the bread out of any man’s mouth.
We, therefore, refuse to refer further to the
matter.—Ed. B ]
The other day a man named Livingstone
hanged himself in Brisbane, because he was in-
solvent. If some of our plate-humpers here
hanged themselves every time they were insol-
vent, they would require as many lives as a cat. It
is just these parties who would be disposed to
“Guy ” Livingstone.
We read in a Maitland paper of “some of
the ablest pressmen who ever wrote for Sydney
Punch,” but there is no mention of the silent sub-
scribers who now repose untimely in Rookwood,
after having rashly read that paper. Montague,
Hicks, Dally, Sherry Moore, how will you answer
for it in the j udgment ?
In one of the times we were married, hav-
ing carefully studied the daily papers, we, when
our wife was sick and wanted the doctor, always
placed the gardener in the next room witn a meat-
axe. But this grew too expensive. For, on one
occasion, the gardener killed the doctor, and we
had to buy a new meat-axe.
Be the “ G ” puzzle in the Fortnightly
Review, Archibald Forbes thinks that the said
letter stands for Escott, the editor of the said
Review. We don’t; the thing’s grossly impro-
bable. That the “ G."-signed foreign policy article
in question was written by Herbert Gladstone is a
theory far more likely to gee.
The Townsville people thought they had
got rid of their P.M., as tne last Government gave
him six months’ leave of absence unasked. But
he has turned up again. The welcome accorded
him on his return is said to be unique. Only a
goat and the bellman turned out to escort him to
his residence, and it was his own goat.
It is “de rigger ” (Alfred) in the sixpenny
restaurants lor every rook before rolling pastry
to spit on his hands. If a cook didn’t spit on
his hands the Association would probably kill him.
You see—wuat we mean is—at least—but as we
remarked before, Chris, drives a maii-phaetou and
pair, and the " world is mad, my masters.”
We were hunting for news in the Wollon-
gong Argus, w hen we fell prone on this for some
descriptive writing. Manfully did we struggle
through a column commencing “ Down at Shell-
harbour—By our Itinerant Scribe.—Weare content
to die now;” and, with all Christiau resignation,
we are just able to gasp out “ so are we.”
The Cairns Post man maintains that the
Port are a lot of geese—to which soft
impeachmoat ;the P.D. organ owns up, qualifying
the admission, however, with “ but, then, that is
much preferrable (.sic) to being a lot of senseless
goslings.” How true it is that a soft (in the above
case a very soft) anser turneth away wrath.
In referring to the late Mi. Daniel Wil-
liams, the Herald says: “ Mr. Williams arrived in
Victoria in 1851, where, after unde>going the usual
routine of nearly all the eatly colonists, he com-
menced as a contracor, ana carried out many
contracts of a public and private nature.” This is
a nice way of sending a respectable corpse along.
A London curate was recently brought up
for travelling on the railway line without the
necessary “ spons.” He got a month. Subße-
quently an application was made by his lawyer
through the medium of some evangelical indivi-
duals, and the sentence was reduced to 40s. line.
Toe only question now under debate regarding
the rev. gentleman is what shall be the value of
the testimonial to him.
From Alfred “ Nell. Come back; all
well in future. A.”—
Come back, come back, oh, sweetest Nell,
Or it will be his doom;
Come back—let us advise you, dear,
To come back with a broom.
No time to double-rhyme.
Professor Clelland, of Glasgow, has stated
that the animal form of man has now reached the
last possible vertebrate development, which is the
academic way of saying that the backbone of man
has reached such a stage that no further alteration
for the better may be hoped for. But he has
never been here to investigate how nature may
have resources outside his theory. How else do
the Ministry stand, who have not even the rudi-
ment ?
’Twas but a short time back, and Sydney
Smith was the Nooze’s white-headed boy, and
now the “ largest circulation ” puts it about that
Syd.’s brain doesn’t control his tongue. This, one
would have thought at the first blush, should have
endeared Syd. still more to his Alf.: on reflection,
however, one is bound to admit that it’s only
another instance of the truth of the maxim, “ The
faults that people most bate in other people are
their owd.”
This is what we do so like. The fellow
who fixed it up we literally yearn to embrace.
Granny had best be car ful of him lest Alf.
seduce him away. This is it: “ Melbourne Tues-
j day.—His Excellency the Governor, Lady Locb,
| the Misses Loch, Master Locb. and suite visited the
I Zoological Gardens to-day.” There is a great
future before the pressman who can turn out
work of that kind. Why, the “Brevities” man i
a witless buffoon to him.
We were about to give Adelong a jerk along
by saying that The Argus was about to be started
there, when we stumbled on this in the Gundagai
Herald: “That the Adelong Argus is but the
Tujiut Slow-Foach under another name.” We
don’t shrink from offering our candid opinion
about the intrigues between the Courts of Peters-
j burg. Berlin, Paris, and London; but when we
would venture to dabble with Adelong and Tumut,
and Gundagai, we pause—*ve simply pause.
Says the oracular “Town Talker” of the
Herald Reverberation: ‘ There are only two
kinds of people who talk ‘ bosh ’—very silly people,
and very clever people.” Now, if there is one
thing that Jack Bunsby was remarkable for, it was
for being too silly or too profound, and for the
“ Talker ” to narrow down his “ talk ” to these two
possible alternatives, is to claim to be very silly or
very clever. After mature consideration, we have
decided that the “Talker” is not silly, but too
clever—by half.
We don’t believe it; but we are authori-
tatively told that on the day of the opening of the
Pyrmont Bridge, by direction of the Company the
following articles were left at the Hum office: One
lead-pencil, a pair of shoes, half a cake of tobacco, •
an empty kerosene-tin, nine keys, and a German
sausage. The News office, so our correspondent
states, only benefited by the following articles: A
pair of socks, two onions, a copper watch-guard, a
parcel of potatoes, and a high-class literary work
(presumably for review).
Scene: Back-door of public-house in a
bush township, where the “sargint” is known to
be on the alert. Time, Sunday morning, early.
Little boy (lot/.): “ Please, father wants a bob’s
worth o’ dark brandy.” Publican: “All right;
where’s .voir bottle?” L. 8.: “Ain’t got none,
daren’t bring it.” Publican: “I’ll have to charge
you with one then.” L. 8.: “No, yer don’tl ’Ere,
just you pour it on this ’andkercher, an’ dad ’ll
squeeze it out when I gits back.”
The following ad. is some printing from
the gorgeous House of Hooke:—
“ ROYAL HOTEL,
TAN WORTH,
THOS. KING,
PROPPER ROIETOR ”
We did not think that you, dear Hooke,
Were e’er from home a rover;
But, there! we want you just to look,
And own (hie) Easter's over.
The News says, in a brevity: “We do not
publish anonymous communications.” Of course
not! What with Chris, to do the Society business,
and Frank as London correspondent, outside scrib-
blers have but a poor show. Then there is Hen-
niker Heaton, who executes, sam doute, the Club
mems. We are sorry, though, that Alf. has limited
himself to his own immediate staff. For we
thought, our-elves, of contributing to his paper
(for his approbation) a humorous dissertation upon
the innate thoughts of the oat-fish. Also, an essay
on tripo regarded as high art. Bnt our dream
has faded.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication* noticed.]
“Justice” : We are very much obliged for
the trouble you have taken. Some of the ideas are
good, but, probably, not the best that will be
av ailable this week “ G.R.F.” (Mocogoroo; and
“N.0.R.” (Paroo): Thanks; very eneouraglDg....
“G.S.F.”: Can’t see anything in your excerpt.
Women are always doing that kind of thing. There
are bunches of babies left about the streets of
Sydney; especially at opera-bouffe time..“G. W.”:
It depends upon what is the cause of the redness
of your nose. If it is lacing tight, don’t lace tight:
if it is getting tight, don’t get tight; if it is indi-
gestion, consult a doctor—“ W.J.8.”:
“We had to clear each other—the up and the down*
ward mail.
Not to mention the * mineral ’ and ‘ baggage,’ the
drudges of the rail;”
and
“ We met on a curve of the gradient-oh, God!
what a meeting was there,
Three hundred human beings clutched tight in a
black despair.”
This is the sort of “swill” you send. Now, had
Sladen sent it, there would be no particular cause
to'grumble. But that anybody else in New South
Wales should ffre this stuff into us his kept us
awake all night —“A.A.8.”: Cannot say. We’ve
• been on tho look-out for a similar book ourselves,
but cannot find one. Try Public Library. .“P.M.”:
Commonplace. . “Scrutator Cannot say
“K.G.”: “Sparrow” is only on for a lark “ G.
Daley”: Too late—“ J. 8.” (Wileannia): Anything
adapted will find a place. ...“ TopSy ”: Under con-
sideration. Answer next week. W.”:
A hard case “ E.M.”: Not up to the standard
“S. Laurie” (Balmain): Can you not see that the
allusion to Massey’s stature was made jocosely, or
is yours a case lor the traditional surgical opera-
tion V..“Ballarat Subscriber”: They areswindlers
one and all. In ordinary cases, a ten-drop dose of
tincture of geheminum, three or four times a day,
will be found of service “Fred. Hynes”: The
literary toady is the most mischievous and offen-
sive ot all. He would have us pay deference to a
bladder-headed princeling and starve the author
of “A man's a man for a’ that.”—“Bones”:
Not adapted “Gam”: You don't gammon
us with your jalap joke, if we know it. It's
as old as Methusalem’s maiden aunt. .“A.C.E. :
All contributions have to stand on their merits ..
“ C.H.H.”: We are quite with you ia thinking the
present system or want of system stupid, but can-
not take the matter up at present . . “ Harry O.”:
We know little or notaing of the place you men-
tion, except its position on the map. With £l5OO
to invest you might t ravel th? world and not find
a more suitable field than New South Wales
“Nuisance” (Grafton): Your communication is,
no doubt, highly interesting to you, and would
enthral the Graftonians. it’s a question, how-
ever, as to whether it would enthral a jury of
four; or a Judge who is partial to "wholesome
fun’ “Giuger”: Not bad about the parson
driving out in his new buggy with his girl. But,
say! Are you the other girl ? A buggy, you see,
will onlv hold two ..." A Two Years subscriber ”
(Waverley): Would be happy to oblige you by say-
ing “ something horrid ” about the advertisement
you complain of; but we really think you could
do it so much better yourself. We only say nice
things. That’s why we’re so popular with the
clergy.. “ A.8.C.” (Deepwater): Where's the joke
about a man’s kissing his wife in his own pub. bar ?
Go to! Thou art a soused gurnet.
Even in vehicles there is au element of na-
tionality, and every nation flatters itself on pos-
sessing- the best adapted to its wants. But to the
American buggy alone the true character of cos-
mopolitism belongs. It is everywhere at home,
alike in the country to which it owes its invention,
the sterile steppes of central Russia, the well-kept
highways of Britain, the primitive roadways of
Japan, or the wide-spreading plains of Australia.
Of course, the dishonest imitator has been at
work. Such an opportunity for foisting an in-
ferior and ricketty article on an unwary public
was sure to be seized by the unscrupulous. For a
staunch article, adapted for all dim tes and all
roads —a vehicle that defies competition—you
must go to Fleming's American Carnage Reposi-
tory, 33 and 34 clarence- street, Sydney.*
It was a bright Spring day last week when
the R.M.S. Ballarat ente ed sydrey Heads and
steamed slowly up our oeautiful harbour. she
had experienced a rough Mine of it across the
Indian ocean, and yet all on board had managed to
eDjoy themselves right wi 11. The fiddle in the
forecastle and the piano in the saloon had relieved
the monotony of ship life, and “the merry sound
of music and of dance ” had re ouaded from stem
to stern with little intermission. The cargo under
hatches was a valuable one—such a one as proves
the indomitable spirit that guides the genius of
manufacture at home, alvays finding an echo of
improvement and advancement from every corner
of our colony. The cargo was valuable—it was
also Important from a special point of view, for
down in the dark depths of *he deep hold were
over three hundred cases of the loveliest millinery
mantles, and other articles that a Jady ever wore,
and they can now bo seen at Anthony Hordern
and Sons, the Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
Mb. DaCoußcr Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney, «sr Mining Titles, a weli
proven speciality, %gT~ Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
6kill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*


GARTON’S hotel,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
Premier TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing: all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NORRIE ancl MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,030
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors •
Jas. Scroggio, Esq. | Ho’n. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
General Manager: I
F. A. A. Wilson. I
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 153 Leademhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Goo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Town of Bourko.
OPENING OF G.W. RAILWAY TO BYEROCK.
Land Sale ! Land Sale !
SPLENDID BUSINESS FRONTAGES AND SITES.
W H. DANIELL has been instructed by the Exe-
cutors of the late Joseph Becker and Patrick
Green to
SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION
About the time of the Opening of the Railway to
Byerock,
(60 Miles from Bourke),
The exact date of whieh will be announced in
future advertisement,
lagiceit Town Allotments
and also
A FEW ALLOTMENTS IN NO. 1 EXTENSION,
EAST BOURKE,
which have been recently Surveyed.
The Auctioneer has much pleasure in calling the
particular attention of the public to the above
Sale. Some of the Allotments to be offered are
situated in
THE VERY CENTRE AND MOST VALUABLE
BUSINESS PORTION OF THE TOWN
OF BOURKE,
and as land in Bourke is steadily and daily increas-
ing in value, the attention of business men re-
quiring' sites, publicans, investors and others is
specially directed to this Sale, as such an oppor-
tunity cannot again occur.
All further particulars can be obtained from the
Auctioneer.
TERMS LIBERAL.
TlTLE—Direct from the Crown.
W. H DANIELL,
Agent for Executors of the late J. Becker and
P. Green,
Mitchell-street, Bourke.
Bourke, 3lst July, 1884.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SFRIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the " Malabar ” Consn nations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make oua Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Prunds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55.. which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
Buy the “Reliable” Buggies,
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
FLEMING S AMERICAN CARRIAGE REPOSITORY
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST S • OCK OF AMERICAN BUGGIES IN THE COLONIES. THE FINEST GRADE,
THE MOST STYLISH AND EASY RIDING MADE.
AMERICAN BUGGIES.
Like a great many other articles of manufacture, a Buggy can be made to sell for next to nothing,
at the same time bear a very passable appearance. Hundreds are brought into the colonies, and sold,
of inferior grades, that could not be detected except by one thoroughly up to the trade in America.
The manufacture of cheap vehicles has grown to an alarming extent in the United States, and still
vou cannot gainsay the representation of the manufacturers that it is an honest made article. But
look over his stock of timber ; the quantity may cover acres, and not one spoke tit to be put into a
wheel to ensure it standing a hard road. Thousands are manufactured annually and sent to country
towns to be auctioned off. They are therefore named auction buggies, and stand very well for twelve
months or so on a good mud or sand road ; but use them one month on a metal road and the spokes
will rattle like the bones handled by Bent or Hussey at the Academy of Music.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS; 22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET.
CARPETS, CARPETS, CARPETS.
UNDERCLOTHING, Undercloth-
ing, Underclothing
MANTLES, Mantles. Mantles
YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
The above Departments are made a
SPECIAL STUDY of
TO-DAY.
It may be worth your while to come and
SEE THEM.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
rpHIS DAY. THIS DAY.
A VERY SPECIAL DISPLAY
in
OUR WINDOWS,
174, 176, 209, 211,
Pitt-street,
Marvellously Reasonable Prices.
Unequalled Styles and Assortment, all in
our SHOW WINDOWS, Pitt-street.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
~|~~|~OKDBRNS' BEDSTEAD DEPART-
MENT, 211 Pitt-street.
SERVANTS’ STRONG BEDSTEADS,
extra strong, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d„ 153.
IRON CHAIR COUCH and BEDSTEAD,
with cushions complete. Highly re-
commended for invalids.
SINGLE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS,
tubular, richly ornamented, £lsj. 6d.
FULL SIZE HALF-TUBULAR TESTER
and 4-post Bedstead, £ll6s. 6d.
FIVE-FRET TUBULAR HALF-TESTER
BEDSTEAD ; richly ornamented ;
brass caps on footpost, and brass ex-
tended foot mil; not to be equalled in
the trade. £6 10s.
CHILDREN’S COTS, in ail sizes, half-
tester and four-post; extra strong.
SWING COTS and BASSINETTES.
All the NEWEST DESIGNS in NICKEL
and BRASS BEDSTEADS, at
unusually low prices.
HORDERNS’ BEDSTEAD DEPART-
MENT, 211 Pitt-street.
WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES from
the best makers.
THE GERMAN UPHOLSTERED
SPRING MATTRESSES.
We have the most complete STOCK of
NICKEL. BRASS.and IkONTUBULAK
BEDSTEADS in the colony.
Prices not to be equalled by any other
house in the trade.
We are Manufacturers of every des-
Z cription of BEDDING. Mattresses
cleaned and re-made.
Z Before purchasing eleswbeie, give us
Z a call and look through the most com-
Z plete Stock of BEDSTEA DS and BED-
Z DING in the colony.
Z
: COUNTRY ORDERS ATTENDED TO.
C
Z HORDERN BROTHER?,
Z 211 Pitt-street,
Z BEDSTEAD IMPORTERS, &0.
Department of Public* Works.
Sydney, 12th August, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
READ THIS!
A Single Match at >1 anutar.
turlng Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£l< lOs. each,
Warranted for three ye.,re,
CAN HE BOUGIIT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thdtt be glad to heme this index potted up bv
ucretariee of reusing club# and manageri of
eporting event# in general.)
RACING.
Toowoomba J.C August 15.
Thargomindah J C August 21, 31.
Hnwkesbury R C. (Spring) August 31. 23.
Victoria Trotting Club August 30.
A.J.C. Bbring. Aug. 30, Sep. 2. 4.
Cloncurry J.C. September 3, 4.
Canterbury Park R.C .September 13.
Geranium R.C September 17,18.
Liverpool J September 20
Sydney Turf Club September 20.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6. 8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z ) J.C November 11.13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19. 20,21.
Narandera T.C November 27, 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
TattersaU’B Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.3B, Maroh 5, 7
COURSING.
VJotoria Club. August2l,22.
AQUATIC.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River August 16.
Matterson v. Edwards August 23.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Xllawarra Lake. .August 27.
B.R.C. Regatta September 13.
ATHLETICS
P. Duffy v. H. Stanton, 100yds., Hammond's
Flat August 19.
J. Mole v. W. Neddrie, 100yds., Musnvell-
brook August 23.
J. Mould v. W. Weddive, 150yds August 24.
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
N.S.W. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The gate-money fever has attacked even
our Senior Rowing l Club.
A new bowling club has been started in
Newcastle. Fifty members have joined.
Proposed reduction in members’ subscrip-
tion to Prince Alfred Yacht Club, from two
guineas to one guinea.
“That is Oxford atone end and Cambridge
at the other,” a young lady once said to an in-
quiring friend, indicating the two batsmen at the
wickets.
By some means, we were late in receiving
Centaur’s Index, but better late than never in get-
ting the fund of information contained in the
handy little volume.
Sergeant Illingworth, one of the best rifle
shots of Victoria, died in South Australia, and
left a family destitute. The Baluarau Courier
is collecting subscriptions for them. J
An English newspaper, which oarefully
avoids saying that some of the Gentlemen funked
at a critical moment, put it gently thus:—” About
half our men were too much impressed with the
gravity of the situation.”
At Orange, the local Rifle Club defeated
the Bathurst ditto by 36 points. Mr. Campbell, of
the Bathurst team, shot splendidly, and took the
cake with a score of 58 points. Mr. Bernasconi,
with 48, scored highest for the winners.
Truth , which says that Lord Redesdale’s
Pigeon Shooting Bill doesn’t go far enough, asss
“whether the whole question would not be met
by a Bill making it an offence to slay animals for
prizes, or bet upon the chances of slaying them ?"
The Wallaroo-University match, on the
Agricultural Ground, on Saturday last, resulted
in a hollow victory for the ’Varsity. The winners
played jn grand form, in great contrast to their
opponents, who, with the exception of Oxley,
made a miserable show.
II (The Parramatta Rowing Club is going
ahead like a house on fire. The third annual
meeting disolosed the fact that the roll for the
present year numbers 70 members, as against 30
for the previous year. Additions to the Club shed
and fleet are contemplated.
The conspicuous failure of some of our
leading players (the Gentlemen) at the crisis showed
that, in the very essential particular of nerve, our
amateurs are.as a rule, far inferior to their colo-
nial rivals.” Thus Truth, which remarks that C.
T. Studd seems to have a regular “ fit of the
funks.”
Redl'ern v. St. Leonards in the football
field last Saturday. Each scored a try, and Shap-
peare, for the Bhore, kicked a splendid goal, which
was disallowed by the umpire, on the ground that
the ball touched the hair of one of the Redfern
players. Fact! This is splitting hairs, with a ven-
geanoe.
In a letter to the Melbourne Sportsman,
Donald Dinnie waxes wrath, and hints darkly
“ what he could have done ” with Miller and Victor
when he met the pair in their recent matches
Surely Dinnie does not give himsslf and the other
wrestlers away by leading the public to believe that,
the desperate struggles were “ put up ” affairs ?
Perish the thought.
More thrilling news from the morning
Rum aquatic man. On Monday he gave a glowing
account of the desperate finish between Brstt and
Seale at the M.R.C. regatta, evidently not being
aware that the two are close friends, and that
Seale has as much show of besting Brett with the
sculls as the long ’un would have of landing his
active little opponent with the mittens. We always
refer to the D.T. now for our “ water tips ” be-
cause “ they know, you know.”
The continuous training and hard work
the English flyer, W. G. George, has been going in
for, nas at last told its inevitable tale, and he re-
cently suffered defeat at the hands of his old
opponent, W. Snook, who beat him, after a grand
race, by a couple of yards in the 1500 yards’ contest
for the Challenge Cup at the Birchfleld Harriers’
meeting. However, George bad his revenge on
the following Saturday, when he defeated Snook
for the mile championship.
The Rum says ‘ there will probably be
arranged a match between Tom Clifford and Elias
Layoock.” This is thrilling intelligence, indeed.
Talking of rowing men, we wonder how Trickett
is getting on in his Queensland pub. ? When he
had an hotel here, gripping his flipper was like
shaking bands with a corpse in winter time. His
welcome, too, sounded like the sentence of death.
We remember well when he had that pub. near the
Evening News. We have also a vivid recollec-
tion of his brandy.
HA'iLau, like most smart men, takes a pride
in wearing a neat rig-out, an i he can always be
picked out from a orowl of rowing men, both
amateur and professional, from his neat and well-
fitting costume. Our amateurs might well take a
le8«o” from him, for, as a rule, the whole working
wardrobe of a rowing club would not fetch enough
in an old clo’ shop to buy a Rum man liis evening
meal; and, Heav**n knows, that don’t cost much
We notice th 9 Rov 1 Sydney Yacht Squadron
people have taken up the matter of yacht’s crews
tuning out in next thing to rags, and for the
future the paid men, at all event?, are to show up
in uniform.
At the Belgrave Road Ground (Eng.), on
Slat June, the twenty-miles’ professional bicycling
championship was competed for by R. Howell,
Coventry; f. Wood. Leicester; P. j. Lees, Shef-
field; A. Hawker, Leicester; P. Bone, Sheffield.
The race requires but little description, as, save
for about a quarter of a mile, Lees remained in
front until the last lap was reached, and took his
field along at a capital pace. When the bell rang,
however, ajnasmiflcent spurt on the part of Howell
took him to the front; but a furlong 1 from home
W u > < °u cam , e ,lp ’ nnd a desperate finish ensued,
which resulted in the victory of Howell by a foot
in lhr lmin. 2 ssec.
So far as can be gathered from their per-
formances up to date, the best English yachts of
• v ., ear ar ? ln 2, r , der the Gencsta, Marjorie, Lorna,
and Ml "an da The Genesta was designed by Mr.
Bevor Webb, who from the days when ho raced
the gallant little Freda has made a name in the
yachting world, and who is well qualified to turn
out the racing machines now in vogue. At Har-
wich, on June 2, the Genesta finished 38seo. in
front ot the Marjorie, and two minutes ahead of
the V anduara Great things are expected of a
new yacht, named the Irex, which is stated to
? a 'l u 0 blßr « eBt Jump of lead bolted on her keel
that has ever ceen placed outside any single vessel.
J. 11. Keene won a bit of a trouble when
he carried off the Ascot Gold Cup in 1812, with
fcoxhall. The cup was taken over to America a
year ago by Mr. Keene, where it has since been in
the public stores, and the Customs authorities
have now advertised it for sale unless the duty is
pam up. Mr. Keene will have to pay the duties on
the day ot sale, and will propably send the cup
back to England. He says that if Americans can-
not afford to admit free of duty a prize won in
England by an American horse, he can afford to
??" dll b i The ,S u ,? waB valu ea in England at
ilouO, and Keene will have to pay £250 ad valorem
duty Apropos, Poxhall has been sold to Lord
Rosebery for 1800 guineas.
Sir Richard Sutton, who is just now car-
ryilLS 9? a P f P ri zo B at home with his 80-ton
yacht, Genesta, is one of the very few sportsmen
who have savee ” enough to know when they
have had enough of a good thing. As Mr. Sutton,
he won all the big three-year-old events in 1806—
Derby, Two Thousand, and Leger—with Lord
Lyon, and in the following' year Lord Lyon's own
sister, the peerless Achievement, won him a heap
ot money. Sutton merely leased this wonderful
couple tor their racing cireers from the breeder.
Colonel Pearson. and they were almost his first
tiirr ventures. Directly the money ceased to roll
in, Sutton bade a long farewell to racing pursuits
and retired on his laurels and winnings. Sensible
Sutton.
Lord Falmouth’s stud was duly brought
under the hammer and fetched altogether £75,440.
hig-priced yearlings a Galopm-Jannette
and a Galopm-Wheatear each brought 3i00g«.; a
Galopin-Mavis realised 2100 gs ; a Skyla k-Palm-
flower 1400 gs.; a Galopin-Gertrude MX) gs.; a
Galomn-Wheel of Fortune 2500g5.; and a Hamp-
M 2 e ’ and a Kingcraft-Silver King each
1000 gs. Amongst the brood mares, Jannette
4-00 gs., Cantlnlere 4100 gs., Spinaway
‘•jam * B -'r d t’ Fortune 5000 gs., Palmflower
gs., Lady Golightly 2350 gs , Dutch Oven 3200g5„
Wheatear 16 '0 gs., Bal Gal 1350 gs., Mavis 3000 gs.,
SUver King 1350 gs. Of the stallions, Galliard
brought 3600 gs., Childeric 1900 gs., and Skylark
1150 gs.
The first day of the Jerilderie races broke
beautifully flue, and a good days’ sport ensued.
Wellington ran away with the Maiden Plate; and
won the Distriot Immediately afterwards by half
a length from Gladiator; Verdi made a clever win
m <i he^ erllderie Jockey Club Handicap from
Trifle; Clement won the Flying Stakes: and Miss
Windsor won the Selling Plate. Rain fell during
the second day, and the course was very heavy.
Clement won the Railway Stakes; Rob Roy the
Handicap Hurdle Race; the Ladies’ Bracelet fell
to Wellington: Blind Harper won the Selling Race;
and Verdi made a win of the Forced Handicap.
The last race was run in the dusk, and coming into
the straight Miss Windsor fell and broke her neck.
Her jockey was not hurt.
Two fashionable sporting events have just
been decided at the other side of the water. The
champion cock of the North of Ireland was de-
feated by the boss cock of Liverpool: and, in a
rat-pit at the city named, a pitched battle between
the champion bulldogs of Liverpool and Birming-
ham resulted in the complete defeat of the former,
which “w s terribly punished, and would have
been killed outright had not its owner declared it
beaten, and they were then separated by force,
both being terribly mangled. The scene was re-
volting, but was evidently enjoyed by those pre-
sent. The Birmingham dog tore his adversary
terribly, finally fastening on his throat so tena-
ciously that be was with difficulty dragged off.”
The cock-fight alluded to, and a good many com-
bats of a like description, eventuated in Dublin
Bay, on board a steamer chartered for the pur-
pose.
The programme for the Sydney Rowing
Club regatta, to be held on the Parramatta River
on the 13th September, will consist of senior
scullers in outriggers; two eight-oar races-senior
eqq scratch; maiden double sculls ; and junior
scullers in wager boats—from whioh it will be per-
cetved no race has been left open for other clubs.
The senior clut was not above sending a man and
carrying off a trophy for an open race at the
M.R.C. regatta last Saturday, and it «*rould only be
m good taste to give their neighbours across the
way an opportunity of returning the compliment.
And, by the way, we notice the Bong Tongs are
throwing open their branch grounds for a view of
the big race next Saturday, at five bob a head.
Great Ciesar ! what sacrilege. It is enough to
rouse the old aristocratic clique out of their seclu-
sion, and induce them to again take the reins of
Government.
In England, the National Cyclists’ Union
mile championship, at Lillie Bridge, only drew
some 600 spectators—rather a contrast to
the 15,000 at our championships last Saturday week.
H. A. Speeehley, C. E. Liles, and H. W. Gaskell
started for the final heat, which was finished in
the order named, in the remarkably slow time of
3mm. 30 4-ssec. The last-named cut out the run-
ning at a very slow pace, the time for the first
quarter being lmin. lsec. The same state of
affairs was maintained until about a quarter of a
mile from home, when a grand piece of riding on
the part of Speeehley landed him in front, Gaskoll
here being 15 yards behind Liles. Down the back
stretch Liles tried to get past the leader, but with-
out avail, and Gaskell, joining issue as they came
into the strright, a magnificent struggle was wit-
nessed, Speeehley just maintaining his position
and getting home first by six inches; Gaskell
finished only a yard further in the rear.
At the annual contests for the English
amateur championships, held at the Lower Ground,
Aston, on 21st June, the only noticeable perform-
ances were those of the wonder, W. G. George
and an American walker namod W. H. Meek, the
former doing the mile in the unprecedented am«-
teur time ot 4min. 18 2-ssec., and Meek winning the
seven-mile walk in 54min. 27sec. Snook, the pre-
vious holder of the Cup, started for the mile, and
made a big race of it. George dashed off with the
lea', but only hold it for thirty yards, when Snook
passed him and showed the way until within 550
yards of home. Here George went up first, but
only for a short time, Snook, on climbing the hill,
regaining the lead. This he maintained until half-
way through the last lap, when George drew up
A grand race now ensued for aoout sixty yards, at
the end of which Snook was clean run out, and
George, going right away, won by about eighty
yards. George s previous best was linin. 19 2-ssec.
Counter attraction had, no doubt, a big say
in the rather limited attendance at Rand wick on
ha turd *y lost, to witness the running at Tatter-
sail s August meeting. Vidette made an ease win
or the Hurcbe H ce from Merlin, Clementine third:
Princess of Lome won the Tramway Handicap by i
some two lengths from Nepicdlina, Bryan O Lynn 1
third; tneSGling Race fell to Favour; threeGolde-
borouglis finished first, second, and third for the
Two-year-olii Stakes—Cairo, Osric, and Bon Accord
in the order named; and Battailous won the Loftus
Handicap by a couple of lengths from Bryan
O Lynn, Lord Chfden third. After the last race, a
committee meeting' was held, and r.eadbeater, who
had been ordered back by Mr.lGannon for dis-
obedience to orders when on Rosinante at the start
or the Loftus Handicap, was disqualified from
raciog for six months. The sentence was a heavy
one in any case; but more (-specially as there were
other offenders as bad, if not worsts, than the lad
on Rosinante. However, we suppose thev wished
to striae te.ror into the hearts of young jocks
straining to get away w’th (a little bit up their
sleeves, but it certainly seems hard lines for Lead-
beater that he should have been picked upon as
the examp e.
Lovely weather, aud large attendance at
the Sydney Bicycle Club sports at the Association
cricket ground, on Saturday last. Great finishes
were looked forward to between SbakeKord und
Bennett, the Victorian and New South Wales
champions respectively, and more than a shade of
disappointment was felt when it was known Ben
nett did not intend to toe the scratch. Shakelford
did not win either of the Open Handicaps, but ho
beat record time in both, doing the two miles in
(>mm 35see., and the live miles in 17min. E. Wat-
son won the Club Milo Maiden Handicap; for the
two miles Open Handicap, Lambton (140ydsj beat
Hunt (100yds.) by some loyds., Shakelford third;
A. Edwards won the Half-mile Handicap without
handles from scratch; A. Wood (30yds.) carried off
the 100yds. foot race; F. H. Pearson (40yds.) won
the Boys’ Handicap, ihe One-mile Club Cham-
pionship was carried off by J. M. Ferguson, after a
well-ridden race, in 3min. 303ec.; Remshard (500
yds.) won the Five-mile Open Handicap, Shakel-
ford, with a grand rush, finishing only ten yards in
his rear; A. W. Crane won the 109yds. slow race;
G. Reid (320yds.) won the Boys’ Quarter-mile Tri-
?JiVle^ andlcap : and A - Wood (300yds.) won the
Mile Club Tricycle Handicap.
Here is a story of two well-known English
ready-money bookmakers, Aif Savillo and Bob
Topping, which ended in the utter defeat of
faaville:—The stewards of Ascot were especially
strict in prohibiting devices on the part of the
ready-money men to attract custom. Red, white,
and blue hats, white coats with scarlet crosses,
evening dress, barristers’ wigs and gowns, and
bishop’s aprons and shovel hats especially attract-
ing the wrath of the authorities. They would
allow nothing outre in any way whatever. How-
lett, the Newmarket shaver, who takes up his
quarters at the hotel for a week, would not con-
descend to shave ready-money bookmakers, and
would not go lower than those who bet on the
nod. Saville sadly needed shaving, and, his
hand not being very steady one morning. Bob
Topping assumed the functions of barber. Eithei
the razor was a bad one, or Bob’s hand had lost its
cunning; any-way, he cut and hacked Saville’s faoe
about in such a manner that after the operation
his mother woulr’ not have known him. And,
afterwards, when he began to shout “Six to four
on the field! ” the Jockey Club came and looked at
his face. This,” they said, “is clearly a device,”
an ‘ Seville had a narrow eroapeof being turnod
out of the ring.
At the invitation of Edward Hanlan’s
Fidus Achates, Mr T. M. Alcock, the well-known
Haymark t jeweller, we journeyed up the Parra-
matta River on Friday last in “Captain” Mat.
Burns launch Annie, to witness an exhibition of
rowing by the chaninion. And this is another point
in which Hanlan differs from the rest of the pro.
Hitherto, it has bsen the custom for professionals
to make a ridioulous fuss about showing their
true form to the general public, but Hanlan never
grudges an exhibition of his powers on what ap-
pears to be his “native elephant,” as Mrs. Par-
tington would put it. Upon the arrival of the
steamer at the Mercantile R.C. Branch, the party-,
which included several ladies, went on shore, when
Hanlan proved himself as accomrdished in the
arrangement of wild flowers as in the management
of his shell. The champion is a sad dog amongst
the ladies, and we think it only fair to inform his
many admirers that he left a little wife and large
family behind him when he left the States. Elias
Layc?ck showed up during the afternoon, and
obligingly did some spurts with the champion
Hanlan, who looked in perfect health, fairly
bubbles over with animal spirits when on the
water, and to his cheery “Now, boys, who’s fora
100 yards spin?” Laycock, Brett, and Ed wards drew
up level, ana the four dashed away. Laycock got
all the worst of the start, but he held his own with
the champion, and showed that he has lost none of
the dash for a spurt for which he was ever
noted. Hanlan performed the most perfect bit of
rowing it has been our lot to witness, albeit his
style of finishing with such a powerful swish
would be considered “wrong to blazes” in the
aquatic school where we received our education
the scullers accompanied the steamer as far as the
bridge, when a cheery good-bye was exchanged,
and the Annie landed her passengers at the Quay
iajrood time, all thoroughly pleased with the
exhibition.
Wallace Ross unloaded himself thusly with
regard to the recent Courtney fizzle:—“ He wanted
me to let him win the race. I heard that he was
going to leave for home if 1 persisted in boating
him, so I did not give him a decided answer.”
Did he make any financial offer?” “Oh, no-
nothin# of that kind,” said Koss, hesitatinirly!
, • ol i don’t mean to say that he asked you to #ive
him $l5OO, do you?” -‘Well, I was to have the
prize,’ said Ross. “He wanted you to throw the
race into his hands in consideration of your getting
the s*soo ? “Just so.” Subsequently, Courtney
gave tne reporter his view of what had occurred,
and handed to that gentleman a mysteriou- letter
troin a mysterious person signing himself “Jim.”
Courtney asserted that the purse of $2500 offered
by Pilkington and Nagle was purely mythical, and
that no money had bpen really put up in the hands
ot a stakeholder. The stakeholder. Richard K.
Fox, was very indignant over the affair, and said
that. Courtney had done him great injustice by
saying that no money had been deposited. “ Not
only was the $3500 put in my hands,” said Fox
but Courtney was present at the time, with Ross
and Plaisted. To-day I paid $2OOO to Ross as
tho winner of the race, for he was ordered to pull
over the course by the referee. The $5OO which
the articles stipulated should go to the loser of the
race I paid back to Pilkington and Nagle. I sup-
Courtney will sue me in the courts for this
sooo, but I would not pay it to him under any cir-
cumstances, as he ran away. To my mind, there is
no reason for the fizzle, except that he was afraid
of Ross, and had not enough heart to meet him.”
‘The trouble with Court>iey,” said Ross, “was
that he tried to get mo to let him win the race,
and failed. He said that If I would lot him win
this race he would have another race at Saratoga
Lake, which he would let me win. He had a young
friend at Union Springs who was recently married,
and who had $15,000. Courtney proposed that he
should get his friend to bet the $15,000 on him, and
that wo should scoop the money between us.”
Next Saturday will be a red-letter day in
the aquatic history of Australia, and whichever
way the judge gives his yerdict, there is a comfort
in feeiing sure the race will be rowed on Its merits,
and each man will do his level best to lower the
colours <- f his opponent. Beach has many ad-
mirers, and amongst them men who ought to
know a thing or two in the rowing line, but, as
Hanlan rows in better form than his opponent,
and has an unbroken list of wins against the best
men in the world, as against Beach’s alleged
wonderful, time trials, we think Hanlan has all the
best of it on paper; and, so far as betting in con-
cerned, we fancy it is about a bob to a Nooze
mao s lunch-money on the Canadian, and that is
long odds with a vengeance. All the principal pro-
fessionals and amateurs have been disporting
themselves on the River during the week, Hanlan
and Beach, ot course, proving the greatest attrac-
tion. that Beach is rowing in grand form there
can be no two opinions, but, alongside Hanlan, he
dot s not appear to ca-cli such a square grip of the
water, and looks stiff about the shoulders, the
latter no doubt earn ed Dy the immense amount of
muscle carried by him in that quarter. Beach is a
mass of huge muscles, but it is a great question
if a man cannot be too muscular, that is,
of course, in muscles not brought Into requisition
iu a boat, us such a state is calculated to bind a
ihof ck* 1 ’ a , rid i ud " c ° t‘> try and use muscles
that shou d not lie brought too much Into play, as
in the arms, for instance. Hanlan appears to have
been modelled specially for a boat-puller, having
no superabundant muscles, exoept about the loin*
wnere he is a picture of symmetry and strength.
The Champion tried his new craft, built by Don
nelly, on tmnday afternoon, and appeared iho*
roughly satisfied with her, doing’ a short spin at 3#i
°r 37 a minute. The boat is built off the same
mould as Beach's craft, and up to the time of our
k°lu o° P ress there appeared every probability of
both Hanlan and Beach pulling in the beats built
tor them t.y Donnelly. Should they decide to (Jn
I so on Saturday next, it will indeed be a leather in
the cap of the premier boat-builder of Australia
F-o u vas bre d, and 1 arned lis trade on the
toreahores ot Port Jack-on. It is to be hoped that
will Dot eloso too much on the men
during tbo race. and that Banian may be enabled
oKr°v.t,a?fe 0 K r °v. t,a ? fe tb® States and say the best man won
—be he Australian or Canadian.
I* is lair to give the enlightened
citizens ot Shepparton (V ic.) the credit that is due
nL l y a u d * en L UB ’ We hasten to do so.
novelty in that favoured corner of the
asre garden has been a trial of speed and
ull.oi an^ 0 b et;w . tea a locomotive and a horse, the
ce being six miles. The proud proprietor of
V l ® Arab B teed is a sportive parly named Isaac
ball &* from Katunga, and the loco -it
belongs to the Victorian Government. So a match
mS 8 a 5F* ««*• cat ch weights, the starting point
being the Congupna railway-station, and the win-
at Shepparton. Anderson bestrode his
ail ,h th o engine-driver straddled the
locomotive. Betting, 3t02 on the iron-grey. The
b® rB ® srotaway with a slight start, the engine being
rather fractious and inclined to buck, and many
lengths of green turf were visible batween them
?^ulr e,< L Co ' ’‘Y 89 tair) y underway. At the half-way
telegraph pole the horse showed signs of fatigue,
tnougtt still maintaining a stroug lead; tha jockey
or tde iron-horso was evidently riding a wait ng
race. Coming down the home stretch, at tho back
mansion, the loco, rider crowded on
a full head of steam (the fireman roosting on the
55 r ?. t Z’I aI and, answering gamely like a thing
of life to the steady hand of its rider, the engine
was soon on level terms with its opponent. Tnev
then raced together for a short distance: but
comiugf into the straight, the loco, gradually
forged ahead of the plucky little horse, and won,
cranks down, by two passenger carriages and a
sheep truck. Time, 30 min. The settling up took
place at the Shepparton Temple of Justice a few
days afterwards. Police Magistrate Akehurst boss-
ing the situation, when the playful Anderson had
to taco the music on a charge of cruelty to a
Constable M’Conville swore a mighty great
oath that the horse, at the finish of the race, “ was
completely baked, and in a terrible lather ov
sweat; but the baste ov an ingin hadn’t turned a
nair. The loco, jock gave corroborative evidence,
aiming that the engine was pretty warm when it
caught the judge's eye, but under kind treatment
it was able to resume the journey to Melbourne,
l hen a couple of sportive publicans and a groom
swore that Anderson’s horse was a regular flyer,
and it was simply recreative exercise for the
animal to have a six-mile breather, though he did
look as it he had been hard ridden Anderson
denied that he had any money on the race, and
said that he had an important engagement to
meet, hence the hurry. So Mr. Akehurst compli-
mented Mr. Anderson on his desire for punc-
tuality, and at the same time fined him £1 with £1
4s. costs. And the Sheppartonians are now won-
dering whether they live under free and demo-
cratic institutions, or are being ground down by a
tyrannical and despotic Government.
The career of James alias “Yankee”
Sullivan, whose real name was Frank A. Murray
and whose cognomen will be handed down to posl
terity in the annals of the P.R., is one well worthy
of an outline, more especially as he was intimately
acquainted with Australia". “ Yankee ”at an early
age evinced a liking for the noble art, and after
several battles lor tbe mere love of the thing, he
met in Ireland and whipped a man named Brady
for a sum of money. He then betook himself to
.Liverpool, Eng., where he was arrested for bur-
glary, and ’ settled” for fourteen years in this
great and glorious land. As many of our old-
time readers are no doubt aware, it was customary
tor land-owners to farm out the convicts by pay-
ing the Government a stipend therefor, and a cer-
tain large i ract-owner, among others, hired Sulli-
van as a farm-hand. Other land-ownors hired
others pugilistioally inclined, and it was no uncom-
mon thing for these sports to get up a pitched
battle between two of this class. As such. Sulli-
van, under the sobriquet of “ Giuger,” fought
and defeated Steward in 2h. Bm. • Dick
Tramor in 73 rounds, Hi. 45m.; John White in 13
rounds, 40m ; and George Snarples alias Bumbles
in-,i rounds, lh. 5m Bumbles, christened so on
account of his cloven foot, was a hard customer
to dispose of, and Sullivan used to say: “Ned, it
would have done your heart good to have been
hit by Bumbles.’ Yankee Sullivan made his es-
cape from Sydney, on tne ship Citizen, Captain
Lansing, to New Zealand. From there he went to
, Harbour, Long Island. This was in the year
mi, when Murray was about 20 years old.’ Of
this escape a pretty tough story was told by Joe
Winrow. In those desperate times the prison
authorities, instead of searching vessels leaving
these ports, used to bore for the stowaways
through the deck with immense augers. Thev
are said to have bored for “Ginger” and his pal
Jim Maguire, aud when the point touched
Maguire s ltg “ Ginger,” with a drawn bowie-knife,
threatened to cut his head oif if by any noise he
gave them away. Winrow said that the auger was
sent clean through Maguire’s leg, and added
further that the wounded man coolly wiped off
the blood from the auger with his handkerchief,
ana sq they managed to get off undiscovered. On
escapmg he adopted the name of James Sullivan.
After fighting some battles in America he went
back to England, into the very jaws of the Lion,
and in 1841 he fought his first big battle, and del
feated Lane in 34 minutes. We will conclude with
rather an unpleasant little episode which occurred
alter Mr. Sullivan’s return to America: While
Very much intoxicated, he quarrelled with his wife,
who was also addicted to drink, and during his as-
sault upon her while in bed a lamp was upset, the
poor woman’s clothes caught fire, and she was
burned eo badlv that she died the next dav.
Sullivan was arrested for murder, but the case
never came to trial, owing to the political influence
wielded by Sullivan,
On Saturday morning those who ought to
know you know, prophesied s heavy westerly in
fates were propitious, and
the Mercantile Koving Club had an afternoon to
be remembered for their inaugural regatta on the
Parramatta River. The arrangements generally
were ell carried out by the executive, but the
races were of a very uninteresting nature so far
as close finishes were concerned, the winners iu
every instance coming in victors with ridiculous
ease-unless the senior sculls in skiffs may be
taken as an exception, but in t mt event it was
very evident Seale was O’ ly allowed, on suffer-
ance, to make such a close finish of it. There was
only one oar race on the programme, a rattier
peculiar fact considering that only a lew Satur-
ot tbe M ’ R ’ C - Btated that one
otth e chief a,d vantages of the River Branch w uld
be tte facilities for oar practice in light craft. The
oar race was one for junior-seniors-save the mark
—and t the tor r < shown was any erfierion ot the
generai run of M.tt.C. junior-semers, in the name
ot thunder Jet them give us a ecratcti race for
maideus at the next snow—we would then kDow
what toexoect. The ball opened with the maiden
double sculls, which fell an easy orey to W. Knight
and G M. bummerfleld; »na then tie Admiral
steamed up to the head of the champion course to
tollow the seniors ia outriggers, for which J. O.
Trimble, F Ives, G. J. Robertson, a> d F. J. Bull
started. Trimble completely outclassed his op-
ponents, and paddled over the course tie easiest of
winners, Ives finishing second after rowing a
plucky but hopeless rac . Brett. Seale, and Wil-
liams started tor the senior sculls. Se-ii 6 went
away with the lead, while Br tt contented
himsel, with second pmee, and WiMatns brought
rea A ln the wake r,£ Hrett’s wash.
Brett then drew up and showed that he huu
the race in hand whenever he liked to extend him-
self, for with a few powerful s’rokes he led past
the point with a clear length lead. The New South
K 8 f ? 11 bauk a * aiD - be came
later on and obliged the spectators with aseem-
lngly eloso finish, boating Seale on the post by
b* l / a en ? tb - beale pulled a good race, but the
calibre of his opponent was too much for him
Representatives from the M.R.C., S.K.C., G.R.C.!


M a r r and B.R.C. started for the maiden single !
Xiiilain skiffs, open to all clubs. Shortly after the I
'i Connolly tried to take a short cut overland.
Inf rhe idea didn’t seem to gee, and Kennedy, of
“ h ,S«C. pulling in line form, went clean away
from his field, and won as he liked. Kennedy is
makings of a good sculler, aud we feel pretty
«i,re we shall hear of him at bigger game than
rtsidefi races. Pickering, who by this time should
have rowed his way up a little higher than a
••maiden,” rowed in very poor form, as did Fraser
f the Balmains. Only two crews started for the
niiiior-senior fours, which proved an easy victory
fnr Grace, Warro, Blackstoue, and BriDdley. The
stroke of the losing crew caught crabs out of
number an.l rowed a scratchy dip in and out of
the water not worthy to be called a stroke. How
in the name of wonder such an oarsman could be
nicked to stroke a crew, is beyond us. The best
rice of the day was between tne Admiral and tbe
prince of Wales on the road home. The Prince
cutaway with the start, but the Admiral had all
1. ATTENTION! S. KEEP YOUR BACK IN! A. KEEP YOUR HARCD UP! [?] FORWARD, MARCH! 5. LEFT FACK! 6. SHOULDER ARMS 7. RIGHT
SHOULDERS FORWARD! S. GROUND ARMS! 8. RECRIVE CAVALEY! 10. FIRE! 11. PRESENT ARMS: 12. STAND AT EASE!
The Chinese Actively Propering for War.-(CYBLE NEWS)
the best of it to the Quay, where she landed her
passengers in good time, all seemingly satisfied
with their afternoon’s entertainment.
t Thus “Pendragon” in the Referee:—
“However the balance may be when tbe Austra-
lian cricketers come to the end of their present
list of fixtures—whether their success is as great
as they themselves thought it was b mnd to be,
or whether the run of luck is dead against them—
they will carry away when they depart the admi-
ration of everybody who likes to see men exhibit
courage and determination; to exhibit them at
times when courage a> d determin tion are most
valuable, and, therefore, are rarest. It is an
axion*among English athletes thar the absolute iy
bravest man known is the man who can display
his hravery at tho exact moment when the display
is of the highest possible value. This axiom Is the
result of experiences, many of which will not bear
thinking about when desperate valour in the field
becomes the subject of conversation. During
their stay here, the Australians have piayed several
games under exceptionally disadvantageous cir-
cumstances; sometimes their best men have been
cripple*, at others, fortune has declared very de-
cidedly against them: but whether they have won :
! or whether they have lost, nobody can deny that
they did their level best, and we have it on
fairly high authority that no man can do more.
Anyone who reads the reports of the match played
at the beginning of the current week must be
struck with the dogged pertinacity of the ‘ corn-
stalk ’ lot; when what they did then is added on to
wbat they have done before—and I don’t refer
particularly to matches that have been won by
them—wo must at once concede them the merit ot
thit dogged obtsinacy which was once regarded as
the private and peculiar property of natives of
these islands. One or twice I have had to say
something which may have appeared unkind in
regard to the assumption of amateur rank by the
Australians. I sincerely wish they were better
qualified as amateurs, if only because their pluck
and staying power would do much to leaven the
weak-kneed business which here in England often
gives professionals so great an advsu »ge. Auy-
how, i am glad to a, mir nerit wh merer acd
wh .erever I get an opporte nity. The <utlm and
quiet way m which the Australians have played
up is a powerful rebuke to ttiose who are not only
s <> anxious to decry them, but so readv to "give
reasons' directly a home t-arn is beatenby them.”
The London Dailv Telegraph s.-ys that “al-
though every true-born Briton the
victory AusTrJ-ilf'Eleven!
captained by Mr. Murdoch, over the Gentlemen of
England, wfth genuße regret, thcrc w l not be
the shadow of bitterness mingled with the feeling,
Qq the contrarv the IVother rnnntrr ir»nk« wUh
pride on a nourishing colonr which )» capable of
producing a body of cricketing athletes able to
ma tch themselves equally, ana sometimes even
victoriously, against the best players which she
herself can find to represent her. . . There are
thousands to whom the namo of Australia was as
that of an unknown wilderness until her first team
oaaie to show us a sample of the b one and muscle
which was capable of being produced out there.
Hundreds of our countrymen will find it much
easier to imagine what life at Melbourne and
Sydney means after watching Blackfaam wieket-
keeping or Spofforth bowling for an afternoon. It
would not even be surprising if tb© result were
that more of our young men decided to take to
Colonial life, and if Mr. Murdoch in that way be-
came a valuable adjunct to the emigration offices.”
After this, surely no Australian Cabinet Minister
can possibly refuse a Civil servant leave of absence
to go to England with an eleven. The D.T. further
»ays that the Australians’victory over the Gentle-
men at tbeir second meeting was won by “sheer
indomitable resolution and boundless courage,”
and that “ nobody can grudge them a victory won
by the display of admirable skill, and still more by
the quality of never recognising that they are or
ought to be defeated.” Many other papers are
equally flattering to our men, who, however, are
this time apparently regarded by all ha r ds as out-
and out professionals. The Standard first started
depriving Murdoch and his friends of their “ Mr.”
in its match-reports: a lot of the other papers fol-
lowed suit, and now we find that while the “ Mr.”
is appended in every case to the names of Steel,
O'Brien, and so on, it is almost invariably omitted
in the case of the Australians, between whom no
distinction is made. The sole exception is the
Times. It is, indeed, intensely comical to find
that most respectable paper saying that “ Mr.
i annerman” was here neatly caught by “Mr.”
O’Brien, and that “Mr Midwinter ' 1 sent a ball to
the off for four. Which reminds one that the
other day, in reporting a match between ihe
“ Gentlemen of Philadelphia ” and an English
team, the snobbish Guo mo actually printed “ Esq.”
at the end of each Yankee “ge’mman's” monni-
ker. in America, as in Australia, we suppose,
every tripe-dresser's assistant thinks himself an
Esquire, There is onlv one other title which has
been so deeply degraded in Australia—and that is
“Knight.” Home days since, a provincial paper
remarked that “ this time tha Australian team
played so evenly that it hardly seemed to have a
tail.” “ Good gracious!” shrieked Blackham; “ the
noble Horsetrailyan kangaroo without a tail I Look
here, my boy, you have yet to learn that the tail is
the strongest part of the animal—and don’t you
forget it.”
The two sides to an all-engrossing subject
in the South at the present time are truant officers
and monthly nurses. The strife is great between
them. Our sympathies are with the latter. In a
young country like ours a rapidly increasing
population iB our main thing; and. as well as we
can judge, the latter have a decided advantage
over the former in conducing to this result. It
may be denied that the party of our choice in pro-
pria persona, contributes! directly to this grand
issue, as the nurses are mostly well up in years.
But the same denial can be urged against the
truant officers. All anyone with a capacity for
diagonosing a stud man has to do is to watch one
of these officers giving- his evidence in court, you
see that all his virility has taken the direction of
lying* It is not, then, for what they are capable
of in propria perxnna, but for their coadjutorial
efficiency that, after comparing them, <ve have
elected to side with the nurses in the present dis-
pute. The dispute lies here. A monthly nurse
goes forth on her heavenly mission. The truant
officer hears of it, and lays himself out to watch
those kids she leaves at home. He always finds
that Tommy goes down to the river and fishes all
day, instead of going to school. Therefore, be
summons the :• urse. But he has next to pick his
magistrate. He, therefore, prowls around, and
gets a bachelor to sit. on the case. And tie bache-
lor magistrate sars to the monthly nurse, “ tou
ought to beat home with your children. As for
what you say about being a monthly nurse, I be-
lieve you want to impose on the Court. There's
no such business.” Now, this is mean on the part
of the truant officers, and we hope that, out of the
investigation going on, the monthlies will come
triumphant.


F
URNITURH SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY Ml WTON, and LAMB,
JJ’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
end
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL jOABI.VET’H jfor Choice China, &c.
. VERY ELEGANT, jußt received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking: rooms, &c.
B'
ED ROOM SUITED complete in various woods,
> and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gr«.at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
sjught-poumd Bedroom suites.—The
JJi Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest draw ers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stroet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early EogJish
Designs).— WARDROBE, 4ft, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swiDg glass attached ; PEDESTAL COP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEV. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tab!. H, t min IUS.
6d.; Dining Tab P-s. from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from ]2s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s ; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s ; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s.(id.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 603. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and U’ConDell streets.
j. M 4 v
LSI
s.
*
i}QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed Pound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly ilnished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
EA SY ~0 C CASION AL CHAIRS, CTr
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
_ RAWTNG-ROOM “OCCASIONAITCHAIRS.-
A.GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
cets, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
o
p
Prie<
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, tori mg CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Verv handv and inex-
pensivo. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and "WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room stdf-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
matoh, on view at Show Rooms, O'Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
Screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
0 ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
D
5*
m
This chair adjusts its*lf to auy position, from
Bitting to reclining, and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It tits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-;'ho re, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying onlj four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. Hit AD LEY, NEWTON
and LAMi'i fonly).
B
AGATE I,LK BOARDS I , Portable Various
Sizes. BRADLKY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for i> it a wTng-ro o m suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippen ’.ale. Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAI!
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and"
LAMB, Spring and O’f'ennell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass-
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb!
BEDSTEAOS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest ratefT
BRADLKY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Co D :
nell and Spring streets
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, iroui 2Sg. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20sl Verandah Chairs
INDIAIV LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConnelLstreet
Bentwood furniture.-a very comply*
Assortment: host make, low.-at, prices.
SOCIAL
Last Thursday, a private social, initiated
by members of tbe Emulation Lodge, was held in
the Town Hall vestibule, and it passed off witb all
the cheerful pleasure that can be got from youth,
beautv, and brightness Everyone, by this time,
knows the splendid hall, with its wonderful roof,
its matted corridors, and noble chandelier, and,
with Herman and Shapter's music, and all the
elegance of Baumann’s genius visible on the
Supper tables, nothing, was wanting more, it is
true there wa< rain outside, but there was a reign
of beauty within that soou elevated the thoughts
above paltry weather- The Lodge is a young one,
ana most of its guests were young, too. mere
was none of the tormality of wearing aprons, for
the reason that the affair was not intended to be a
d'splay of Masonry, but just an indulgence in the
pleasantest of social pastimes, and the members
trust to have some similar occasion once every
three months. From the very agreeable style of
their first social, there is no doubt others will be
eagerly looked for, though they will not neces-
sarily be always in the form of an evening
dance. A committre of seven managed matters,
and at eight o’clock sharp a programme of
20 dances was commenced, waltzes tbe chief. Of
course, the prevailing mania for turning every
other dmce into a waltz bad some adherents; and
t ic Kensington style was adopted by a few of the
couples. It is a style that could bardiy be done by
oad dancer 3, as tbe partners hold so lightly, and
those who did it were among tbe best in the room.
A little Moore Park lady, with straight err am
s<irts, was ft-ath-r-light ; and so was a Howrke-
su-eet favomite in white, deoked with tawny rio-
bons. Ve”y graceful was a quiet girl i sky blue,
with white lac i trimming. A dress that many
ladies envied was n pale blue silk, trimmed with
•fine white iaee and blush roses, worn by a Cleve-
land-street lady. With a married lady Irom
Oxford-street, came a charming girl in small rub.v
velvet bodice and airy white skirt, wh se happy
smiles were enough to make anyone else happy
—who got one. A Uttle lady, popular on the stage,
treated her partners to an incessant iiow of
sprightly talk; and if there's one being in a bal-
room tha f a young man loves with unlimiied
affection, it 8 tne girl who car cold up one end of
a conve sation, and do it as nicely as he pretty
little wearer of those white, Uighty-looki..g skirts
and cardinal trimmings did. Wbeu the Emulation
Private Social ended, about 1 o’clock, uli agreed
that it had been thoroughly enjoyed.
* * *
St. Aloysius’ College sports occurred on
the Btb August, when big and little boys, gaily
bedight, struggled In the athletic arena under the
eye* of relatives and friends, who nearly half-tilled
the stand. They were earnest enough, and if the
championship of the federated colonies had at-
tached to every race, they could not have made
greater efforts, or much more noise. Most of the
athletes were Milesian young ventlemen, and they
ran about and shouted with all that Impulsiveness
of manner supposed to be characteristic of their
nation. Tbo big boys generally beat the little
ones, who did not get half eno gh handicaps—so
their mothers persisted. Quite a number of Rev.
Fathers were present; and so was Tom Malone, tbe
champion runner. E. Henry won the cham-
pion schools’ race; C. Olliffo, the half-mile; and
little A. JenniDgs was greeted with roars of
laughter as he shuffled in winner of the sack strug-
gle. Remshard won the 3 mile bicycle race. Hamil-
ton wasnot able to get up at the finish, but no doubt
soon forgot his defeat in the sweet consolation
he seemed to enjoy on the lawn. The Nelson band
played, and as most of the attendance consisted of
what Mr. Dan O’Connor calls the sweet solaces of
men’s lives, wo will just describe wnat their fathers
and husbands have to pay for. Two young ladies
displayed a liking for plenty of colour, one wear-
ing a deep sea blue with white lace down tbe
breast; and the other, brown velvet with chenille
trimming and cashmere, also fronted with white
lace. A pepper-grey cloth was trimmed with
ailver-grey silk, bat and feather well matching. A
lake cashmere was formed in three rows of square
pleats, and the body gathered In folds at the waist,
Henri Deux of same colour. One of the most fas-
cinating little specimens of roundness was a figure
in peacock green, the neat bodice having figured
silk jabot, and tbe accordion skirt entirely free
from draping, but witb half-a-dozen jtucks below,
running through the pleats, which were full
length; velvet hat and feather of green com-
pleted one of those ensnaring toilettes that de-
cimate the ranks of the noble army of bache-
lors. Another of the s vme colour was a cloth
skirt and brocaded velvet bodice of consider-
able magnificence. A full blue bad the cuffs,
Swiss belt, draping, and hem all marked with nar-
row black lines. A very finely pleated Mary An-
derson was of brownish green mixture, with deep
band of black, and above was a fresh, bright face.
Perhaps the most stylish dress on the promenade
was a fine black satio, with front drapery and
golden satin jabot, worn by a orunette; gloves aod
parasol en suite, and princess bonnet also set off
with gold satin. That particular development of
form which is now so highly approved by the
female world was carried to an extreme in a dress
of rye-brown cloth; for while the small pointed
bodice clung to the figure as close as eiicumstanoes
allowed, the skirt, m a spirit of antagonism, stood
out like a huge diving-bell. About three limes
round this extensive young lady would have made
a good race for small boys. One simple dress
caught the eye—all black, apparently merino, in
broad pleats headed by draped paniers: bonnet,
parasol, and gloves all black, and only the dainty
collar and cuffs white: and the costume bespoke
the wearer’s pe feet taste.
* * *
Wileannia people held their monthly win-
ter party on Turns lay, tbe rlst ult. Abouttwenty
couple gathered at Kennedy’s Assembly Hall at t»,
and enjoyed themselves heartily until » iu the
morning, getting through a well-arranged pro-
gramme ol 22 aanc s. Among the -carried ladies,
a brunette in white satin, who is wife of a Silver-
ton auctioneer, and a dark lady, who is a splendid
dancer, wife of a local auctioneer, were particu-
larly admired. The great attraction among the
single ladies waa an heiress, at present on a visit to
the town, resplendent in black and white saiin;
and, no doubt, numbers of tbe Wileannia young
bachelors were ready to say “Cannia,’ if she
would have said “ Wil." Tbe music was all that
could be desired, and supper quite good enough
for people who love dancing.
* * *
A glorious mooD, at iis golden full rose
over tbe pretty town of Riehmood, as tbe girls
began to dress 'or tbe Masonic Ball. Tney re-
quired a deal of time, for it was an that had
fluttered half tie muslin on the Hawkesbury for
weeks beforehand. The last, is, the Riohmcno
git Is haven’t been a moving-off freely of la : o, and
the parsons are making hardly any extra fees, so
the Duke of Connaught Lodge determined to give
them a chance, and came to the rescue with a ball.
When the night came, it brought visitors from
naar ana far, and as they arrived at the School of
Arts a crowd watchi d eagerly outside, and even-
tually squeezed in, to get a sight of the gaiety and
glitter on the important occasion. Everything
had been prepar d with cate; programmes were
b ue and silver, in the form of a Masonic aproD,
bearing all the mystic symbols of tbe craft; the
floor was not only dean, but so s ippery that solt
thuds, followed by the removal of limp masses
of lovelines from the centre of traffic, were fre-
quent incidents. Tbe musi • was managed by a
aisciple of Orphei s bearing the iuqodng name
of Francisco Melfl, who had tareo asnstants, who
played with a cheerful celerity that made the
dancing warm work. Most of the Richmond
young men have a style of dancmg that is honest,
but angular: they waltz on the Scriptural principle
that it is more blessed to give than to receive, and
generally manage to bestow quite as many prods
as they get. To make sure of this, they cultivate
a habit of keeping their left elbow always out at
the angle which is most convenient for raking the
ribs of anyone who comes near it. However,
other people do this, too; and, for the benefit,
therefore, of Richmond aod the other quarters of
tho globe, we respectfully make this one appeal:
Do keep your elbow down. But there was plenty
of room, and of good-humour, so the ball was
really eojoyed in spite of the e'bows. Mr. H.
Evans was a capital master of ceremonies, and
very courteous. At each dance the couples were
marched round, so that everyone should get an
equal start. As this was a new plan, it took
us a little while to get into it. We'd be
superintending the loading of some Peri’s plate
with quivering jelly, and talking innocently about
the weather, when a special messenger would
hurry up to say “ There’s a young lady asking for
you, mister.” Then we would hasten off, full of
agitation, wondering what had happened, only to
discover that the procession was waiting, and the
music couldn't start till we and our young lady
joined in. We'd remember the arrangement for
an hour or so, and then forget it again. Wander-
ing out under the chaste light of the glorious
moon, we’d commence on a prime cigar, listening
the while for the preliminary chords of the galop,
when another small boy appeared, to announce
again, “Your young lady’s waiting, mister; she's
got on a crushed strawberry.” Of course, we at
once snipped off to the young ady who had >“got
on” the crushed strawberry, and trtod to mollify
her by a series of servile apologies; but this
march round business seemed to weign us down
with responsibility and care. We couldn’t take
a rest or a reverie, or even go off with
a committeeman to see whether the supply
of soda-water still held out, but we were haunted
with the apprehension that everyone who ap-
proached came to say “ There’s a young lady wait-
ing.” The decorations were something for Rich-
mond ladles to be proud of, for to their deft fingers
was due the wonderfully pretty effect of the
festoons that dangled from roof and wall, of woven
ti-tree studded with flowers-of the fresh ger-
aniums—the leafy bowers in every corner—and the
Mssonic emblems of every kind which were in-
geniously designed out of cut fern-fronds and
palm leaves. The whole was planned by Mr. C.
Chester, of the Bank of N.S.W., and carried out
by a ladies’committee of Mesdames Guest, Hughes,
Misses Griffin, Hughes, and Holmes. The other
members of the ball committee were the W.M.,
C. 8. Guest; P.M.’s Dr. Jockel, G. H. Flannery;
M.M.'s C. Doyle, S. Boughton, and E. Young.
The ball was opened by Mr. Guest and Mrs.
Flannery vis-d-ris to Mr. Hillier and Mrs. Guest
who wore a handsome black costume set off
with cardinal flowers, and the dancers soon
got on good terms with one another. Mr. T. R.
Smith, the local member, was, as usual, among the
most active on the floor. Colonel Holburow dis-
played a special taste for dancing with the pretty
little daughter of his vigorous colleague; and Miss
Smith, neat in cream satin, was certainly a delight-
ful partner. Mrs. Smith was present from Penrith
in a handsome dark sttin. Dr. Hughes was also
there, and Mrs. Hughes, charming in ivory corded
silK and deep ruby flowers. Mr. Chester wore ar-
tillery uniform. Miss Cobcrott, a tall and hand-
some girl from Riverstone, was a Lady of the 17th
Century, in Marie Stuart bonnet and a flowing
robe, which was green from the back, red bordered
with gold in front, particularly symmetrical from
a side aspect, and charming from any point. Her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Cobcroit, wore a capital make-
upas Bettina, the good-luck briugerin “La Mas-
cotte,” and very good-lucking she was in her flop
hat and curls over a piquant face. Of the Rich-
mond girls, it seemed to us that none danced so
well as Miss Johnson, who wore neat pink satin;
and none had a finer dress than Miss Holmes, who
sparkled in short hair and a pleated eau de Nile
satin, adorned with blush roses, white lilies and
water-grass. A bevy of local charms was repre-
sented by her sister, in blue; Miss Ellen Eather, in
Nancy Lee dresj with a very slender waist; Miss
Griffin, in a dark toilet; Miss Young, in two shades
Of raspberry-red broche and veiling, blended in a
way very attractive; Mrs. Reid, from the Post-
office, handsome in a black grenadine woven with
sold5 old threads and golden satin bodice; and Mrs.
ockel, in a costume of good taste—black with pale
blue gloves and girdle. Bright little Miss Mary
Hughes, who teaches the young idea how to shoot
in the school close by, wore a sweet cream satin,
with red-edged flounces and ribbons, and
Just our solid prose to vary
For a time,
We will picture little Mary
In a rhyme.
Little thing who’d make you dreamy,
Fill your head
Full of thoughts of satin creamy,
Ribbons red.
Very fond of fun and dancing,
We should say;
Face 98 bright as sunlight glancing
At mid-day.
Sort of girl who’d lead you on to
Spend your cash—
Girl who makes you madly want to
Do a mash. t
All was joy while with her flitting
Round the room:
Seeing others by her sitting,
That was gloom!
The beautiful Kurrsjong district was represented
by Miss Dunstan, a blonde whose fine figure was
set off '*y pale-blue silk; and North Richmond by a
petite brunette from the Public School, Mrs. Doyle,
who looked charming in a satin of ironbark brown.
Miss Ada Doyle was a saucy siren from Surry Hills
in crushed strawberry and ivy leaves, with a rose
mounted on one side of a coquettish head. From
Balmain came Miss Schofield as Duchess of Devon-
shire; from Moore Park. Miss Hamilton in pink
silk most beautifully handpainted; from Cockatoo,
Miss Hayes in ruby and pink; and from Woolloo-
mooloo, Miss Jessie Evans in white satin and net—
a toilette that looked exquisitely pretty. Mrs.
M'Grath, from Parramatta, also wore white—
a trained satin that looked exceedingly hand-
some; and Miss Drew, of Windsor, drew lots of
admirers, as one of the prettiest little dancers in
tne room, her dainty figure shown to advantage in
a white silk. Miss Beath, of WiDdsor, wore black
net, covered with tiny flowers; Miss Cummings, a
graceful young lady ol Petersham, wore cardinal
flowers on a white faille, which did not fail to
charm. Other ladies looked web, but wo can t call
to mind the precise details that made them fasci-
nating. As to the belle, we are perfectly silent.
Call us coward, if you like. Don’t matter: we I
shan’t say a word. We are leaving that particular
conundrum to Messrs. Davies and Johnson, the
editorial luminaii s who scintillate in the journa-
iistic sphere of the Hawkesbury, and wc have
•Treat confidence they will find an answer to please
everyone Mr. Phil. Miles, of Richmond, was
caterer, and provided in a way that was a credit to
himself and the town, and on the strength of his
luscious tables dancing was kept up till nearly five
o’clock on the balmy Saturday morn.
* * •
Rinking was very popular in Sydney a few
years ago, but, after a rage of about three sea-
sons, it declined, and now the rumble of the
wueels is seldom heard. We believe its decadence
was. in part, owing to the enormous price askeo
for skates, and even tbeu often for a very ill-made
article. People grew more tired of the constant
expinse than of the exercise. It has been stigma-
tised as a fool sh occupation, and perhaps it is, Out
so are lots of other exercises and pastimes, and
people must do something for recreation. As the
rinking mania wore off in Sydney, it began to
seize upon the country towns, many having rinks
superior to any in the metropolis. But, this sea-
son, owing to the splendid hall available in Pad-
dington-St. Matthias’ school-hall-it is revived
again, and every Monday night the private club is
attended by a number of enthusiastic ladies
and gentlemen—some extremely graceful skaters.
Cuiiousiy enough, though it is about seven
years since rinki g was popular in England,
and half London as well as other towns went
roller mad, it is only this past season that the craze
has developed seriously in New York. One rink
l there last year took the enormous Bum of £11,COO; I
it accommodates 3000 skaters. Teachers are reap-
ing golden harvests, for everyone wants to be
taught at once, and can’t afford to wait for fear
they will be regarded as behind the fashion. Car-
nivals are held on elaborate scale, and prizes given
for speed, for fancy work, and for tableaux. Rink-
iDg is very funny, and it's most particularly funny
when you can’t do it. It is a perfect comedy if
you know just enough to keep on your feet, and
it verges on tragedy when you don’t And yet
there is a charm about it somewhere. People fad
down, and hurt their limbs and their dignity, with
unstinted enthusiasm for several months before
they become expert. Then, after infinite trouble
in learning, the art dies out The Woollahra
people do not like to see trouble wilfully wasted
in this way, and have consequently resuscitated
the lively pastime in St. Matthias’ Hall.
• * * .
Last month, quite an era in the festive an-
nals of Fiji was marked by an amateur-perform-
ance of “The Pirates of Penzance." It was ad-
mitted to have been in all waysasplendid perform-
ance, which would have been creditable to far older
colonies. It took place in the public schoolroom
at Suva, UDder the management of Mr.. George
Moore, the scenery and mounting being heauti-
fully prepared by Mr. Chabot. The character of
the opera was that of Mabel, taken by MrS. Farr,
whose sweet, flexible soprano voice, and correct
rendering, delighted the critics in the audience,
and her graceful acting was full of charm.
Kuth was a tine impersonation by Miss Evans,
though her voice was none too strong; and the
same limit of power was the only fault tnat could
be found with Mr. Collet as the Pirate King, for
both parts were most carefully and correctly
acted. Major-General Stanley was taken by Mr.,
George Moore, whose wife was pianiste during the
evening. The large audience testified that the
opera was the finest entertainment yet seen at
Suva.
• • a
A nice wedding took place at the residence
of Mr. Gulliver, Darby-street, Newcastle, on the
7th inst., when Miss Lucy E. Suter and Mr. A.
M’Pherson were united. The bride was elegantly
dressed in cream silk and Spanish lace; and five
bridesmaids attended, one in cream and cardinal,
two in blue, and two in pink. When the company
adjourned to breakfast, provided by Lashmore.
various healths were proposed, as usual, and at 8
in the evening the guests started dancing. The
hall appeared prettily decorated, and the gay
dresses deserving of notice. Tne wife of a leading
citizen wore a handsome costume of ruby velvet,
trimmed with cream silk, oriental it.ee, and head-
dress to match. The hostess wore a rich blaok
satin and real laco. A dark young lady from Surry
Hills wore cream veiling and cardinal surah, with
cream breton lace; and a married lady from Wick-
ham wore a pretty cream bioche satin. Two
sisters came from Bruce-street ia light materials,
which looked very pretty. Weduing presents
were numerous and nice, so were the wishes that
followed the young couple on their honeymoon,
per steamer, en route for Bathurst.
• * *
Among the round of cycling festivities last
week, the Suburban Club gave a smoke concert at
Kainford'B. Soon after eight, the room was filled
with young men and smoke. There was also a
quantity of “uas” about. Cigars were passed
freely round, and a distribution of vouchers was
made, so that when any young man got dry he
cjuld go out and allay his thirst, and, at the same
time, study the question of the abolition of bar-
maids. In a little while, the air was so thick that
no one could seo whether the songs were well
sung or not; but there was plenty of applause.
The best, however, were two pretty ones by Mr.
Scott, and two by Mr. H. Peir. Mr. Harris was
successiul in his comic efforts; and Mr. B. Palmer
recited “ The shipwrecked Crew ” in his best style.
Messrs. A. Edwards, C. Chambers, B. Lloyd, A.
Usher, E. Jeffreson. Fletcher, and Snowball all
gave selections, Mr. Chris. Shepherd being the chief
accompanist. Mr. A. Brooks was rather novel
with his soprano voice ; Mr. Hodge varied the
vooalised music with a saxophone solo; and piccolo
and flute were well played by Messrs. Somerville
and Christie. A sad song, entitled "The way my
lather raised me," was contributed by ...r. D.
Mcikle, and the general impression was that his
father had taken unnecessary trouble. Mr. F. J.
Empson's bicycle song, “ Riding through Victoria, ’
may have suited the particular audience, but it
will probably be much more valuable in a few
years than it is now—because nobody will have a
copy. About half-past nine * here was an interval
for the voucher business, when there were a good
many encores, or “ the same again,’’ and the smoke
concert closed before eleven o’clock.
• • •
At Hope House, Manly, an enjoyable party
was given last week. The rooms were beautifully
decorated, and dancing m two apartments was
carried on till after 2 a.m., intervals occurring for
refreshment. As the last boat leaves incon-
veniently early, Mr. and Mrs. Tedd suggested that
their guests should stay the night, and breakfast
next morning was a good finish to the lestivity.
The hostess wore a handsome black satin skirt and
ruby velvet redingote lined with old gold; hair
dressed high. A tall, sweet-eyed brunette was
most graceful in a quiet silk; and another, from
Darlinghurst, with a perfect profile, obliged wffh..
some of the best dance music. A gentleman frdtn-.
Hunter’s Hill also contributed with voice and
fingers to others’ pleasure. A brunette in pink
looked fascinating, with an immense fan artisti-
cally handled; and two fair graceful girls in pink
were much admired.
* * *
“ Eton,” Summer Hill, was the scene of an
enjoyable party last week, when guests assembled
to help Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Gray celebrate the
twelvtn anniversary of their marriage. Dancing
wa«, of course, tne chief source of pleasure, bur,
to vary the proceedings, the hostess, who was at-
tired in a becoming black satin and lace, warbled,
as days of yore, a couple of sweet songs. Mrs.
Harris and Miss Coston also contributed vocalism.
This made a nice break between the dances, music
for which was supplied by guests in good style,
the palm, however, being taken by Mr. Palmer.
Miss Rowley’s pretty face adorned a pink India
muslin, looped with narrow ribbons of many
colours, and open bodice with quite a garden of
flowers. Miss Evans was bright ia cream satin and
lace, with cardinal jabot, not forgetting the gold-
dust hair. Mrs. Ellis looked well in a very band-
some black surah and broche, and Miss Mackenzie,
player of a beautiful waltz, elegant in black silk
and lace, with cardinal jabot held with a buckle at
waist. From “ Kyarnba ” came a sprightly dancer
in fawn cashmere, black velvet body; and "Aire-
dale" was represented by a lady iu rich dress,
combining seal-brown satin and velvet. Miss
Coston looked well in a lashionable black broche
with Elizabethan collar. Midnight started the
Sydney contingent home, but the local element
kept tne ball rolling till 2 a.m.
* * *
Most likely the aristocracy of England,
who grabbed tne country seven hundred years ago,
and are proud that they have never done any
honest work since, would not have spoken to Si
Samuel WiPon if they had mm drafting sheep
in a dusty yard on tr.e Wimmeru, his face gleam
ing with . ersoiration and dirt, and his whole per-
son not prepossessing and not fragrant. But Sir
Samuel has been a millionaire for years now. and
thunks to a go d honest use of a convenient Land
Act, he s getting farther off from the diity sheep-
yards, and nearer to the throne of the creat god,
Gold, every moment. Under these circumstances,
it is allowable to visit him, so, when Lady Wilson
gave a grand ball at 9 Grosvenor-rquare, hir
rooms were crowded with people who can .race
back to William the Norman, and who for cen
turies past, have never soiled their hands with
anything but money. The* Marchioness of Sails
bury, Marchioness of Abergavenny, Countess of
Malmsbury, Viscountess Tarbat, Lady Nevill, and
so on, down to plain Misses, and the ordin ry
dudes, who have only vot hyphens to ti eir names.
Ohl and Lady Wilson wore a dark blue satin t»at
cost more than the profit on the shearer’s ration
tea at the Yanko will come to for the next three
seasons.
(For oontiauation of Social, hoc next pi.ge.)


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are genorous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing 1 , but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely altected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have a<ivised me to write this for the
guidances of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Tours,
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Sydney.
PY/EMIA,
Septiaemia, Scrofula, and other forms of blood
poisoniDg, resulting in glandular swellings, ulcer-
ous patches In the throat and mouth, abscesses,
carbuncles, tumors, ulcers, sores, and skin erup-
tions, are speedily neutralized and expelled by the
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood purifier,
while the skin is cleansed of all disfiguring humors
by the external use of Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great skin cures ana beautifiers. Cuti-
cura Resolvent absolutely destroys diseased
germs, which float in the blood, urine, and pers-
piration—there is no doubt about it—and expels
them through the bowels, kidneys, and pores of
the skin.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Srlc3fz±ield. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it OaT, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
i)
l'*-?
I
i
ft** ?
: *
:<
SSSiXS
MHHH
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERM & SOUS,
7LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS |
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
counter attractions last Saturday pre-
ontfid such a huge attendance as the week be-
at the Bicycle races, and, indeed, tho events
««re not so important, being cbieliy confined to
members of the Sydney club. But about 5000
Arsons wore there, and were provided with a
nroerramme of interesting if not wildly exciting
Ferguson’s riding was a splendid exhibition
nliick ; and H. Lamoton’s brilliant speed won
Sima lot of knives and forks. Shackelford the
nhamoion could not quite catch Remshard, who
i, m 500 yards start in the five-mile, and earned a
=„iad bowl. Great fun was caused by the boys'
11 7 pa When little P. Pearson rode in an easy
dinner of a half-mile struggle, the nonchalant
wav he cocked his L-gs “over the handles ’’ in the
attitude known to children as “honeypot” pro-
ved rounds of laughing; but the climax was
rAAi-ned in the tricycle race, which was won by a
Anmoetitor who was hartly visible till he carne
Ainse to tho stand, and who has receded the ad-
vanced age of six years and four months, Bertm
Tjoad Bertie is now the proud possessor of
„ pint mug. After the crush of the pre-
vious Saturday, it seemed quite a relict
V! iret room to walk the lawn to the
familiar tones of the Teutonic tootlerß, and
numbers of ladies took advantage of the op-
portunity to show their toilettes. Champion
Viennett, instead of contesting with Shackelford,
found it much easier work to escort a young lady
about the lawn, who looked nice in an olive-green
Vioth dress with velvet sleeves, and is a popular
Virl in an eastern suburb. Miss Dean gladdened
the lawn a good deal in a very neat grey cloth
Hress. with black medallions braided thereon.
Miss Kablo wore a peculiar braid, sort of brown
with red lmes. with a cardinal belt, and very cage-
like skirts. With a party of elderly ladies, a charm-
inn- little semi-blonde was observed in a toilette of
Picellent taste-black silk redingote, with revers
nf dull gold, and belted with a double row of pearls;
and notwithstanding that her black bonnet bore
nnnside~able resemblance to a small coalscuttle, it
was as piquant a little affair as any lady could
* noire and carried a canary feather on top thereof.
The taste of Miss Robertson was displayed in
nWance, as usual, her conspicuous articles of
wpar being a symmetrical black with cardinal
belt iabot, aud long silk gloves. Miss Perdriau
was’very bright and pretty in a cloth dress of
darkest crown, with fur trimming to match; and
a Henri Deux hat and feather of dark-brown were
in harmony with the rest. A pedestrian amateur,
who has won countless cups, escorted a young lady
nf Surry Hills in a light drab cloth, pleated, and
draped with pointed apron and back drapery, all
trimmed with brown velvet; small cape complet-
imr a quiet and neat costume. The lady so much
admired at the cyclists’ ball in black and gold,
looked exceedingly handsome in navy-blue picked
off with crimson: and the Glebe belle, who looked
go pretty in white sitin and frayed edging at the
game ball, was followed by lots of admiring eyes
no gbe walked the lawn in a maroon cashmere
tucked round the skirt, and ardoise gloves. The
tall gentleman from Queensland was sandwiched
la a very enviable manner between two nice girls;
one wore flesh-oink veiling over a black lace skirt,
the other a very charming- stone-coloured p01,.-
naise atop of a rich purple velvet skirt, while an
overwhelming hat and feather shaded a sparkling
brunette face beneatn. Miss Day, Wooliahra, wore
a rich dress—green cloth skirt, decked round with
small Vandykes, and overskirt of brown and red
brocaded in arabesque design. A noticeable dress
was so because, on the pleated and tucked ardoise
*airt an immense green parrot had perched. A
very’ neat pair of costumes were maroon and
green cloth, respectively, worn by two handsome
girls in company with a lortunate young gentle-
man. Miss Piorrie Hyam’s toilette was a really
beautiful black velvet, corded behind, with large
hat and plume to matefi, which provoked a deal of
admiration from lady connoisseurs of toileterie.
Another, all black, in merino and crape, was nice
because of the simple taste of the maidenhair ann
white snowdrops on the breast. A young amateur
musician was in company with a tali belle, who
wore plum-ooloured garb Dound with lines of gold.
One of tho b?st specimens of the Mary Anderson
toilet was of nutmeg-brown, the pleats sj fine as
to look almost like leaves of a book, worn by a
y o U ng girl ; it was a mostcovetable kind of costume
in the eyes of many wistful young ladies in the
stand. A shrimp-pink veiling caught everyone’s
eve by its colour; the owner did not seem to mind
everyone’s eye. 'Prom Stanmore, a handsome
vourig lady was s?en in fawn silk a .d cashmere of
two snades, and hat to match; and a North Shore
demoiselle was stylish and admired, all in black
fiighmere. and very neat. Opinions varied as to
tho effect of a peculiar dress worn by a fair girl-
brown silk, trimmed with chenille fringe, the skirt
mostly a mixture o: brown »>nd green pompadour
pattern; it was pl-iborate, and, like the opinions,
very varied, but it might have passed if only there
hadn’t bee > a horrid ome leather in the brown hat
was too much. Altogether, it was interest-
ing watching the races, and instructive gaziau at
tie raiment, and as the German Band played, the
afternoon was pleasant enough.
« . •
About forty “gay'and festive ” couples
assembled iu the Oddfellows’ Hall, Orange,
at the last assembly of the Mercaniilers, and
whirled the hours away till 1 a.m. to the music
of Green’s efficient band, About 30 dances were
done waltzes most popular. A Sale-street quar-
tette' as usual, competed lor the coveted honour;
and a tall lady in blac’isiik, low bodice and short
sleeves was very near it. fhe belie of Anson-
streei in pale rnoonl ght satin, and anew face
from, 'the same street, adorning blacs broche
draped with pale blue sash, were mueh admired.
The treasurer introduced a petite brunette in a
tasteful fight faille. A little charmer from Byng-
street was bewitching in cream satm and pink
rosebuds- and a Salp street wajtzer showed to
advantage a handsome black silk. A visitor in
cream obliged with pianoforte extras. Btaqa and
gold looked well ot. a Teymi us representative,
and a Bathurst visitor danced we 1. A straDger in
lavender veiling drew universal adip ration. lbe
full programme of a Kite-street damsel in bl-ick
and cardinal betokened a favourite. 1 he daughters
of the Mayor, in blue satin, were popular; aud a
purnbej-of other pretty dj-esses and dancers circled
ip the throng.
• • •
On Tuesday, sth August, Mr. Charles
Smith Mayor of Melbourue, gave one of the
grandest balls yet held in the L’own Hall. luyita-
tions bad been sought for weeks with the most
eager avlditv, and the dress prep rations mane
small fortunes for the fashionable modiste?. Over
1500 people were present, and, if Bprgiog about,
dressed in the grandest of toilets that were crushed
or trod on every mioute, constituted enjoyment,
the 1500 got it. Dancing, till after midnight, was
jnnrelv a farce, notwithstanding the tunefullest
(Strains of Warnecke s delightiul band. Soon
after 11 an adjournment was made for supper,
spread by Clements, but no human ability
could plan a supper for fifteen hundred
at a public ball-where everyone wants to
be amoug the first to sit down-wi;h comlort.
The tables accommodated 500 at a time, and the
Governor made a brief speech. Then he loft, and
dancing continued till about 4 o clock. The hall
was lit dv electricity, and copiously decorated, tho
great organ being a huge mass of foliage a id
beautiful fernery. The opening quadrille was
formed by the Governor and Mis* Smith vis d-vis
to the Hon. James Graham and Miss Ward Cole, ot
Brighton- Lady Clarke and Lieutenant Nicholls,
Sir W J Clarke aud Miss Mitchell, the Mayor and
'Lady Loch and Lord Castlerosse with Miss F M
Smith The wife of the Governor, who is a fair
smd stately woman, wore a low-necked and sleeve-
i6&B dress of ivory duchess© pointed bodice*
with festoons of fine lace over a pleated petticoat;
pearls aud ostrich plume on her hair, feather fan
to match costume. The Mayor’s .laughter wore a
magnificent velvet, burgundy pattern brocaied
on a gold ground, and burgundy velvet train;
the front skirt was formed in accordion pleats,
and the side draperies were caught with che-
nille ornaments. Mrs. James Butters, as ever,
v? as the embodiment of style, wearing a satin robe
Of turquoise blue, with square cor?age of royal
blue velvet, decked with forget-me-nots; tur-
Quoise jewels matched he dress. The costump of
Mrs. Nicholas Fitzgerald was a handsome combina-
tion of lavender and white-striped moire, witn
white lace trimming. Mrs. Mortimer Franlclyn
displayed a cream brocade, set off with tulle and
ostrich tips. The dress worn by Miss Maggie
Knight was sage green silk, blended with shell
p nk satin, green and cream feathers to finish.
Miss Derham’s was one of the loveliest dresses,
corsage and waterfall back of cream satin over
lace petticoat, trimmed with faded leaves. Mrs.
Moubray wore a splendid shrimp pink satin petti-
coat, corsage and t: ain of black silk velvet, feather
head dress. Miss Rowan’s ivory satin was adorned
with pear butterilies. A dress of white broche,
bodice and train, with satin skirt, was worn by
Miss Mitchell; and Miss Ward Cole, also in the Go-
vernor's quadrille, wore white silk, cut low and
sleeveless, and decked with ivy leafage. Mrs Nor-
man Wilson w .re cream satin and draperies; Lady
O’Logblen, cream lace skirt, with bodice and
waterfall of cerise merveilleux; Lady Nicholson,
cream duchesse satin and ruby velvet corsage;
Miss Clarke, cream silk and coffee lace sleeves and
trimming; Miss Fanny Smith, coral pink brocade,
knittings, draperies, and f n all ensuite. The robe
of Lady Clarke was a glowing amber colour,
chiefly composed of net, decked with lilies of the
valley, l,ow silk bodice. As a show of dress, Mr.
Charles Smith’s ball was magnificent; as a dance,
it was a failure. And, oh! the bitterness of those
who were not asked. But they smiled sweetly,
and said they were not going because they knew
it would be “ dreadfully mixed.”
■ • *
A pleasant, well-attended ball was held at
“ Weldon.” Burwood, on Friday evening last.
Though 40 couples were present, the ball-room
was never inconveniently full, owiQg to its size,
and the fact of many of the dances being sat out
by couples who lost themselves in odd corners of
the garden. The supper arrangements were better
than often is the case, and there was plenty of
music, which was good before and after supper.
Bome of the ladies were very stylishly dressed; the
hostess wore fawn-coloured silk and broche. Her
two fair daughters looked charming in pale-blue
and white respectively. Among the guests, par-
ticularly noticeable were two sisters f rom Glebe
Point, the stately figure of the elder and amiable
manner of the younger, combined with good
daucing, secured them many partners. “ Clythie ”
sent two pretty sisters in pink nun’s-veiling and
broche. From North Shors came a brunette in
cream satin, handsomely embellished with lace.
Two daughters of a wealthy squatter of “ Arthurs-
leigh ” wore very handsome toilettes, which lent
brightness to the scene. ” Presteign ” sent a pretty
blonde in cream satin dress and blue and cardinal
flowers, whose programme was quickly filled. A
granddaughter of an eminent barrister looked
sweetly pretty, and danced, perhaps, the best in
the room. Redmyre sent another blonde, who
looked nice in cream ana heliotrope. The dancing
was kept up well into Saturday morning by those
who had not to get to town by the midnight train.
* m ®
The quiet little township of Hinton was
gay last week. A concert was given in the School
of Arts, in aid of the Scotch burial ground. We
can’t conceive of a more cheerful object—unless
it might be dancing in a tt.O. schoolroom to get a
scorched soul out of purgatory. Three nights
after, the bachelors gave a ball and supper. Danc-
ing began early, anu ended at five, and, consider-
ing that Hinton was made late iu the scheme of
creation, the dresses were well up to tne times
Miss Stuart, of Hinton, was charming in navy
blue, and was belle. Mbs Partridge, in white,
from Morpeth, was pretty good ; and Mis 3 K.
Beattie, from Phceuix Park, in white aud maioon
belt, was graceful. A Nelson’s Plains young lady,
in maroon velvet, was far from plain; aud an ln-
verell girl was inverellegant and fascinating in
black attire. Music was good, and supper pro-
vided by an esteemed local lady.
• • *
On Wednesday, 6th instant, the Protestant
Hall, Queanbeyan, was the scene of a pleasant
gathering, when about fifty ladies and gentlemen
met and enjoyed a programme of twenty-four
dances. Some of the ladies' dresses were very
handsome, notably that of Mrs. Farrar, a lovely
pale pink satin, made beautifully and trimmed
with cream lace; also that of her sister-in-law,
Mrs. De Salis—rich cream satin and lace, made
similarly. Mrs. Mackellar wore mauve and black
silk; and Mrs. Richardson,black silk trimmed with
cream and cardinal. Mrs. Emery wore black silk
and pink and silver flowers: Mrs. Dulhunty, black
silk, cardinal flowers. Mrs. M’Cord had a becoming
dress—white trimmed with cardinal; Mrs. Wood-
ward, a black grenadine with white flowers; Mrs
Evans, cream satin, cardinal trimmiDg with red
roses; Mrs. Herring, olive-green satin trimmed
with cream lace; Mrs. Morgan, pale blue silk skirt,
maroon velvet body, pale pink roses. Among
the sisters, daughters, and cousins, Miss Mac-
kellar looked charming in pale blue nun’s
veiling and satin, trimmed effectively with sil-
ver braid : and the dancing of a lively little
belle, Miss M’Donald, was much admired, also
her tasteful costume of white and pale blue
with trailing sprays of ivy. The Misses Wiight
looked very nice—one in pale pink trimmed with
cream lace and crimson roses, and the other in
pale blue, made very prettily, and trimmed with
cream lace and pale blue flowers. The Misses
Kemp, in effective black costumes, and Miss
Willaus, in white tarlefan trimmed very tastefully
with white satin, hand-painted, had many ad-
mirers. Miss Smith, from Canberra, looked very
nice in white tarlefan pale blue sash and silver
flowers; as also did Miss Jefferies in black silk and
grenadine. The Misses'Paimer were attractive—
ope in hlack silk trimmed with cream lace, the
other in blue trimmed with the same. Good
music was supplied by Mr. Marsh, a local amateur,
who presided at the piano. Mr. Emery, the popu-
lar Crown Lands ageat, undertook the major part
of the work in getting up the assembly. Dancing
was kept UP until three o’clock the following
morning, when the company separated, well
pleased with their evening, and wishing such re-
unions were more frequent.
A ball was held in the Temperanoe Hall,
Wollongong, last week, under the auspices of the
Harmony Band. Altogether, it was a most har-
monious" affaiy. There was a trifling misunder-
standing between the ladies, though. It appears
the Wollongong girls were nowhere with then-
country cousins, wl}9, besides revellin in the
ruddiest of ruddy complexions, came out in their
best dairy attire, and left no room for a local girl
to jump tne honours of belle. West Dapt.o sent iu
the pick of its farm-yard in the shape of lour viva-
ptous lady-birds. Toe queen of the q .artette was
the best-dres>.ed girl in the room; her i ress being
pf black silk broche, with a neat pink puff sash
artfully let in, and embellished by gorgeous moon-
light trimming. Another pretty dress was worn
by a good dancer, the bodice being of ruby velvet,
and the skirt of tturuiah muslin. A buxom ;.am-
sel donned a dress of cream and blue broche
sateen with nice effect, and two sisters fri m Dapte,
in re'iring evening dresses, were the essence of
simplicity. Dancing was kept up till nearly 4
o’clock.
** * *
Madame Marius and Miss Eva Thompson
are going to give some more matinees—At Clebe
Town Hall, on Friday, forty couples assembh d to
compliment the ladies of Camperdown. Chapter
provided music, and Callaghan catered commend-
ably. a fine dancer was noticed iu cream satin
with puffed skirt and pale blue broche. Forest
Lodge sent a rich black festooned with ivy. Two
Camperdown belles wore alike dresses of black,
with cardinal ledoras and loops. A petite brunette
looked happy in cream veiling and pink satin.
The Mechanics’ ball took place in July at
Suva, Fiji, ladies being rather scarce. Miss
Solomon was one of the most charming figures
in the ball-room, and Miss Moore also an ex-
tra attractive young lady. Dancing is by no
means a torgotten art in Fiji, and the residents at
Suva and Levuka seldom miss a chance The
Rosehili Amateur Minstrels have formed them-
selves into a troupe at Parramatta, and announce
their intention of giving entertainments at inter-
vals for purposes of charity. They commence
with—themselves.... Great festivities at Fairfield
marked Mr. F. M’Quade’s birthday, fireworks for an
hour, and the Cumberland Band: a number of
coursing gentlemen being guests The Governor
of Victoria is to be entertained at dinner by
the Athenaeum Club, Melbourne, on the 14th
August, and by the Australian a few days later.
Italian Club inaugurated at Melbourne
Maryborough Benedicts had a ball recently. Town
band, and a large and gay assemblage. The result
of these balls is, that the place will have to be
called Marry-borough.. The Permanent Way
Branch of the Railway Department will hoi their
annual re-union in September, and Messrs. Neate
and Hoyle have been elected secretary and trea-
surer, as of yore. Picnic down the harbour, ball
in Exhibition The Owls’ first hyginx of this
season, notified for the 13th, has been postpon d
till 23th iDStant Grand banquet and bail next
month in the engine-shed at Mudgee, on opening
of railway. Compagnoni Company caters from
Sydney. Preparations are f ist elaborating Lord
I’ennyson s son, Hon Hallarn Tennyson, was mar-
ried in June by the Dean of Westminster, the
Trioity Sunday hymn being sung by the choir at
the laureate’s request. Miss Audrey Georgina
Boyle was the bride,, aud she had teu maids At
a recent Wagga wedding, the best man, a wealthy
young squatter, appeared among the beautiful
girls in church in shabby coat and ridiDg gaiters.
He was not invited to the dance afterwards
Bachelors of Woodville held their annual ball last
month, in the School of Arts, about 25 couples
dancing to good music. Good danoifla was not
universal, but was noticed among Sydney and
Newtown visitors. Honours divided between a
lady residing close by, dressed in grey silk and
satin with cream lace, and a West Maitland guest
in broehe trimmed with white lace and pink satin.
Catering good, and break-up at three The Mel-
bourne Comedy Club is shortly to help a charity
by giving a grand performance, to which the
Governor, members of Parliament, and tllte have
all promised their patronage. The Melbourne
Comedy Club is a peculiarly “swell” coterie of
gilt edged young men, and the appropriateness of
their efforts will be understood when it is men-
tioned that the charity in question is the Lying-in
Hospital Natives of Glasgow in Sydney are
going to have a concert and ball in the Pro-
testant Hall, 3rd September Bachelors’ Assem-
bly in Tattersall’s Hall nextlMonday Every-
body was genial at the Richmond hail. When
a jolly country girl wants to dance, a young man
who earns his living has as much chance with her
as a dainty mannikin who couldn’t earn salt if he
had to, and whose only advantages arc a coffer-
dam collar and a head neatly bevelled off where
bis brains are supposed to be The employes of
Petersen, Boesen, and Co. mustered on Friday at
Compagnom's to present the retiring part.net, Mr.
Otto L. Meyer, with a silver service. Eloquence,
compliments, and fizz all flowed together. A Jot
of toasts were pr< p./Bed aud duly gulped down,
tne absent sex not being forgotten London
University has for the first time conferred its M.A.
on a lady, Miss Mary Clara Dawes. Most ladies
become a MA without troubling any University
about it. ..The first annual re-union of the Capu-
let (late Parkhurst)'C Club will occur iu Glebe
Town Hall next Tuesday. 19th August ...Last
week, on the birthday of Mr. Geo. Gerrard, an old
resident of North Shore, his friends gave him a
valuable Masonic jewel. Seventy ladies and gentle-
men sat to the banquet. A ball followed, and
amid the gay dancers the daughter of Mr Gerrard
shone belle of the evening The Jockey Club
ball at Towers (Q ) occurred last month, alter the
races, and th® ball-room was so horribly lighted
that the dancers looked like apparitions. As the
majority of them did not know the Quadrilles, we
assume that the dancing art is in its primitive
stage there yet. The belle was much admired for
her energetic style of curvetting La Coterie
give their friends a complimentary entertainment
in Petersham Town Hall on Friday, 22nd instant.
It will be dramatic, followed by a dance, all over
at 12—A complimentary paityis to be given to
the Jadies who so beautifully decorated the hall
for the Richmond bail. They deserve it Some-
thing about the School of Industry ball next week.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Cyclists’ Ball Memo, too late for last week....
“ Thanks “G.8.F.”: Send sooner next
time “A.C.”: Thanks, very neat—“ Lad”:
OMiged; but don’t enumerate too many, please
“P.E.T.”: We think it beautiful; h«pe the girls
will “Capulet”: Late for “Fixtures,” noted
in “Focus.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Banquet to Mr. Correy August If.
Duke of Edinburgh Highlanders’ An-
nual Dinner (Protes'ant Hall) August 14.
Sydney Liedertafel (Exhibition).... ... August 14.
Opening of Agricultural Show August 14.
Native Hose Lodge B«li (ManlO August 15.
Victoria House Ball (Nithsdale) August 15.
Petersham Social August 15.
Ow Hyginx (New Masonic Hall) AugustSO.
Newtown Social August 33.
Balmain Collingwood C.C. Ball (School
of Arts, Balmain) August 33.
Woollahra . rivate -»Bsembly (Nithsdale) August 32.
Osborne C C Annual Picnic (Mortlake). August 3d.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) .August 37.
Glebe Private Assembly Town
Hall) August 30.
Windsor C.C. Annual Picnic (Tennyson) AugustSU.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) September 3.


Political
Points
The fashion in which it is possible for
capitalists to defeat the best organised local resist-
ance to starvation wages is exemplified by the
case of the lace indust v, since macbinery dis-
placed handicraft. At Nottingham, the removal
of machines to Scotland, where labour can be had
cheap, has thrown numbers of Nottingham workers
into great distres'. The only remedy for this is
organization of Lab >ur for mutual defence all over
the world. The lesson will be learned all the
quicker for the severity with which it is being
taught by Capital.
The Paris Cri du Peuple (the Cry of the
People) warns the Irish labourers against Mr.
Parnell’s peasant-proprietary project. The Cri
says:—“ What does it matter to Irish peasants
whether the landlord be Irish or Saxon, Catholic
or Protestant? They are robbed of their labour
under either, and let the Irish make no mistake;
they will not find a native middle-class less cruel
than aliens. At any rate, English workers have
received no mercy at the hands of English factory
lor is. The struggle of this century is between
those who work and those who prey.”
It is just a little singular that at the very
time when the federation of the empire is being
pothered about by people in Eagland, the Ad-
miralty should evince the actual superciliousness
with which the colonies are regarded by denying
to colonial war-ships the right to fly the white
en«Jgn. The colonial tars are evidently required to
“kejp their place ” and admin their social in-
feriority to the Royal Navy. Suppose, now, when
:next the Imperial authorities urge us to provide
for our own defence, we insist upon using the
same flags, uniforms, and badges as the home
forces!
The zeal of some of the Russian police in
•detecting Nihi.ists is of a quality which would be
wortbv ot all praise did it not seem calculated in
’some ogre *to lead to the punishment of persons
•entirely innocent. Photographs of Degaietf, the
man who killed Sudelkin, have been sent to all ihe
police offices throughout Rusda. The photographs
Were iu six different, positions, a complete set
being sent to each office. Shortly after the re
ceipt of the photographs, one zealous police offi-
cer telegraphed to St. Petersburg tdat he had
already arrested lour of the criminals and hoped
to secure shortly the remaining two.
THE TWO SLAVERIES.
“Slaves cannot breathe in England,”
O idle Patriot boast;
Look, in our “ merry London,”
At Labour’s weary host.
Freedom of Competition’
No genuine freedom yields,
And Hunger’s whip’s as cutting
As the lash a master wields.
Yet, from sordid court and alley,
Echo cries with altered breath,
“Slaves oannot breaths, in England,”
We are crowding them to death.
Good Heavens! Tbink how fat it must
have been when it was too fat for the Echo. This
liiece of exceeding richness was a bit of unearned
norement-in its simple adiposity describable
thus:—“A grant of 2UUO acres was issued to the
Australian Agricultural Company for land near
Newcastle, in November, 1847. Nothing was paid;
the land being granted for the purpose of en-
couraging the cultivation of the waste lands of
the colony. One acre 13J4 perches (unimproved)
was resumed iu 1883 for the Great Northern line,
and 31 acres and 23 perches (also unimproved) in
the same year for the Hue from Homebush to
Waratah. The Company for the small portion
demanded £977. for the 38 acres £llB 489.” Com-
ment vents port—we mean- is needless.
Some little time ago we pointer l out in an
article, “ Malthus v George,” that the very root of
Henry George's theories was his repudiation of
the frightful doctrines of Malthus, so long ac-
cepted by political economists and even-to their
shame—by the clergy of all denominations We
observe now that this has struck others as well a
•oirsel/es. Samuel Bennett, formerly one of the
e litors of the Kaoical, writes to Justice:—*Oue
thing we are all likely to be agreed on before long,
•except Mr Bradlaugb and his worshippers; and
that is that Mr George struck the correct key-
note when he ‘went for’ Malthusianism as the
root of all the Errors in political e ■onomy. Tde
metaphor here used may bo somewhat mixed, but
l do not care for that so long as I am understanded
of the people.”
Granny, in a review of De Maupas’ “ Story
of the Coup d'Etat,” says she must do the author
justice by saying that he was a model Prefect of
Police. An infamous fox, who out-Pouched Fou-
Ch<S in his callous indifference to honour, morality,
and truth, in his employment of an inconceivably
base mouclrard systam, in his hellish concoction
of false plots as means of attack against the
patriotic—such a miscreant “a model Prefect of
Police”! Why, bad as was the exploded theory of
“set a thief to catch a thief,” it was better, infi-
nitely better, than that on which the Little Napo-
leon acted—the wholly execrable police theory of
setting a scoundrel to harass ana entrap honest
men. If there be a hell, and hot places in it, then
amongst the hottest are surely those reserved for
the “ Man of December ” and Granny’s “ model
Prefect of Police.”
The Wagga Star scores a point against
the A.G.-grawating Jones when it observes
“At the election of 1882, Mr. A. G. Jones (rejected
In 1881), the upholder of remission of interest, was
returned by a great majority He always averred
that he would work iu his place in Parliament
until he had brought, about the remission of inter-
est; he would never lose sight of it; and his paper
(the Advertiser) teemed with articles in favour
of it. Any concession to conditional purchasers
would aid in bull ling up a yeom.inry which would
do more to develope and enrich the colony than all
other classes put together. . . . By voting fur
Mr. Slattery s amendment was an opportunity
given our member to prove that he was ia earnest
in his avowed convictions. What do we find ?
That Mr. Jones voted for this concession to the
conditional purchaser? No; he voted with the
Government, aaainst it! ” We kinder guess it will
be A gee Jones next election.
During the intensest period of the Irish
League movement, it was habitual for the
aa&dlord organs to charge the ad mcates and Presi
supporters of the peasantry with offering “ in-
, citesen nts to mutder.” Now let us turn the reverse
of the m dal. The Saturday Review, an organ
of the fortunate classes, the other day published
the foil >wmg:-“ Talk as much as you like, appeal
as much as you like to the Deity or to the Jate
Kart Marx, to the laws of Nature or the Jaws of
Martha's Vineyard, but directly you trv to put
your ideas in practice, up you go to the nearest,
and most convenient gadows. unless it happens to
tpe more convenient to shoot you! That is the
right way of treating Mr. George aad Mr. Hynd-
man, and Mr. Wallace and Mr. Davitt, and all the
rest of the apostles of plunder.” London Justice
quotes this and adds: “Working men. cut this
incitement to murder out, when you have read it,
and remember the sort of men you have to meet
jmd reckon with."
It seems that Henry George’s lecturing tour
in England and Scotland wasn’t a financial success
—hence Conservative Commercialism, that gauges
everything by its mere money value, brays loudly
anentthe Utopian visionary’s failure in the capa-
city of agitator. Jesus wasn't exactly a financial
success, neither was Spinoza nor Rousseau, and
yet they each did a bit of leavening work in their
day-work equal to the task of the pulling down
of strongholds and shattering of shams. So George,
though he mayn’t have drawn like a divine Sarah,
and has most certainly brought down on his
devoted head the curses loud and deep of the
Eriests and worshippers of Terrltorialism, yet has
e sown good seed in fitting soil—seed, or we are
much mist'ken, that will fructify a thousandfold.
When the harvest is over, it will be time to reckon
up whether the sowing season was so much wasted
time.
The Argonaut (’Frisco) contends that, as
the United States, before the Geneva Arbitration
Tribunal in the Alabama case, pleaded that “a
nation cannot relievo itself of responsibility by
pleading that its laws do not permit it to interfere
in a given case—the local law is hot to be taken as
the limit of international obligation in the eye of
the law of nations,” their Government cannot
consistently decline to take steps to suppress
dynamite conspiracy, having for its object mjury
to citizens of a foreign State, even if the local law
be insufficient for the purpose; and as preopdent
points out that Mr. Seward (aetiDg on the principle
that a nation is never bound to furnish asylum to
dangerous criminals who are offenders against the
hutnau race) turned over Argiieiles, a slave-trader,
to the Spanish authorities, although there was no
extradition treaty with Spain oovering the case;
also that later Spain reciprocated by returning to
the United States the fugitive Tweed in the
absence of treaty obligation so to do.
“ Abyssinia is to be allowed to annex Kas-
sala and Amedeb as a reward for relieving the
Egyptians.” The wickedness of the proposal is of
a piece with all that England has yet done, or at
the doing whereof she has connived, in regard to
the affairs of the peoples of Egypt and the Soudan.
Why should she tempt a brutal madman like
Johannes with permissions to annex here and an-
nex there?-as if her permissions to perpetrate
such crimes were valid! Why should she seek any
sort of alliance at all with an insane despot, a
wretch who cuts of the feet and hands of those
who offend him, who puts out their eyes by pour-
ing hot tallow into them, who cuts off the
noses of those who take snuff and the lips of those
who smoke? To invite the aid of such an irrespon-
sponsible tyrant is as bad as was the setting a price
on the head of Osman Digna. It is to conduct war
as savages—to break wholly away from the few
courtesies with which civilisation had partially
sue eeded in tempering the brutalities of war.
“ Abyssinia is to be allowed to annex ” Hell 1
JUST THE SAME, ONLY DIFFERENT.
DEACON GLUM: “HEZEKIAH JONES, I’M SORRY TO SEE YOU WORKING ON THE
SABBATH.”
[?] JONES: “I’M NOT WORKING, I’M ONLY DIGGIN’ A FEW WORMS TO GO A FISHING.”
Mr. W. H. Mallock’s treatise, “Property
and Progress” (wherewith it is assumed by the
Jingo crowd that the Georgian contention has
been turned inside out and knocked into a cocked
hat) recalls (to the Athenacum) the time when it
was the ideal of young men of fashion to stand
forth as tho champions of their “ order,” and to
be petted as such at the tea-tables of dowager
Duchesses. Mr. Mallock has approached these grave
problems insufficiently trained in economics, la-
mentably ignorant of statistics. If we have de-
voted any attention to this work, with its specious
title and partisan tendency, it is only in order to
take occasion for protesting against such a treat-
ment of grave and pressing problems of national
importance. The alienation of the lower classes
from all that makes life interesting and ennobling
is by far the most serious aspect of the problem.
Mr. Mallock’s party pamphlet, it is needless to say,
utterly misses the significant points of this pro-
blem. Indeed, it is doubtful if Mr. Mallock has
benefited his party, since the tendency of his argu-
ments is to show how small is the share of the
landowners in the national income compared with
their influence on national politics.
Confirmation strong as holy writ to at
least some of the theories of Henry George is fur-
nished by the condition of Ireland since the reduc- |
tion of rent by the operations of the Land Act.
Returns anew the reductions for the present year
to amount to £3,000,000. A London despatch to
the N Y. Sun points out that this practically
leaves that sum in the pockets of the farmers, and
that “ tnroughout Ireland the beneficial result is
palpable. Poor people who have for years seldom
had a shilling of money in their possession, now
occasionally may be seen in small shops, happy in
their ability to expend an occasional half-sove-
reign. The general effect on the temper of the
people is very perceptible. The farmers, and shop-
keepers who depend upon them, are decidedly
better off than they have been for several years
On the other hand, the upper classof storekeepers,
whose trade consists chiefly in supplying the
nobility and landlords, complain of the dulness of
trade. This accounts tor the conflicting reports
which now go out rom Ireland. If you go into a
first-class shop, you hear that trade was never
worse, and if you go into the second class shops, it
is generally admitted that trade was never better.”
Now, conceive this reduction carried to the point
of leaving to labour all its earnings, and apply the
principle to Great Britain also. Then think out
the probable result for yourself.
The Seamen’s Union of N.S.W. would do
well to ponder on this bit of information, drawn
from Fairplay, an English shipping organ:—” It
is said that Mr. William Pearce,sole partner of the
firm of John Elder and Co., will clear at least
£lOO,OOO profit on the two steel steamers he is
building for the Cunard Company. This is partly
by reason of a fall in the cost of material, hut
chiefly by the w'ucllon in waves." A cool admis-
sion this. It means that Capital, in this instance,
has been able to take Labour by the throat, using
as an instrument for garotting, the competition
among working men for a mere subsistance, and
the necessity of taking what wages they can get
or of starving outright, to pocket something like
£IOO,OUU, which, under fairer adjustments, would
have been the reward of Labour. Say it takes 10.0
men a year—we give random figures—to build the
two steamers: then each man’s labour has been in
that year worth £lOO more than he will receive
The capitalist will retain these thousand sums of
£lOO each. Yet people like Mr Giffen, the essayist,
deny that under existing social conditions it is
true that the rich become rioher, the poor poorer.
Of course, the whole £lOO,OOO must not be reckoned.
Something must be allowed as interest on ma-
chinery, capital, buildings, and so forth; and
something for management and superintendence.
But say half—£so,ooo That would leave £5O a year
to 100 men. 'Thriftless dogs! why don’t working
men save? Perhaps it is because their employers
obligingly do it for them by appropriating all
margin above bare subsistance.
Minister Dibbs says that it is a waste of
time to bring matters before the Assembly which
might be brought before him as actiog-Minister
for Works. Perhaps so;' only, if so, that little
matter about the alleged monopoly by Wright,
Heaton, and Co. on the Armidale to Glen Innes
railway extension doesn’t seem to come into the
category. Anyway, though Dibbs has obtained a
lot of information from Whitton about the exten-
sion—when it will be opened, and so on—not a
single bit has he given the Assembly on that one
p<nnr, anent which the country so yearns for in-
formation—viz., were the contractors for the
extension allowed to charge for the conveyance of
goods along it, and did they (having suoh permis-
sion) so work into the bands of Wright, Heaton,
and Co. as to secure for that carrying firm a mono-
poly ? These be questions that it may suit the
Department to shelve: vet they constitute matters
which the Assembly should make strict inquiry
about—and that, whether Mr. Secretary Wright
happens to be sick or not. What has his sickness
to do with the atfair? There’s a deal too much
nonsense about the impropriety of attacking
members behind their backs. Where the public
interests are concerned, private convenience, as
well as the etiquette that should ordinarily obtain,
must give way. What is done in Parliament is so
fully reported that an attack proved to be unjus-
tifiable can injure no man’s reputation. Where
the attack is proved to have been justifiable—well,
in that case, who will venture to say that any per-
sonal considerations whatever saould have pre-
vented its having been made?
No wonder they called Her Majesty’s pre-
decessor on the tbrone “ Silly Billy.” Here is the
report of a speech of his (delivered in the “Lords”
when he was Duke of Clarence in 1794) It.K.H.
urged “that, as France had set the example of
cutting off the heads of their King and Queen, it
was not at all improbable that the same system
might be adopted in other countries, and Europe
might exhibit the extraordinary spectacle of
thrones without kings, and kings without heads
[that spectacle was certainly exhibited when the
speaker succeeded his Royal brother, ‘the first
blackguard in Europe.’] As to any alarm for the
safety of their country, he deprecated the idea of
it, so long as his gallant brother was at the head of
the army, who, no doubt, before the end of the
ensuing campaign, would drive the French back
into their own territory, and force them to sue for
peace at the feat of their royal conqueror. He
was thoroughly convinced that the war was highly
popular with the people of this country, who were
more than desirous to protect their blessed Consti-
tution, their laws, their rights, and privileges from
the attac ■ s and encroachments of French regicides
who, by the prowess of his royal brother, would
soon be made to answer for the enormity of their
crime. The English people he knew to be brave,
generous, and loyal, and although he would not
recommend the general principle of intervention
in the affairs of other nations, yet when they car-
ried their revolutionary spirit to that excess as to
cut off the heads of their King and Queen, then,
indeed, would England be highly culpable and
deserving of the contempt of all the nations of
Europe, if she did not interfere and show the regi-
cides that they were not to cut off the heads of
kings and queens like so many poppies in a garden
without meeting the severest punishment, by cut-
ting off their heads in return.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury is reported
to have spoken, at a meeting of the East London
Church Fund, of “ wickedness whose natural gar-
ment was misery,” and again to have s«id that
“ the cause of the extremest misery was wicked-
ness—it was drink, and other sins he would not
name.” It is easy to unders'and from this how it is
that the poor regard the Church as their enemy,
and as allied with the classes who grind them
down. The Archbishop's remarks contained a
stinging half-truth. But are the wretched the
class an Archoishop should elect to scourge ? Or
was this the right half of the truth to be spoken
under the circumstances ? That the extremest
misery is want intensified by drink and vice is
obviously true. But it is just as true, too, and more
important, that there is much wickedness which is
the natural offspring of misery. There are sins,
unnameable by a butter-mouthed servant of God,
which prevail in rookeries and slums. Partly be
cause people, become miserable through vice, live
in slums and continue their wickedness. But also
partly because people not naturally wicked have
to live in slum*, and pig together, man, woman,
and child, to the destruction of innate decency
and of all morality. Besides, wickedness only
causes intense misery among certain classes. Per-
haps themott irnmora man in England to-day is
the Duke of Marlborough, and he has just got
£90,000 or so by commuting his family’s perpetual
pension, and has also about a quarter of a million
sterling worth of pictures to sell. The London
Chukch Reformer takes the Archbishop roundly
to task about these expressions of his, and .says
that while it is so comfortatle for well-to-do
people to be told that the misery of the poor is
owing to the fan Its ot the poor, it is monstrously
un-Christian. “The garment of the wickedest
man in the Gospel—the only individual man whom
Jesus Christ spoke of as going to hell in torments
—was not misery, but purple and fine linen; and
ho was sent to hell simply because, day by cay, and
year by year, he had allowed the contrast between
rich and poor to go on as a matter ot course, un-
redressed.”
In view of the determined hostility of the
Conservatives to the Franchise Bill, and the tone
of even middle-class organs with respect to the
proposals of extensive reform, which are, with
daily increasing confidence and determination,
propounded by the rapidly growing Radical party,
it is clear that even were the latter to obtain, as
they assuredly will before the close of the century
a majority in the House of Commons, and form an
administration, or even should their sentiments be
adopted with enthusiasm by the non-franchised
mass of Englishmen, and yet be debarred from
obtaining adequate representation, any attempt to
carry out their principles will be resisted with
actual violence, even to the point of a civil war.
An immense deal will then depend upon the spirit
which may actuate the rank and file of theregu-
, lar army. That is to say, whether they will be
sufficiently in sympathy with their civilian
brethren to stimulate them to resist the habit of
unreasoning obedience to the word of command,
and the brute inclination for a fight whenever
confronted with a bristling adversary—an incli-
nation which is common to brute men and brute
beasts, such as bulldogs. Any bulldog will fight
any other bulldog, if “sooled on,” although
its adversary be its own father or brother.
Even sexual difference does not avail to tem-
per the savagery. So, also, with a brute sol-
diery. They will fight any adversary, at the
word of command, and commence an onslaught
with a certain fierce enjoyment. But set the rank
and file a-thinking. Displace the brutal by the
reasonable, and even the disciplined soldiers,
habituated as they are to obe> like automatons
the word of command, evince a disposition to dis-
criminate. There are adversaries whom they won’t
fight. In several of the French revolutions, the
troops led forth to slaughter the people fraternized
with them. They had comprehended the rationale
of the conflict, and had recognised that the cause
of the people was their own. The British Army-
recruited as it is from generally the lowest classes,
instead of, as in the Continental States, every
grade passing t rough th ranks, and the army
oretty fairly reflecting the opinions of the civil
population—has been peculi trly inaccessible to
political propagandist). It has been accustomed
to regard itself as a set of milita' y caste, having
no common interests with the masses. But since
the lower strata have commenced to heave and
work under the leavening influence of a renais-
sance of thought and reflection, the rank and file
of the army have in some degree shared the emo-
tion; and we learn from a London Radical paper
that “ the men in the army, who, of course, come
directly from amongst the people, are utterly dis-
gusted with our present system. They begin to
see, none too soon, that they are simply paid to
fight against the interest of their own class abroad
by the very people who prey upon their labour at
home.”
In view of the rejection by the House of
Lords of the Franchise Bill, and of the struggle
which is about to commence, and is already
heralded by the monster meetings of the people
throughout England, nothing could be more appo-
site than the following description of the attitude
of the Peers with respect to the first Reform Bill.
It is an extract from a letter addressed to Lord
Salisbury, who moved the rejection of the bill,
by “ Noblesse Oblige ” in the Echo—the London
Echo we mean, a downright Liberal organ, not
the Sydney penny whistle blown nightly in the
interests of a proprietary gorged with unearned
wealth:—“Was the rejectirvi of the first Reform
Bill worth a civil war? Yim would say No; but
your own father and the majority who followed
the Duke of We'lington would have said Yes.
They were ready to shed, not their own blood, but
the blood of the British army, in defence of their
places and pensions and privileges. Even when
the waverers had enabled the Government to
carry the second reading by a m jority of five, the
conspirators against the people were busy. They
had been at work in the dark poisoning the mind
of the King against his Ministers, and preparing
for a bloody suppression of public discontent.
They drove the Ministry from olfi e, and immedi-
ately the whole country stood still. Commerce and
labour were forgotten >n presence of the imminent
peril of the hour. It was a terrible crisis Every
officer was summoned to his post; the cavalry were
furnished with ball cartridge, and kept booted and
addled; the Scots Greys were ordered to rough-
sharpen their sabres, so that they might better hack
to pieces the industrious artizans of Birmingham.
Meanwhile, the people were assembling every-
where in vast multitudes, and resolving to pay no
taxes —men of property fraternising with the
common people; the Herts Yeomanry woke up
your father at Hatfield and flung their resigna-
tions in his face; the Common Council of the City
of London demanded that the House of Commons
should stop all supplies, and the run upon the
Bank of England grew daily more alarming. Had
the crisis lasted two days longer, the slaughter
would have begun. How was it avoided ? From
any reluctance on the part of that craven crew
who dared not incur the responsibilities of office,
to shed the blood of their fellow-eountrymen ?
Not so. It was because they had discovered that
the very soldiery would have turned against them.
The intent was plain enough. If only the man
who was then leader of the Lords could have relied
upon his own followers to take the responsibilities
of office, and could have relied upon the troops to
butcher the people, the streets of London and
Birmingham and all the chief towns of the king-
dom would have been deluged with blood. Two
hundred years before a high spirited aristocracy
would have drawn their swords, gathered re-
tainers, and flung themselves into the struggle;
but these pitiful creatures, so soon as they found
that they could not compel the people to slay each
other, surrendered, as they professed to believe,
the Crown, the Church, and the Constitution with-
out a single blow. There was nothing equal to
their folly except their cowardice.”
m * *
It is proposed to consolidate the various
societies which Mr. Henry George left behind him
in England in the different towns at which he re-
cently lectured. “Land Restoration Societies”
for England, Scotland, and Ireland respectively
are now at work ; besid is local societies or
branches in Hull, Birmingham, Liverpool, and
other places. The English Land Restoration
League at i s recent annual meeting reduced its
minimum subscription to i.ne shilling, and laid
itself out for a vigorous year’s work In London
and vi -inage, during 1883, there were 44 cases of
death by starvation recorded by coroner s inquests.
Unrecorded heaven only knows now many
• here are in London 80,003 prostitutes This is lin
14 of all London girls between the ages of 14 and 20.
. .The Synod of the Free Church ot Scotland passed
a resolution calling on the Government to stop
evictions while the Crofter’s Commissioner's re-
port is under consideration. This shows how
popular the movement is becoming, for at first the
clergy opposed strongly all agitation— Proclama-
tions have been scattered broadcast from Moscow,
recalling to the memory of the Czar the Nihilist
letter of 1881, when he was told that if he wished
to escape the fate of his father he must give
Russia a Liberal Constitution, They remind him
that he has done nothing yet, and advise him to
make haste. It is reported th> t the Czar is about
to return to Gatschina, the only fortress where ha
feels safe. So many men and women are being
deported to Siberia, that it is said the population
there will soon equal the population of Russia in
Europe.


DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
rtheum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Byes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
pimply* Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura'Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches In the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
BLOTCHES
WILL MCDONALD, 2543 Dearborn-street, Chi
eago, gratefully acknowledges a cure of
Salt Rheum on Head, Neck, Face, Arms, and Legs,
for seventeen years ; not able to walk except on
bands and knees for one year ; not able to help
himself for eight years ; tried hundreds of reme-
dies ; doctors pronounced his case hopeless ; per-
manently cured by Cuticura Resolvent inter-
nally and Cuticura Soap externally.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are the greatest medi-
cines on earth. Had the worst case Salt Rheum
in this country. My mother had it twenty years,
and in fact died from it. I believe Cuticura would
have saved her life. My arms, breast, and head
were covered for three years, which nothing re-
lieved or cured until I used the Cuticura Resol-
vent internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap externally. J. W. Adams, Newark, O.
ITCHING
TORTURES
CHARLES EAYRE HINKLE, Jersey City
Heights, N.J., writes: “My son, a lad of
twelve years, was completely cured of a terriblo
case of Eczema by the Cuticura Remedies. From
the top of his head to the soles of h*s feet was one
mass of scabs.” Every other remedy and physi-
cians had been tried in vain.
MR. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBINS, Belcher.
town, Mass., write: “Our little boy was
terribly afflicted with Scrofula, Salt Rheum and
Erysipelas ever since he was born, and nothing we
could give him helped him until we tried Cuticura
Remedies, which gradually cured him, until he is
now as fair as any child.”
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skim Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh',
heals Ulcere, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-eaay Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiere
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 50 cents ; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A,
■WillaccLore’s! Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN»
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRBT-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMIORE, Proprietor.
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
V,5
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
AMERICAM 1 o^o--^.3>T3,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
• se// Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
@* ALL the latest music in stock.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES.
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited)
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.] C &c &c
T H .®S a . t ste n o d f S d°S!?„ a .rar,“ tUnderl * t “ * ot “ Ul8 ' Banquets, Dinned, taaeheon.
U.eSj."{BS!?taM?nu’da B r HM KooMforJMnnM?Mm£u^&“ d Q “* le ™"' «*• “>» »■“* <»
PRIVATE BAB AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Reel sc, dally! lit,”'. Colon In the Bar until 11 p.m.
B. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
essßKStim
JOSRieORffSI
SBtm'ri lnTFfliS»Sl[fgf[iß; ;^
iKSSKNCEofU FK
ie only i ntalli bfe remedy for
<+= /J’ei\voi/s JiebiLi jYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. Tn cases at 12a.. or four quantities is one for
365.; if by coach, 3s. Od. extra. .Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Ueorge-street South.
KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-street.
Mbit's Mercers, St,
Kibby’s Shirts at 4s. fid., seldom equalled ! Nevftr
excelled in Fit, quality or finish.
Underwear for Winter, large variety, lowest
prices.
Neckwear, new and stylisii shapes.
Collars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &e.
KIBBY & CO., 96 King-street.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy:
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Address—R.T.SELßl, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
BICYCLES! TRICYCLES! BICYCLES!
The Sparkbrook National Tricycle,
with patent differential gearing, undoubtedly the easiest hill-climber in the
market.
The Sparkbrook Bicycle,
BALL BEARINGS, PRICE FROM 10 GUINEAS.
ISP” BaYLISS. THOMAS, & CO.’S EXCELSIOR 13-GUINEA BICYCLE, ‘
as ridden by Mr. A. Edward from Sydney to Meioourne.
Agent: C. W. BENNETT, 68 King-st., Sydney.
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS :
TOZER CO.,
229 CLARENCE STREET.
I®*“ PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
p
(LIMITED),
WORKS, SYDNEY. ,
UNEQUALLED SAFETY.
EXTREME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECONDMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
-
////////A
'//
////
'///A
*
9H
*7
3
/T/m77.
TA-L.
a
9^5
- %
-
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. 0T" SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, Ac., to be obtained at
HU»*ON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


Quiet nerve and balmy sleep in Hop
Bitters, for sleepless ladies and invalids. Notice.
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggist*. Moses. Moss & Co.. Sydney
ftenoml Aarnntn.
se^.
LX'-tr^,
n If f] / J jMfe. I(| A 5
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTER” company
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PRIZES: £5975 FOR STARS; AND £4025 FOR HORSES.
Plan of Astronoroical Distribution:
Eirst Horse (Winner of the “ Melbourne Cup” ... £l5OO
Second Horse ... ... ••• ••• •••
Third Horse ... ... ••• ••• ••• t 57&
First Star ... ... ... ... ... £lOOO
Second Star ... ... ... ... ... 500
Third Star ... ... ... ... ... 250
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
16 Stars of £lOO each; 10 Stars of £5O each; 17 Stars of £25 each; 20 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns of £lO each-
Astronomical and Township Prizes
Mars
Jupiter
Mercury
Neptune
Saturn
Venus
Uranus
Hercules
Fomalhaut
Centaur
Grand Aroturus
Aldebaran
Cygni
Sirius
Rjgel
Capella
Orion
Canopus
Table Mountains
Chamelon
Acheron
Hydra
Toucan
Anjares
Spica
Procyon
Monoceros
Zaurach
£lOOO
500
U5O
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
Cetus £5O
Menkar 25
Diphda 25
Phoenix 25
Alpherat 25
Betelgeaux 25
Southern Cross 25
Castor 25
Pollux 25
Regullus 25
Deneb 25
Bootes 25
Berenice 25
Alt air 25
Aguila 25
Ophruchus 25
Algenib 25
Andromeda 25
Perseus 20
Medusa 20
Mira 20
< assiopea 20
Pisces 20
Avies 20
Fornax 20
Edidanus 20
Camelopavelus 20
Tauruo 20
Auniga
Lemini
Canis Megon
Monceux
Cauceu
Leo
Coma
Senpeus
Cononu
Scorpio
Oqaco
Pagjethauim
Lyna
Yulpeada
Delphinas
Ceplieus
Capricorn
Lacesta
Equieteus
Achernan
| Acuneus
Adara
Albaired
A 1 chiba
; Alcyone
Alderamiu
Algeiba
Algoreb
Alhera
Alioth
Alkaid
Alkatrops
Alkes
Almach
Alnilam
Alpbasca
Alphard
Alpbirk
Alrueealali
Alshain
Alwaid
Apollo
Arcturus
Avided
Arneby
Azelfafage
Baten Kaito
Bellatre
Benechasoh
Cornucopia
Cbapb
Cebafra
Cerestes
Aberfeldy
Abdallah
Beechworth
Beenas
Belfast
Bellarine
Belmont
Belvoir
Belleven
Benalla
Bendoc
Beremboke
Berbiu
Berwick
Bet-Bet
Bethanga
Beveridge
Big Hill
Birregurra
Black Hill
Black Lead
Black Springs
Blackwood
Blakeville
Bobinavarrat
Boggy Creek
Boiac
Bolvarra
Boraang
Bonegilla
£lO
10
10
10
10
10
.10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
<« ADAMASTOR.” in thanking his subscribers for the liberal support that he has received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Proerammr
fnr The coming MELBOURNE CUP. At the suggestion of a number of his clients, he has been induced to lessen the number of prizes, consecjuently making them of more value
the smallest bling £lO, as against £3 heretofore. My Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New South Wales. “ re vame ’
All parties are requested to forward drafts, cheques, or Post Office orders; if cheques, exchange must be added, and in all (rases postage fees. Cheques payable to order
ie returned. A representative Committee will be appointed. Results sent to every shareholder. Application, by Registered Letter only, addressed—
will be
“ Care of L.
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W,
AUSTRALIANS AT “HOME."
A correspondent thus gossips about Aus-
tralians in London: - “Mr. G. W. Paul, the face-
tious Queensland County Court Judge, has left
England for Australia, after 18 months’ sojourn in
the old country. His Honor has almost completely
recovered from the effects of the paralytic affec-
tion by which he was not long ago seriously
threatened. Mr. Rathbone, late editor and pro-
prietor of the Auckland Observer, has now set-
tled in London as correspondent for the associated
N.Z. evening press. Patchett Martin, late of Mel-
bourne and Australia in general, is writing, prin-
cipally on colonial subjects, for the English maga-
zines—notably for Temple Bah, in which he has
achieved more than one marked success. Henni-
ker Heaton, at latest, was busily engaged in fitting
up a very high-toned establishment at De v ere
Gardens. Henniker is one of the bright lights ot
Bt. Stephen’s Club, which, somewhat suggestively,
has an underground passage running between it
and the Houses of Parliament on the other side oi
the street. The Parliamentary division-bell rings
in the Club, and will, so far as one can
hear, at no dis ant date, summon Henniker
as one of the members for Canterbury to
vote against th© Gladstone Government. The
constituency named has of late been disfran-
chised owing to corruption, but we are
sure J. H. H. won’t consent to represent it
until everything has been properly cleared up.
“Charley” Lett now lives in Paris, where his
daughter is being educated. He speaks French
with a strong Australian accent, and doesn t talk
about returning to the (land of the kangaroo. W.
P. Morgan, the North Queensland solicitor and
wit, will soon be taking his departure from Lon-
don, where he has, for a good many months, been
engaged in perfecting a patent gold-saving pro-
cess, which threatens to be one of the biggest
thiDgs the world has seen. It has two great fea-
tures—a pulveriser which reduces all. classes oi
ores/whether free-milling or complex, into amm-
palpable powder, silky to the touch as cork ash or
cigar-dust r and an amalgamator in which the
aforesaid powder is, under perfect conditions of
retardment and distribution, passed upwards by
“gravitation” through 30 inches of heated mercury,
on arriving at the surface of which the waste ore
is blown away by a fan-blast of air. The process,
which raves 98 per cent, of gold from py-
ritous ores, whioh, when treated by stampers,
yields less than half the assayed contents,
has been investigated by the celebrated Crookes
and others, who appear to be in love with it, and
sav the right thing has been struck at last. It is
understood that Mr- “Jack” Newton, of Sydney,
is or was interested in the patent. The cricketers,
when in town, stay at the Tavistock Hotel, an old-
fashioned hostelry where none but bachelors are
admitted—a place where they feed one in country
fashion, make you drink your morning coffee out
of a basin and allow you to wipe your moustache
with a napkin eight yards long and weighing four
pounds. The “ boys ” are all well, barring Black-
ham, who just now is suffering from the
effects of the nasty blow ho got up North. The
team have had the good luok to play in and out
a little, and have thus brought about an interest la
their proceedings which would not haim been felt
had they been uniformly victorious. It was one
of the biggest sights in the world to see Spoff.
polish off the balance of the Gentlemen at Lord s
on the last day of the matoh. The Englishmen
seemed to lose their heads when they saw
this elongated incarnation of the Genius of weird
Melancholy (which Marcus Clarke tells us presides
over Australian forest and stream) place all his
men behind the wicket and proceed to bowl
• shooters.’ Phil. Benjamin, lately of the S.A. Re-
gister, and sometime of the Argus, is now in
London, and has abandoned the copy-slip of the
pressman for the invoice and ledger of the nier-
ohant. He is trading on his own account. And
now, to wind up with something really big, Parkes
while here, was constantly en evidence—some-
times at the office of the Agent-General, sometimes
in a hansom, and sometimes in the Park, where he
drove daily with the rest of the aristocracy. The
other day he turned out in an open carriage, the
destinies of whioh were jointly controlled by a
man iD livery—he looked as if he had been hired—
and a lean horse very ‘groggy on his pins.’ The
old gentleman wore his hat on one side as usual,
and was accompanied by Miss Parkes. The
horse smiled as we passed—he was thinking,
probably, of what Dailey said about certain
schedules ana Leporello’s catalogue of the amours
of his wicked master; or. perhaos. he had heard of
the Kiama ghost. Sir Henry still cultivates the
fine arts—be will always be artful -and is under-
stood to have made another collection. Which
recalls a good story. An old English gentleman,
returning from America in a Cun ird steamer, was
grumbling at the country he had just visited. No-
thing there was good enough for him—the hotels,
DEEP DIPLOMACY.
FOND MOTHER: “ARE YOU BETTER, MY DEAR?”
LITTLE EFFIE: “I DUNNO-IS THE JELLY ALL GONE?”
FOND MOTHER: “ YES.”
LITTLE EFFIE: “WELL, I’M WIELL ENOUGH TO GET UP, THEN.”
the railways, the government, and even the ladies
were not to be admired. His American fellow-
passengers began to chaff, and the old boy got
riled. ‘l’ll tell you what it is,’ said he at length,
furiously, ‘we Englishmen will have to go over
and take your country.’ ‘ What, again !' was the
quiet reply of a cynical Yankee. Henry lives in
Duke-street, whioh, so far as the mere name is
concerned, is perhaps a rung lower than King-
street. Baul Bamuel, like 8. A. Joseph, is a very
great man among the London Hebrews; and, like
the rest of the colonial Agents-General, he is very
hard to see."
A certain prominent Australian sporting
man, named L , was returning from Ascot
races when he saw approaching the Salvation
Army in full blast. They did not keep on their
course, however—they turned down a side street.
“That is a man,” they said, “ we utterly decline to
save.” “He don’t stand in, if I know it,” added
“General” Booth. The “General’s” very latest
is to announce that, on an early date, a meeting
under his auspices, at Exeter Hall, will be “ad-
dressed by 500 saved drunkards.” Let us hope,
however, that at least a lew of the 500 will be too
drunk to speak.
The “A.8.C.” is a newly-established Lon-
don Club, where Americans, Britishers, and Colo-
nials may meet not only in ordinary social sense,
but for tho transacilon of biz. '1 alkmg of London
clubs, the members of the New Club, and their
friends, are able to enjoy performances at the
olub theatre on Sunday morning—performances
the repertoire whereof the Examiner of Players
has not vised. The law connives at this, yet if the
' same sort of little game were tried on at the White-
chapel end of the big smoke, what a rumpus
there’d be, and how orthodoxy would denounce
what it would call the immorality of the slums.
Here be some grammatical definitions re-
cently handed in at an examination of candidates
for pupil teacbership :— “Mood: The way or tem-
per in which an assertion is made, as when any
person is in a temper they might say, * go, thou
senseless idiot,’which is imperative. Tense: Tense
J the force or intensity of meaning with which it is
■ said, as if it is gone and not likely to come again,
it is past tense, but if likely to come again it is
future. Voice: Voice means the way which the
speaker uses his tongue. For instance, if pitying
a, suffering being he would say, ‘ Poor thing,’ with
a drawl at the end of the poor; but if saying so in
ridicule, he would say the same two words, but
with a very different stress on the first words, viz.,
* poor.’ ” Schoolmaster muchly abroad.
Society (London) writes“ ‘ The thing it
self was neither rich nor rare. The only wonder
was how the devil it got there,’ wrote Byron of the
fly in amber.” One would have thought that So.
ciety knew that it was Pope who (in his “ Letter tn
Dr. Arbuthnot,” wrote
“ Pretty! in amber to observe the forms
, Of hairs, or straws, or dirt, or grubs, or worms'
The things, we know, are neither rich nor rare
But wonder how the devil they got there.” ’
‘ Granny’s” own St. Petersburg oorrespon.
dent teUs us that “the late Emperor was inclined'
to introduce divorce as it is practised in Protestant
countries, but he hesitated to wound the suscepti.
bilities of the clergy.” Talk of sapping a creed
with solemn sneer, why Gibbon was a fool to
Granny's own Russian scribe. Alexander the
Second’s hesitancy to wound the susceptibilities of
the clergy!! What a devil of a poke at the clergy!
We can imagine the Dolgorouki grinning from ear
to ear as she clips that par. out of her S.M. Herald
for preservation in her album of comicalities.
The red tape on stock at the Bundaberg
Hospital is of a very stout kind. A poor fellow
who had fallen down a shaft and damaged himself
a lot, was brought to that institution the other day
and denied admittance because the ticket wasn’t
properly initialed. Had he died while his friends
were buzzing around the district endeavouring to
get the ticket put right, it would be an interesting
question for a debating class whether the death
lay at the door of the hospital that wouldn’t open
to an urgent case or at that of the homicidal
wretches who had neglected to fix up the tioket
en regie.
A gushing young poetess, named Edith
Howes, sings in “Mother Earth” the following
yearning, impalpable strain:—
“ I yielded all to a love unseen,
And my faith could nothing miss;
From a silver cloud he seems to lean,
And slowly his tender breath of green
Floats down the tree-tops that lie between
My lips and his perfect kiss.”
A kiss served up with tree-tops and tender green
breath may to Edith be so satisfying as to cause
her to squirm hysterically; but our gal says the
idea is a precious sight too suggestive of the
“ morning after ” memories of she-oak and young
onions to be anything but extremely bad prose.
Here’s a little duck of a verse by Mrs. Fry,
on the Celestial Ray—
“ When sorrow hath tamed
The impassioned eye,
And the bosom reflects
Its expected sky.”
Our own eye has often been tamed; but the rayi
sparkled too much to be celestial, although the
piece of raw meat was pasted on over a decidedly
azure patch. But our bosom, not to say our riba,
certainly reflected sky colour pretty fairly when
Larry had got in a few with his left. However
that was not what we wanted to s*y. What we
like about the verse is its gorgeous adaptability
for the purpose of a scribe paid by the inch. See
how it r uns into space:— <
When Larry had dimmed
Our little right eye,
And deftly had skimmed
Our nose all awry;
When our bosom was pumped
Of breath by his blows,
And our ribs were all thumped
Out of shape like our nose;
Then up went the sponge
Like a lark from her nest,
As we got one more lunge
And we groaned “give you best.”


THE
IGNO
IFistin.©-
THE
PliilTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
til
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
TO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON. ’
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
F&LL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUAiilT* !
Perfection of touch i
ALWAYB RECOMMENDS ITBELF J
THE
Wilmer
had on application.
NICHOLSON* AND CO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
Ji?^r LA ,i NT P° slti vely cured by MOULTON'S
null 1 ILLS. We inean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
dmppomtments MGHLTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
rEPfeIA* promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORBERS df the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, r'egulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
jthown* purely Vegetable (made of the Extract ef Fruit),
they are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Solil Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A BAFB, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Nor-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring’ from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
or Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’B
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
"Old evervwnere Bo>e Proprietors. MARSHALL
BROTHERB, M.P.S., Manufacturing and consult-
mg Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
rtf Park Svdnev. V P.—All imitation* illegal.
take no substitute.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May IG, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could. scarcely bear any clothing
bvCli lllenii i \Vas also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal eOugli; in*
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. Sly catan'h ami cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it iii 9iila.ll doses, three times a day, and
iised, in all, less than two bottles: I plaee
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
bAßitEA to the cure of all diseases arising
ffdiil iltlpiire 8£ liiipovbrislied blood,' and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state o'f the system;
Mepaßel) hr
Dr. j.C.Ayer&Co.,Loweil,Mass*
Sold by all Druggists; price $l, six bottles'
for $ 5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
' Sold everywhere; Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
*4
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a sjr and per-
manent brown or black, which colorlr neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed agamst the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR- F. W ARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market Streets, Sydney
%W~ Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
iEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford,
Auckland, New Zealand.
w
Office,
ASTE PAPER
Cases for Sale.
Hoop Iron, and Empty
Apply Publisher, Bpl^tin
M/f*
9LEND
JMAR&]
f TRADE)
&C/STirf£
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL ft CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
|y 308 GEORGE STREET.
•sss*
R HOLEBALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
oPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
BROOMfIEXP 8
CELEB
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
GENERAL
IMPORTER
Of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
_
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN’B COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864*,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTEJ>
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
_ T WATER BATHS
H/\IR DRESSING S'WIGMAKINC ESTABLISHMENT
137, 139 X, 141 OXFORD' S l- .
HALF HOLIDAY Y T/YUH SOAY
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss ofl
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,*
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 3ST" CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the-
various worthless imitations whioh are being made-
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne-
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi.
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS^
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope foe-
reply, to C. C. W., Box 706 G.P.0., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN PO& PRESENTATION PLATE.
K
g
&
£
BK
m
2=
w
3
£=
sf
\
or s'
/
tTi
3
<*
V
£
w.Hhv
O
3T
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Tla.© IRelia/tole B-u.grgries!
\
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
HT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
ggf" Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmithinel
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting 8
of every description. s
DOULTON’S “FLUBH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOBETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Soie Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.


The most candid man in the world is lie
who, when consigned to gaol in London the other
day, remarked: “ When I get into prison, I feel at
home.”
Certain of the Victorian militia have
"struck,” not for their altars and their hearths, as
warriors are generally expected to do, but for
uniforms and overdue “ screws.” It seems that
the South Melbourne Field Battery proudly leads
the van in this latest military movement, the mem-
bers of that corps having refused to answer bugle
call until these little inattei'S of domestic economy
are satisfactorily arranged. They are eager to
bleed for their country, but it must be in new
uniforms. Their right hands are burning to bran-
dish the sabre in the face of the foe; but, at the
same time, their left hands are itching to hold
the last six months’ salary. This is just how things
stand at present, owing to unsa'isfactory adminis-
tration. And a very funny state of things it is—
nay, more, ’tis a somewhat alarming state of things.
You see, an army that is liable to go on strike in
time of peace is hardly to be trusted in time of
war. Our Victorian warriors might develop a
fancy for chopping wood at the very moment
they were called upon to chop off the heads of the
perlidious Fr but, stay; therecidivistequestion
may yet be amicably settled, so we must dissemble.
District Court Judge Forbes sentenced an
indecent assaulter the other day to twelve months
and 25 lashes, with the romark that though
the term of imprisonment was short, the lashes
would make prisoner remember his particularly
gross and brutal crime. An hour or so subse-
quently, prisoner’s solicitor requested his Honor
to remit the 25 lashes, and Forbes consented so to
do. Forbes was quite right—since it is never too
late to mend, even a bad sentence, such as the
original sentence undoubtedly was. But think of
the judicial inconsistency of the thing! With a
light heart a Judge orders a prisoner to be flogged,
and then, a little while after, being specially
moved thereto by request of counsel (and perhaps
by a good lunch), remits the sentence. This is in
reality, though, sentencing by whim, not reflec-
tion. Where reflection so follows the whim as to
allow of the latter’s correction in time to prevent
the degradation of Justice, it is all right; but in a
great number of cases we fear that the whim is
acted upon—triangles and cat put into actual
requisition—before the reflection begins to dawn,
when, of course, it is too late to whip the cat.
An Adelaide man, cursed with a consci-
ence, has sent a “fiver” to the S A. Treasurer,
accompanied by a polite little note, stating that
the money “belonged to the Government.” This
shows great weakness on the part of the Adelaide
man, but, of courss, the greatest among us are
subject to tits of mental aberration. Even the
“first murderer” in “Richard III.” admitted to
having suffered from conscience. “It once made
me return a purse, which perchance I’d —found,”
said the gentleman engaged to dispose of the
Duke of Clarence, so the South Australian can
proudly point to a Shakespearian precedent for
his recent act. Yet we sincerely hope that this
new disease won’t spread to the other colonies,
because, if everyone were to start on returning all
moneys that honestly belonged to the Govern-
ment, hundreds of cur most respectable families
would be plunged into destitution. Suppose, for
instance, our Civil Servants became troubled in
their minds about unearned salaries—but we will
not not contemplate such social chaos. After all,
there are good grounds for believing that the case
of the Adelaide man is an isolated one, for it ap-
pears that—vide Press—“the last time a similar
event occurred was several years ago.”
In America, there are often “mock wed-
dings ” at “ church sociables;” and now we see
that, the other day, at a Dundee Sunday-school
picnic, three couples were married “ in joke ” by a
minister. The idea was suggested when they were
in the railway carriage, and so enthusiastically
was the matter pressed that the minister could not
escape performing the mock ceremony. Throe of
the young men then chose their partners, and the
ceremony was carried through in the orthodox
fashion, ‘the minister, in concluding, gravely de-
claring the parties to be legally married, and re-
minding them of the relative duties of husband
and wife. The parties are now in a terrible state
of perplexity, and are taking legal advice as to
their real position; for it has been hinted to them
that by the law of Scotland tftiey arc really mar-
ried, all of them being of age, and having gone
through the marriage ceremony and declared their
acceptance as Husband and wife in the presence of
witnesses. It is some consolation to know that
some of them are sincerely hopeful that this is the
case; but it is reported that the others are not so
well pleased with their haphazard choice, and wish
it were otherwise. Which reminds us that at
Sunday-school and other picnics in Sydney, people
sometimes get married * in joke,” and, moreover,
quite independently of the minister.
Public confidence in the railway refresh-
ment-room ham-sandwich has been considerably
undermined even in Victoria, where they pay—
don’t laugh-£3OO a year to a lot of played-out
politicians who have been appointed “inspectors
of railway refreshment-rooms.” These individuals
have nothing to do but to travel free in the rail-
ways, and sample the liquor and ‘ grub” as they
pass each station. It is supposed that the inspec-
torship has been conferred in each case as a sola-
tium for the loss (or non-acquirement) of a place
in the Legislature, where each member likewise
gets £3OO a year, and the run of his teeth on cheap
comestibles in the Parliamentary refreshment-
rooms. But we were about to refer to the ham-
sandwich. The fact that bread is often made with
Hour containing alum, lime, and other minerals,
first excited suspicions, which later revelations as
to the nature and wide use of oleomargarine en-
hanced. The vague alarm was aroused by the dis-
covery that trichinosis was often acquired by eat-
ing the tender ham. Now comes the startling an-
nouncement that the mustard of commerce is
often adulterated with naphthal yellow, which is
not only a poison but a dangerous explosive. The
case against the sandwich is, therefore, now com-
plete. Having forfeited all claims to popular
trust and affection, it should be consigned to the
realms of Orsini bombs, infernal machines, and
other devices of conspirators.
Sunday School Superintendent Edgell
dropped doWn dead in the schoolroom on the
afternoon of Sunday, the 30th ult. In the Salva-
tion Cyrus, on the following S iturday, appeared
an in memoriam notice of tne defunct Edgell so
inconceivably mawkish and tract-ish in some of its
sentences as to deserve a shy at. w e are told, for
instance, that “ the children of the school were
engaged in service of song. Their Superintendent
had given out the verse—
‘ Whither, pilgrims, are you going ?
Going each with staff in hand ?
Going to a better country;
Going at the King’s command.
While thev were singing the,last lino the ‘Kings
command,’ was issued. Mr. Edgell suddenly tell
forward. His happy spirit had heard the sum-
mons, and obeyed it without a moments hesita-
tion The time, place, and employment at the
moment of death ought to mitigate the sorrow
naturally l'elt at his sudden and unexpected de-
parture. It seems as it the circumstances
of bis death were to be noted and under-
stood by his surviving friends as the visi-
ble seal of the Divine approbation on a
truly consistent life.” Now, “ obeyed it without a
moment’s hesitation’’ is simply rot,. Could the
Greatest scoundrel unhung otter hesitation when
f)eath has got him in his clutch? And what a
mean, narrow, priggish idea, to regard the tem-
poral manner of the good man’s taking away as
“the visible seal of the Divine approbation on a truly
insistent life Had he died while at breakfast,
or while acini his boots, or while parting his back
hair, would it have been right to regard the trivi-
ality of the attendant circumstances 9t his death-
second as the visible seal .of the Divine disappro-
bation of his lite (whicb would have been in the
one case as the other, equally truly consistent
if truly consistent, indeed) ? The publication of
this sort of superstitious twaddle is the work of
the tract fashioner, not of the newspaper man.
The following, cut from the Watchman,
a Wexford paper, has about it astroDg smack of
Thadeus O’Kane: —“Our microscopic junior
County member voted, we see, for the last heathen
fad (cremation) in vogue among London Agnostics
and crocheteers, by which coffiDs will become ob-
solete and grave-yards a superfluity. As far as
concerns himself, it does not much matter whether
Mr. Small is burned or buried. His ashes would
about fill a good sized snuff-box, and if he prefers
cremation to a decent wake and burial, we don’t
wish to balk him. Only don’t let him speak for
Wexfordmen in the matter.”
“If. in sweetening your coffee,” says M.
Sauvageon, “you allow the sugar to dissolve
without stirring the liquid, the globules of air con-
The accompanying illustration shows a quaint and
stylish dress cap, for the benefit of those young
married ladies who favour the same, the ground
work is of velvet, in any colour, and richly em-
broidered with fine gold thread, which is sewn on
only along the contours with wide worked stitches
of yellow silk. Gold lace, [?] of an inch wide, fulled a
little, trims the edge, and on the crown an agraffe of
ribbon velvet gives a nice finish.
tained in the sugar will rise to the surface of the
liquid If these globules form a frothy mass, re-
maining in the centre of the cup, it is an indica-
tion of duration of fine weather; if, on the con-
trary the froth forms a ring round the sides of the
cup it is a sign of heavy rain; variable weather is
implied by the froth remaining stationary, but not
exactly in the centre.” To these remarks of the
French savant may be added this, that if, when
sweetening your coffee, you discover a more than
ordinary whack of sand in your sugar, it is a sign
vou should go for your grocer tout en sweet.
3
From the Rum :—“Edmund Burke, at the
end of a speech upon the atrocities which might
be expected from the French in case of an inva-
The above picture represents a black lace pelerine, gathered info a neck band: it falls
like a cape on the shoulders. Tire front is cut into long ends, tied at intervals with
bows of narrow ribbon.
sion, drew forth an enormous two-edged dagger
and exclaiming, ‘This is the weapon which win
he pointed at your throats and mine!’ dashed it
on the floor with a tragic gesture. Shortly after-
wards, Lord Cairns, speaking against Burke (who
was suspected of having amassed his wealth dis-
honestly), exclaimed, ‘And this is the weapon
which is used with fatal effect against you and me,’
dragging out, with Burke's gesture, a £5-note.”
Great Scott! why Cairnst Our unfortunate con-
temporary was evidently over the way once too
often the day it committed such an anachronism
on Garmoyle’s papa (whose younger title of baron
only dates from ’67), and mixed up so inextricahly
the incidents of British and Rum’un history. The
admirers of the Rum—there are a few such eccen-
trics, it is darkly rumoured—should subscribe,
and buy for the objeot of their regard a pair of in-
telligent scissors.
The Methodist Spectator, a paper about
the size of a porous plaster, published in Mel-
bourne, is rather rough on Bro. Booth’s blue rib-
bon fad. The editor of that serio-comic publica-
tion was drawn out of his shell by what he face-
tiously terms “one of his esteemed country
brethren, who has written, suggesting a distinctive
badge to be worn by all Christians.” This
esteemed brother further suggested that a happy
combination of white and blue would fix up the
average Christian to a nicety. We thought so. too;
but the rev. editor is running on the other tack.
He points out that the blue and white trade mark
has been already appropriated by the anti-rum
and tobacconists, and, consequently, if it were
adopted as suggested, some of the teetotallers
might bo taken for Christians. That would be sad,
indeed. In fact, that rev. editor is level-headed,
if anything. He says that there is danger in the
badge business being overdone, and he thinks the
majority of Christians would have strong objections
against wearing a distinctive Christian badge, as
many teetotallers refuse to sport Brother
Booth’s trade mark. Our sympathies, however,
arc still with that “esteemed country brother.’'
It would be a grand thing if we could have the
followers of the lowly Nazarene labelled and
guaranteed with the real Hall mark, so that we’d
know who were the bona tide Christians. As
things are, we have our doubts, for we can hardly
believe those loud-mouthed, canting hypocrites
who infest the public streets and the Domain, and
assert that they are saved, that they are the true
Chrbtians, and that they will occupy the front
seats in Heaven. Anyhow, should the distinctive
badge be adopted, we have an opinion that a few
yards of ribbon will go along way especially in
Melbourne.
The Civil Service Bill provides, inter alia,
that a Civil Service Board shall be constituted,
consisting of six members, three of whom are to
be chosen from iirst class officers of the service—
that is just two too many of the sort, if, indeed,
not three too many. The Board should be so con-
stituted as not to be leavened with, much less
swayed by, Civil Service prejudices. By the time
a fellow has worked himself up into the first grade
of a Civil Service, he is about ehockful of official
fads and bias, and on that account about the very
last man who ought to be picked for a billet, the
essential qualifications of a holder of which are
manysidedness, impartiality, and such a know-
ledge of men mid things as not, one bureaucratic don
out of ten million ever acquired.
Why may not imagination trace the
noble dust of Alexander till. &c., &c. ? Why
not, indeed, or, for the matter of that, why?
If the bunghole open to a rare liquor, what’s
the odds whose is the dust upon its outside ? This
philosophical reflection was struck out of us as we
perused the obituary notice of one of the last de-
scendants of the perjured race of Royal Stuarts
—of Mistress Charlotte Cameron {nic Stuart), wife
of a Kincardine innkeeper. She traced her descent
in a direct line from the first Baron of Kincardine,
grandson of Robert 11. of Scotland. Alter 10 grand
generations', the estates of the Barons of Kincar-
dine passed into the hands of the Gordon clan.
Mrs. Stuart-Cameron’s father was a standard-
bearer under Prince Charlie at the battle of Culio-
den, and her grand-uncle was the famous Colonel
Roy Stuart, the laithfulfriend of a faithless Prince.
There is now but one remnant left of this ancient
family—a sister of Mrs. Stuart-Cameron’s, who is a
schoolmistress in Strathspey. ’Tis said she served
good ale and gavo good measure. If so, she was
one of the best of a deuced bad lot.
The growth of Christian Socialism in the
Church of England is very slow. Naturally so. It
doesn't pay. On the contrary, no clergyman can
profess the Christianity of Christ without incur-
ring social ostracism and eecle-iastical esnsure.
Yet it grows. Oiir readers will find interest in the
following extracts from a sermon delivered by the
Rev. C. L. Marson at Hampstead on Ascension
Day:—“ Those who really believe in the Ascension
have already ascended with Christ, and with Him
live and reign, the right-hand men of the Divine
Dove. But how many there are who honour Him
with their lips, but their hearts are far from Him/?
Admiration for Jesus, as a man, earnest love and
desire to imitate Him, these lead to a belief in His
Divinity, in His Ascension, His apotheosis. A
belief in His Divinity, yes! no empty shibboleth,
no mere repetition of the words ‘God of God, and
Light of Light,’ but an honest attempt to assort
the royalty of that God, and to apply His laws,
and a constant shedding of that light upon pro-
blems of this day and this generation
If vou really believe there is a Christ now living
and sitting at the right hand of Divine Love, and
he the real King and Inspirer, who ‘ fills all things,’
yes, and all men, and all women and all places, how
would you treat those, to whom Jesus was a friend,
the publicans and the harlots ? Surely, surely, not
from a lofty height of scorn, but with an earnest
and deeply sympathetic tenderness, with the pity
of the very Christ. lam here to appeal to you for
the London Diocesan Penitentiary, where sixty of
those to whom Jesus was a friend, are taught and
trained, lovingly l hope and believe, to better
things. These some dare to call ‘ lost women,’
though they shall, many of them, enter the king-
dom of Heaven before the Pharisee, who disdains
them. ‘Lost.’ Is any one lost when Christ is
King and at the right hand of the all-ruling
Love? You know, or should know, that in
and about London are eighty thousand prostitutes,
some mere children, one in fourteen of all the
young girls between 14 and 20 years of age, and
alasi I have seen tnem mere nursery children
and yet Christ rules in Heaven ? Is there no
remedy ? Yes, by the Christ we worship, there is I
You are asked to give your money towards this
home for 60. I entreat, I command you to do
more than this. Give some of your time-give
more of your love; struggle, and rest not, for a
better state of society. Do you believe in Christ?
and dare you speak or think lightly of the hideous
and accursed flame pit which is scorching and
slaying His sisters and brothers and yours? Do
you believe that Christ is King ?• and yet you
dare to ally yourself with the state of Society
that results in this ? Look on these things,
do not turn your cowardly eyes from them—
see how wealth amassed here in unhealthy
splendour, and there drained dry, decoys and
drives Englishwomen and Englishmen to this
dreadful wrong. Wealth must be better distri-
buted, and can be, for the Lord is King and His
clarions echo to the four winds, as He rides forth
to the war. Choose you one of these two Lords,
for one of them is ascended unto the right hand of
God. Choose either Mammon and assent to his
hecatombs of human lives, and say your prayers
and praises to him, if he is lord of this world and
he inspires and fills all things; or choose the Son of
Man and worship Him, and cease not nor flinch
from the pain or weariness of the uphill storming
of earth’s devil-held strong-holds, until His will be
done visibly on earth, as in the deep and the height
—on earth as in Heaven.”
“The Marquis of Salisbury will,” says the
Citizen, “in a few days lend to the Health Exhi-
bition a pair of hose worn by Queen Elizabeth.”
“ Exhibition, indeed 1” would be the posthumous
opinion of the maiden Queen at this shockingly
public display of garments it was once her royal
pleasure to conceal from sight. “To what base
uses may we come at last. Imperious Bess, long
dead and turned to clay, Her hose exposed to
while our time away!” It stands upon record that
Her Majesty did not regard the stockings which
she preterred to wear as good examples of a
“ sanitary ” fabric, but the directors of the Health
Exhibition know better, perhaps. The Earl of
Leicester brought from Paris, as a present to the
Queen, the first, stockings of woven silk that had
been seen in England, together with a pair of
gold or gilt gloves, set with pearls, which seem to
have excited more attention at the moment. O
the stockings, Her Majesty reported that they
were very cold and uncomfortable, but “ mar-
vellously delicate wear,” nnd she was too “ pure
womanly” to allow inconvenience to override
effect. It is possible that the Hatfield relics belong
to the earlier period when Queen Elizabeth, like
other people of her day, wore tailor-made hose;
but, in either case, the exhibit is interesting.
It is not atall unlikely tbatthe fashion-makers will
catch a hint for somo new-old eccentricity in
stockings from the display of Queen Elizabeth’s
models. By the way, as the Queen of Spain has
no legs, we don’t see why the Queen of England,
through the unseemly exhibition of these ancient
hosen, should be convicted of the possession o c
any. Queen Victoria can’t possibly have any
understanding, to speak of, for she’s only foui-
foot eight high, and wficn being photographed she
is always bolstered up to make her look sufficiently
queenly to impress the vulgar multitude. A lot
of that sort of trickery is done by the ruling
powers, who are fully alive to the value of appear-
ances—which is, perhaps, one of the reasons why
Her Majesty is seen so little by the “common
people.” Here is a further instance of the photo-
graphic diplomacy to which we have alluded.
Nothing looks more absurd than a man osten-
tatiously nursing a baby in public; yet, you see
exposed for sale in hundreds of shop>3 in England,
and, for the matter of that, in Australia, photos,
wherein vacmt-faced irresolute-looking Royal
Princes stand beside chairs, whereon are deposited
bladder-headed royal babies on whom are rested
lovingly the royal hands of their royal fathers.
“ One touch of nature,” you know, “ makes
the whole world kin.” Bill Jones, the file-
cutter. who is earning .‘sos. a week by work-
ing 15 hours a day, and getting his lunsrs filled
up with steel-dust, looks at the photo. Bill
has a laby at the room ne calls his home. Though
he isn't so hign up ns to have an axe to grind with
his infant, he is in the habit of nursing it in public.
Tne i>uke of ccnwnlensanfenstein, who loaison
the Bill Joneses of England to the extent of thou-
sands a year, nursep a baby, docs ho? Wei', then,
as Bill Jones, the file-cuiter. also nurses a baby,
the Prince can’t be such a bad Rort of fellow, after
all. There is, apparently, notbi r g else in common
between His Royal Highness, who, when born of
his mother, was not a “sou’’ but a Prince, and
the toiling Bill Jones. There is nothing in their
education, or in their lives. There is hardly any-
thing in their deaths, for that grossly extravagant
military pageant to mark the committal to earth
of him who was no soldier and who came not of a
race of warriors, serves but to remind the more
reflective of the Bill Joneses of England of their
own miserable inheritance of unrewarded toil.
Bill Jones may yet see the real use of the bladder-
headed baby. Bill works and supports his baby.
The other fellow doesn’t.


|I URE COUNTRY MILK.
milk supplied bt the
Fresf] food & Ice Co., Limited,
m Yi ) ? re^ed u P° n as being
H fc %ob^ AYS PURE »
freeS *£ om ttie country districts, as
om city contaminations.
ihi, is Butter.
troB??hf a v tl l red at thetr own de P st
best butter-makers in the
PeU«—
dai ly. Sundays excepted,
es h Food & Ice Co., Limited,
STREET.
LUS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
ttayeyourUmbrella Frames
re-eovered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
„ 641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Bepatra neatly exe-
cuted
4
$>
o
o
o
MARK
TRADE
to
rr*
Uj
W
X
fs
a
tr
9>
CROSf
<vcs
O
O
N
D
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the Clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALL
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CArTLLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
p EfIPES and SHAW
|| RESPECTFULLY invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS,
kd/ es ’ as follows
Qn d Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
a h -
fr °^l2 s M “ d Ta ILOR-MADB ULSTERS,
% anda ° ffUiQeas
l 1 * 6 * Bolm^ 0n ’ s Ul sters, from ss. Cd. to 30s.
t, ° I( 'C UT t a nr^ ape<i Utters, New Cloths
PvI ALs ACKETS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. Cd
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTER?, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Broeatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
**^apes
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
°i the various
ien for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
os of goods enumerated below.
ttjjsfwifa ffIERCOATS, CUT LONG,
IK OII Tfo* 6 *' ’TALI AN CLOTH, 255., 305.,
LINED WOOL, 303,
A U «AbT^ L 'KD fso- ioau suits are
l° T , 9 U T, FIT, STYLE, and
Siir»Ao„® n ? for Good Honest Value
%E
Passed.
AS FOLLOWS :
'fe> alk "” aSS " 425 -MSv 63s.lhlWlT:
I JS B , r o ok Vest, 50s. ' ]
Ve est of England Broadeloth),
r ®*’ < wofi°cK Black Doeskin, 255., 30s.
%«irc„, w m
i a!i:
Es
■VS”’
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING.
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 535. 6d.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10 3. 6d ; the
Suffolk, 13s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, Sts. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S lIATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
ORAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6di
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 13s. 6d.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizesi
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
*^X7"©lff Sz Son's
V af
1013:1 a ll Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
premises, 107 pitt street,
Uaw Opeas..
hotel,
otller Of KING and CASTLEREAGII STREETS.
o lVa *bi, R ' McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor
UP-STAIRS.
OoO\
ISMS
LY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly tliree-
ftrj, " fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
\ ' Vicn into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
■Jjjw 8 in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
< i s >—CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position,
of Pipes Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, (SYDNEY*
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MARK.
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting- of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warrantedfirst quality
v CHa rges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting', fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
“CX dert stiver,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
SWANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
, They clear the complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs.
SWANN’S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
suitable for both sexes ;
gentle, yet thorough in their
action.
Sugar-coated,
and
Easy to Take.
BUY NO OTHER.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
Price Is., 25., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
IS?” Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P,S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to.the Technical College
“ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
Pills,’ and find that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. They are free from mercury,
and are composed entirely of vegetable ingre-
dients. I consider them a most valuable aperient.
“Fred. Wright,
“Drug Analyst.
“ Sydney, June 19th, 1884.”
Hi
j:
:
fTfRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
JL from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for
forwarded to aoy part of the colwr
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
vr THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2vdZa.tia.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERSp
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It It bottled in bond for Exycrt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may , tl' r refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “T ; hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Si!
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ C7 T .EBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARStS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
|sy C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. Ariel! & Co.'s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS..—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 60ib.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
niahes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTER OEFORE
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISKEB3.
Jloyd't Beard F.Uxlrdid thie,and
i trill do it on either bald head or
tare /are. Forcet heavy it one-
taeheinfrnmVta iueekiandnever
/ails, 20,000 young men already
toear full beards, haviny used 1 to
3 pitta, tfo injury, easily applied, ter tain in ejje't. --
each, 3 for 3». M.,post paid, lent under cover./ree/rmnolieervatlon.
fAddreu Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, Q.F.O.,Sydney ,N.S. W
•irons
Copyrighted
rackets is. 6d
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OS’ PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room h urniture. alßo
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery. ®
English Paper* and Magatlnw received by
•very MaUU
royal aroad* otqr«* Bin m stwiy


G-old. J“ewellery !
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
J
m, k,
LATEST FASHIONS.?
WATCHES, rUOM 3 Os. E.A.C&
Special Novelties, &e. Country Orders punctually attended^
LAROCHE.
is J
ASK YOUR DOCTOR
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has Qo connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
m tne colonies.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOTB^j
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING SH@ r
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMARKET SHOP- ■
Come Early and Secure Good Fashionable Clothing? *'« r hlttl
J- J. HYAN, 7SO George Streep Hay" l3l, J|
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Eruit Markets^_^«
ASK YOUR GROCER TOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
S. FRIT & SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter—Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
i@iiiwli.ja
v &etnA*ttm
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
EIGGIFS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WK?H PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,.
CXHIBITIf (
mmm
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,.
Sydney,
to the TKADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE-
GLASS, CHINA,
AND |
earthenware;
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS-
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents lor
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale £ue.
T. JONES and G 0.,
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
"Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE’S
STEAM
H. P. 6REGOR* * fl
17 PITT ST«*
sydne
ARE SOLE AGENTS F°
and have In StocK aD<J
FIRE PUMPS
- '"’jJßa.J.-' g
TANK OR LIGHT SER^I
30ILER-EEED PUMP 9 j>tf^
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & ClR G
rANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE
VACUUM PUMPS v os
deep-well-sinkiN 0
4
END FOR PRICES
CATALOGUES
p 0
t#'
:P*?B
OILS.
PAi
»*>
Office: 330 ®f %
STORE®* -r""
N.B. P»tt erTltl
i 0&
I ATE ROWLAND S & LEWIS, gjfji
BSsnafacturer of all kinds of Pirated Waters, Sort Hals, and Bitters, and Proprietor of m
BALLARAT, MT2LBOI JUNE, arid at
31 AND 33 HUNTER .STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for Crated and Minero / Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
